Kesko's Annual Report EN 2016 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko in brief 2 Review by the President and CEO 7 Why you should invest in Kesko 10 Our operating environment 12 Our strategy 20 How we create value 27 Divisions 38 Grocery trade 38 Building and technical trade 48 Car trade 60 Store sites and properties 64 Strategy report Kesko's Annual Report 2016 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko in brief K Group’s retail sales and store numbers by operating country Kesko is a Finnish trading sector pioneer. We operate in the grocery trade, the building and technical trade and the car trade. Our divisions and chains act in close cooperation with retailer entrepreneurs and other partners. We have over 2,000 stores engaged in chain operations in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Russia, Belarus and Poland. • Kesko and K-retailers form K Group, the pro forma retail sales of which were €13.2 billion (VAT 0%) in 2016 • K Group is the third largest retail operator in Northern Europe • K Group employs around 45,000 people • Kesko is a listed company and its shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki • Kesko's domicile and main premises are in Helsinki • Kesko is the world's most sustainable trading sector company (The Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations in the World) KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko's business models Kesko's net sales by business model Kesko’s principal business model in the Finnish market is the chain business model, in which independent K-retailers run retail stores in Kesko's chains. B2B trade is a significant and growing part of Kesko’s business operations. In 2016, its net sales were €3.0 billion, accounting for some 30% of Kesko’s net sales. Outside Finland, we mainly engage in own retailing and B2B trade. Retailer entrepreneurs' retailing 45% Kesko's own retailing 25% B2B trade 30% Divisions in brief Grocery trade Building and technical trade Car trade In Finland, nearly 1,500 K-food stores offer their customer The building and technical trade division offers its B2C and VV-Auto is a company specialising in importing, retailing and high-quality and affordable food. K-food stores have around B2B customers comprehensive selections of building and providing after-sales service for vehicles manufactured by 1.2 million customers every day. K food retailers listen to home improvement products, as well as electrical and HEPAC Volkswagen Group. VV-Auto also develops advanced service their customers' wishes and customise their stores' services products, the most comprehensive store network in Northern concepts for the car trade. VV-Auto is the market leader in according to local customer demand. The customer and quality Europe, online stores and digital services. The division also Finland. are at the centre of everything that K-food stores do – our aim includes the operations of the furniture trade, the agricultural is to offer the most inspiring food stores in the market, along and machinery trade, and the leisure goods trade. with supporting digital services. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 3 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group Grocery trade Building and Car trade key figures Liikevoitto 2016 technical trade Net sales 2016 Net sales 2016 Net sales 2016 Net sales 2016 € 5,236 million € 4,100 million € 849 million Comparable operating profit Comparable operating profit Comparable operating profit % Päivittäistavarakauppa 58 % Rakentamisen Grocery tradeja52talotekniikan % kauppa 32 % € 175.9 million € 97.9 million € 29.5 million Autokauppa Building and10technical % trade 40 % Milj. € Car trade 8 % € million Operating countries Operating countries Operating countries Comparable operating profit 2016 Finland Finland, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Estonia and Latvia Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus Number of stores Number of stores Number of stores approx. 1,450 approx. 770 18.8% Grocery trade 58 % Get acquainted with > Get acquainted with building Get acquainted with Building and technical trade 32 % Car trade 10 % grocery trade and technical trade car trade > € million KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 4 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko's key performance indicators Finances 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net sales, € million 10,180 8,679 9,071 9,315 9,686 Comparable operating profit, € million 272.9 244.5 232.6 238.8 230.0 Comparable profit before tax, € million 271 238 226 233 228 Comparable earnings per share, basic, € 2.01 1.70 1.65 1.68 1.47 Dividend per share, € 2.00* 2.50 1.50 1.40 1.20 Comparable return Comparable return on capital employed, % 11.9 11.7 9.9 9.8 9.0 on capital employed Comparable return on equity, % 9.8 8.2 7.6 7.7 6.9 Cash flow from operating activities, € million Capital expenditure, € million 170 743 276 219 304 194 414 171 382 378 11.9% * Proposal to the General Meeting Personnel 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Personnel, average 22,476 18,955 19,976 19,489 19,747 Permanent employees, % 90.8 91.4 89.3 89.8 89.0 Full-time employees, % 73.3 77.5 74.2 71.9 71.3 Salaries, fees and social expenses paid, € million 723 545 614 611 608 Supervisory positions held by women, Finland, % 46 51 54 53 51 As many as Training days per employee 0.8 1.1 1.2 1.3 0.9 Sickness absences, days per employee 11.1 10.5 10.5 11.2 11.2 3,100 people have already completed the K Code of Conduct eLearning programme offered in nine languages. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 5 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Environment 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Scope 1 and 2 emissions, thousand tonnes CO₂e 125 188 202 191 205 Scope 1 and 2 emissions/net sales, tonnes CO₂e/€ million 12.3 21.6 22.2 20.5 21.2 Scope 1 and 2 emissions/avg. number of employees, tonnes CO₂e/ 5.6 9.9 10.1 9.8 10.4 person Specific consumption of electricity, Finland, kWh/gross m² 204 207 205 209 213 Specific consumption of heat energy, Finland, kWh/gross m² 79 76 79 83 95 By summer 2017, there will be as many as Waste recovery rate, Finland, % 99 99 97 95 93 16 solar power plants on the rooftops of K Group stores. The new investments will The reporting boundary for Scope 2 emissions has changed for 2016 make K Group Finland's biggest producer and user of solar power. Supply chain 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Goods, materials and services purchased, € million 9,839 8,593 8,839 9,037 9,454 Purchases from suppliers in Finland, % of all purchases 65.9 67.2 68.3 68.9 67.9 Direct purchases from high-risk countries, Finnish companies, % of 1 1.2 1.5 1.6 1.3 all purchases BSCI audits/year 270 187 162 106 67 Pirkka Organic products, pcs 118 134 116 95 99 K-retailers' total purchases Pirkka Fairtrade products, pcs 36 40 44 35 39 from Finnish regions were €602 million in 2016 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 6 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Review by the The integration of Siwas and Valintatalos into President and CEO the K-Market network will continue in 2017, and all of the stores will be transferred to K-retailers by 2018. At least 400 Siwas and WATCH THE VIDEO Valintatalos will become K-Markets. Footfall and sales have increased significantly in the The modernising K Group is stronger than ever stores that have already been converted into K-Markets. In some of the Siwas and Valinta­ For us at K Group, 2016 was a year of strategy talos, it was necessary for us to investigate whether it is possible for the operations to continue as part of the K-Market network in a profiimplementation and renewal. The most significant table way. As a result of cooperation negotiations, the retail operations of 51 Siwas and Valintaevents in terms of our growth strategy were the talos will be discontinued. acquisitions of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen. Our We will modernise all of the K-Citymarkets by the end of 2018. Our aim is to create 81 different strategic objective in all divisions is to strengthen the K-Citymarkets with product selections and services that reflect their customer bases. customer experience for consumers and businesses, ”We aim to improve the availability, quality and price-competitiveness of both in-store and in digital channels. neighbourhood store services as these qualities are valued by Finnish consumers.” • In 2016, net sales returned to significant growth and profitability improved The grocery chains have been modernised in a genuinely customer-oriented way. Our aim is to • Comparable return on capital employed rose to 11.9% offer our customers the most inspiring stores in the grocery trade. For us, there is no such thing as an average customer, as each customer, place and encounter is different. That is why every • K Group is one of Finland's biggest employers and taxpayers K-food store is different and is tailored to the demands and profiles of local customers. Every person is different and every K-food store is different We will sharpen our focus on the Finnish grocery trade. We sold our grocery trade business in Our focal area in the grocery trade is modernising and expanding K Group's neighbourhood Russia to Lenta, a Russian company, in November 2016. Expanding the business would have store network. We aim to improve the availability, quality and price-competitiveness of required considerable additional capital expenditure. neighbourhood store services as these qualities are valued by Finnish consumers. Thanks to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa, K Group offers Finland's most comprehensive and service oriented neighbourhood store network. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 7 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Business customers are accounting for a growing proportion of the either include the construction of a vehicle charging point or are earmarked to include a future building and technical trade charging point. Kesko operates in the building and technical trade in nine countries and is the fifth largest operator in the European building and home improvement trade market. Our strategic objective is Competitive advantage through digital services and utilisation of profitable growth and a further reinforcement of our position in Europe. customer data The internet and globalisation are breaking down barriers in trading methods, between lines of The acquisition of Onninen, a company specialising in HEPAC and electrical products, was business, in people's mobility and in customers' mindsets. The border-free world introduced by completed in June 2016 and will reinforce B2B sales in particular. Onninen and Kesko represent digitalisation and the shift in distribution channels gives rise to entirely new opportunities for a unique combination in the building and technical trade, offering business customers in the trading. The traditional boundaries between customer segments are becoming blurred, leading construction sector the most diverse selection of products and services on the market. Approxito a need for increasingly personalised and more diverse solutions. mately 65% of sales in the building and technical trade come from business customers. In all divisions, our objective is to offer K Group's customers the best digital services. The smart Consumers are becoming less likely to carry out projects related to building and renovation themfunctionalities of the K-Ruoka mobile application makes it easier to plan a shopping list and visit selves. Building and renovation are becoming more technical and are increasingly the domain of a store. We are developing a shared online store solution for the building and home improveprofessionals. As the population ages and becomes wealthier, more services are used. Responding ment trade's and Onninen's B2B customers. An entirely new online store for used cars – C ­ aara.fi to this market shift is one of our key strategic objectives. The K-Rauta Remonttimestari service is – operates online without traditional showrooms. a good example of new services in this area: it helps consumer customers to successfully carry out renovations in areas such as kitchens, from planning all the way to completion. ”The border-free world introduced by digitalisation and the shift in distribution channels gives rise to entirely new opportunities for trading.” Electric and hybrid vehicles enter the car ranges VV-Auto is the market leader in Finland. At the end of 2016, we expanded our collaboration with Volkswagen Group by acquiring the right to represent and import Porsche vehicles. Adding K Group's strategic focal area – a personal approach – will also play an instrumental role in devePorsche to the selection will increase sales and improve the profitability of the car trade. loping our marketing. In 2016, we expanded K Group's targeted marketing using customer data and began carrying out programmatic marketing relying on our own team of experts. By utilising Volkswagen Group will launch 30 new fully electric vehicles by 2025, and various hybrid versions our own customer data and digital technologies, we will develop more customer-oriented markeare constantly introduced to product ranges. We believe that sales of electric cars may account ting and lay the foundations for marketing in the future. for 20–25% of all passenger car sales in Finland within 10 years. The digital revolution requires new expertise and, in 2016, we recruited dozens of new professioWe already offer an extensive network of free-to-use charging points for electric cars for nals to develop mobile services, analytics, process automation and modern online store solutions. customers of K-stores. All of K Group's new construction and renovation projects on store sites KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 8 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We aim to be a frontrunner in corporate responsibility Since the beginning of 2017, all electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland is renewable. By Responsible business activities are crucial in achieving good and sustainable financial results. purchasing renewable electricity we promote the production of renewable energy and s­ upport All of our operations are built on trust between Kesko, the K Group stores, our customers and the objectives of K Group's climate work. We purchase renewable electricity that has the partners. Corporate responsibility manifests itself in our everyday activities and our stakeholders ­Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) from the Nordic countries. In 2017, we will take require this of us. the approach in our electricity purchasing that focuses on Finnish bioenergy. We operate in several countries and purchase goods from suppliers all over the world, so our We have spent a long time investigating the opportunities for utilising forms of renewable operations are subject to several international conventions and recommendations. In November energy in our store site projects. Finland's largest property-specific solar power plant was 2016, we published the website 'UN Sustainable Development Goals and Kesko' to explain how completed in June 2016 on the rooftop of K-Citymarket Tammisto. We will significantly i­ncrease we are promoting the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. We carried out a human rights our use of solar energy, and 16 solar power plants will be in use on the rooftops of K Group ­impact assessment in compliance with the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Human stores by summer 2017. Thanks to the new investments, K Group will become Finland's largest Rights, and we published a human rights commitment in September. generator and user of solar energy. Our long-term inclusion in sustainability indices provides impartial evidence of our responsibI would like to thank the personnel, K-retailers and our stakeholders le operations and facilitates investment decisions. Kesko ranked 25th in the Global 100 Most 2016 was a busy year of modernisation for us. Kesko and the K-stores will work increasingly Sustainable Corporations in the World list published in January 2017. In autumn 2016, Kesko was strongly as a unified K Group. This will enable us to offer our customers even better services and awarded a grade of A– in CDP's Climate Change Disclosure survey. operate efficiently – For shopping to be fun. It is of the utmost importance to ensure that the principles of corporate responsibility are I wish to extend my warmest thanks to all Kesko employees, K-retailers and their staff, our shafulfilled every day in all of our operations and all of the countries where we operate. In 2016, reholders and our business partners for their good cooperation. we updated our K Code of Conduct, and we require all Kesko employees and all of our partners to commit to complying with it. Our new SpeakUp channel is intended for reporting suspected Mikko Helander crimes and abuses when the information cannot for some reason be passed on directly to the President and CEO Kesko employee in charge. ”It is of the utmost importance to ensure that the principles of corporate responsibility are fulfilled every day in all of our operations and all of the countries where we operate.” KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 9 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Why you should Six reasons for investing in Kesko invest in Kesko ”In 2016, Kesko's net sales returned to significant growth and profitability improved. The return on Strong market position in Growth strategy Strong, stable financial performance capital employed also improved in comparison with the previous year.” Finland and abroad • Growth of the grocery trade in Finland and financial position • Market share of the grocery trade • Growth and expansion of the building and • Enables investing in growth and long-term Jukka Erlund, EVP, CFO estimated at 37–38% in Finland following technical trade in Europe business development the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa • Growth of the car trade, particularly in • Equity ratio of 48.6% and gearing of 5.8% • Market share of the building and technical Finland (2016) trade around 40% in Finland, strong • Strong progress was made on implemen• The acquisitions are expected to generate market position in Norway, the Baltic ting the strategy thanks to the acquisitions significant synergies in the near future countries and Belarus completed in 2016 • Kesko operates in the building and • Best customer experience in the trading ”Kesko seems to be firmly back technical trade in nine countries and is the sector in all channels on the front foot and our recent fifth largest operator in the European meeting with the Company in building and home improvement trade Helsinki confirmed that the market business has strong momentum at the moment with management actions delivering good results. The Company meets our focus on change investment process and scores well High dividend paying capacity Recognised responsibility work Competitive advantage from retailer on our proprietary quantitative • Kesko distributes at least 50% of its compa• Kesko is included in numerous sustainability entrepreneurship screen which helps us scour the rable earnings per share as dividends while indices and listings, such as CDP's Climate • We combine systematic chain operations European investment universe for taking into account the Company’s financial Alevel, FTSE4Good, STOXX Global ESG with retailer operations based on entreppotentially interesting ideas that are position and operating strategy Leaders indices and the Global 100 Most reneurship • A dividend of €2.0 per share is proposed to Sustainable Corporations in the World list • K-retailers tailor their product selections going through some kind of change be paid for 2016, which would represent an • The corporate responsibility programme and services to meet the needs of local and where there is the potential for average rate of 99.5% on the comparable applies to all of Kesko's divisions and concustomers while listening to their wishes a valid non-consensus view.” earnings per share, and the effective divitains both shortand long-term objectives • In 2016 Kesko had 1,088 K-retailer dend yield of B share would be 4.2% entrepreneurs as partners Andrew Paisley, Investment • Dividends for the last five years were paid at • In 2016 approximately half of Kesko's net Director, European Smaller the average rate of 93.6% on the compasales were generated by the retailerCompanies, Standard Life rable earnings per share, and the average entrepreneur business model Investments Ltd. effective dividend yield of B share was 5.5% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 10 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dividend history 2011–2016 Share development Kesko B € OMX Helsinki Cap PI 3 56 6400 48 5600 2.5 40 4800 2. 2.00 2 32 4000 1.5 1.4 24 3200 1.2 1.2 16 2400 1 .02 .03. .07 3 .2 .07 .30 .18 .07.0 .0 0 .0 5 28 0 .2 .0 6 .10 1 .13 30 .18 .0 9. .18 .02. 7 .2 .07.1 .0 8 .14 .0 1 19 .0 6 .0 8 .11 .0 1 .0 4 8 9. 2 .12 .02. .0 5 .0 8 .2 .0 1 .03. .0 6 03 .11 09 .0 4 4 9. 2 .12 12 12 12 12 12 13 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 14 15 15 15 15 15 16 16 16 16 16 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Kesko B € OMX Helsinki Cap PI 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* €/share Proposal **Proposal toAnnual to the the Annual General General Meeting Meeting Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its comparable earnings per share as dividends, taking however the company's financial position and operating strategy into account. 15 Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its comparable earnings per share as dividends, taking however the company's financial position and operating strategy into account. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 11 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our operating environment The trading sector operations are affected by several global megatrends ranging from the digital revolution to climate change. By identifying the trends that affect K Group’s Global megatrends operations we are able to effectively anticipate future challenges and opportunities and to respond to them ever better. GLOBAL ECONOMY DIGITAL REVOLUTION Trends affecting K Group's operations URBANISATION, SINGLE-PERSON HOUSEHOLDS AND POPULATION AGEING CLIMATE CHANGE International operators challenge local companies • Intensifying price competition CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY • Global supply • Affordable products are preferred for the shopping basket • Sales of own brands are increasing What we are doing • We focus on a more limited number of businesses • We differentiate ourselves from the competition with quality and selections • We operate with even greater efficiency and quality • We continuously expand the selection of affordable and high-quality own brand products KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 12 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consumers' knowledge and Digital store and services Individual customer behaviour Corporate responsibility as well • Ease of shopping • Ageing population power has increased as strong brands and identity are • 24/7 availability of services • Increase in the number of single-person • Transparency of selections, prices and preconditions for success irrespective of place households availability • Mobile access plays an important role • Urbanisation • Good corporate governance • Importance of social media channels: • Targeted marketing based on • Increase in cultural diversity • Responsible operating principles access to information, exchange of customer data • Climate change and circular economy experiences and interaction What we are doing • Transparency of purchasing chains • Origin of products and responsibility are What we are doing • We create new concepts and retailer • Open dialogue with stakeholders important selection criteria • We offer an even better customer models • Responsible investment • Quality and healthiness of food experience by making use of the • We take local conditions into consideration possibilities of mobile services, online in stores' operations and service offerings What we are doing What we are doing services and digital marketing • We invest especially in the renewal of • We take care that corporate responsibility • We make clear customer promises and • We target the offering making it neighbourhood retail services is realised in all our operations deliver on them – service, quality, price personalised • We make more extensive use of customer • We promote the use and production of • Marketing and offering will become • The K-Plussa system is digitalised data renewable energy personalised • We build the best mobile services • We develop innovative circular economy • We provide comprehensive information solutions jointly with partners about products, prices and availability in all • We make efforts to ensure responsibility in channels the supply chain • We strengthen our corporate identity and core brands • We make corporate responsibility visible in stores and marketing KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 13 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE K Group's value chain We take account of the stages and impacts of our value chain We operate sustainably and responsibly at all stages of our value chain. In addition to its direct impacts, our value chain generates significant indirect impacts. Asiakas, palvelut Raaka-aineet Tuotanto Logistiikka K-kauppa ja tuotteet Kierrätys Raw materials Purchasing chain Logistics Multichannel trade Products and Circular economy Sustainable environment Responsibility across Efficient logistics Easy shopping instore and services We promote circular • We promote the purchasing chains • We have customer online We put the customer first economy sustainable use of natural • We support local oriented logistics models • K Group is a significant • Every K-store is different, • Waste from our own resources production • We reduce emissions with employer: 45,000 because every customer is operations is recovered • Our soy, palm oil, plastic • We are accountable for an efficient transportation employees different • We develop innovative and other policy statethe safety and quality of fleet and optimization of • We have nearly 25,000 • We make use of customer circular economy ments guide our products logistics suppliers data and offer personalisolutions responsible sourcing • We ensure the respon• Our comprehensive store sed benefits and services • We provide extensive sibility of production in network is near customers to our customers recycling services to high-risk countries • We develop digital • We build sustainable K-store customers services that make partnerships with our customers’ lives easier business customers KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 14 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Opportunities and risks related to the operating environment Importance of multi-channel approach In line with our strategy, we aim to offer customers the best multi-channel shopping experience in the trading sector. Opportunities Risks • E-commerce and digital services coupled with a • Challenges to e-commerce profitability include: the comprehensive store site network provide a basis for cost-efficiency of logistics operating models and the excellent customer service in K Group. adaptability of existing store sites to the logistics of online sales. • Our aim is to serve customers as well as possible at • Continuous changes in e-commerce and digital services different stages of the buying process irrespective of present special challenges to the rapid development time and place in physical stores, online or using their of new services and their integration into existing combination. systems. • In order to improve customer satisfaction and increase • With the growth of e-commerce or changes in market sales, we develop personalised customer marketing situation, there is a risk that the operations of a chain based on shopping behaviour and increase the relying on physical stores or a store site become availability of online information about products, prices unprofitable. and availability. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 15 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Economic operating environment Development of retail market in Kesko's operating countries in 2014–2016 % 10 77.6 .6 7.0 7 Our three strategic growth areas are: the grocery 6.4 6.6 6.6 4.9 5.1 5.1 4.9 4.7 5 3.9 4.11 4. trade, the building and technical trade, and the car 3.3 3.11 3. 2.9 2.5 1.8 2. 2.11 2.0 2 1.11 1. trade. From the perspective of growth, key objectives 0 0.4 .4 0 0.5 .5 0 include increasing our market share in the Finnish -1 -1.0 -0 -0.9 .9 grocery trade, increasing the building and home -5 -5.2 improvement trade in Europe, strengthening market -10 -10.0 -10 leadership in the Finnish car trade, and developing digital services and multi-channel trade. -15 Poland Estonia Lithuania Sweden Latvia Finland Norway Russia 2014 2015 2016 Retail ** Retail tradetrade excluding excluding motor vehicles, changevehicles, motor change %, deflated figures %, deflated figures (Source: Eurostat, PMR for Russia) (Source: Eurostat, PMR for Russia) Opportunities Risks • Our strategy emphasises customer orientation and quality in all operations in addition to • Continuing outlook for slow growth in the Finnish economy, the indebtedness of the public competitive prices. sector may have a negative impact on the development of purchasing power. • In the grocery trade, price is increasingly important. • Modest development of the Russian economy. • In the building and technical trade, the B2B trade grows clearly faster than B2C trade. • In the building sector, cyclical fluctuations may be strong. • The acquisition of Onninen creates a unique entity for Kesko in the B2B trade. • Our strong financial position provides excellent opportunities to develop operations. • Kesko’s market performance varies greatly from one country and division to another. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 16 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Purchasing chains Transparency and responsibility in purchasing chains has become increasingly important.It is necessary to provide customers with increasingly detailed information on the origins and manufacturing methods of products. We take care to ensure that all operations and the whole supply chain are responsible. Product safety management must be flawless and traceable across the entire supply chain. Opportunities Risks • Networking with suppliers of goods and providers • Non-compliance in the management of social or of services requires that all operators in the supply environmental responsibility within the supply chain chain adopt the same values, objectives and operating may cause human rights violations, environmental practices and are committed to international damages, financial losses and the loss of customer, sustainability assurance procedures. owner and investor confidence while negatively affecting the corporate responsibility work and its credibility. • VWe can help customers make responsible purchasing • A failure in product safety control or in the quality decisions by means of corporate responsibility assurance of the supply chain can result in financial communications, the stores' K-responsibility concept losses, the loss of customer confidence or, in the worst and product labelling. case, a health hazard to customers. • We strengthen customer confidence in K Group through careful and traceable product safety control and quality assurance. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 17 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Impacts of climate change Climate change causes risks and opportunities affecting habitats, regulations and reputation factors. Emissions from the generation of electrical and heat energy of properties represent a significant proportion of the environmental impacts of Kesko and K Group stores. In accordance with our environmental and energy policy, our real estate functions work in cooperation with business partners to develop solutions for the building, renovation, concept changes, maintenance and use of real estate properties which reduce the consumption of materials and energy during the life cycles of these properties. We also help our customers find energy-efficient solutions. Read more about energy-efficient solutions. Opportunities Risks • We efficiently recover waste heat, such as • Climate change will increase the risk of extreme condensation heat generated by store refrigeration weather phenomena. units, for heating using the latest technology. • Extreme phenomena may cause damage or business interruptions that cannot be prevented or covered with insurances. • We also actively examine the use of renewable energy • If our energy source policies prove wrong, they may sources. Among other things, the use of soil and water lead to unpopularity among customers, owners and as heat and cold storages, as well as the use of solar investors, and cause financial losses. energy, will increasingly be potential alternatives as technical solutions become more sophisticated. • Products and services that enhance energy efficiency in homes and are available at the building and home improvement stores make it easy for customers to improve the energy efficiency of their homes and to find solutions that support sustainable development. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 18 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: It is important for retailers to monitor the wisK-food retailers see the application as a great Management by hes of their customers, the development of sales and trends in the trading sector. When opportunity to do marketing. information provides the business is busy, it has often been challenIt is positive that I can do marketing whestores with competitive ging to search and analyse data quickly and, in several cases, some data has remained never I want. Retailers need to be agile and make decisions quickly. Kampanjatiski enabadvantage completely unused. les us to react quickly, says Jouni Ekholm, retailer at K-Supermarket Mustapekka. K Group is one of We wanted to get all of the data into a form that is easier for retailers to take in and In addition to the Kampanjatiski application the trading sector's use. We developed an entirely new visual for retailers, K Group's other forms of markepioneers in collecting and reporting tool to enable retailers to see the ting are increasingly transitioning towards the information about customers, market areas use of customer data. utilising customer data. and competitors that is relevant to their own We create marketing based on customer data Retailers are using an stores. A clearer reporting entity makes it In 2016, we expanded K Group's targeted to offer the best customer experience in the application that supports essentially easier for a store to manage by information, says Minna Vakkilainen, VP, Head marketing using customer data and began carrying out programmatic marketing relying trading sector. We communicate to customers at the right time, using the right media store management of Customer Data in the K Digital unit. on our own team of experts. By utilising our and with exactly the right content for each and offers a tool for Easier to use data has reinforced the unown customer data and digital technologies, we are developing more customer-oriented customer. targeted marketing. For derstanding that stores, areas, competitive marketing and laying the foundations for By utilising internet browsing data, we can customers, utilisation of situations and customers are different. That is future marketing, Vakkilainen says. help customers who are planning renovations why every K-store is different – tailored to the to get through the various phases of the data will lead to personal, demands and profiles of local customers. Utilising customer data to provide more renovation by offering them relevant content interactive and multiTargeted email marketing personal customer service in different channels, telling them about the Customers expect stores to provide a new renovation services offered by K-Rauta and channel service. Easy, fruitful marketing based on data plays a key form of personalised and interactive service. providing interior decoration tips, says Mari role in the everyday work of digitalising stores. They want to get a wider range of service in Huuki, Marketing Analyst for the building and return for the information that they give to technical trade. The targeted marketing service, Kampanjatiski, companies. However, this does not necesis an application that enables retailers to quickly sarily mean that customers are only looking Read more: and cost-efficiently make store-specific email for special offers. It is also important to offer K-Plussa is changing marketing based on K-Plussa customer data. service, information and inspiration. K-food mobile application (in Finnish) KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 19 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our strategy digital approach and improving the level of quality and service in K-food stores, and renewing the marketing model. We disposed of the Russian grocery trade towards the end of 2016. Kesko operates in the building and technical trade in nine countries and is the fifth largest opeThe core of Kesko's strategy is profitable growth rator in the European building and home improvement trade market. The strategic objective is growth and a stronger position in Europe. The acquisition of Onninen, a company specialising in in three strategic areas: the grocery trade, the HEPAC and electrical products, in the first half of 2016 will significantly support this. The combuilding and technical trade, and the car trade. We bination of Onninen and Kesko's building and home improvement trade has enabled us to create a unique B2B trade entity on the market. We are making major developments in digital services differentiate ourselves from the competition with and e-commerce. In Finland, K-Rauta and Rautia stores will be combined under the renewed quality and customer orientation. K-Rauta brand. The brand renewal in other operating countries will take place in phases. Kesko operates in the building and technical trade in nine countries and is the fifth largest operator in the European building and home improvement trade Kesko and K-stores are working increasingly strongly as a unified K Group, so we can offer our market. customers even better services and operate efficiently. Our strategic objective is to strengthen the customer experience for consumers and companies both in stores and in digital channels. We modernise the chain concepts, build the best digital services in the trading sector and In the car trade, Kesko is the market leader in Finland, and our objective is to increase our ­reform the K-Plussa customer loyalty system. market share in the car trade, particularly in Finland. We are actively developing new business models and improving the multi-channel customer experience. Towards the end of the year, we Our strategic objective is to strengthen the customer experience for acquired the rights to represent and import Porsche vehicles in Finland. consumers and companies both in stores and in digital channels. In addition, we are developing Kesko's other businesses, which include the furniture trade, the sports trade, the agricultural trade, the machinery trade and the shoe trade, with the aim of In the grocery trade, our strategic objective is good profitability and a stronger market share in increasing their value. Finland. We want to offer the most inspiring food stores and digital services in the market. The growth strategy is underpinned by the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa completed in early To ensure competitiveness and improve profitability, we have realised savings of €50 million in 2016. In consequence of the acquisition, at least 400 Valintatalo and Siwa stores will be renewed fixed costs. We estimate that the acquisitions will generate over €30 million in synergies at the into K-Markets by spring 2017. In addition, the current approximately 400 K-Market chain stores EBITDA level from 2018 onwards and over €60 million from 2020 onwards. and 60 Neste K stations will be modernised by the end of 2017. We will carry out a modernisation of the K-Citymarket chain by the end of 2018 and create 81 different stores with product In 2015 and 2016, we made capital expenditure of €500 million in business operations, e ­ xcluding selections and services that reflect their customer bases. We are refining the K-Supermarket ­acquisitions. As of 2018, we estimate that the annual capital expenditure will be less than concept and expanding the network with new store sites. In addition, we are strengthening our ­€200 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 20 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Strategy implementation is progressing Strategic objectives Acquisition of AutoCarrera • Growth in grocery trade Divestment of K-ruoka, Russia • Growth and expansion of the building and technical trade in Europe Acquisition • Growth of the car trade, particularly in of Onninen Finland Acquisition of • The best customer experience in the traSuomen Lähikauppa ding sector in all channels • A single, unified Kesko, seeking synergies Kesko Senukai arrangement and efficient common functions in the Baltic countries Real estate arrangement Divestment of Anttila ONE UNIFIED THE CUSTOMER AND QUALITY – IN EVERYTHING WE DO KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 21 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our financial objectives Return on equity* Return on capital employed* Return on equity* Return on ca Return on capital employed, target: 14% % % We will reach this target by%focusing on stra% tegic growth areas, growing cost-efficiently Target level 14% Target level 14% 14 14 14 14 and by improving capital efficiency. Target level 12% 11.7% 11.9% Target level 12% 12 12 12 12 Return on equity, target: 12% 9.8% 9.8% 9.9% 9.8% 9. 10 10 9.0% 10 10 9.0% We will allocate capital so as to realise the 7.7% 8.2% 7.7% 8.2% 7.6% 7.6% 8 8 8 8 best possible return and increase shareholder 6.9% 6.9% value. 6 6 6 6 4 4 4 4 Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA, target: less than 2.5 2 2 2 2 We will maintain a strong financial 0 position 0 0 0 as well as safeguard our dividend2012 2013 capacity 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 20 and the opportunities to implement * Comparable strategic ** Comparable Comparable ** Comparable Comparable * Comparable projects. Financial objectives Realisation in Realisation in Realisation in Objectives Target level 2016 2015 2014 Return on capital employed* 14% 11.9% 11.7% 9.9% Return on equity* 12% 9.8% 8.2% 7.6% Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA < 2.5 0.4 -1.4 -0.3 Kesko's dividend policy: Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its comparable earnings per share as dividends, taking into account, however, the Company's financial position and operating strategy. * Comparable ­ KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 22 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The foundation of our Operating principles operations I operate I'm all in Value directly, openly In the K Group, personnel The customer and quality in everything we and honestly put themselves into play do Honest and open operatiI OPERATE every day in order to offer on is the starting point for DIRECTLY, OPENLY I’M ALL IN their customers a diverVision everything. Responsibility AND HONESTY sified selection, quality We are the customer's choice and the quality is a success factor for the products and first class leader in the European trading sector K Group, proof of which services that enable daily is customers' confidence life to go smoothly. Mission in the K Group's operating We create welfare responsibly for all our principles and products. I CREATE TRUST I SHOW THE PATH stakeholders and the whole society One unified K I create trust I show the path 1. A strong brand and identity at the consumer Trust in other people is, Through constant interface above all, based on our own development and renewal, 2. Efficient common functions operations. In the K Group, the K Group gains a clear 3. Customer relationships across divisional people respect each other direction in serving cusborders and listen to customers' tomers ever better. In the needs. K Group, everyone knows their role and has the agility to respond to changing conditions. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 23 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: K Code of Conduct unites personnel in nine operating countries Since October 2016, the K Code of Conduct has established itself as the name of the operating principles shared by all members of the Kesko personnel in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus. In 2016, we updated the former guide entitled Our Responsible Working Principles. An employee survey had revealed a need to clarify and update the guidelines and to prepare separate guidelines for business partners. Indoor Estonia was the first company in which the entire Mariya Yakusheva, Svetlana Kononova and Vadim ”It was important to bring the guidelines up to date also because during the year thousands of personnel completed the K Code of Conduct eLearning. Bezovchuk, who work at the K-Rauta HR function in new employees have joined us as a result of the acquisitions of Suomen Lähikauppa and OnniTo celebrate, coffee and cake was enjoyed at all Indoor St. Petersburg, have familiarised themselves with the Estonia offices. K Code of Conduct in Russian. nen. With the update, we also wanted to emphasise management’s commitment to the shared K Code of Conduct and to improve the everyday presence of the guidelines. The K Code of Conduct includes a link to the SpeakUp reporting channel, which operates in nine languages and makes it easier to report suspected or actual violations of the shared operating principles confidentially,” says Kesko EVP, Group General Counsel, Anne Leppälä-Nilsson. We appointed K Code of Conduct ambassadors from among the personnel in all divisions and operating countries to assist in the deployment. Ambassadors convey the message We have prepared an eLearning package for the entire personnel to facilitate the adoption of ”These roughly 20 ambassadors act as messengers, information channels and contacts both with the K Code of Conduct. By the end of 2016, a total of 3,159 people had already completed the respect to their own organisations and the K Code of Conduct steering group. It’s been great to eLearning programme. see how eagerly they have embarked on their assignment to deliver the message,” says Leppälä-Nilsson. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 24 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continuous monitoring ensures commitment For the K Code of Conduct to be constantly upheld, we pay special attention to the monitoring in the following ways: We comply We do not offer or We comply with the Kesko policies with the law accept bribes on hospitality and gifts • We monitor the completion rates of the K Code of Conduct eLearning programme and, if necessary, remind related target groups of the completion • We update all new and renewed employment contracts to include a clause about We avoid We respect We treat one the requirement for personnel to familiarise themselves and comply with the conflicts of interest human rights another equally K Code of Conduct • As of 2017, we oblige the entire personnel to annually acknowledge their compliance with the K Code of Conduct guidelines We minimise our We communicate transparently and We do not disclose environmental impacts protect the Kesko brand business secrets • We add a K Code of Conduct contract clause to agreements signed by Kesko Group companies under which the Group companies purchase products or services from parties outside the Group • We draw up an annual plan with quarterly actions promoting the awareness of the We process customer information and We are committed to We comply with insider regulations K Code of Conduct other personal data in confidence fair competition and Kesko insider guidelines • The K Code of Conduct Steering Group convenes at least every six months and checks whether the guidelines are up to date, plans trainings, and monitors and reports the training completion rate  Code of Conduct Read more: kesko.fi/codeofconduct-en The K Code of Conduct contains 12 principles illustrated with clear examples. Watch the video > KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 25 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stakeholder address: The K Digital Trainee programme led to interesting career opportunities Five skilled and keen trainees were selected to join the first K Digital Trainee programme. The six-month programme was a real success and the trainees now have permanent jobs developing digital services in different parts of K Group. I started working as a digital trainee with Katri, Hilla, Hanna-Reeta and Joonas in May 2016. Kesko HR was in charge of the trainee team and organising the programme. The K Digital During the trainee period, we were placed in the K Digital unit and in all Kesko divisions, namely Trainee Programme was part of the Finland's Mentors project, through which Kesko makes a the grocery trade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. We were not, however, contribution by employing recently graduated young people. We gained a good overall idea of confined by the boundaries of the designated unit and we often crossed them in our work. In our K Group and got to create networks within and outside the organisation. tasks, we got to know Kesko from the store floor to strategic work perspectives. We mostly worked on various development projects and also actively took part in the development of working Besides the support from Kesko’s Chief Digital Officer Anni Ronkainen, our daily work was guipractices and the company culture. ded by personal tutors and mentors nominated to boost personal development. Besides skills, the characteristics that were valued in the selection of trainees to the K Digital The six-month period was a real success and fortunately for all parties, we got permanent jobs Trainee programme were courage, self-initiative and open-mindedness. We were expected to in different parts of the organisation. Now our boldness and open-mindedness are combined question the current operating models and encourage everyone around us towards a new apwith the knowledge and skills gained during the trainee period. We have got off to a good start proach. We all were included in projects which recent graduates can typically only dream about. in our common journey towards the best digital services. It was great to see that we were put in charge without hesitation, and as we met expectations, we were given more and more interesting and challenging tasks. In addition, the trainee proNiina Tuikka gramme included group coaching sessions, excursions to partner companies and the “Grande Finale”: a study trip to London. Watch the video > KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 26 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE How we create value Our operations are based on stable finances, professional and committed people throughout our value chain, and a strong and consistent K brand. We are a major local operator, and our activities affect all aspects of society. We create value for all our stakeholders: customers, personnel, shareholders, retailers, suppliers of goods and providers of services, municipalities and nations. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 27 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our most important Value creation in our Added value for Shared value 1 2 3 4 resources operating result stakeholders and impacts Kesko's operations are based on professional and The key functions, such as efficient logistics, We create value for everyone who operates with We are a significant local operator and the impacts committed people throughout our value chain, responsible purchasing and digital services, provide the K Group, from suppliers and personnel to shafrom our operations extend throughout society. a stable financial position and a strong, unified the K-store and Kesko personnel with the best reholders and people who shop at our stores. When we do our work right, we create wellbeing K-brand. Efficient and responsible use of resources conditions to do their jobs well. We offer our cuseverywhere around us. ensure the success of business operations. tomers high-quality products and the best service • €248 million in dividends at stores and in digital channels alike. The K Group • €575 million in salaries • €743 million in capital expenditure value, ‘The customer and quality – in everything we • 45,000 people work at the K Group, • 24,600 suppliers, of which • €49 million in income taxes do’ , is visible across our business operations. • 20,000 of whom at Kesko • 11,900 are in Finland • €602 million in retailers' direct purchases • 1,100 retailer entrepreneurs at K-stores • Over 2,000 different stores of different sizes, • €8.6 billion in purchases • 66% of Kesko's purchases from Finland • Around 48% of the personnel are in Finland and several online stores and digital services • 19% from the other operating countries 52% are in the other operating countries • 9 operating countries • Services in connection with stores • 1.6 million customers per day KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 28 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For our stakeholders, the most important areas where we create value are customer value, owner value and social value. Customer value • Our main duty is to offer our customers the products and services they need. Our products and home improvement trade and/or agricultural trade, and 100 as specialist retailers. The number are well researched, safe and responsibly manufactured. We create new services to make our of K-food retailers will grow in the near future as at least 400 Siwas and Valintatalos converted to customers' everyday lives easier and make them available in multiple channels. K-Markets will be placed under the control of retailer entrepreneurs over the next two years. • Our agile retailer business model is our competitive advantage. K-retailer entrepreneurs are responsible for customer satisfaction, product selections, pricing, personnel and business profitability in their stores. K-retailer entrepreneurs tailor the product • A personal approach and an inspiring customer experience are our strengths. Because every selections and services around the needs of local customers and listen to their wishes. person is different, every K-food store is also different. Find out more about K-retailers • B2B customers are becoming increasingly important in the building and technical trade. Building and renovation are becoming more technical and are increasingly the domain of Own brand products professionals. Own brand products play a key role in K-stores' diverse product selections. Our own brands enable us to offer more affordable shopping baskets and high-quality products that suit various K brand to the next level life situations. Building a new, strong K consumer brand has been an important part of our strategy work. In 2016, we moved to a new level in building the K brand as we launched an extensive chain brand The Pirkka product range contains nearly 2,600 products that combine high quality with affordarenewal under the K umbrella brand. bility. When new products are selected for inclusion in the Pirkka range, Finnish products always take precedence, providing that the product meets the quality and price criteria. First, we launched a new chain brand and chain identity in the K-Market chain. Next, we moved on to K-Rauta and K-Citymarket. During the spring of 2017, we will modernize the fourth chain Products in the Pirkka range with responsibility labels in 2016: brand, K-Supermarket. • Pirkka products with the Swan label: 65 • Pirkka products with the Hyvää Suomesta (Produce of Finland) label: 247 Responsibility, inspiration and individual attention to every customer are the key aspects of the • Pirkka Fairtrade products: 36 new K brand. Just as our every customer is different, so is each of our stores, tailored for its • Pirkka Organic products: 118 customers. For shopping to be fun. • Pirkka MSC-certified fish products: 37 • Pirkka products with the UTZ label: 32 K-retailers are our competitive advantage In 2016, 45% of Kesko's net sales came from the retailer business model. There are 1,088 K-retailer entrepreneurs operating in Finland, 841 of them as K-food retailers, 147 as retailers in the building KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 29 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The asset of the K-Menu range is affordability. K-Menu products are high-quality, basic everyday The research conducted on the farm aims to provide K-maatalous retailers and farmers with foods whose price is the most important criterion for consumers. tested solutions for making productive product choices and optimising their harvests. The own brands of the building and home improvement trade – Cello, PROF, FXA and Fiorin – The K-maatalous Experimental Farm made a Baltic Sea Commitment to the Baltic Sea Action provide customers with reliable and affordable products for home and garden, as well as tools Group (BSAG) in June 2016. The experimental farm's commitment focuses on developing for building and renovation. Among Onninen's own brands, Onnline offers electrical, HEPAC and measurement practices and devices to determine the growth conditions and nutrients in soil. refrigeration products for B2B customers. The electrical and HVAC products under the OPAL brand are primarily designed for B2C customers. Read more about Product Research Read more about the K-maatalous Experimental Farm Find out more about products with responsibility labels Find out more about Pirkka and K-Menu products Find out more about Cello products Responsible purchasing Our purchasing activities are guided by the following: Product development and product research • Kesko's purchasing principles • The Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible Trading guide Product research laboratory • Corporate responsibility policy statements Kesko's product research laboratory controls the quality of the grocery products sold by K-food stores. High-level analyses ensure the safety of foodstuffs. We have responsibility to our customers to ensure that the products sold at K-stores are of high quality, well researched and responsibly produced. The Product Research laboratory is a T251 testing laboratory that has been accredited by the ­FINAS accreditation services. It is the only research laboratory for the trading sector’s own Special attention is paid to human rights issues and working conditions in the purchasing chain. brand products that has been approved to comply with the SFSEN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. When suppliers are monitored, the focus is on the countries where the risks of violations of these rights are the greatest. Special attention is paid to working conditions at factories in highThe product research laboratory analysed 7,770 product samples and conducted 17,176 analyses risk countries, though the quantities imported from these countries are small (1% of all Kesko’s in 2016. purchases in 2016). All new own brand products – Pirkka and K-Menu range products – are analysed thoroughly International assessment systems, BSCI auditing and SA8000 certification, are used for supplier several times. Each new product to be included in the range goes through a multi-stage survey audits in high-risk countries. which consists of lab analyses and sensory evaluations. Read more about responsible purchasing K-maatalous Experimental Farm The K-maatalous Experimental Farm in Hauho invests in development and research work on plant varieties to promote sustainable cultivation methods and better Finnish food production. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 30 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Owner value • Kesko is a financially sound listed company Corporate responsibility plays an increasingly important role in • Good dividend capacity investment decisions • A responsible investment Our financial position is very strong. As a result of acquisitions, our net sales increased by 17.3%, Responsible business is crucial for the achievement of good and sustainable financial results. the comparable operating profit was €273 million and the return on capital employed rose to All of our operations are built on trust between Kesko, the K Group stores, our customers and 11.9% in 2016. At the end of 2016, Kesko had liquid assets of approximately €391 million and business partners. Corporate responsibility manifests itself in our everyday work and our stakea balance sheet total of €4.4 billion. A strong and stable profit and financial position enable holders require this of us. investment in growth and long-term business development. We expect acquisitions to generate significant synergies in the near future. Besides financial factors, investors are increasingly taking account of aspects related to the environment, social responsibility and corporate governance (ESG) when they make investment We distribute at least 50% of our comparable earnings per share as dividends while taking into decisions. account the Company’s financial position and operating strategy. A dividend of €2.0 per share is proposed to be paid for 2016, which would represent an average rate of 99.5% on the comparabOur long-term inclusion in sustainability indices provides independent evidence of our responle earnings per share. We have paid dividends every year but one (1967) since we were listed in sible operations and facilitates investment decisions. On the 2017 Global 100 Most Sustainable 1960. In 2016, the price of a Kesko B share rose to 46.7%, while the closing price was €47.48. Corporations in the World list, Kesko ranked 25th and at the same time, as the world's most responsible trading sector company. Find out more about Kesko as an investment Find out more about corporate responsibility KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 31 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Social value mately 10,200 were in Kesko's other operating countries, and approximately 2,500 were based elsewhere. We select our business partners with care and we also require them to have responsible opera• We are a significant employer, taxpayer and service provider, and our operations create welting practices. The business partners' version of the K Code of Conduct is appended to new fare for society as a whole. and renewed agreements. • We select our business partners with care and we require them to operate responsibly. Purchasing Finnish products and services creates economic benefits for Kesko's home country We create jobs and promotes local work. At the end of 2016, the number of Kesko personnel was 22,476. K Group – Kesko and the In 2016, the purchases of all Kesko companies from suppliers operating in Finland totalled K-retailers – employ approximately 45,000 people in total. Roles range from jobs at a store to €5,661 million, accounting for 65.9% of the Group’s total purchases. K-retailers’ direct purchases retailer entrepreneurship as well as expert positions and supervisory positions in various fields. from Finnish regions totalled €602 million. We offer a wide range of career and development opportunities in different roles in the trading Pirkka products are manufactured by nearly 120 companies across Finland. Their manufacture, sector. As the operating environment and customer requirements in the trading sector change, or the inclusion of a manufacturer’s own product in Kesko's grocery trade selections, provides continuous competence development for personnel takes on an increasingly important role. many regional companies with an opportunity to expand their market to cover the entire country. The core areas of competence development are management culture and supervisory work, sales The taxes we pay benefit society and service skills, product line specific competitive advantage projects, e-commerce and services. Kesko is a significant taxpayer: in addition to paying income and real estate taxes, Kesko colleThe ongoing digital revolution requires new skills. In 2016, we recruited dozens of new professiocts, reports and remits indirect taxes, such as value-added tax and excise duties. nals to develop mobile services, analytics, process automation and modern online store solutions. We also arranged a six-month K Digital Trainee programme, and the five trainees who completed Our principle is always to pay taxes on operating income and assets to the respective operating it are now permanent employees developing digital services in various parts of K Group. country in compliance with local laws and regulations. Find out more about our personnel K Group and its around 45,000 employees have a substantial impact on the municipal sector. Municipal taxes paid by our personnel account for a considerable proportion of municipalities’ Suppliers are important partners tax revenue. Most of the economic benefits generated by Kesko’s operations – approximately 84% of Kesko’s In 2016, there were K-food stores in 280 municipalities in Finland. Real estate taxes on the businet sales – flow to suppliers, from which purchases were valued at €8.6 billion in 2016. ness premises used by Kesko and K Group are paid to the municipalities in which the premises are located. Part of the income taxes from Kesko’s and K-retailers’ entrepreneurial activities are Kesko had approximately 24,600 suppliers and service providers (from which we made purchadistributed to those municipalities where the activities take place. ses of at least €1,000) in 2016. Approximately 11,900 of these were based in Finland, approxiRead more about taxes KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 32 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: ­Putting shopping in new kind of circular economy bags instead of plastic bags Circular economy bags made of household K Group is committed to plastic packaging waste reducing the consumpAs from January 2017, we offer K-food store the use of virgin raw material consumption and tion of plastic bags. The customers new kind of circular economy bags, greenhouse emissions. made from packaging plastics recycled by latest alternative for a customers, as alternatives to shopping bags. plastic bag is the Pirkka Read more about Pirkka ESSI circular ESSI circular economy There are 396 Rinki eco take-back points in connection with K-stores, 160 of which accept economy bag bag, made from plastic plastic packaging plastics. Read more about Kesko’s plastic policy packaging recycled by The Pirkka ESSI circular economy bag, statement households. manufactured by Amerplast Oy, is the first Finnish plastic bag made from recycled Plastic bags cause problems when they end plastics from households. It promotes the up in water bodies and elsewhere in the natucircular economy, because after use, it can ral environment. A particular concern in be recycled again through the Rinki eco K Group's operating environment is the littetake-back points for use as a raw material for ring of the Baltic Sea and large lake bodies. new circular economy bags. The aim of the EU packaging directive At least 45% of the recycled plastic used as a (94/62/EC, 2015/720/EU) is to keep the raw material for the Pirkka ESSI circular bag annual consumption level at a maximum of economy consists of plastic packaging waste The Pirkka ESSI circular economy bag, manufactured by Amerplast Oy, is the first Finnish plastic bag made 40 plastic bags per person by 2025. K Group from households. At least 45% of used recyfrom recycled plastics from households. is committed to promoting the achievement cled plastic comes from industry. As such, of this target. In 2016, some 55 plastic bags circular economy bags considerably reduce were consumed per person in Finland. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 33 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Read about the actions aimed to reduce plastics Plastic bags cause problems when Kesko provides alternatives for plastic The chlorine, stabilisers and In order to protect waterways, KesAs from the beginning of 2017 they end up in water bodies and elbags in its selections: reusable bags, phthalates contained in PVC are ko will discontinue the use of plastic retail plastic bags will be subject sewhere in the natural environment. cotton bags and jute bags, as well as estimated to cause significant microbeads in all of its own brands’ to a charge at all K Group food A particular concern in Kesko's opepaper bags and recycled plastic bags. environmental and health impacts. cosmetic products during 2017. stores, building and home improrating environment is the littering of At the beginning of 2017, Pirkka ESSI Packaging material containing PVC vement stores, agricultural stores the Baltic Sea and large lake bodies. recycled bag was added to the choice. in Kesko’s own brands’ products and machinery stores, as well as Kesko is committed to the EU’s Kesko aims to increase alternative carwill be replaced with an alternative furniture stores. objective to reduce consumption of rier bags’ and cardboard boxes’ share material by the end of 2016. plastic bags to 40 bags per capita of sales to 10% by 2025. by 2025. Thin small plastic bags will no lonIn its procurement and distributiNearly all of Kesko’s own brand The K Group offers its customers The operations of the food and ger be on display at the checkout on logistics, Kesko uses reusable product packages have recycling the most comprehensive Rinki eco building and home improvement line. They will be handed out on plastic containers, which reduces identification codes. The missing take-back point network in Finland. stores are guided by the K-resrequest for covering products that the quantity of cardboard parckacodes will be added to the Plastic is collected at 160 plastic ponsibility concept. One of its may leak. ging waste by around 4,000 tons packages of own brand collection points adjoining K-stomain themes is taking care of the per year. products within 2017. res. K-food stores receive and reenvironment. As for its e-commercycle nearly 120 million PET plastic ce, Kesko recognizes its responsibibottles per year. Kesko's target is lity as a producer by taking care of that by 2025, 100% of plastic waste the collection of plastic and other is collected for reuse in all divisions. packaging materials and by paying the producer responsibility fees for its packaging. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 34 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: ­Human rights assessment helps improve the company’s operations and supply chain transparency We respect all internationally recognised Between 2014–2016, • The principles oblige businesses to reshuman rights We have forwarded the information pect human rights in all their operations. obtained from the high-risk country we carried out a human Businesses must assess the human rights • According to the UN Guiding Principles on surveys of our human rights assessment rights impact assessment impacts and risks of their operations, creaBusiness and Human Rights, the to the BSCI organisation for use in the te systems for avoiding risks, and establish management of responsible businesses development of audit procedures. in accordance with the processes for any corrective measures. must make a public statement of commitUN Guiding Principles ment to human rights. • We ensure that all our operating models Our human rights assessment in a nutshell on Business and Human • During the extensive assessment, we lis• We published our human rights commitare built to take account of the respect for human rights in all our operations. Rights. The extensive tened to the views of customers, personnel ment in September 2016. In it we state that work was worth the effort and factory workers in high-risk countries on how human rights are realised in we respect all internationally recognised human rights and expect our business • We communicate about human rights matters to our personnel and stakeholders because it gave us lots of K Group’s operations. partners to do the same. We listen to our through different channels. useful information which stakeholders’ views on human rights and • Dialogue with customers affirmed our view take them into account when developing • We review our human rights assessment will help us improve that for customers, the right to health, our operations. every three years and update it on our the transparency of our children’s right to special protection, and website. non-discrimination are the key human • Respecting human rights is one of the 12 supply chain, the dialorights that we must ensure. principles of the K Code of Conduct. Find out more about our human rights gue with our personnel assessment: • The results of surveys at factories in highWhat next? and our customer service risk countries (China, India, Bangladesh • The human rights assessment gave us lots Identified salient human rights impacts and even further. and the Philippines) were largely congruof useful information which will help us assessment of related risks ent with those in the BSCI and SA8000 improve the transparency of our supply What is it about? reports. Employment relationships were chain, the dialogue with our personnel and Survey of stakeholder views • The UN Guiding Principles on Business found to be fragile and omissions were our customer service even further. and Human Rights, which were launched detected in working hours and overtime Monitoring and corrective actions in 2011, have become the global standard pay, among other things. • We are obliged to take responsibility for that guides corporate responsibility related human rights in the supply chain of our Statement of commitment on human rights to human rights. products, especially in high-risk countries. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 35 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stakeholder's address: Kesko promotes human rights Kesko has done concrete work to promote the rights of workers in developing countries in collaboration with the Trade Union Solidarity Centre of Finland (SASK) since 2006. The work conducted with Kesko's subcontractors began with a training project in Vietnam, where the objective was to improve the corporate responsibility of 13 subcontracting companies in matters required for BSCI certification, including labour protection and interaction between the employer and employees. A follow-up study was conducted in 2016 practical realisation of matters corresponding specifically in the areas in which deficiencies ractors is very large and extends to several among the original business partners. The to the BSCI certificate. The results showed were detected. If BSCI succeeds in rectifying high-risk countries. purpose of the study was to find out how that the companies have improved their opeits deficiencies as a result of this work, it will permanent the results of the training project rations in matters required for certification make a significant contribution to improving The Trade Union Solidarity Centre of Finland were several years after the project had enin many regards. However, almost all of the the living conditions of employees working for (SASK) would like to thank Kesko for its ded. The results were a positive surprise: the studied companies had major deficiencies in thousands of suppliers. cooperation so far and is keen to continue majority of the better practices implemented questions related to the position of emplothis work. SASK is an expert organisation as part of the project were still in use, and yees, such as wages and overtime. Kesko's human rights commitment and the established by the Finnish labour movement almost all of the companies that were studied stated level for guaranteeing the human whose aim is to improve the conditions of had continued to improve working conditions By studying the actual effects of the certirights of employees in value chains can act workers in developing countries by supporting after the project ended. fications that Kesko requires in developing as an example to other commercial operators local labour movements and boosting their countries, Kesko has demonstrated a pioneein Finland and particularly to Kesko's own competences. In 2016, Kesko and SASK worked together ring approach and commitment specifically commercial partners. Kesko is undeniably one also to evaluate how well certain suppliers to human rights – not just to certificates of Finland's leading companies implementing met their targets for corporate responsibility that strive to improve such rights. Kesko has the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Janne Ronkainen, Executive Director, Trade certification in relation to working conditions also delivered the results of the study to the Human Rights, and an agent for the realisatiUnion Solidarity Centre of Finland (SASK) in four high-risk countries in Asia. Employees BSCI certification organisation to enable on of principles related to human rights, even were asked to give their perspectives on the it to develop the monitoring of certificates though the company's network of subcontKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 36 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: The 'Pink Ribbon' campaign result multiplied In 2016, Kesko’s grocery trade made a significantly bigger contribution to the Pink Ribbon campaign than before. A total of €262,187 of the Pirkka Pink Ribbon products sold at K-food stores and the ribbon brooches sold at K-Citymarkets and K-Supermarkets in October was donated to the Finnish cancer foundation Syöpäsäätiö. The year before, the amount was €21,000. We succeeded in exceeding the campaign target with flying colours, for which I wish to thank the K-food store customers , says Vice President for Commerce Ari Akseli of Kesko’s grocery trade division. During the Pink Ribbon campaign weeks, from 26 September to 30 October 2016, a total of 61,619 Pink Ribbon brooches were sold at K-Citymarkets and K-Supermarkets. K-food stores, Valintatalos and Siwas sold Pirkka range campaign products, the most popular of which were baby plum tomatoes, Fairtrade roses and raspberries. In addition, the K-Citymarket chain donated ribbon brooches to its entire personnel, a total of 10,000 people. We are able to, for example, ensure the counselling service operations of the foundation for a whole year with the sum donated by Kesko. We have several nurses specialising in cancer counselling to provide support and information without charge to people ill with cancer and their families,” says Sakari Karjalainen, Secretary General of Syöpäsäätiö. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 37 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Divisions Grocery trade K Group offers Finland's most comprehensive network of the most Every person is different. That is why every K-food service-oriented neighbourhood stores. store is different. K-food retailers listen to their The acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa, completed in April 2016, enables K Group to offer customers' wishes and customise their stores' services Finland's most comprehensive network of the most service-oriented neighbourhood stores. All Siwas and Valintatalos will become K-Markets by spring 2017, and will gradually be transferred to according to local customer demand. The customer K-retailers by the end of 2018. The K-Supermarket chain will also expand. In 2016 and 2017, we and quality are at the centre of everything that K-food will establish almost 30 entirely new stores, and more than 20 stores will be completely renewed. stores do – our aim is to offer the most inspiring food We are updating our entire hypermarket concept and we will revamp all K-Citymarkets by the stores in the market, along with supporting digital end of 2018. The aim is to create 81 different K-Citymarkets with product selections and services services. that reflect their customer bases. By the end of 2016, 23 stores had been updated. In accordance with its strategy, Kesko is focusing on the Finnish grocery trade. The company sold its grocery trade businesses in Russia to Lenta, a Russian grocery trade operator, in NovemOur strategic objective is to provide the most inspiring stores and ber 2016. digital services of the market. We strengthen the quality image of K-stores and renew our store concepts. K-food retailers are tasked with tailoring their stores to take local customer Jorma Rauhala, EVP, President of the grocery trade division needs into consideration to the maximum possible extent. Kesko had 10,338 personnel working in the grocery trade at the end of 2016. K Group (Kesko and the K-retailers) is the second largest operator in Finland's grocery trade with a market share Every day, approximately 1.2 million customers visit K Group's food stores. K-food retailers are of approximately 37–38% (Kesko's own estimate after the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa). responsible for customer satisfaction at K-food stores, and Kesko's grocery trade works with these retailers under the chain business model. The K-food store chains are K-Citymarket, Collaboration between Kesko's grocery trade and K-food retailers is based on chain operations, K-Supermarket, K-Market and Neste K. K-food stores are the world's most sustainable comwhich ensures customer orientation, business efficiency and the achievement of competitive panies in their sector. Further strengths include superior fresh food departments, professional advantages. Kesko's key operations are centralised purchasing, selection management, logistics, service, diverse and high-quality selections, Finnish products and the own brand Pirkka. and developing chain concepts and the store site network. Kesko also agrees upon long-term KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 38 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE collaboration models with different partner companies. Centralised operations guarantee effiCompetitive advantages of the grocery trade cient competitiveness. K-food retailers are tasked with tailoring their stores to take local customer needs into conside• The most inspiring stores in the market ration to the maximum possible extent. K-retailers look after the selections, customer service, personnel competence, product quality and business profitability of their stores. K-retailers • Tailoring every K-food store to meet local customer demand tailor their product selections and services according to the needs of local customers by listening to their wishes and making use of customer data obtained from the Plussa customer loyalty pro• Finland's most extensive network of neighbourhood store services and additional services gramme. K-food retailers complement the common product selection in their chains by adding products such as those available from local producers. • The best fresh food departments and widest selections – also in local food Digital services provide customers with more personalised benefits from • K-retailer entrepreneurship guarantees quality and customer orientation K-food stores and local store-specific offers. • Affordable and high-quality Pirkka and K-Menu products Digital services developed jointly by Kesko and K-food retailers offer customers ideas and inspiration for cooking, as well as easier ways to shop for food. Digital services provide customers • Finnish origin and responsibility – approximately 80% of the product selections are Finnish with more personalised benefits from K-food stores and local store-specific offers. The K-food mobile app offers a smart shopping list that recommends products that the customer frequently • A wide range of digital services to make customers' everyday lives easier and a comprehensive buys. It also includes thousands of recipes. network of online food stores Almost 100 K-food stores around Finland are offering online food stores that operate locally, as • Effective customer dialogue – feedback from up to a million customers every year well as click and collect services. Customers have access to the extensive selection of products and inexpensive prices of the familiar store also online. Self-service checkouts have already been installed in dozens of K-food stores around Finland to make the daily lives of time-pressed customers easier. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 39 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Strategic focus areas Strategic objective What we are doing • K-food stores are • Emphasis on freshness, Finnish origins, extensive selections and service modernising • Every K-store has a K-retailer who tailors the store to meet the local customer needs • Capital expenditure in the network of neighbourhood stores. As a result of the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa, all Siwas and Valintatalos will be converted into K-Markets in spring 2017, and will gradually be transferred to retailers by the end of 2018 • The almost 70 service stations run by Neste and Kesko will be renewed and become Neste K service stations by the end of 2017. The objective is to build up a network of approximately 100 Neste K stations • All of the stores in the K-Citymarket chain will be modernised by the end of 2018 • New services and partners in connection with K-food stores, such as Starbucks, Posti, DHL, self-service checkouts, online food stores • The customer • Strengthening customer dialogue and quality – in • Improving customer satisfaction everything we do • Attractive, personalised offers • Digital customer • More effective utilisation of customer data experience • Mobile services that are valuable to customers and targeted marketing • Increasing online sales of food and making new solutions available to customers. Click and collect services expanded further to all parts of Finland • Renewed Plussa customer loyalty system: Personalised special offers based on shopping history • Retailers ensure • Ensuring that retailer entrepreneurship continues to be profitable and interesting. Retailers may run several stores in the future quality • Every K is different – building the selection according to local customer demand • Highlighting local food and products from small producers in selections • Increasing Kespro's • Strengthening international cooperation and new partnerships business • Further strengthening of market position • Close cooperation with K-food stores KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 40 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chains Markets K-Citymarket In 2016, the Finnish grocery trade market was worth approximately €16.8 billion (incl. VAT), repK-Citymarket is a modern hypermarket that offers its customers diverse, extensive selections of resenting an estimated rise of approximately 1% (Kesko's own estimate). The market as a whole food, as well as home and speciality goods. K-Citymarket is well known for its best offers, wide has experienced a cautious growth, influenced by factors such as the liberalisation of opening selections and food expertise. hours for food stores. In recent years, the Finnish grocery market has been characterised by fierce price competition. K-Supermarket The mission of K-Supermarket undergoing modernisation is to inspire Finnish people to eat better – K-Supermarket is the number one choice for customers who are passionate about food. Market shares The strengths of K-Supermarket lie in quality, providing new food ideas, an extensive and up-todate selection, local products, and superior customer service. Food trade The market share in Finland is approximately 37–38% (Kesko's own estimate). K-Market Competitors: Prisma, S-market and Alepa/Sale (S Group), Lidl, Stockmann, Tokmanni and K-Market is a personal, service-oriented, genuinely local neighbourhood store near its custoM-chain shops. mers – a village store for the modern age. K-Market offers customers diverse selections of food and local services to conveniently suit their everyday lives. K-Citymarket's home and speciality goods Market share cannot be reliably calculated. Neste K Competitors: department stores, hypermarkets, discounters, specialist chains and online stores. The Neste K stations will be revamped to become food oriented and welcoming service stations. Customers will be offered high-quality, personalised service station services quickly and conveFoodservice niently. The aim is to build a network of 100 revamped Neste K stations. Kespro, Finland The market share is estimated to have strengthened to approximately 43% (Kesko's own estimate). Kespro Competitors: Meira Nova, Metro-tukku, Heinon Tukku, Suomen Palvelutukkurit. Kespro is Finland's leading provider of Foodservice services (formerly known as HoReCa) and a wholesaler. Kespro acts as a partner for its customer companies and municipalities in Finland and offers its customers a diverse range of procurement solutions, as well as delivery and collection services. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 41 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Did you know? • As Siwas and Valintatalos became K Group food stores, the network of K Group's neighbourOwn brands in 2016 hood stores became the most comprehensive and service oriented in Finland. The footfall and sales of the new K-Markets have increased significantly. The stores' price levels have fallen by Pirkka products Pirkka Parhaat over 20% in some cases. 2,593 products • The Pirkka product range celebrated its 30th anniversary in September 2016. Own brands (including Pirkka Parhaat) 203 account for a fifth of all retail sales in K-food stores. Especialy fruit and vegetables are popular Pirkka products. Customers have made special requests for products related to special dietary requirements to be included in the Pirkka range. Pirkka Organic New Pirkka products products: launched • The K-Food Awards, launched in 2016, awarded prizes for the best innovations in the food world, the most interesting people and the most talked-about phenomena. 118 66 • Kesko and the Swedish ICA began working together on procurement via ICA Global Sourcing (IGS) in Kesko's home and speciality goods trade. Customers of K-food stores will notice this collaboration in terms of a wider range of home and speciality goods, new international branded products and more affordable prices. K-Menu products: : 313 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 42 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Grocery trade in figures Number Sales (VAT 0%), € million Grocery trade, key figures 2016 2015 Retail sales and number of stores 2016 2015 2016 2015 Net sales € million 5,236 4,673 K-Citymarket, food 80 81 1,503 1,505 Operating profit € million 93.0 249.4 K-Citymarket, home and speciality goods 80 81 575 575 Comparable, operating profit € million 175.9 177.5 K-Supermarket 228 219 1,764 1,716 Comparable operating profit as percentage of % 3.4 3.8 net sales K-Market** 638 412 1,208 1,071 Capital expenditure € million 238 129 Neste K 70 64 112 119 Capital employed, average € million 828 871 Valintatalo and Siwa** 340 453 Comparable return on capital employed % 21.3 20.4 K-ruoka, Russia 9 104 106 Personnel average 8,200 6,420 Others* 92 109 59 122 Grocery trade, retail sales 5,777 5,214 Properties 2016 2015 Kespro 789 779 Owned properties, capital € million 524 639 Grocery trade, total 1,448 893 6,566 5,993 Owned properties, area 1,000 m² 377 410 * Incl. online sales Leased properties, lease liabilities € million 2,101 1,906 ** Number of Suomen Lähikauppa's stores was 563 Leased properties, area 1,000 m² 1,684 1,405 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 43 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: The ‘Thank the Producer’ operating model continues Speaking on behalf of Finnish food production is of primary importance to us at K Group. The purpose of the operating model introduced in 2015 is to highlight Finnish food production and provoke discussions about the welfare of Finnish agriculture. The operating model provides customers with an easy way to support Finnish food producers. K-food stores sell 12 Pirkka ’Thank the Producer’ products for which K Group pays extra support directly to producers. The extra support, ranging from 3 to 30 cents, i.e. some 5%, depending on the product, is included in the product price. In 2016, the product range expanded from Finnish meat products to also include milks. As a responsible operator, our duty is to take care of the welfare of the entire food chain. Finnish customers want to buy Finnish food. The ’Thank the Producer’ product initiative is one way to make sure that Finnish production remains vital , says Executive Vice President Jorma Rauhala, President of Kesko's grocery trade division. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 44 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: K-food stores introduced vegetarian display cabinets The sales of vegetarian foods have seen a strong growth in K-food stores over the last few years. As the demand grows, K Group stores want to have vegetarian food products more easily and visibly on display. To that effect, they have introduced vegetarian cabinets that bring plant-based protein products together in one place. By the end of 2016, more than 100 K-food stores had been fitted with vegetarian display cabinets and the number is growing. The cabinets have been very well received by customers. New vegetarian products are examined and actively included in K-food stores’ selections. A lot of new plant-based protein products have been introduced to the market. The areas of highest demand for vegetarian products are Helsinki, Turku and Tampere. The growth in the consumption of vegetarian products can be clearly seen also in student cities. The publicity raised by Pulled Oats has increased the popularity of other plant-based protein products too. The simultaneous health boom has clearly impacted their demand , says Vice President for Commerce Ari Akseli of Kesko’s grocery trade division. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 45 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: Kinkkutemppu put ham fat to good use In the spirit of the circular economy, K-food store customers had the opportunity to donate the fat arising from their roasted Christmas hams to the Kinkkutemppu campaign. In our responsibility programme, we are committed to reducing and recovering the waste from our operations. We take active measures aimed at enhancing recycling in order to identify new methods to adopt circular economy. The fat that was collected was used for making renewable diesel, and the profits were donated to the Hope ry and IceHearts charities. There was a total of 42 collection points in 18 localities, mainly in connection with K-food stores. Customers took the fat from their Christmas ham to a Kinkkutemppu collection point. An estimated 40,000 households took part in the campaign and some 12,000 kg of fat was collected. A car could drive about 150,000 km, or four times around the glober on the amount of diesel manufactured from it. In addition to K Group, the Chemical Industry Federation of Finland, Neste, Lassila & Tikanoja, Finnish Packaging Recycling RINKI, the Finnish Water Utilities Association, Honkajoki, the Rural Women’s Advisory Organisation and Finnish Environmental Industries (YTP) were involved in the campaign. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 46 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: We reduced the salt content of Pirkka Little Wolf oatmeal rolls The panel of experts that selects Pirkka products always takes into account the nutritional characteristics of products. We pay special attention to the fat, sugar and salt content, as our own brand products are our way of pointing customers towards healthier choices. In spring 2017, we will launch Pirkka Little Wolf oatmeal rolls with a reduced salt content, as we did not want to make a high-sodium product for the target group, children and young people. Pirkka Little Wolf oatmeal rolls are linked to our cooperation with the Finnish Basketball AssoHowever, when the nutritional information on the rolls was being reviewed, it came to light ciation, and the target group is children and young people. That is why we decided to take this that the salt content of the winning product would surpass the threshold for being categorised product back to the R&D team for an extra round of development, because a lot of salt is hidden as high in sodium. Although one of the biggest contributors to the flavour of bread is the salt in our food anyway. This is something that we can influence when we develop Pirkka products, content, there was no desire to deliberately make high-sodium products for children and young says Kesko's Product Research Manager, Heta Rautpalo. people. The panel decided to task the product manager with requesting that the manufacturer provide one more sample containing no more than 1.1% of salt. Products are usually assessed by a panel of product development experts but, in this case, the winners of K-Supermarket's Pirkka bread competition were invited round the table to evaluate The new samples of the Pirkka Little Wolf oatmeal rolls, which have a salt content below the the development samples of Pirkka Little Wolf oatmeal rolls. threshold for high-sodium products, will undergo a sensory evaluation at the K-test kitchen before approval is granted for launch in the form of a pre-baked frozen product in spring 2017. The panellists evaluated the appearance of the presented candidates on the basis of patterning, The collaboration between the Finnish Basketball Association and K-food stores emphasises the baked surface and colour. They also evaluated the structure in terms of the consistency, nutrition. Our Pirkka brand enables us to tell everyone in the country about the importance of crispness and crumbliness, and – most importantly – they assessed the flavour. the diet of active youngsters or about good lunches to pack in the training bag – the introduction of this roll is an effort in this direction, says Heta Rautpalo. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 47 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Building and technical trade The chains in the building and home improvement trade are K-Rauta, Byggmakker, K-Senukai and OMA. Rautakesko B2B Service serves major business customers in the building and home improvement trade in Finland. Onninen delivers products and service packages to contractors, Kesko's building and technical trade division offers its industry and infrastructure as well as retail dealer customers. In all, there are around 140 Onninen Express stores and Onninen points of sale. consumer and business customers comprehensive selections of building and home improvement products, Approximately 65% of sales in the building and technical trade come from B2B customers. The building and home improvement trade operations in the Baltic countries and Belarus were as well as electrical and HEPAC products, the most centralised at Kesko Senukai as the result of an arrangement carried out in April 2016, enabling comprehensive store network in Northern Europe, online them to be managed as a single entity. Kesko Senukai is the clear market leader in the region, stores and digital services. The division also includes and major growth potential is foreseeable in its business. business operations of the furniture trade, the agricultural The building of the new K-Rauta chain began in June when the decision was taken to combine and machinery trade, and the leisure goods trade. the K-Rauta and Rautia chains to form Finland's largest building and home improvement trade chain and also to update the K-Rauta brand. The K-Rauta brand will be revamped in all of the operating countries in phases. Our strategic objective is growth and a strengthened market position in Europe. We are strongly developing our digital services and taking The own brands of the building and home improvement trade – Cello, PROF, FXA and Fiorin – offer custoadvantage of synergies for the benefit of our customers. mers reliable and inexpensive home and garden products, as well as building and renovation tools. Among Terho Kalliokoski, EVP, President of the building and technical Onninen's own brands, Onnline offers electrical, HEPAC and refrigeration products for B2B customers. trade division The electrical and HVAC products under the OPAL brand are primarily designed for B2C customers. In addition to online stores, the furniture trade chains Asko and Sotka serve their customers with The building and technical trade has operations in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, 86 physical stores in Finland and 10 in Estonia. Poland, Russia and Belarus. At the end of 2016, the division had 15,630 personnel. The agricultural and machinery trade consists of the K-maatalous retailer business function in FinIn the building and technical trade, Kesko is the market leader in Finland and in the building and home land and the Konekesko machinery sales functions in the Baltic countries in addition to Finland. improvement trade, the fifth biggest operator in Europe. The acquisition of Onninen, completed in June 2016, makes Kesko a significant operator on the Northern European technical wholesale market. The The chains in the leisure goods trade are Intersport, Budget Sport, The Athlete’s Foot and Kookenunique combination of the building and technical trade enables us to offer business customers in the kä. Intersport Finland Ltd with its chains is Finland's market leader in the sports trade. The chains building sector the most diverse entity of products and related services on the market. are part of the international Intersport chain, which nowadays operates in 66 countries on six continents. The Athlete’s Foot, a new chain in Finland, began operating in 2016 with a focus on athletic In the building and technical trade, Kesko is the market leader in Finland and leisure footwear. Kenkäkesko Ltd is the chain unit for the Kookenkä stores. in the building and home improvement trade, the fifth biggest operator in Europe. In addition to the extensive network of store sites, all of the leisure goods chains have their own websites and online stores, which are constantly increasing in importance in the retail trade. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 48 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Strategic focus areas Strategic objective What we are doing • Growing into an increasingly significant operator in Europe, with the Nordic and • The acquisition of Onninen creates an excellent platform for the profitable growth of Kesko’s building and the Baltic countries as the most natural growth areas. Improving profitability and technical trade in Finland and the rest of Europe. To accelerate the implementation of the strategy, the organic growth are the priority areas building and technical trade was organised in four business units: business to business customers B2B, business to consumer customers B2C, international operations and Finland, all of which are supported by the common functions. • Providing better service to the common customers in the building and technical • We serve our common customers with an expanded product selection and easier shopping. We exploit trade and exploiting potential synergies synergies especially in sourcing, logistics, store sites and ICT solutions. • Continuing profitable growth in the Baltic countries and Belarus targeting €1 • The Kesko Senukai entity enables efficient management. The plans include modernising the entire store billion in terms of net sales in the next few years network and converting it into the K-Senukai concept in the Baltic countries, as well as €100 million of capital expenditure in new stores by 2020. The stores in Riga and Tallinn are ready for the modernisation work to begin. • In Finland, we will strengthen our market position and profitability • We combine the K-Rauta and Rautia chains into a single new K-Rauta chain with a new brand image • New K-Rauta.fi • We expand the Onninen Express network • A common online store solution for the B2B customers of the building and home improvement trade and Onninen • We develop services for renovation customers, e.g. the Renovation Master concept • In Sweden and Norway, we will continue to improve profitability and seek • We build a country-specific business entity for the building and technical trade between Onninen and the profitable growth building and home improvement store chains • Increasing the value of the furniture trade, the sports trade, the agricultural • We increase the value of business operations, develop the competitiveness of chains and leverage trade, the machinery trade and the shoe trade synergies KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 49 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Competitive advantages of the building and Rautakesko B2B Service technical trade The customers of Rautakesko B2B Service are national and large regional building firms, property maintenance companies, the housing industry and other business customers. The strengths of B2B • Chain concepts and service entities based on customer needs Service are the extensive selections of building and home improvement products and close colla• Ability to serve different customer groups from the same store network boration with the K-Rauta store network, through which all of the warehouse deliveries take place. • Comprehensive store network and extensive electronic services • Efficient combination of online stores and traditional store network Onninen • Professional customer service in-store and in electronic channels Onninen Express chain's stores serve business customers. Onninen delivers products and service • Well known, reliable store chains and product brands packages to contractors, industry, infrastructure building and retail dealers. The stores' selection • Efficient procurement and logistics includes HVAC, electrical and refrigeration products as well as other technical products. Custo• Internationally harmonised operating models mers can collect products for their daily needs from the Onninen Express stores' selection. They can also order products from the warehouse selection for collection from the store. In all, there are around 140 Onninen Express stores and Onninen points of sale Finland, Sweden, Norway, Chains of the building and technical trade Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia. The Elfin chain operations include around 190 independent electrical contractors with which K-Rauta Onninen collaborates across Finland. The international K-Rauta offers products and services for building, renovation, yard and garden, interior decoration and home furnishing to consumer customers, project customers and business The Hanakat chain is a retail network comprising around 80 independent HEPAC entrepreneurs customers. There are K-Rauta stores in Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Russia. In Finland, in Finland. all K-Rauta stores are run by retailer entrepreneurs. The Elfag chain is one of Norway’s biggest electrical contractor chains including around 150 business Byggmakker members. Byggmakker is one of the leading operators in the building and home improvement trade in Norway. It offers a store network covering the entire country and very strong B2B expertise. Nearly all Byggmakker stores operate on the retailer business model. K-Senukai K-Senukai's stores offer extensive non-food product selections to their customers in Lithuania, with a focus on products related to building and living. The K-Rauta stores in Latvia and Estonia will also be refurbished under the K-Senukai concept by 2020. OMA OMA is the largest building and home improvement store chain in Belarus. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 50 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chains of the agricultural and machinery trade Chains of the leisure goods trade K-maatalous Intersport, Intersport.fi In Finland, agricultural customers are served by a comprehensive network of K-maatalous stores. Intersport is Finland's market leader in the sports trade. Together with retailer entrepreneurs, it K-maatalous retailers’ customers include agricultural entrepreneurs, machinery contractors, and employs almost 1,000 people in 57 stores and one online store. The chain's success is based on equestrian professionals and enthusiasts. extensive selections of sports and leisure products, good service, high-quality products, diverse maintenance services and on providing an expert shopping experience, both in-store and online. Konekesko Konekesko is a machinery trade company that focuses on importing, selling and providing afBudget Sport, Budgetsport.fi ter-sales services for construction, materials handling, environmental and agricultural machineThere are ten Budget Sport stores in different parts of Finland. The stores aim to provide their ry, and recreational machinery. Konekesko operates in Finland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. customers with sports trade products more quickly, easily and inexpensively than their competitors. A diverse online store complements the customer experience. The Athlete’s Foot, theathletesfoot.fi The Athlete’s Foot is a retailer of sporty leisure footwear, trainers and clothing. The chain represents the world's best known sports goods brands and models, and it aims to promote its customers' passion for sport and bring a touch of style into their lives. Kookenkä, Kookenka.fi Kookenkä is Finland’s largest shoe store chain for the whole family. The chain's 37 stores and online store cover the entire country. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 51 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chains of the furniture trade Markets Asko The building and home improvement trade The agricultural and machinery trade Asko is the best known and most trusted Finnish furniture and interior decoration brand. Asko market by country, along with the change market, along with the change from the provides quality-consciouscustomers with a competitive collection and the most active and from the previous year (retail trade, VAT 0%) previous year (retail trade, VAT 0%) reliable service in the sector. Asko has stores and online stores in Finland and Estonia. The total market in the entire operating area The agricultural trade market is worth around of the building and home improvement trade €1.9 billion and decreased slightly from the Sotka is worth around €22 billion* previous year. In Finland, the total market Sotka is a Finnish provider of furniture and a home decoration company full of pleasant surpriFinland €3.1 billion (1.5%), (RaSi ry, Finnish for Konekesko’s product areas is around ses. It offers solutions suited to the changing needs of its customers. Sotka has stores and an Hardware Association, DIY) €0.9 billion and it decreased slightly from online store in Finland and Estonia. Sweden €4.2 billion (4.4%), (HUI) the previous year. In the Baltic countries, the Norway €4.0 billion (4.8%), (Virke) total market for Konekesko's product areas Estonia €0.4 billion (8.1%)* is around €0.6 billion and it increased clearly Latvia €0.4 billion (1.9%)* from the previous year.* Lithuania €0.5 billion (2.6%)* Russia €8.3 billion (1%)* The leisure goods market in Finland, along Belarus €1.1 billion (10%)* with the change from the previous year (retail trade, VAT 0%) The market of Onninen by country, along The sports trade is worth around €0.9 billion with the change from the previous year (3.6%), (Statistics Finland) (retail trade, VAT 0%) The shoe trade is worth around €0.3 billion Finland €2.0 billion (4.7%), (STK, LVI-TEK) (2.3%), (Textile and Fashion Suppliers and Sweden €3.5 billion (6.0%), (SEG, RGF) Retailers Finland TMA and Kesko’s own Norway €1.3 billion (3.6%), (EFO) estimate) Poland €4.4 billion (-5%)* Estonia €0.3 billion (6.2%)* The furniture trade market in Finland, Latvia €0.3 billion (-15.6%)* along wiht the change from the previous Lithuania €0.4 billion (1.2%)* year (retail trade, VAT 0%) The interior decoration items and furniture trade is worth around € 1.5 billion (1.8%) (Statistics Finland) * Kesko’s own estimate KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 52 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Market shares Building and home improvement trade Onninen Agricultural trade Shoe trade Finland 41% (RaSi ry, Finnish Hardware AsFinland 37% (STK, LVI-TEK). Main competiFinland 27%*. Main competitors: Danish Kookenkä and Kenkäexpertti sociation, DIY). Main competitors: STARK, S tors: LVI Dahl, Ahlsell, SLO and Rexel Agro (Hankkija Oy), Turun Konekeskus and Group and Bauhaus Raisioagro Finland 10%*. Competitors: other speciality Sweden 6% (SEG, RGF). Main competitors: stores, department stores, hypermarkets, Sweden 5% (HUI and Kesko's own estimate). Ahlsell, Dahl, Elektroskandia ja Rexel Machinery trade sports stores and online stores Main competitors: Woody, XL Bygg, Beijer Finland (source: Trafi) and Bauhaus Norway 20% (EFO). Main competitors: ElektOutboard motors** 45% (Yamaha) Furniture trade roskandia, Solar and Ahlsell Boats** 23% (Yamarin, Suvi) Asko and Sotka Norway 16% (Virke and Kesko’s own estimaMotorcycles** 23% (Yamaha) te). Main competitors: Optimera/Monter, Poland 5%*. Main competitors: TIM, Sonepar, Tractors** 10% (Massey Ferguson) Finland 23%*. Competitors: IKEA, JYSK, Mestergruppen, Coop and Maxbo Grodno, Bims, Tadmar (Saint-Gobain) and Light < 750 kg transportation trailers 15% Masku and Isku Estonia 24%*. Main competitors: Ehitus ABC, Grudnik (Muuli) Bauhof, Espak and Bauhaus Estonia 13%*. Main competitors: FEB (Ahlsell), Baltic countries 19% (Kesko’s own estimate) Latvia 11%*. Main competitors: Depo DIY and SLO and W.E.G (Würth) Kursi Sports trade Latvia 4%*. Main competitors: Sanistal, EVAIIntersport, Budget Sport, The Athlete's Foot Lithuania 30%*. Main competitors: Ermitazas, SAT and SLO and Kesport Moki-Vezi and Lytarga Lithuania 4%*. Main competitors: Sanistal, Finland 30% (Statistics Finland and Kesko's Russia 2%*. Main competitors: Leroy Merlin, Dahlgera (Dahl) and Elektrobalt (Würth) own estimate). Competitors: Stadium, XXL, OBI, Castorama, Maxidom and Petrovich Sportia, Top Sport Belarus 10%*. Main competitors: Mile, Materik and Praktik * Kesko’s own estimate ** To be registered KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 53 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Building and technical trade in figures Number Sales (VAT 0%), € million Number Sales (VAT 0%), € million Retail sales and number of stores 2016 2015 2016 2015 Retail sales and number of stores 2016 2015 2016 2015 K-Rauta* 46 45 582 567 K-Senukai, Lithuania 22 20 357 328 Rautia* 93 93 430 427 Asko and Sotka, Estonia* 12 10 10 9 Rautakesko B2B Service 225 192 K-Rauta, Estonia 8 8 92 87 Onninen, Finland 50 481 K-Rauta and K-Senukai, Latvia 8 8 48 52 Asko* 35 34 98 94 Onninen, Baltic countries 15 39 Sotka* 53 53 97 94 Konekesko, Estonia 46 40 Intersport* 58 60 192 194 Konekesko, Latvia 35 38 Budget Sport* 11 11 48 46 Konekesko, Lithuania 50 38 The Athlete’s Foot 3 1 Baltic countries, total 65 46 677 592 Kookenkä* 38 38 32 32 K-Rauta, Russia 13 13 174 192 K-maatalous** 78 80 424 437 Onninen, Russia 2 Konekesko, Finland 0 1 144 154 OMA, Belarus 16 12 101 116 Others*** 34 45 18 85 Onninen, Poland 36 114 Finland, total 499 460 2,770 2,322 Intersport, Russia 18 7 12 K-Rauta, Sweden 20 20 217 209 Russia, Belarus and Poland total 65 43 399 320 Onninen, Sweden 17 138 Building and technical trade, outside Finland, 273 197 2,258 1,790 total Byggmakker, Norway 80 88 659 669 Building and technical trade, total 772 657 5,028 4,112 Onninen, Norway 26 169 Other Nordic countries, total 143 108 1,183 878 * Incl. online sales ** In 2016, 39 Rautia stores also operated as K-maatalous stores. In 2015, 45 Rautia stores also operated as K-maatalous stores *** The figures include 11 (16) Kenkäexpertti stores, 23 (25) Kesport stores and 3 Athlete's foot stores. In 2015 figures included 4 Musta Pörssi stores KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 54 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Building and technical trade, key figures 2016 2015 Net sales € million 4,100 3,250 Operating profit € million 60.8 -57.2 Comparable operating profit € million 97.9 63.6 Comparable operating profit as percentage of net sales % 2.4 2.0 Capital expenditure € million 452 55 Capital employed, average € million 1,000 823 Comparable return on capital employed % 9.8 7.7 Personnel average 12,744 11,269 Properties 2016 2015 Owned properties, capital € million 342 357 Owned properties, area 1,000 m² 421 404 Leased properties, lease liabilities € million 791 672 Leased properties, area 1,000 m² 1,251 1,014 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 55 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: K-Rauta Renovation Master for successful renovation projects Consumers today are less often doing building and renovation projects themselves. Instead they outsource the projects to professionals. The reasons Find out more here: https://www.k-rauta.fi/inspiraatio-ja-ohjeet/keittioremontti (in Finnish). are many: building and renovation are getting more and more technical, in addition to increased In the store, the customer finds an active kitchen salesperson whose main priority is to make the regulation. And as societies age and become customer’s dream of a new kitchen come true according to the customer’s needs, wishes and other conditions. wealthier, services are used more. K-Rauta’s surveys reveal that customers may have doubts about Customer-facing screens displaying the entire kitchen renovation process from start to finish have been tested at the stores. The screens are also a useful tool for the salesperson to illustrate renovation – they are unsure about the costs and what the renovation process to the customer. The customer can also see the new kitchen planned for it involves in practice. The K-Rauta Renovation Master them virtually through 3D VR glasses. service concept provides the solution. Customers who have purchased a kitchen renovation will get a renovation project management app on their phones. The application keeps the customers informed of the renovation progress The K-Rauta Renovation Master helps the consumer customer succeed in their renovation prostep by step and allows them to send messages to communicate with the salesperson and to jects from planning to completion. During autumn 2016, this multichannel service concept was read all the renovation related documents. tested in kitchen renovations at two K-Rauta stores and content related to kitchen renovation and inspiring planning programmes were provided online. The kitchen salesperson acts as the Renovation Master in the customer’s kitchen renovation project, which means taking care that the project advances according to plan, and communicating The service concept has been designed to help customers with renovation projects. Its current with the customer and the contractor. offering includes Cello kitchens on a turnkey basis. ”The first experiences of the pilots are encouraging. I’m convinced that we will be able to The digital services have been integrated into the customer’s journey from web to store. improve the satisfaction of renovation customers and we aim to provide an excellent renovation experience. The K-Rauta Renovation Master concept will be deployed and developed further in Customers interested in kitchen renovation can get information online on, for example, what a kit2017, allowing us to offer our customers solutions for the renovation of all room spaces,” says chen renovation project involves and the things to take into account at the planning stage. The web Sari Hujanen, Development Director of Consumer and project customer sales development, content offers a comprehensive package of information for anyone dreaming of a kitchen renovation. building and technical trade division. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 56 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Stakeholder address: Long-established cooperation between Caverion and Onninen is based on high-quality operations and competitiveness Cooperation between Caverion and Onninen dates back decades and continues today. Caverion’s purchasing needs range from large, extended orders to small, daily purchases. Onninen was chosen as partner on the basis of their competitiveness and high quality operation. Caverion designs, builds, operates and We use the services of Onninen's ContracProcess efficiency is important to us. CaveOnninen was our main business partner in maintains user-friendly and energy-efficient tors Unit and Industry Unit and the Onninen rion receives 400,000 invoices a year, which 2016. The roots of both of our companies go technical solutions for properties and inExpress stores. We have operations all over is why ordering goods from our business back more than 100 years and our coopedustry. In my job as a Purchasing Manager I’m Finland and the fact that we are able to sourpartners must be easy, invoice information ration started decades ago. The fact that responsible for purchases for building sites ce products locally is a great advantage; we must be accurate and invoices must be sent in Onninen is now part of Kesko Group makes and maintenance targets in Finland. A fleet of make hundreds of collections from Onninen a way that suits us. Onninen even more attractive to us and over 800 service vans and 4,600 employees Express stores every day. It is important to us strengthens our opportunities for collaborain different parts of the country are indicators that our partner has a comprehensive network Reliability, competitiveness and an extensition even further. We are confident that the of the scope of our operations. with an extensive offering of goods. In adve operating network are important criteria acquisition has expanded Onninen’s service dition to local operations, we have another when we choose our business partners. We selection and operating network. Depending on the project at hand, our level of collaboration: Onninen’s sales unit for chose Onninen on the basis of their competipurchasing needs vary, ranging from large, large-scale customers serves Caverion’s centtiveness and high-quality operations and we Pekka Björkman, Purchasing Manager, extended orders to small, daily purchases ralized decision-making. Our organisations have been very satisfied. Caverion from business partners. work well together. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 57 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: Onninen Norway offers solutions for welfare technology As the population ages, technology must be able includes a showroom where welfare technology products and solutions within a smart to respond to the challenges faced by the elderly. house are demonstrated. The showroom is How can people live safely and longer in their own open for all Onninen business customers and their customers. homes despite illness and old age? How can this be supported? Onninen Norway wanted to respond to “In fact, we have already offered these prothe challenges we face in our society today and to ducts and solutions for a long time. Now, we have added new solutions and combinations enquiries of its customers and suppliers and see what to our assortment, so that end customers they could do about this. can easily find what they need. We want to be involved in the development of welfare Photo: Gira and Micro Matic technology,” Pedersen says. “Welfare technology offers solutions that allow people to live safely and longer in their homes,” says Ann-Katrin Pedersen, Marketing Manager at Onninen Norway. “We can offer a wide range of solutions which contains both surveillance and alarm systems, sensors and management sysDid you know? tems for both heating and lighting. These solutions are meant to make people feel safer at home Onninen is one of the leading suppliers and service providers for technical building contand free up time for caretakers and employees, by simplifying processes and practical tasks. ractors, industry, infrastructure building and retail dealer customers in the Baltic Sea area Welfare technology will give more time to care, conversation and human contact,” she adds. and Scandinavia. The selection covers heating, plumbing and energy solutions, bathroom and kitchen products, ventilation products, cooling and refrigeration products for air-conOnninen Norway offers solutions to companies and municipalities. The end customer base ditioning, electrical installation accessories, lighting, cables and wiring accessories, includes the public sector and private consumers, all served by Onninen’s business customers. products for civil engineering, process piping and steel and metal products, power tranSolutions for welfare technology are available for all Onninen’s customers via the company’s smission products and lubricants, tools, fasteners, products for personal protection and online shop onnshop.no. Consumer customers are served through elfag.no. Onninen works in telecommunications products. The selection consists of over 500,000 products and varies cooperation with Elfag, which is one of the largest chains of electrical contractors in Norway. according to country. In all, there are around 140 Onninen Express stores and Onninen points of sale in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia. Solutions within welfare technology are under development and being improved constantly, so that customers can easily find the solutions they need. Onninen Norway's head office in Oslo Read more about Onninen >> KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 58 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE K-Rauta was a partner in a trial targeted at urtype of rental service interests people, says  in Action: ban home-improvers able to rent high-quality Virpi Viinikainen, Kesko's Vice President for battery-powered Ryobi tools and Kärcher B2C trade in the building and technical trade. The Liiteri trial was cleaning devices and machines online using a way of testing the Liiteri.net service and collect them from the Liiteri service point, which is open 24 VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland Ltd conducted an interview survey related consumers' willingness hours a day in Helsinki's Teurastamo area, to the trial, revealing that saving space and to rent K-Rauta's tools which has good public transport links. money are considered the most important reasons for using the service. It was consideThe circular economy thinking is based on a red worthwhile to rent tools that are not used A tool rental service model where materials and value circulate, frequently. Product availability was seen as and added value is created through services a challenge, while the rental price, collection named Liiteri enabled and by utilising technology. In Finland and eland return were considered limiting factors. rastamo. K-Rauta will continue to act as the city dwellers to rent sewhere, cleantech and the circular economy corporate financier of the next phase of the have traditionally focused more on optimising The trial was a success and consumers took trial at the Teurastamo Liiteri service point. selected K-Rauta tools industrial processes and less on developing an open-minded and enthusiastic approach With the help of the successful crowdfunding online, and collect solutions for consumers. to testing an entirely new circular economy campaign, CoReorient, the company that them from a 24-hour K-Rauta wanted to carry out a trial to learn service entity. The result was enabled by the successful social communication of the provides the Liiteri service, has set itself the target of developing Liiteri's usability, offering service point set up in how it could better offer overall solutions for partners involved in the trial. It was encouraand content in 2017. The operations will the Teurastamo area its customers' everyday lives. ging that good feedback was provided for the usability experience in the very first phase, continue in the Teurastamo and Kalasatama areas of Helsinki. In addition, Liiteri will be in Helsinki or order At K-Rauta, we have traditionally thought even though it had still not been fine-tuned, expanded and modernised within the scope environmentally friendly that our job is to sell as many new machines says Harri Paloheimo, CEO of CoReorient. of the available resources. Negotiations are and devices as possible. But perhaps not all underway to commence operations also in otPiggyBaggy home of our customers want to buy all of the tools The results are also interesting from K-Rauher cities. Depending on the case at hand, the delivery. The results of they need for their home improvement projeta's point of view, and they show that there is implementation will be based on Liiteri smart cts. They may not have space to store tools, a demand for rental services, at least in urban containers or located in existing premises. the trial demonstrate that and they may not have much need for the environments. We will evaluate our own serthere is a demand for tools when the renovation is finished. Being vice development on the basis of the results The Liiteri point in the Teurastamo area was rental services. able to rent tools may provide the necessary spark to get a home-improvement project we have obtained. The trial was definitely a positive thing, says Viinikainen. realised by the IT start-up CoReorient Oy in collaboration with VTT, SYKE and the Unigoing, and we at K-Rauta can play a role in versity of Helsinki's Tekes-financed AARRE helping to plan renovations and selling mateLiiteri conducted a successful crowdfunding research project, as well as the commercial rials. It has been interesting to see that this campaign to continue the Liiteri point at Teupartners involved in the trial. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 59 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Car trade In 2016, the Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT ranges were updated and diversified. New models introduced to the market included the Volkswagen Tiguan, the Audi A4 allroad, A5 Coupé and Sportback, Q2, Q5, Q7 e-tron, SQ7 and TT RS Coupé and Roadster, and the SEAT Ateca. An updated version of VV-Auto is a company specialising in importing, the Volkswagen Amarok, a commercial vehicle with a new V6 engine, was introduced to the market. Volkswagen commercial vehicles also introduced a completely redesigned Volkswagen Crafter, which retailing and providing after-sales service for vehicles will hit the Finnish market in 2017. Volkswagen had another record-breaking year – in 2016, it was manufactured by Volkswagen Group, which also Finland's most popular car brand in terms of sales for the sixth consecutive year. For the 13th consecutive year, more Audis were registered in Finland than any other premium German car brand. develops advanced service concepts for the automotive sector. VV-Auto is the market leader in Finland. In 2016, the Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT ranges were updated and diversified. Volkswagen's recall and repairs of type EA 189 diesel cars progressed in 2016 at the planned rate. By We are the market leader in Finland and our objective is to increase the end of the year, a software update was available for approximately 50,000 cars and 25% of these our market share. We develop the multi-channel customer experience and expand our service business. were repaired in 2016. The required updates to the controller device were available for all 2.0, 1.6 and 1.2 litre diesel engines. Due to the large number of different engine controller devices, updates were Johan Friman, EVP, President of the car trade division not made on all models at the same time. All of the corrective measures were approved by the Ger(as of 1 January 2017) man authority (KBA) before they were implemented. After the corrective measures, the cars meet all of the requirements of the EU5 emissions standard. The corrective measures do not affect the car's fuel consumption, engine power, CO2 emissions, driving behaviour or acoustics. VV-Auto imports and markets Volkswagen, Audi, SEAT and Porsche passenger cars, and Volkswagen commercial vehicles in Finland. It also imports and markets SEAT vehicles in Estonia and Latvia. The Porsche acquisition brings one of the world's most highly regarded car VV-Auto also imports MAN lorries and MAN and Neoplan buses into Finland. In addition to imporbrands to K Group. ting, VV-Auto is also a major vehicle retailer, offering after-sales service at its own outlets in Greater Helsinki and Turku. VV-Auto's passenger car, commercial vehicle and lorry customers are served At the end of 2016, VV-Auto acquired the entire share capital of Oy Autocarrera Ab, a company enby a comprehensive dealer and servicing network throughout Finland. In addition to its traditional gaged in importing and retailing Porsche. The price of the acquisition, structured as a share purchase, business, VV-Auto develops various service concepts and multi-channel services for the car trade. was approximately €27 million. The transaction will lead to an expansion of VV-Auto's collaboration Examples of this include online stores, mobile apps and online systems for booking servicing, as well with Volkswagen AG. Adding Porsche to the selection will increase sales and improve the profitability as Caara.fi – an entirely new online store for used cars, which operates solely online. of the car trade. The Porsche acquisition brings one of the world's most highly regarded car brands to K Group, and the selection expands to encompass new models and new customer groups. Porsche is In addition to its traditional business, VV-Auto develops various service also making major investments in its hybrid and electric car range. concepts and multi-channel services for the car trade. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 60 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Strategic focus areas Brands Strategic objective What we are doing • Developing VV-Auto's • Integrating the MAN business into VV-Auto and business in collaboration with developing the market share Volkswagen Group • Increasing the market share of SEAT • Strengthening the market position of Volkswagen • Acquiring Porsche representation by buying Oy AutoCarrera Ab Markets • Expanding the service business • Launching the Caara.fi online store for used cars and In 2016, there were 118,991 first registrations of passenger cars,13,523 of vans and 3,330 of increasing sales lorries in Finland. The passenger car market grew by 9.3%, the van market by 18.3% and the lorry • Launching innovative service businesses market by 23.0% from the previous year. • Expanding the sales of after-sales service According to statistics, Volkswagen was the most registered passenger car brand. The total • Developing a multi-channel • Developing mobile apps, online services and online number of registrations of vehicles imported by VV-Auto was 24,685 (excluding motorhomes customer experience sales and Porsches). A total of 131 Porsches and 139 MAN trucks were registered. Market shares Competitive advantages of the car trade Car trade, Finland • VV-Auto’s market share 18.8% (Volkswagen, Audi and SEAT passenger cars, total of Volkswa• International brands and strong market position gen commercial vehicles, excluding campers and motorhomes) • Diverse multichannel services, professional personnel • Volkswagen passenger cars 11.2% • Strong sales and after-sales service network, efficient logistics • Audi 5.2% • SEAT 2.0% • Porsche 0.1% • Volkswagen commercial vehicles 22.8% • MAN trucks 4.2% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 61 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Did you know? Car trade in figures • The world's best Audi servicing is in Finland. The team of Audi Center Airport Finland won the Number Sales (VAT 0%), € million world championship in the area of servicing focusing on customer service. This year, 71 teams Retail sales and number of stores 2016 2015 2016 2015 from 36 countries made it into the Audi Twin Cup finals. VV-Auto, retail outlets 10 9 428 373 VV-Auto, imports 436 397 • Volkswagen Tiguan was rated the safest car in its class in Europe in Euro NCAP's crash safety AutoCarrera 3 4 rating. Special acknowledgement was given to its first class safety features, for example, body structure optimised for safety, a very good combination of safety belts, seats and airbags, Car trade, total 13 9 868 770 coupled with innovative systems to assist the driver. • The new Volkswagen Crafter was voted international Van of the Year 2017. The panel of judCar trade, key figures 2016 2015 ges consisted of journalists representing 24 European countries and specialising in commerNet sales € million 849 748 cial vehicles. Operating profit € million 28.9 26.1 Comparable operating profit € million 29.5 26.1 • The new SEAT Ateca won the European AUTOBEST 2017 competition and was voted the Comparable operating profit as percentage of net sales % 3.5 3.5 Best Car to buy in Europe in 2017 . The Seat Ateca was also a candidate for Car of the Year in Capital expenditure € million 41 16 Finland 2017 and placed second. Capital employed, average € million 124 104 Comparable return on capital employed % 23.8 25.2 Personnel average 780 780 Properties 2016 2015 Owned properties, capital € million 56 60 Owned properties, area 1,000 m² 47 47 Leased properties, lease liabilities € million 11 9 Leased properties, area 1,000 m² 23 20 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 62 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: Caara – an entirely new online store for used cars We want to make it as easy as possible to buy a car. Caara.fi is a convenient and reliable way for consumers to buy used cars, and the best thing is that everything can be handled without getting up from the sofa. The service has especially attracted the attention of busy consumers and families who are not always able to visit car dealership showrooms. In 2016, VV-Auto's retail trade opened Caara, an entirely new online store for used cars. Caara.fi is an online-only car store that has no traditional showrooms. We aim to make it as easy as possible to buy a car. We also want to be involved in developing digital services for the car sector. Caara will enable us to change the customer experience with a fresh lifestyle approach where the customer's digital purchasing transactions are constantly improved. For consumers, Caara is an easy, hassle-free and reliable way to buy a used car online. Customers value the service's ease of use. The service has especially attracted the attention of busy consumers and families who are not always able to visit car dealership showrooms. The online store can be visited every day at any time, and customers can purchase cars in Purchased cars are either delivered to the customer's home or to an agreed handover location. the comfort of their own homes. Caara's salespersons can provide help using a chat service if In Greater Helsinki, customers can also take a test drive, and the part-exchange value of the required. Customers can find suitable cars by searching by price, fuel or purpose of use. All of customer's existing car can be assessed at the same time. Customers can also send pictures and the cars have undergone vehicle inspections so the buyer receives the most detailed, diverse details of their existing car's history to enable the car to be assessed. and reliable information available to support a purchase decision. We also offer our customers a Caara warranty (12 months or 20,000 kilometres) and a 14-day right of return, as well as flexible Buying a car has never been so easy! Whatever you need a car for – www.caara.fi. Caara financing solutions. The extent of the service is exemplified by the fact that every brand of car is available on Caara. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 63 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Store sites and properties 1 The store site network is a strategic competitive factor for K Group. It provides opportunities for business operations to develop and sales and customer satisfaction to increase. Different stores for different customer needs 2 1 K-Markets, Siwas and Valintatalos • Total number of K-Markets: 638 (excluding service stations) • Average total sales area: 370 m2 • Average number of products on sale: 5,000 2 K-Supermarkets • Total number of K-Supermarkets: 228 • Average total sales area: 1,270 m2 • Average number of products on sale: 11,000 3 K-Citymarkets, K-Rautas, Byggmakkers, Onninen Express and K-Senukai stores 3 • Total number of K-Citymarkets: 80 • Average total sales area: K-Citymarket 6,300 m2 • Average number of products on sale: K-Citymarket groceries 18,000 • Total number of K-Rautas in Finland, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Russia: 94 • Total number of Byggmakkers in Norway: 80 • Total number of K-Senukai stores in Lithuania: 22 and in Latvia: 1 • Total number of Onninen Express and Mega Express in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania: approximately 120 • Average total sales area: K-Rauta 5,800–9,100 m2, Byggmakker 3,700 m2, K-Senukai approximately 8,000 m2, Onninen Express 1,245 m2 • Average number of products on sale: K-Rauta as many as 170,000, Byggmakker 14,000, K-Senukai even 60,000, Onninen Express even 22,000 64 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Versatile services at store sites • K-kampus, Kesko’s main office building planned to be built in Kalasatama, Helsinki The customers of K Group stores are served also in online stores. We take e-commerce require• The new shopping centres, each to include a K-Supermarket, being built in Suurpelto, Espoo ments into account at the construction phase of new store sites. In the click and collect operaand Laajasalo, Helsinki ting model, a separate in-store storage and packing area is reserved for products ordered online. Specific parking spaces in the food store yard are dedicated to collection customers and the It is important to keep an eye on the development in the building and energy sector and anticishopping is paid in connection with collection at the car. pate changes. Technology is advancing all the time. The rapid development requires expertise to identify when it is the right time to reject the existing technology and move on. In 2016, there were 396 Rinki eco take-back points in connection with K-food stores intended for consumer packaging recycling and 160 of them also accepted plastics. Several eco points Kesko participates in the 2017–2025 action plan of the commerce sector's Energy Efficiency also accepted wastepaper and discarded clothes. All K-food stores accepted deposit beverage Agreement. In accordance with the agreement, we are committed to reducing our energy concontainers. sumption by 7.5% through various saving measures. All K Group store chains are included in the agreement. Key local services available at K-food stores included over 325 Posti service points, over 560 Matkahuolto parcel pick-up points, over 25 DHL service points, over 140 Posti automatic parcel The measures include: pick-up points and over 1,000 K-food stores provided a cash withdrawal service. We offer an extensive network of electric car charging points free of charge. The ‘Liiteri’ trial tested K ­ -Rauta’s • Solutions that decrease the consumption of materials and energy during the lifecycle of the tool rental service. property • The lowest lifecycle costs in the trading sector Energy efficient construction and property maintenance • Optimum conditions for customers, employees and products When a new store site or shopping centre is being planned and built, the starting point is sustainable development and energy efficiency. In maintenance and repairs, the starting point is also Retail stores achieve significant energy savings with these energy efficient solutions: lowering lifecycle costs. • Remote monitoring and building automation Store site projects involve major capital expenditure, the implementation of which requires skil• Lids and doors on refrigeration equipment led people, a high-quality network of cooperation and common rules. Kesko has long experience • Recovery of condensation heat and plenty of competence in the implementation of demanding store site projects. • Refrigeration equipment that uses carbon dioxide • Adjustable and directional lighting In order to indicate the high level of requirements, an international environmental classification, • LED lights in neon signs BREEAM or LEED, to be carried out by an external assessor is applied to the most significant • Increased use of LED lighting also inside the store store site projects. • Solar power plants on store rooftops The following store sites have or will have the BREEAM environmental rating: Kesko's around 40 Real Estate Managers help K-stores find ways in which to make their energy consumption more efficient and prepare a 5–6-year renovation programmes. • Kesko’s new shopping centre being built in Itäkeskus, Helsinki KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 65 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: Solar power from K-store rooftops K Group increases the use of solar power Finland's largest property specific solar power plant is located on the rooftop of K-Citymarket Tammisto in Vantaa. By WATCH THE VIDEO summer 2017, as many as 16 solar power plants will be operating in connection with K-stores. The new investments will make K Group Finland's biggest producer and user of solar power. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 66 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Store sites in figures Standard properties: • Kesko owns them but they can be sold and leased back • In 2016, standard properties accounted for 28% (26%) of all store sites Breakdown of owned Owned properties by region, Owned properties by Realisation properties: properties, € €* division, €* • Premises for which Kesko has no further business use Development properties: • Sites and properties in need of further development for their intended use Capital expenditure in store sites In 2016, Kesko’s total capital expenditure in store sites was €216.7 (166.7) million. In view of our growth, key capital expenditure included: • In the grocery trade, increasing and modernising the K-Market network, and expanding the K-Supermarket network Strategic properties 64% Finland 73% Grocery trade 56% • In the building and technical trade, the K-Rauta network is modernised in all operating countries Standard properties 28% Other Nordic countries 5% Building and technical trade 36% Realisation properties 1% Baltic countries and Belarus 4% Development properties 7% Poland 0% Car trade 6% Kesko makes capital expenditure only in properties needed for its own or supporting business Russia 18% Others 2% operations. * Carrying Carrying amount amount At the end of 2016, the most significant store sites under construction were: • K-Citymarket and the urban centre Easton in Helsinki, and K-Citymarket in Sastamala • New K-Supermarkets being built in Tampere and Ilmajoki, and in Niittykumpu, Espoonlahti, as The store sites are divided into four categories: strategic properties, standard properties, reawell as Suurpelto in Espoo and Kalasatama and Pasila in Helsinki lisation properties and development properties. • K-Rauta in Savonlinna and in St. Petersburg, Russia Strategic properties: For several upcoming years, Kesko’s most significant store site project will be the new shopping • Kesko prefers to own them centre, Easton Helsinki, being built in Itäkeskus, Helsinki. The capital expenditure of the first • In 2016, strategic properties accounted for 64% (64%) of all store sites phase is valued at €100 million. Its employment impact is about 250 person-years for a period of • They involve important business interests, such as large retail stores and properties that can two years. The first part of Easton Helsinki will open to customers in autumn 2017. The next part be developed into large stores is estimated to be completed in 2019. The capital expenditure of the whole complex is valued at over €200 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 67 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2015–2016, our total capital expenditure in business operations, acquisitions excluded, was €500 million. From 2018 onwards, we estimate the annual capital expenditure to remain below €200 million. The strategic objectives are to achieve growth in the Finnish grocery trade, the building and technical trade and the car trade. Owned store sites by region, m2 Owned store sites by division, m2 Leased store sites by region, m2 Leased store sites by division, m2 Finland 64% Grocery trade 44% Finland 76% Grocery trade 48% Other Nordic countries 8% Building and technical trade 49% Other Nordic countries 6% Building and technical trade 35% Baltic countries and Car trade 6% Baltic countries and Car trade 1% Belarus 12% Others 1% Belarus 16% Others 16% Poland 0% Poland 2% Russia 16% Russia 0% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 68 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Owned store sites and properties Leased store sites and properties Book value by region, € million 2016 2015 Area by region, 1,000 m² 2016 2015 Finland 688 662 Finland 2,682 2,274 Other Nordic countries 48 51 Other Nordic countries 222 180 Baltic countries and Belarus 33 33 Baltic countries and Belarus 555 470 Russia 168 361 Poland 60 Total 937 1,107 Russia 8 27 Total 3,527 2,951 Area by region, 1,000 m² 2016 2015 Finland 547 540 Lease liabilities by region, € million 2016 2015 Other Nordic countries 65 66 Finland 2,698 2,348 Baltic countries and Belarus 105 109 Other Nordic countries 92 48 Russia 137 191 Baltic countries and Belarus 199 185 Total 854 906 Poland 6 Russia 0 13 Book value by division, € million 2016 2015 Total 2,996 2,594 Grocery trade 524 639 Building and technical trade 342 357 Lease liabilities, € million 2016 2015 Car trade 56 60 No later than one year 400 347 Others 15 51 Later than one year and no later than five years 1,326 1,139 Total 937 1,107 Later than five years 1,269 1,108 Total 2,996 2,594 Area by division, 1,000 m² 2016 2015 Grocery trade 377 410 Building and technical trade 421 404 Car trade 47 47 Others 9 45 Total 854 906 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 69 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsibility management Disclosures Responsibility highlights in 2016 71 Economic impacts 114 Corporate responsibility in Kesko's strategy 72 Environmental impacts 124 We listen to our stakeholders 75 Social impacts 140 Management model and systems 77 GRI report profile Responsibility programme Reporting principles 158 Responsibility programme 81 Materiality assessment 159 Good corporate governance and finance 82 GRI and UNGC index 160 Customers 86 Society 91 Assurance report 169 Working community 94 Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections 100 Contact information 172 Environment 107 Other operating countries 111 GRI report Kesko's Annual Report 2016 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsibility highlights in 2016 On our new web pages, we present the ways in which we promote the We had solar power plants built on the rooftop of two K-Citymarkets UN Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, in our operations. and nine K-Supermarkets. Visit the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Kesko web pages > Watch the video > We completed a human rights assessment and made a human rights We published a plastics policy and committed to reduce the commitment. ­consumption of plastic bags. Read more > Read more about our actions > We published the K Code of Conduct for all of our personnel and In 2017, we ranked 25th in the Global 100 list and were the best ­business partners. ­trading sector company. Click here to go to the K code of conduct website > Click here to go to the list > KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 71 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Responsibility in Kesko's ­Strategy • The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Corporations ”More than before, corporate responsibility coupled with a strong • The ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development and principles against corruption and identity and attractive brands is a prerequisite for operation in every bribery line of business.” • The UN Global Compact initiative Matti Kalervo, Vice President of Corporate Responsibility • The UN Sustainable Development Goals • The purchasing principles of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) At Kesko, corporate responsibility work is integrated into day-to-day activities. Value Vision Mission Corporate responsibility work is based on Kesko's value, vision and mission. Corporate responThe customer and quality – in We are the customer’s choice We create welfare responsibility work is guided by Kesko’s strategy, general corporate responsibility principles, everything we do and the quality leader in the sibly for all our stakeholders the K Code of Conduct guidelines and Kesko’s purchasing principles. European trading sector and the whole society Kesko’s responsibility programme contains short-term and long-term objectives. The programme has six themes: Good corporate governance and finance, Customers, Society, Working community, Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections, and Environment. General operating principles guiding responsibility Kesko’s Group Management Board has approved the Group’s principles of corporate responsibility. These principles define the basic economic, social and environmental responsibility promises. Kesko participates in the UN Global Compact initiative and is comKesko’s commitments to international declarations and conventions are also included in the mitted to observing ten generally accepted principles concerning human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption principles. The most important principles are: in all of its operating countries. • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention of the Rights of the Child Mikko Helander, President and CEO • The ILO convention on the Fundamental Rights and Principles at Work KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 72 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko’s responsibility path We complete a human rights assessment and publish a human rights commitment Our We commit Responsibility Responsible ourselves to combined with Working promoting the strong identity and Principles guide UN’s Sustainable attractive brands is Development an increasingly Responsible Assurance of Goals (SDGs) important Kesko’s purchasing: the corporate First First integrated prerequisite in energy guide Kesko’s SA8000 responsibility responsibility annual report is The K Code of every business is published values certification report begins programme published Conduct guidelines operation 1982 1996 1999 2002 2008 2014 2016 2020 1990 1998 2000 2005 2013 2015 2017 Environmental K-environmental The first Joins the Global Updated Objectives in The electricity we policy store model corporate Compact initiative responsibility other countries purchase in Finland responsibility programme are included in is 100% renewable Comprehensive report is Responsible the responsibility reporting begins published purchasing: BSCI K-responsibility programme audits concept adopted by first stores KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 73 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  in Action: Getting to know SDGs from K Group’s Christmas calendar In December 2016, the doors of the advent calendar on Keskonet, Our wonderful colleagues immediately said a big ‘yes’ to the idea. We the Kesko intranet, revealed surprises never seen before and made recorded the video greetings with a the calendar hugely popular. Kesko personnel counted down to phone for use on the intranet. Most Christmas in a community spirit, familiarising themselves with the of them were shot in just one take and were spontaneous and genuine,” UN Sustainable Development Goals: every workday a member of say Sohvi and Minna. Kesko’s personnel appeared on a video from behind a calendar door to tell us us how Kesko promotes the UN Sustainable Development Goal of the day in its corporate responsibility work. Towards the end of November, Kesko had published the UN Sustainable Development Goals Advent calendar became hugely popular and Kesko web pages. Kesko is committed to supporting the UN Sustainable Development The first door on the intranet opened on 30 November to a video where Jesse Mether, SustainabilGoals (SDGs) in its operations. The web pages explain how Kesko promotes all of the 17 goals in ity Manager of Kesko's building and technical trade, talked about how Kesko promotes SDG 1, No practice. poverty. But how to get time-pressed people to explore the web pages? This was the problem the Group We in K Group create jobs and welfare, both locally and globally,” said Mether in his video. He Corporate Responsibility Unit tried to solve in November when the content was nearly ready. ended by wishing everyone peace and love this Christmas. Then our Corporate Responsibility Specialists Sohvi Vähämaa and Minna Saari had a brilDay after day, colleagues in the offices stopped me to say how much they liked the advent calenliant idea: there is one less working day in December before Christmas Eve than there are UN dar. This was a magnificent way to make busy people stop and think about the actual meaning of the Sustainable Development Goals, i.e. 17. Why not have an advent calendar on the intranet where UN Sustainable Development Goals,” says Jesse. one door opens to one SDG each day!” says Matti Kalervo, Kesko Vice President, Corporate Responsibility. We stopped at one goal after the other leading up to Christmas Eve. But the promotion of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals will continue. From idea to action It didn’t take long before Sohvi and Minna started to look around K Group for people willing to In the future, we will link our work to these goals. For example, our Annual Report, which is coming tell others about the SDGs in an informal Christmas greeting. out in March, will explain how our responsibility programme is linked to the UN Sustainable Development Goals. It’s great that UN has published these global goals to be shared by us all: states, businesses, investors, non-governmental organisations and all citizens, says Matti Kalervo. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 74 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We listen to our stakeholders The assessment of Kesko’s operations and corporate responsibility impacts takes account of the Kesko's stakeholder interaction key stakeholders: • customers • investors and Kesko’s owners PLANNING DATA ACTIONS AND COLLECTION FEEDBACK • Kesko personnel • retailers and store staff • Stakeholder identification • Viewpoint and • Reporting performance • Nature of stakeholder importance against targets • suppliers and service providers to the company relationship • Reporting against criteria • the media • Viewpoint indicators (GRI, AA1000) • Stakeholder expectations • authorities • Process scope, target • Assurance • Key values and operating • NGOs and other organisations principles relevant to and schedule • Stakeholder feedback • trade unions different stakeholders • Type of data collection • Data auditing and The materiality assessment of Kesko's corporate responsibility guides Kesko's responsibility and analysis, comparison with objectives stakeholder work. Operations in all areas of responsibility are developed in accordance with the and indicators expectations of the key stakeholder groups. The stakeholder assessment is included in Kesko’s management model and operating plans. ­Kesko's corporate responsibility vision is based on taking stakeholders’ views into account. POLICIES, GUIDELINES, METHODS Various surveys are regularly conducted to identify stakeholder expectations. DOCUMENTATION The corporate responsibility function is headed by the Executive Vice President for marketing, communications, corporate responsibility and corporate relations, who is a member of Kesko’s Group Management Board. He reports to the Group Management Board on communication with Read our stakeholders' addresses stakeholders on economic, social and environmental responsibility. K Digital Trainee programme offers a path to exciting career opportunities within the K Group Kesko promotes human rights Long-established cooperation between Caverion and Onninen is based on high-quality operations and competitiveness KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 75 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Staying aware of stakeholder expectations requires regular dialogue. The following table describes interaction with the key stakeholder groups: Key stakeholders Stakeholder inclusivity and channels of interaction Response to stakeholder expectations Customers • Daily customer encounters Responsibility is strongly visible to customers in the K Group’s consumer brands and stores. • Customer service channels Customers have to be able to trust in the quality and safety of products and the fact that their • Customer satisfaction surveys responsible choices start when they enter a K-store. • Post-shopping surveys • Interaction via social media channels (Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Pinterest, Instagram, blogs) • Survey and service functions on mobile and online services Investors, owners and analysts Investors’ and shareholders’ questions concerning corporate responsibility have increased in recent Kesko strives to continue and improve its ratings in significant sustainability indices and lists, years. Kesko replies annually to the inquiries of several institutions making sustainability assessments. as they are important neutral evidence of responsible operations. Transparency of reporting Examples of events: and corporate governance principles, as well as ensuring that laws and responsible operating • General Meeting principles are observed, create a solid basis for Kesko's business operations. • Investor meetings • Press conferences • Capital Markets Day Personnel and retailers • Personnel survey Kesko's working community is developing and international. Common values, principles and • Performance and development reviews operating practices provide the basis for our work everywhere. Corporate responsibility • National Works Council meetings is becoming ever more important in creating the employer image. Companies in which job • Kesko’s intranet: country-specific pages: Keskonet Finland, Latvia, Sweden, Russia, Estonia, and Kessatisfaction is high and that offer versatile jobs and opportunities for career progress are most konet Global for all likely to succeed in attracting and retaining the best employees. K-retailers listen to the wishes • Available on Keskonet: feedback channels Direct Line, Mail to the President and CEO, link to SpeakUp of their customers and adapt their selections accordingly. Stores implement responsibility in all reporting channel, discussion column and several blogs operations. • Annual K-Team event for K-retailers, K-store staff, Kesko personnel and business partners • The K Code of Conduct (in the languages of all our operating countries) • Value discussions on the K Code of Conduct guidelines Suppliers and service providers • Around 24,600 suppliers and service providers, see 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Diverse networking with suppliers and service providers requires that all parties of the supply • Cooperation in accordance with fair trading practices chain accept the common values, objectives and operating practices. • 'Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible Trading' guide • Business partner meetings, such as Kesko grocery trade’s annual partner info event We are together responsible for ensuring that our customers can rely on our expertise, services • Audits and training events in high-risk countries and the quality and safety of our products. Society (the media, authorities, NGOs • Meetings Kesko proactively follows changes in society in close cooperation with its stakeholders. We and other organisations, and trade • Media events and enquiries cooperate and discuss openly with NGOs, authorities and other decision-makers. unions) • Activities in organisations • International activities in the BSCI and BEPI initiatives and in the national BSCI group • Enquiries from NGOs KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 76 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management model and systems Corporate responsibility organisation in Kesko Corporate responsibility steering Corporate responsibility at Kesko is integrated into day-to-day activities that help customers make good choices. KESKO'S BOARD OF DIRECTORS GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD Kesko’s Board of Directors and Group Management Board discuss the key principles and ­reporting. The corporate responsibility function is headed by the Executive Vice President for marketing, communications, corporate responsibility and corporate relations, who is a member of Kesko’s CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ADVISORY BOARD Group Management Board. Corporate responsibility is one of the target indicators of his performance bonus. ENVIRONMENTAL STEERING GROUP The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit, assisted by steering groups, is responsible for the development, coordination and reporting of responsibility work. STEERING GROUP FOR RESPONSIBLE PURCHASING The management of each business division is responsible for practical implementation. STEERING GROUP FOR LOCAL RESPONSIBILITY IN OPERATING COUNTRIES Corporate responsibility advisory board The Vice President for corporate responsibility (Ch.), division representatives, Group representatives DIVISION-SPECIFIC RESPONSIBILITY STEERING GROUPS • develops the principles that guide the Group’s corporate responsibility MANAGEMENT BOARD FOR MARKETING, COMMUNICATIONS, RESPONSIBILITY AND CORPORATE RELATIONS • steers and coordinates practical measures • sets the objectives for corporate responsibility work and monitors and, as necessary, supports HR MANAGEMENT BOARD their achievement KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 77 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Environmental steering group Management board for marketing, communications, corporate responsibility and The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist representatives ­corporate relations The Executive Vice President for marketing, communications, corporate responsibility and cor• develops the Group’s environmental management porate relations (Ch.), responsible persons of the divisions and the Group functions • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group • coordinates the processes and objectives of marketing, communications, corporate responsi• keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to environmental responsibility bility and corporate relations Steering group for responsible purchasing HR Management board The Group’s Corporate Responsibility Unit (Ch.), divisions’ specialist representatives The Senior Vice President for HR (Ch.), divisions’ representatives, Group representatives • develops the Group’s responsible purchasing procedures • prepares the Group’s HR strategy and common HR policy definitions • promotes the sharing of best purchasing practices within the Group • sets common objectives for the HR function and guides and coordinates the achievement of the objectives and practical implementations of HR operations • keeps up with changes in legislation pertaining to purchasing and sourcing • guides the development of HR processes and services and monitors the quality and efficiency of HR processes and services Steering group for local responsibility in operating countries The Vice President for corporate responsibility (Ch.), representatives of local subsidiaries in operating countries (other than Finland) • steers the implementation of the responsibility programme in the other operating countries • develops local additions to the responsibility programme • promotes the sharing of best practices within the Group Division-specific responsibility steering groups are, based on the objectives set by the Group-level steering groups, responsible for: • determining their own responsibility objectives • implementing them according to the specific characteristics and strategies of their respective divisions KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 78 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries approved by Kesko Certification/audit Certification/audit system Product group Coverage of criteria Product label system Product group Coverage of criteria Product label BSCI (Business Social All product groups Social, limited No ASC (Aquaculture Farmed fish and shellfish Social, environmental Yes Compliance Initiative) environmental part Stewardship Council) SA8000 All product groups Social No Florverde Sustainable Flowers Social, environmental Yes ETI All product groups Social No Flowers Sedex/SMETA All product groups Social, limited No FLA (Fair Labor Consumer goods Social No environmental part Association) ICS All product groups Social No FWF (Fair Wear Clothing Social No Foundation) Fairtrade Agricultural products incl. Social, environmental Yes cotton GOTS (Global Organic Textiles, hygiene Social, environmental Yes Textile Standard) products (organic) Rainforest Alliance Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes WRAP (Worldwide Textiles, shoes Social No Pro Terra Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes Responsible Accredited MPS-Socially Qualified Agricultural products Social No Production) Soil Association Ethical Agricultural products Social Yes IMO Fair for Life All product groups Social, economic Yes Trade FSC (Forest Stewardship Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes Sustainability Initiative of Agricultural products Social, environmental No Council) South Africa SIZA PEFC (Programme for the Wood products and timber Social, environmental Yes Sustainably Grown Agricultural products Social, environmental Yes Endorsement of Forest Certification) UTZ Certified Coffee, cocoa, tea Social, environmental Yes ICA Social Audit * Consumer goods Social No RSPO (Roundtable on Products containing palm Economic, environmental, Yes Sustainable Palm Oil) oil social RTRS (Round Table on Soy Economic, environmental, Yes * Conditional approval. A maximum of two IGS audits are approved after which the supplier must adopt BSCI audit or Responsible Soy) social some other approved audit conducted by an independent party. WIETA Wines Social Yes Vinos de Chile Wines Social, environmental Yes MSC (Marine Stewardship Caught fish and shellfish Environmental (sustainable Yes Council) fishing) KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 79 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Environmental systems All of Onninen's operations in all operating countries are ISO 14001 certified. The operations of Kesko Logistics are ISO 14001 certified. In the food stores and the building and home improvement stores, environmental management is based on the K-responsibility concept. For K-Citymarkets, K-Supermarkets and K-Markets, the K-responsibility concept is a requirement for inclusion in the chain. A K-responsibility concept inspection is carried out every three years at the K-Rauta, Rautia and K-maatalous stores by an independent external partner. In 2016, a total of 59 stores were inspected. VV-Auto Group Oy fulfils the requirements of the ISO 9001 quality system and VV-Autotalot Oy fulfils the requirements of the quality and environmental action programme of the Finnish Central Organisation for Motor Trades and Repairs (AKL). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 80 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsibility programme Kesko’s responsibility programme contains both short-term and long-term objectives. The programme has six themes: Good corporate governance and finance, Customers, Society, Working community, Responsible purchasing and sustainable selections, and Environment. In 2016, we updated the objectives of the responsibility programme by specifying the theme titles, adding objectives that underpin our strategy and our stakeholders’ expectations, and removed objectives that have already been achieved or are immaterial. This year, we present the progress of the responsibility programme for the last three years. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 81 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance and finance We are committed to our operating principles. Together, we generate economic value added. • The K Code of Conduct steers all our operations. • We follow good corporate governance principles. • Together, we improve financial profitability Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 K Code of Conduct All of our personnel act in compliance with the Our Responsible Working Principles guidelines are From the beginning of 2015, all of Kesko's Russian We updated Our Responsible Working Principles K Code of Conduct. a material part of the induction of new employees. business companies have had their own antiguidelines in 2016. The new guidelines were named According to a personnel survey, 93.3% respondents corruption policies. We decided to update Our the K Code of Conduct and were published in the have explored the guidelines. Responsible Working Principles guidelines in 2016. languages of all our operating countries in October 2016. We named 20 K Code of Conduct ambassadors as the messengers and contact persons. We will update all new and renewed employment contracts to include a clause about the requirement for personnel to familiarise themselves and comply with the K Code of Conduct. We will add a K Code of Conduct contract clause to all agreements signed by Kesko Group companies. As of 2017, we oblige the entire personnel to annually acknowledge their compliance with the K Code of Conduct guidelines. We organise regular training on the K Code of As part of the ongoing responsibility training, four The online training on responsibility, which As part of the ongoing responsibility training, Conduct. training events on responsible working principles was published in 2015 and directed at all Kesko a training event on the K Code of Conduct was were organised in 2014 for different divisions in employees, describes Our Responsible Working organised in Suomen Lähikauppa and two Russian Finland, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. Principles. As part of the ongoing responsibility subsidiaries in 2016. The events focused largely on training, a training event on Our Responsible corruption and fraud-related issues. The eLearning Working Principles was organised for the key training targeted at all personnel had been attended employees of Kesko’s company in Belarus in 2015. by 3,159 people at the end of 2016. We drew an annual plan for 2017 which includes procedures to increase the personnel's awareness of the K Code of Conduct such as communication and training events for every quarter. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 82 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Return on capital Kesko's objective is to achieve a 14% comparable The comparable return on capital employed was The comparable return on capital employed was The comparable return on capital employed was return on capital employed and a 12% return on 9.9% and the comparable return on equity was 7.6%. 11.7%, and the comparable return on equity was 11.9%, and the comparable return on equity was equity. 8.2%. 9.8%. Human rights We respect human rights and take them into account We started to assess human rights related impacts We continued to assess human rights related impacts We published our human rights assessment and in all our operations. in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on in accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on human rights commitment on our website. We will Business and Human Rights. Business and Human Rights. During the extensive review and update it every three years. We will report work, we heard the thoughts of customers and construct our operating models so that respect for personnel as well as employees in high-risk countries' human rights is observed in all our operations. factories on human rights and how well they are realised in K Group's operations. Management approach Material aspects • Economic performance • Indirect economic impacts • Anti-corruption • Anti-competitive behaviour • Compliance • Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society • Customer privacy KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 83 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We generate economic value added Policies, principles and commitments At Kesko, economic responsibility refers to the good management of finances, the efficient use of resources, as well as generating stable, long-term economic benefits for the various stake• Accounting policies holders. Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for shareholders, personnel, retailers, • Kesko Group complies with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved suppliers of goods and services and their employees and customers, as well as municipalities and for adoption by the European Union. states. • Corporate Governance principles The K Code of Conduct and reputation management • Kesko's decision-making and corporate governance are guided by Kesko's values and Different aspects of responsibility, such as the ethicality of production and sourcing, the fair the K Code of Conduct guidelines. Decision-making and corporate governance comply and equal treatment of employees and environmental protection are increasingly important for with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly quoted companies, Kesko's Articles of Association, the charters of Kesko's Board and its Commitcustomers. Kesko's attitude to bribery and other malpractice is absolutely uncompromising. tees and the rules and guidelines of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. The company complies with the Responsible working principles are essential for building trust between Kesko, K-stores, our Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies that entered into force on 1 customers and our business partners. January 2016. • Risk management principles Public policy Kesko plays an active role in trade and industry organisations in Finland and in the European Un• The risk management policy confirmed by the Board of Directors guides risk management in Kesko. ion, contributing its expertise to social development and legislative work. Kesko does not donate funds to political parties. • Good trading practices Customer privacy • Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro are committed to good trading practices. Customers' personal data is, for instance, processed in various personal data registers and online • K Code of Conduct stores' customer registers that are collected for the implementation of marketing activities. • The K Code of Conduct is used to ensure that everyone at Kesko has the same understandFurthermore, Kesko manages and maintains the K-Plussa customer loyalty system, operated by ing of the values and principles that guide our daily work. The principles are the same for K-chains and K-Plussa partners. Using the information received from the K-Plussa customer loyevery Kesko employee in all our operating countries. We also expect our business partners alty system, we can develop and tailor our operations to better suit our customers' needs. Taking to operate responsibly. care of our customers' privacy is of utmost importance to us. • Data protection policy • The data protection policy defines how Kesko Group strives for compliance with the law in the processing of personal data and a high level of data protection in all of its operations and operating countries. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 84 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE prohibit the connection of product or product group level information to their identified Monitoring and control systems customer relationship. In compliance with the Personal Data Act, the file description is available in Finnish at www.plussa.com. • Financial reporting and planning • Data controllers ensure that customer information is only used for the purposes specified • Kesko's financial reporting and planning are based on the Kesko Group's management in the file description. Information on individual customers is secured by issuing instrucsystem. The Group's financial development and achievement of financial objectives are tions to personnel and by using technical systems. Customer data is only disclosed to third monitored by financial reporting covering the entire Group. parties if required by law. • Compliance Responsibilities and resources • Kesko runs compliance programmes to ensure that Kesko employees are familiar with the key laws relating to operations and act in compliance with them. For Kesko, knowledge of • Kesko's Corporate Governance structure is presented at Kesko's Corporate Governance and compliance with competition laws is of primary importance. principles • Prevention of malpractice • Group Legal Affairs Unit • The Kesko Group's Internal Audit monitors and secures the functioning and efficiency • Internal Audit Unit of management, supervision, risk management and corporate governance in the Kesko Group. Kesko's Internal Audit pays special attention to the efficiency of controls that • Risk Management and Strategy Process Unit prevent malpractice and financial losses. Kesko's Legal Affairs and Internal Audit have organised value discussions in Kesko subsidiaries with the focus on anti-bribery work. • K-Digital Unit • Risk management Grievance mechanisms • Kesko has a uniform risk assessment and reporting system. Risk identification is based on Through Kesko's intranet, employees in all operating countries can give feedback and ask business objectives and opportunities and the defined risk appetite. Risks are prioritised on the basis of their significance by evaluating their impact in financial terms and probaquestions concerning operations not only in their own units but also directly to top management. bility. When assessing the impact of materialisation, the impacts on reputation, people's Feedback can be given openly or anonymously. wellbeing and the environment are considered in addition to the impact in euros. Risk management measures are assigned persons in charge who are responsible for planning, SpeakUp is a confidential reporting channel meant for reporting crime and malpractice susimplementing and monitoring the measures. The measures defined are added in action plans and monitoring systems. Kesko's Internal Audit annually assesses the functioning picions when, for one reason or another, the information cannot be passed directly to Kesko's and efficiency of Kesko's risk management system. persons in charge. • Privacy protection Boundaries • Personal data collected for various purposes on the grounds defined in the Finnish Personal Data Act form separate person registers. For example, the customer information of Corporate governance Kesko K-Plussa cardholders forms a customer database that is used, with the customer's permission, for managing customer relationships, for customer contacts and the marketing Finance Kesko purposes of the companies that have joined the K-Plussa system. K-Plussa customers can KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 85 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Customers We offer sustainable products and multi-channel services • We make people's lives more convenient and easier. • We offer healthy products and services that promote wellbeing. • We develop our multi-channel aspect of our store network based on our customers' expectations. • We encourage our customers to make sustainable choices. Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Dialogue with We consult our customers as we develop our In autumn 2014, we studied stakeholders' views on As part of Kesko's human rights assessment, we The human rights assessment generated invaluable customers corporate responsibility work. the focal points of Kesko's value creation through an heard the stakeholders' views on how well they information for developing customer services. We interview survey. thought human rights were realised, for example, in will investigate the possibility of implementing the • Dialogue with customers in stores and social customer service situations. The online questionnaire suggestions we received. medial channels was directed at both majority representatives as • Customer satisfaction and brand surveys well as special groups. Kesko was assessed as We carried out an extensive study among grocery slightly higher than the average Finnish company trade experts, retailers, suppliers and K-Plussa in the materialisation of a variety of human rights customers on the expected food trends and issues. However, the assessment given by special phenomena of 2017. groups was, with regards to certain aspects (e.g. unrestricted access, accessibility, personnel The significance of social media channels in diversity), considerably poorer when compared to customer interaction has grown. In 2017, we will the answers given by majority representatives. more actively listen to our customers' opinions and carry out more systematic and focused communication within social media communities. Consultation services We offer our customers multi-channel information The K Consumer service was contacted more than The K Consumer service was contacted 19,770 times. Customer feedback received through the new to customers on our products and services. 20,900 times. Kesko Food is going through an Information about good products and responsible customer feedback system, launched in summer • K-ruoka.fi extensive project to change the package labelling actions was given in stores and marketing with the 2016, increased significantly. The K Group's • Pirkka magazine and Pirkka.fi of its own brand products with the aim of providing help of the K-responsibility concept and its slogan customer magazine Pirkka was revamped. The • K Consumer Service consumers with more detailed information on ‘Let’s do good. Together.’ K Consumer Service was contacted 19,619 times. • Customer feedback channels the nutritional content, ingredients and potential allergens. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 86 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Welfare We offer healthy products and services that promote The 5,400 recipes in K-ruoka.fi service include In 2015, K-ruoka.fi produced the Keveämpi arki In addition to the recipe search function, the wellbeing. the nutritional content of the dish, which makes it customer programme consisting of recipes and ideas K-food mobile app gives the user suggestions easier for people to make choices. Intersport stores that promote a healthier lifestyle and well-being. about the most popular recipes made with seasonal • Healthy food selection in K-food stores organised activity days whose aim was to promote Intersport's sports training offered expert tips, ingredients. K-stores launched vege shelves. The • Fruit campaigns a healthy lifestyle and to encourage people to be inspiring content and exercise programmes for product reformulation policy (less salt, sugar and fat) • Recipes in K-ruoka.fi and Pirkka magazine active. people of different fitness levels. is to be updated in 2017. • Products promoting healthy living and life in K-Rauta and Intersport stores Cello indoor and outdoor paints received the Swan label. Onninen Norway provides welfare technology-related solutions. Intersport organised sports training during different seasons. Sustainable We help our customers make sustainable choices. The K-responsibility concept theme Let's do The K-responsibility concept theme Let's do The K Group has the most comprehensive consumption • Statements and policies good. Together was an essential part of the good. Together was an essential part of the neighbourhood store network in Finland. We • Food waste communication and marketing of the grocery trade. communication and marketing of the grocery trade, provide an extensive and free charging network for K-food stores participated in the Food Waste Week as well as our building and home improvement stores electric cars. We participated in the Kinkkutemppu campaign organised by the Consumers Union Of and agricultural stores. Our building and home campaign which used the roasted ham fat to produce Finland. improvement stores offered their customers energy renewable diesel. K-food stores participated in efficient and environmentally friendly products and the Food Waste Week campaign organised by the services. K-food stores participated in the Food Consumers Union Of Finland. At the start of 2017, Waste Week campaign organised by the Consumers Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags were introduced Union Of Finland. in K-food stores. K-food stores introduced shared vege shelves for all vegetable protein products. VV-Auto participated in the Finnish Transport Agency's car scrapping reward trial. The range of We published our soy policy and committed to it; by electric and hybrid cars available in car dealers 2020, all soy used in the production chain of ownwidened. brand products will be sustainably produced RTRS or ProTerra certified soy. We published our plastics As a new service, we started building new charging policy and committed to introducing measures to points for electric and hybrid cars in the most reduce the consumption of plastic bags. significant store locations. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 87 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Digital services We offer the best digital services to the K Group's Online sales of food through ruoka.citymarket.fi Stores' click and collect services became more Almost 100 K-food stores nationwide offer locally customers in all divisions. were extended to cover the whole Greater Helsinki. common. We published a K-food mobile app, which operating online grocery stores and click and collect The building and home improvement stores and food offers personalised benefits and shop-specific offers services. All K-Rauta stores have an online store • Accessibility for special groups stores launched click and collect services. and a smart shopping list. Sotka's online store. which also provides a delivery and click and collect • Online stores' centralised distribution service. We developed the K-food mobile app • Online stores' producer responsibility and product further. responsibility We developed a joint online store solution for the business customers of building and home improvement stores and Onninen. We launched a new concept online: a used car store, Caara.fi. Asko's online store was launched at Asko.fi. We opened a new K Digital unit and recruited dozens of new digital experts. The five trainees that completed the K Digital Trainee programme found employment in various digital positions within the K Group. Management by Each K-store is customised to meet its local A new test store, K-Myllypuro, was opened in Dozens of new ideas and operational models were The retailers received a new application based on information customer demand by utilizing customer data. Myllypuro, Helsinki, for testing new store concepts, tested in K-Myllypuro over a year. The test store's customer data, among other things, that supports easier shopping and solutions for product ranges and customers and customer jury were asked for store management and offers a tool for targeted their customisation. feedback on a regular basis. Based on customer product ranges and marketing. wishes, the test store became a K-Supermarket in August 2016. The experiences gathered from the We will revamp the K-food store chains. We will K-Myllypuro test store were used in the planning of revamp our entire hypermarket concept and all the renewal of the K-Market chain. K-Citymarkets by the end of 2018. We will revamp the K-Rauta brand in all its countries of operation in stages. Using marketing based on customer data, we can We launched a campaign management tool, which Personalised marketing based on purchase history We expanded the K Group's targeted marketing offer our customers the best customer experience. we used to produce targeted and unique customer means that customers receive benefits better suited using customer data and began carrying out communication. The aim was to launch personalised to them. After purchasing, customers receive service programmatic marketing relying on our own team customer marketing in stages in the wider K Group. messages, customer questionnaires or personalised of experts. Using our customer data, we offer offers using their chosen channel. our customers more personalised, interactive and multi-channel services. The revamped K-Plussa loyal customer card ensures personalised, targeted benefits for customers. We developed the K-food mobile app further. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 88 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Additional services in We want to offer our customers a convenient There were 252 consumer packaging recycling There were 255 consumer packaging recycling eco In connection to K-food stores, there were 396 connection to stores shopping experience. eco points at K-food stores. Many eco points also points at K-food stores. 38 eco points collected consumer packaging recycling Rinki eco points, of accepted paper and used clothing. All K-food plastic. Many eco points also accepted paper which 160 also collected plastic. Many eco points stores have reverse vending machines for returning and used clothing. All K-food stores have reverse also accepted paper and used clothing. All K-food beverage containers. There were 137 SmartPost selfvending machines for returning beverage containers. stores have reverse vending machines for returning service parcel lockers at K-stores. Posti and DHL expanded their operations into beverage containers. Read more about customer K-food stores. DHL Express and the K Group recycling services. started cooperation which will bring 250-300 DHL service points nationwide in food stores and building Core additional services in K-food stores were: Post and home improvements stores. There were 137 Office service points in 327 stores, Matkahuolto SmartPost self-service parcel lockers at K-stores. parcel points in 568 stores, DHL service points in 27 stores, Post Office parcel lockers in 144 stores and Osta & Nosta cash points in 1,011 stores. We provide an extensive and free charging network for electric cars. The Liiteri service tested the rental service for K-Rauta's tools. Management approach Material aspects • Customer health • Product safety KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 89 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Policies and commitments Programmes, projects and initiatives The K-responsibility concept is used to tell customers about the store's good deeds and to help The home economics teachers in Kesko's grocery trade's marketing unit develop and test hunthem make healthy and sustainable choices easily. The K-responsibility concept was first introdreds of new food recipes annually. The recipes in the K-ruoka.fi service include the nutritional duced in K-food stores in 2013. The concept was taken into use in K-Rauta stores and its launch content of each dish to make it easier for people to make choices. in Rautia stores was initiated over the course of 2014. It was introduced in Rautia stores and in the K-maatalous chain in 2015. In the building and home improvement store operations, the assessment of a store's operational responsibility comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the criteria defined in the store's Customers' needs and consumption behaviour change greatly as new electronic services and, quality system and a responsibility audit performed by an external party on a specified sample. particularly, mobile services become increasingly widespread. Kesko's key strategic objective is The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. Food store operations utilise the Hymy to serve customers in all of its divisions by using the opportunities provided by mobile services, quality review system. online services and digital marketing. The service level, recognition level and images of Kesko's chains are regularly monitored in brand Monitoring and control systems surveys targeted at consumers in all product lines. The same practice is applied to the K-Plussa Kesko Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the safety and quality of groceries and home customer loyalty programme and the grocery trade's own-brand products. Store-level customer and speciality goods sold by K-food stores and K-citymarket hypermarkets. satisfaction is measured by customer satisfaction surveys and the mystery shopping method in food stores and building and home improvement stores. In addition to the laboratory, the Product Research Unit includes a test kitchen and K-Consumer Service. The test kitchen's duties include sensory evaluations of products and the testing of their Grievance mechanisms cooking properties. The consumer service provides information on Pirkka products: customers can give feedback on products and ask about various aspects of our products, such as product • Plussa.com origins, ingredients, their suitability for different kinds of users and instructions for use and • K-Consumer Service preparation. • Chain's customer feedback systems Responsibilities and resources Boundaries • Kesko's divisions Customer health and safety Kesko Group Own-brand products and own imports • Kesko's Product Research Unit Product and service information Kesko Group Own-brand products and own imports • K-stores Marketing communications Kesko Group Compliance Kesko Group KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 90 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Society We contribute to creating a better society • We create partnerships and participate in developing local communities. • We develop our business in interaction with our customers. Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Local production We support local producers K-food stores, Anttila and Kodin1 participated in the K-food stores, K-Citymarket Oy (home goods), K-food stores, K-Rauta stores and Rautia stores Blue and White Footprint campaign. We organised K-Rauta stores and Rautia stores participated in the participated in the Blue and White Footprint Local Food Dates with the aim of increasing the local Blue and White Footprint campaign. We organised campaign. We organised Local Food Dates in six product offering in K-food stores. Local Food Dates in six different locations. We different locations. K-food stores sold 12 different created the ‘Thank the Producer’ operating model to Pirkka 'Thank the Producer' products for which we highlight the position of producers and increase the paid extra directly to the producer. In 2017, we will appreciation of Finnish production. be the main cooperation partner in the 'MTK 100' celebrations. Sustainable We promote sustainable agriculture The K-maatalous Experimental Farm searched for The K-maatalous Experimental Farm cooperated with The K-maatalous Experimental Farm made a Baltic agriculture new alternatives to continue organic studies on grain Nylands Svenska Lantbrukssällskapet on organic Sea commitment with the Baltic Sea Action Group crops in mainland Finland. crop species. (BSAG). The Experimental Farm's commitment focuses on developing the growing conditions of soil and nutrient measuring practices and equipment. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 91 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Donations, We participate in projects, which are connected We participated in Red Nose Day, the Good We participated in Red Nose Day, the Good We participated in Red Nose Day, the Good sponsoring and to improving families' daily life and sustainable Christmas Spirit collection, the Salvation Army's Christmas Spirit collection, the Salvation Army's Christmas Spirit collection and the Salvation charity campaigns development. Christmas Kettle collection and the Pink Ribbon Christmas Kettle collection and the Pink Ribbon Army's Christmas Kettle collection. Finland's campaign. K-food stores participated in the campaign. K-food stores participated in the K-Rauta and the Women's Bank launched • Red Nose Day UNICEF's and Pamper's international vaccination UNICEF's and Pamper's international vaccination cooperation to help Ugandan women in the • Good Christmas Spirit campaign. campaign. K-food stores' bottle return raffle's early phases of entrepreneurships. K-food stores • Salvation Army proceeds were donated to the Eväitä Elämälle aid participated in UNICEF's and Pamper's international • Pink Ribbon programme by Save the Children. Together with vaccination campaign and raised funds for almost the Finnish Basketball Association we organised 900,000 tetanus vaccinations. We participated in basketball events and Pikkusudet basketball schools the Pink Ribbon campaign with a more significant for primary school children across Finland. We contribution than before. K-food stores' bottle started a research project with Plan to investigate return raffle's proceeds were donated to the Eväitä the status of Cambodian migrant workers in Elämälle aid programme by Save the Children. The Thailand. Finnish Basketball Association and K-food stores cooperated to organise basketball events for over 10,000 children across Finland. We continued our cooperation with Plan to improve the sustainability of Thailand's fishing industry and to improve the status of migrant workers; cooperation has been agreed for the period of 2015-2018. K-Plussa customers can choose to donate their Plussa money to charity. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 92 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management approach Monitoring and control systems Changes in the operating environment and in the K Group are taken into account by adjusting objectives, operating principles, monitoring systems and/or resources. Material aspects Responsibilities and resources • Purchase practices • K-retailers and K-Retailers' Association Local presence has an impact on the whole of society • Kesko's district organisations The retail trade plays a significant role in local communities. It serves and employs local people. In addition to the direct employment impact, the retail trade also employs a significant number • Steering group for responsible purchasing and Kesko's buyers of people indirectly through suppliers and business partners. • Division Management Boards Retailers, supported by Kesko's district organisations, represent local activities. A K-retailer entrepreneur is responsible for his or her store's staff and customer satisfaction. Listening to the Programmes, projects and initiatives wishes of local customers and making use of customer data, K-retailers put together a selection K-food stores, K-Citymarket Oy (home goods), K-Rauta stores and Rautia stores participated of products and services that meet customer needs. We develop our business through interacin the Blue and White Footprint campaign in 2016. The campaign aimed to promote the sales of tion with our customers. Finnish products and an awareness of the positive impacts of buying Finnish. Kesko purchases the majority of the products it sells from Finland and encourages K-retailers to Grievance mechanisms include locally produced products in their selections. The impact of Finnish products on employment is significant; for example, Pirkka products are produced in nearly 120 companies all over • SpeakUp reporting channel Finland. Boundaries Policies and commitments Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro are committed to the grocery store chain's good trading pracEconomic performance Kesko tices. Kesko requires that its business partners act in compliance with the K Code of Conduct. Indirect economic impacts K Group We add a K Code of Conduct contract clause to agreements signed by Kesko Group compaPurchase practices K Group nies under which the Group companies purchase products or services from parties outside the Group. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 93 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Working community We carry out and offer high-quality work • We have satisfied employees and competent supervisors. • We offer interesting and diverse work as well as development opportunities. • We are the most attractive workplace in the trading sector. • We offer a safe and healthy working environment. • Our personnel act responsibly. Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Employer image We are the best employer in the trading sector in The employee engagement index was 53%. In the We launched the K-job programme, the purpose The employee engagement index was 61%. The terms of job satisfaction. Universum Professionals survey, Kesko's ranking of which is to provide those aged under 30 with percentage of employees who would recommend was 29. channels to find a job in the K Group. We particularly the K Group as an employer has gone up to focused on guiding ‘Learn and Earn’ trainees, young 68%, according to the personnel survey (56% in people in short-term work orientation, and summer the previous survey in 2014). In the Universum employees. In the Universum Professionals survey, Professionals survey, Kesko's ranking was 38. Kesko's ranking was 31. We continued to employ young people by offering summer jobs to approximately 5,500 young people. We organised a K Digital Trainee programme, and, through that, employed five graduates in business development jobs. Together with FIBS we conducted a diversity management starting point analysis in Finland and we will utilise its outcomes to develop our operations. We determined our employer promise and, in accordance with it, we will develop, for example, our cooperation with educational establishments and reinforce our recruitment and induction processes. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 94 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Wellbeing at work We improve work motivation and satisfaction. The focal point of the wellbeing at work programme The focal point of the wellbeing at work programme The focal point of the wellbeing at work programme was to develop supervision and management and was to support employees' health and reduce was the comprehensive and business-oriented promote occupational health and labour protection sickness absences, developing safety at work and development of OHS (Occupational Health and cooperation. strengthening the role of labour protection as well as Safety) operations. We enforced the monitoring of promoting employee engagement and implementing key figures to improve proactive work and to support the people principles. management by information. Furthermore, we implemented other proactive measures, such as new health training. We also launched an occupational safety project whose aim is to further develop our occupational safety culture and shared operating models. We also made labour protection more systematic and developed the ways in which it is organised. We support our employees' leisure time fitness activities in all our operating countries. The Finnish companies, for example, provide vouchers for physical exercise and cultural benefits. Read more about benefits to employees. Skills management We conduct an annual performance and In the personnel survey, 83% of respondents said Performance and development reviews apply to all The performance and development reviews were development review with every employee. that they have had a performance and development employees, and in 2015, they were carried out twice: used in all Kesko Group companies and operating review during the past 12 months. in the spring and in the autumn. The realisation countries. The performance and development of the discussions was requested in the personnel reviews were carried out at least twice, in the spring survey that was conducted in the beginning of 2016. and/or in the autumn. In 2017, we launch, in stages, The response rate to the survey was 85%. A total of the new performance management model and the 80% of employees that responded to the survey had K Success Factors systems that support it. In the had their reviews carried out during 2015. future, we will record the development reviews in the K Success Factors systems. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 95 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Skills management We will regularly train our supervisors. Core tools for developing supervisor work were the The emphasis was on the implementation of We continued the Let's Talk About Work training, the Performance the K Group’s operating principles, challenging • K-Way new supervisors training programmes, Management training, the Employee Engagement situations faced by supervisors, leading a new team, • K-Way experienced supervisors training training, as well as the new comprehensive online effective supervision and how to use the personnel programmes and training modules in different sectors of supervisory survey results to develop the team. • Let's Talk About Work training programmes. work. The online training modules for supervisors • In total, 363 supervisors participated in these were taken 2,391 times in total. The first training programme promoting the training programmes. K Group’s new management culture was entitled ‘K-Way new supervisors’ and was piloted towards The topic for the new Mindfulness training was the end of the year. Supervisory training for Kesko's understanding and training your own mind as well as personnel was taken a total of nearly 700 times. efficiency. 17 supervisors from Finland participated in Online training modules for supervisors were the training. The objective of the new K-Way Middle completed approximately 3,700 times. Management Leader training programme was to strengthen the skills for strategy implementation and business competence. The training programme had a total of 22 participants from all operating countries. In Russia, we started a new K-Way Leader training programme that aims to strengthen management competence and supervisory skills in the K Group. The training programme was attended by 12 supervisors. In 2017, we will continue to organise the K-Way supervisor trainings and start a new development programme for top management. We will continue spreading the coaching and mentoring processes that support supervisory work. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 96 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Occupational ability We reduce sick leave, accidents at work and Since the beginning of 2011, approximately 950 We focused on reducing the number of sick leave We focused on reducing sick leave, accidents at premature retirement due to disability. supervisors in Finland have been trained using the and premature retirements due to disability by work and premature retirement due to disability. Let's Talk About Work operating model. The Let's means of occupational health service activities, the The Let's Talk About Work training for supervisors Talk About Work model has been used in almost Let's Talk About Work training for supervisors, work continued and over the last five years, more than all companies. In Finland, the percentage of sick revision, occupational rehabilitation and the work 1,000 supervisors have been trained. leave has been reduced by 11% since 2009 and the done by the Work Ability Manager working in the percentage of premature retirements due to sickness OHS team. The Work Ability Manager’s activities We piloted work induction services. We will reduce has reduced by 37% since 2010. Sick leave has support the employee’s return to work, while sick leave in the long term with a project which has reduced by 10% in other countries since 2009. considering various options for continuing at work. a systematic take on labour protection and safety Sick leave has continued to decrease. at work. We developed a unified accident insurance management model, which we will launch in 2017. Management approach Material aspects • Employment • Labour/management relations • Occupational health and safety • Training • Diversity and equal opportunity • Equal remuneration • Labour practices grievance mechanisms KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 97 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Employment and labour and management relations Remuneration We want to be the most attractive workplace in the trading sector, with satisfied employees and The objective of remuneration in Kesko is to encourage employees to exceed the objectives competent supervisors. The K Group offers varied career and personal development opportugiven and to motivate them to do long-term work in order to meet the goals of Kesko Group and nities in a variety of jobs in the trading sector. In restructuring situations, Kesko complies with its subsidiaries. Remuneration is fair and is based on principles that are commonly known. local legislation in all of the countries. Read more about minimum notice periods regarding operational changes. Labour practices and grievance mechanisms See Grievance mechanisms Health and safety at work Kesko and K-stores are responsible for providing employees with a safe working environment Policies, principles and commitments and appropriate training and guidance for their work. HR management is based on Kesko's values and operating practices and the K Code of Conduct guidelines. Kesko's HR policy defines key operating principles in the various areas of HR Development of personnel management. The HR strategy defines HR management objectives, critical success factors and The systematic and business-driven development of personnel and management is critical for key development initiatives. Kesko is a member of Diversity Charter Finland. The operations of future success. Major changes in the trading sector and the growth of electronic transactions Diversity Charter Finland are based on a charter that is signed by all members. have created the need for new competencies. Monitoring and control systems Other core areas of competence development have included: The personnel's ability to work is protected by creating a safe and supportive working environment. The goal of labour protection is to secure and maintain employees' ability to work and to • sales and service competence prevent and avoid occupational injuries, occupational diseases and other physical and mental • product line specific competitive advantage projects health hazards arising from work or the working environment. • safety and responsibility Responsibilities and resources • leadership • HR Management Board • management. • Kesko HR Diversity and equal opportunities • HR Service Centres A pluralist organisation that promotes diversity guarantees equal opportunities, rights and treat• Every supervisor ment to all. Equality, justice and non-discrimination are important principles which are observed at Kesko throughout the employment relationship. The most suitable person with the most development potential is selected for the job, applicants are judged according to their competence, skills and accomplishments. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 98 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Programmes, projects and initiatives Employment of young people In 2013, Kesko and the K-Retailers’ Association launched the ‘Youth Guarantee in the K Group’ Wellbeing at work programme programme, which aimed to provide a job, a work trial or an apprenticeship in the K Group for In the development of wellbeing at work, the objective is to increase job satisfaction and mo1,000 young people threatened by social exclusion The target group also included young immitivation, reduce sick leave, increase the retirement age and decrease premature pensions, and grants and young people with disabilities. By the end of 2015, more than 2,500 young people enhance the employer image. From 2015–2018, the wellbeing at work programme focuses on: had found employment in the form of a work trial, wage support and apprenticeship training. The employment of young people and special groups continues as a permanent model. In 2016, the • Comprehensive development of OHS operations (Occupational Health and Safety) manageK-Retailers’ Association had a Youth Guarantee coordinator, who gives K-retailers and Kesko’s ment by information supervisors advice related to the employment and training of special groups and acts as a liaison • Supporting personnel's ability to work and reducing sick leave to the authorities and associations. By the end of 2016, more than 3,200 young people had found employment in the form of a work trial, through wage support and apprenticeship training. • Developing occupational safety models and strengthening the role of labour protection • Promoting Employee Engagement particularly through supervisors' work development and Grievance mechanisms ensuring good management in times of change • Discussion with supervisor • Suora Linja feedback channel Employment of disabled people and people with partial work capacity In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association launched a project called 'Many kinds of performers' in co• SpeakUp reporting channel operation with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). A permanent model was created to provide work for those with intellectual disabilities. Most of the Boundaries intellectually disabled who were employed during the project still work at the K Group. Working community Kesko In Greater Helsinki, Kesko's Occupational Health Service directs employees to AMI rehabilitation, which promotes mental health. The partial daily allowance can help employees return to work after sick leave. The support provided by pension insurance companies for occupational rehabilitation has been used to promote return to work. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 99 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Responsible purchasing and sustainable ­selections We purchase and sell responsibly and support our customers in ­making sustainable choices • We develop our product selections while listening to customers. • We ensure responsibility in the supply chain. • We are accountable for the safety and quality of products. Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Supply chain The social responsibility of the production of own Kesko's suppliers in high-risk countries had 284 Kesko's suppliers in high-risk countries had 210 BSCI full audits and 60 BSCI re-audits were direct imports from high-risk countries has been factories or farms within the scope of the BSCI 200 factories or farms within the scope of the conducted in the factories and farms of Kesko’s assured. process. 88 BSCI full audits and 74 BSCI re-audits BSCI process. 107 BSCI full audits and 80 BSCI suppliers in high-risk countries. At the beginning of were conducted in the factories and farms of re-audits were conducted in the factories and 2017, Kesko’s suppliers in high-risk countries had a • Assessment systems approved by Kesko suppliers in high-risk countries. We started an farms of suppliers in high-risk countries. The social total of 386 valid social responsibility audits. assessment of human rights impacts. responsibility of the production of Kesko's grocery trade's own direct imports from high-risk countries The social responsibility of the production of Kesko’s was 100% assured. grocery trade's own direct imports from high-risk countries was 100% assured. Kesko Onninen We continued our work related to the human rights Purchasing Office (KOPO) started operations in impact assessment. We published the manufacturing Shanghai, China. Kesko’s grocery trade and ICA plants of private label and own import clothes, Global Sourcing launched a sourcing cooperation in accessories, shoes and bags operating in high-risk the home and speciality trade. countries on our website. As part of the human rights assessment, we conducted a human rights survey at factories in high-risk countries in cooperation with the Trade Union Solidarity Centre of Finland (SASK). The country-specific reports by SASK provided valuable information for the development of our operations. We forwarded the information received to BSCI in order to develop the audit procedure. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 100 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Supply chain We assure the responsibility of the ingredients We listened to our stakeholders when developing Using the risk assessment tool, we started the We continued work in order to assure the (Tier 2) of private label Pirkka and K-Menu food a new risk assessment tool for assuring the process of assuring the responsibility of the responsibility of ingredients in the own-brand products. responsibility of the ingredients of own-brand ingredients of Pirkka and K-Menu products. We grocery products. We conducted ingredient risk grocery products. established the origin of the ingredients of 1,923 assessments on 160 new Pirkka or K-Menu food own-brand grocery products. Among these, products. Among these, 29 products contained 233 contained ingredients which require further ingredients which require further investigation in investigation concerning the responsibility of terms of responsibility. the ingredient manufacturer based on the risk assessment. We will reduce the water risk caused by our We identified the need to determine the water We initiated a water risk assessment for our own The water risk assessment is in progress and the aim operations. risks caused by our operations. Due to the large brand products in order to identify the water basins is to use the results to plan actions. consumption of imported processed goods and most affected by water scarcity and contamination the virtual water footprint associated with them, issues in our supply chain. The target is to conclude almost half (47 %) of the water footprint of Finnish the water risk assessment in 2016. consumption falls outside of Finland. Kesko’s most significant impacts on water consumption are thus caused by imported products for sale, which originate from areas suffering from water scarcity. Policies Fish and shellfish: The selections of Kesko’s grocery The Pirkka range included 29 MSC-certified fish The Pirkka range included 41 MSC-certified fish The retail selection of Kesko’s grocery trade included trade and K-food stores do not include species on products. products. 178 MSC-certified fish products, of which 37 were the red list of the WWF’s fish guide. Kesko’s grocery Pirkka products. Kespro was granted MSC and ASC trade and K-food stores promote green list species in traceability certificates. All stages of Kespro’s fish their selections. When making decisions concerning and shellfish supply chain have been audited, and selections, we favour sustainable stocks of fish and Kespro and its certified customer restaurants can use MSCand ASCcertified suppliers. The K Group's the MSC and ASC ecolabelling in their marketing. fish and shellfish policy has been in effect since Kespro’s HoReCa selections included nearly 300 2008. MSCand ASC-certified products, and the number continues to grow. Kespro's Menu range had more than 25 MSC-certified products and 2 ASC-certified ones. Palm oil: By 2020, all palm oil in our own brand Approximately 13% of the palm oil in the Pirkka food Approximately 20% of the palm oil in the Pirkka food Approximately 34% of the palm oil in our own brand groceries will be responsibly produced (CSPO). products was certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). products was certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). groceries (Pirkka, K-Menu and Kespro’s Menu) was certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 101 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Soy: By 2020, all the soy used in the production The objective was added in 2016. The objective was added in 2016. We were a founding member in the Finnish soy chain of our private label products will be responsibly commitment group, which started operations in produced, and be either RTRS or ProTerra certified. February 2016. The members of the Finnish soy commitment group pledge to ensure that by 2020 This applies to: all the soy used in the production chain of their private label products will be responsibly produced, • the ingredients of soy origin of the private label and be either RTRS or ProTerra certified. The foods commitment covers both the Finnish production • soy fodder used in the production of private label chain and sourcing from other countries. We joined products of animal origin the Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) and • soy in the animal feed products sold by the thereby committed to promote responsibility in the agricultural trade. production chain of soy on a long-term and targetoriented basis. Timber: We will ensure the origin and traceability of Rautakesko has been granted the PEFC certificate, The PEFC certification percentage is announced The average PEFC certification percentage was 91.2% the timber and wood products sold by the building which covers spruce and pine timber and processed monthly at Kesko's web pages. for pine and 84.6% for spruce. We are investigating and home improvement trade. The products made of timber, MDF boards' wholesale in Finland the opportunities to expand the timber policy to wood of tropical origin must be either FSC or PEFC (percentage-based method).The certificate is issued cover the entire Group. certified. on 11 November 2013 and is valid until 11 November 2018. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 102 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Policies Plastic: We promote the recycling and reuse of The Pirkka reusable bag with the Boulevard design by More reusable bag alternatives were added to the We published our plastics policy in October 2016 plastic. We create operating models which prevent Vallila was included in K-food stores’ selection. grocery store selections: a new Vallila design, a and pledged to implement measures aiming at plastic from ending up in bodies of water and Summer Day bag, and a Red Nose Day bag. reducing the use of plastic bags. Plastic bags have elsewhere in the natural environment. We seek been subject to a charge in the K Group's grocery alternatives to plastic as a packaging material. By stores as well as building and home improvement means of consumer communications, we will increase stores, and, at the beginning of 207, they became the sales share of alternative shopping bags (cotton subject to a charge in the agricultural and machinery bags, reusable bags and jute bags) and cardboard stores as well as in furniture stores. By the end boxes to 10% by 2025. We will look for solutions to of 2017, thin small plastic bags will no longer be replace PVC as a material. available at the checkout. Our selections offer alternatives to plastic bags; reusable bags, cotton bags, jute bags as well as paper bags and bags made of recycled plastic. The share of paper bags in the sales of all different shopping bags was approximately 1.5% and that of reusable bags was approximately 1.5%. In spring 2017, we included the Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags made by Amerplast Oy in our selections. They are manufactured from plastic packaging waste recycled by households through the Rinki eco-points. We will discontinue the use of microplastics in our private label cosmetics brand products in 2017. The packaging of our private label cosmetics does not contain PVC. We will discontinue using PVC as the material for Kesko’s gift cards in 2017. We will work to eliminate PVC from the material of the K-Plussa card in 2017. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 103 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Own brands with We offer an extensive selection of own-brand The Pirkka range included 44 Pirkka Fairtrade The Pirkka range included 40 Pirkka Fairtrade The Pirkka range included 36 Pirkka Fairtrade responsibility products with responsibility labelling products, 116 Pirkka Organic products, 29 Pirkka products, 134 Pirkka Organic products, 41 Pirkka products, 118 Pirkka Organic products, 37 Pirkka labelling MSC-certified fish products, and 16 Pirkka UTZMSC-certified fish products, and 17 Pirkka UTZMSC-certified fish products, 32 Pirkka UTZ-certified certified products. certified products. products and 65 Nordic Swan label products. All Pirkka and K-Menu coffees are Fairtrade or UTZcertified. The Pirkka range includes 15 Fairtrade or UTZ-certified chocolate and baking chocolate products. In 2017, all Pirkka range chocolates will be Fairtrade or UTZ-certified. Kespro’s Menu range included 7 Fairtrade products, 5 organic products, 25 MSC-certified products, 2 ASCcertified products, 13 products with the Nordic Swan ecolabel, and 5 UTZ-certified products. All interior and exterior paints in the K-Rauta's Cello range carry the Nordic Swan ecolabel. 62 Cello products carried the M1 label and 105 Cello products had the Allergy Label. 15 products in the PROF range carried the M1 label. Product safety The product safety of the K Group’s selections The Product Research laboratory analysed 8,864 The Product Research laboratory analysed 8,037 The Product Research laboratory analysed 7,770 has been verified. The Product Research Unit's product samples and conducted 20,386 analyses. product samples and conducted 20,396 analyses. product samples and conducted 17,176 analyses. laboratory monitors the product safety and quality Forty audits were performed. Seven audits were performed. The product safety of 539 suppliers was verified by of the private labels and own imports in the grocery means of a certified auditing procedure. The number trade. All of our food product operations have a selfof own audits was 13. control plan in place. • The stores’ Oiva monitoring results KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 104 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management approach Kesko and K Group stores want to support customers in making sustainable choices and offer a wide selection of products with responsibility criteria. Material aspects Kesko's policy on chemicals applies to home textiles, clothing, leather goods, shoes and upholstered furniture. Based on EU and Finnish legislation, it lists the chemicals which are prohibited • Compliance of products and services or the quantity of which is restricted in the products supplied to Kesko. In addition, for substanc• Customer health and safety es of very high concern, Kesko sets restrictions that are stricter than those set in legislation. • Assessment of suppliers’ working conditions Kesko’s plastics policy promotes recycling and the reuse of plastics. The objective of the oper• Human rights ating model is to prevent plastic from ending up in bodies of water and elsewhere in the natural environment. • Marketing communications Various product group-specific responsibility policies and statements, such as the palm oil Policies, principles and commitments policy, the fish and shellfish statement, the timber policy, and the stand on the sandblasting of Responsible purchasing is guided by Kesko's purchasing principles. jeans, have been prepared to support purchasing operations. The principles are based on national labour protection legislation and corresponding convenMonitoring and control systems tions of the International Labour Organization (ILO), which are applied when national legislation Certification and audit systems related to production in high-risk countries approved by Kesko. does not correspond to the same level. In its operations, Kesko pays special attention to human rights issues and working conditions in its supply chain and, in monitoring these, primarily focusSupplier agreements require that suppliers and service provides comply with the principles of es on suppliers in high-risk countries. In accordance with the BSCI (Business Social Compliance the K Code of Conduct and the BSCI Code of Conduct links. Kesko's grocery trade requires that Initiative), high-risk countries are countries and areas where there is a risk of human rights and the manufacturers and producers of its own-brand products have an international food safety workers' rights violations. The classification is based on the World Bank's Worldwide Governcertification. Kesko’s grocery trade approves the following audit procedures: BRC, IFS, ISO/FSSC ance Indicators. 22000, SQF1000/2000 and GlobalGAP, IP basic certification for vegetables, or IP-Sigill. Kesko and K Group stores are responsible to the products' end-users for ensuring that the prodThe Product Research Unit's laboratory monitors the quality of products sold by K-food stores ucts comply with all the requirements of Finnish and EU legislation, are safe for users and meet and K-Citymarket hypermarkets. It is a testing laboratory T251 which has been accredited by the quality and other promises. Kesko's product labelling and marketing communications comply FINAS accreditation services and approved to comply with the SFS-EN ISO/IEC 17025 standard. with legislative requirements and the recommendations of authorities. The assessment of a store's responsible operations comprises the store's annual self-assessment, the criteria defined in the store's quality system and a responsibility audit performed by an external party on a specified sample. The auditor reports the results to the store and to Kesko. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 105 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Programmes, projects and initiatives Boundaries • 'Principles and Practice of Socially Responsible Trading' guide Compliance Kesko Product safety Kesko private labels and own imports Responsible choices are communicated to customers in stores according to the K-responsibility Social responsibility of procurement (1st tier) Kesko concept within-store communications, such as shelf labelling and product labelling. The selection and marketing policies of organic, eco-labelled and Fairtrade certified products are included in K-food stores' chain concepts. The K responsibility concept was first adopted in K-food stores in 2013. The concept was taken into use in K-Rauta stores. In 2015, it was adopted by Rautia stores and in the K-maatalous chain. In 2016, Kesko joined the new BSCI Sustainable Wine Programme pilot programme of the Foreign Trade Association (FTA). The programme focuses on improving the social responsibility and environmental responsibility of wine production and its goal is to increase transparency and traceability in wine production. In 2016, Kesko became a member of the Centre for Child Rights and Corporate Social Responsibility (CCR CSR) based in China. The objective of CCR CSR is to prevent and reduce child labour, improve the status of young workers at factories, and make the daily life of migrant worker parents easier. Kesko participates in the Virtual Working Group of the organisation. Grievance mechanisms • SpeakUp reporting channel • K Consumer Service • Customer feedback systems of the chains KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 106 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Environment We mitigate climate change together and promote the sustainable use of natural resources • We reduce the environmental impact by working together with the entire supply chain. • We promote development towards a low-carbon circular economy. • We help our customers reduce their environmental impact. Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Renewable energy We will purchase 100% renewable electricity in The objective was set in 2016 The objective was set in 2016 All electricity purchased by Kesko in Finland is Finland. renewable since the beginning of 2017. We purchase renewable electricity that has the Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) from the Nordic countries. In 2017, electricity purchases will especially focus on Finnish bioenergy. We will increase the production of solar power for The objective was set in 2016 The objective was set in 2016 In June 2016, Finland’s largest property-specific our own use. solar power plant was completed on the roof of K-Citymarket Tammisto. By the end of 2016, solar power plants were built in two other K-Citymarket stores and nine K-Supermarket stores. By the summer of 2017, a total of 16 solar power plants will be in operation on the rooftops of K Group stores. The new investments will make the K Group the largest producer and user of solar power in Finland. Energy efficiency of During the agreement period 2008–2016: We will Kesko improved its energy consumption by 59 GWh Kesko improved its energy consumption by 64 GWh The final results of the agreement will be published stores improve our annual energy efficiency by 65 GWh by and achieved 90% of its objective. and achieved 97% of its objective. by Motiva in summer 2017. 2016. During the agreement period 2017–2025: We will The objective was set in 2016 The objective was set in 2016 Kesko signed a retail sector energy efficiency reduce our energy consumption by 7.5% by 2025. agreement for 2017–2025. In the action plan, we commit to reducing our energy consumption by 7.5%. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 107 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Logistics emissions We will reduce the emissions of Kesko Logistics We used nine two-tier trailers in long-distance Relative emissions have decreased by 5.5% from the The relative emissions had decreased by 1.9% from relative to the net sales index by 10% by 2020 from transportation between our main warehouses. They starting level due to new solutions in transportation the base level. In 2016, emissions increased by 3.8% the 2011 level. can transport 30 roll containers, more than the management and fleet organisation. A pilot study on compared to 2015. The increase in emissions can regular trailer combination. All of Keslog’s more using an extra long Ecotruck on the main logistics be attributed to the increased number of stores • We will reduce emissions by the efficient route than 500 contracted drivers have been trained in route between Vantaa and Oulu. The Ecotruck caused by the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa. At planning of transport, efficient reverse logistics, economical driving. carries twice as many roll containers as an ordinary first, only Kesko’s own brand Pirkka products were two-tier trailers and training in economical driving trailer combination. delivered to the new stores and as the conversion of styles. the stores to K-Markets advanced, refill loads were delivered to the stores as separate deliveries. Science Based We will set Science Based Targets We are committed to setting emission targets Targets approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. The calculation began in December 2016. Food waste By 2020 we will reduce identified food waste by 10% Many K-food stores also donated food to charity. We started a cooperation with Gasum, Myllyn Paras By the end of 2016, K-food stores had reduced from the 2013 level. K-food stores participated in the Food Waste Week and Wursti to utilise biogas produced from inedible identified food waste by 3.5% from the base level. • We reduce food waste in K-food stores with the organised by the Consumers' Union of Finland in organic waste collected from retail stores as energy help of electronic forecasting and order systems, 2014. in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. Many Approximately 90% of K-food stores work together efficient logistics, employee training, reducing the K-food stores donate food to charity. with local charities. The amount of food products prices of products approaching their best before donated increased by 1.8 million kg from the dates and optimising packaging properties. previous year. We continued cooperation with Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti to utilise biogas produced from inedible organic waste collected from retail stores as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2016, approximately 3,700 tonnes of organic waste was transformed into 2,800 MWh of biogas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 550 tonnes compared to natural gas and by 740 tonnes compared to fuel oil. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 108 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Topic Objective Progress of objectives 2014 Progress of objectives 2015 Progress of objectives 2016 Waste recovery The goal is to minimise the generation of waste in all The waste recovery rate of Keslog’s main warehouses The waste recovery rate in the grocery trade was In Finland, the recovery rate was 99% and in other operations and to recover all waste. and terminals was 98% and that of VV-Auto Group 99%, in the home improvement and speciality goods operating countries, it was 48%. The waste recovery nearly 100%. The recovery rate of the waste trade 99.4%, and in the car trade 99.9%. In other rate of retail stores in southern Finland covered by generated in stores was 96% and the recycling rate operating countries, the waste recovery rate was the waste management agreement was 100%. was 67%. 46%. The waste recovery rate of retail stores in southern Finland covered by the waste management agreement was around 98%. Management approach Material aspects • Energy • Water • Emissions • Wastewater and waste • Biodiversity • Suppliers’ environmental assessments Policies, principles and commitments The K Group's environmental and energy policy covers the operations of the Group and the stores both in Finland and the other operating countries. The K Group's key business partners are also expected to observe corresponding environmental management principles. Environmental management is part of the K Group's management system and is based on the ICC Business Charter for Sustainable Development, environmental management standards, as well as requirements set by legislation and the authorities. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 109 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Monitoring and control systems Initiative (BEPI). BEPI aims to help member companies in the management of global supply Kesko Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board defines the main policies for environchains and, consequently, in increasing the transparency and risk management of their product mental work and the target levels for the Group companies, taking into account the environsupply chains. mental impacts of operations and their significance throughout their whole lifecycle and supply chain. The division parent companies and subsidiaries specify the main policies of their environIn line with Kesko's building and home improvement sourcing statement, products made of tropimental work into environmental action programmes which support their business operations. cal wood must be either FSC or PEFC certified. The action programmes are monitored and updated annually as part of the strategy work. The K Group’s fish and shellfish statement directs its sourcing of Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro, Environmental systems at Kesko as well as K-food retailers' sourcing to safeguard the responsible fishing and management of fish. Kesko's maintenance partners monitor the energy consumption of properties with the help of the EnerKey.com system supplied by Enegia Oy. Enegia remotely reads energy consumption measKesko’s grocery trade is a member of the RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil). The objective urement terminals located in properties and records the data in the database by the hour. The is that by 2020, all palm oil in own brand grocery products will be responsibly produced (CSPO). consumption figures for properties where the data are collected manually are also saved in the EnerKey system. The EnerKey programme responds to even minor location-specific changes in Kesko is a founding member of the Finnish soy commitment group. Kesko has become a member consumption and sends an alarm to the person in charge. Water consumption monitoring is part in the RTRS (Roundtable on Responsible Soy) and made a commitment that by 2020, all of the of consumption monitoring in the properties. Kesko's goal is to maintain a high level of water soy in the production chains of its private label products will be responsibly produced, either consumption efficiency in all operations. RTRS or ProTerra certified soy. The commitment covers both the Finnish production chain and sourcing from other countries. Division of responsibilities and resources Grievance mechanisms • Group's Corporate Responsibility Advisory Board • SpeakUp reporting channel • Group's Environmental Steering Group • Store Sites and Real Estate Unit Boundaries • Logistics Units Energy and water Kesko Biodiversity Kesko Programmes, projects and initiatives Emissions Scope 1 and 2: Kesko; Scope 3: K-stores and supply chain Kesko participates in the retail sector energy efficiency agreement for 2017–2025. In accordWaste Finland: Kesko’s warehousing operations; other operating ance with the agreement, Kesko is committed to reducing its energy consumption by 7.5% countries: stores by means of various savings measures. The agreement covers all of the K Group’s store chains. Suppliers’ environmental assessments Suppliers. This aspect has been identified as essential and Kesko has joined the Foreign Trade Association's (FTA) Business Environmental Performance reporting is under development. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 110 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other operating countries In January 2015, a Steering Group for Local Responsibility in Operating Countries was set up to promote responsibility work in operating countries outside Finland. The Steering Group drew K-Rauta Sweden up objectives for each of our companies in other operating countries to complement our joint responsibility programme and take local circumstances into account. The progress of these comObjective Progress panies in achieving these objectives in 2016 are presented below. Working community: We perform and Responsibility induction discussions will start in spring offer high-quality work 2017. K-Rauta Russia Responsibility induction and eLearning. Digital EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) manual for stores will be adopted in spring 2017. Objective Progress Working community: We perform and In 2016, we implemented the personnel development Mitigation of climate change: We jointly In 2016, we worked on the ISO 14011 environmental offer high-quality work project “Career development and succession planning”. mitigate climate change and promote the system. The objective is to have the system certified in Our employees are committed to the Group Project participants included 55 members of store and sustainable use of natural resources autumn 2017. strategy, sales targets and the development office personnel. The total number of training days was We increase the recycling of materials in of customer satisfaction. 314. stores. We reduce energy consumption in Society: We build a better society In 2016, we continued to support children in children’s stores together homes, the building of a playground in Moscow and the Society values the responsibility work done refurbishment of children's cultural centre in Tula. Byggmakker Norway by K-Rauta Russia. Our employees are committed to the responsibility objectives In 2016, we offered a training job to 12 students. of K-Rauta Russia. In 2016, some members of the personnel took part in Objective Progress voluntary landscaping of parks in St. Petersburg and Tula. Responsible purchasing and sustainable The timber in the selections will be PEFC certified by the Environment: We jointly mitigate climate In 2016, we set up recycling points for customers' used selections: We purchase and sell responend of 2017. change and promote the sustainable use electric batteries in conjunction with the stores in St. sibly and support customers in making Petersburg. Over 800 kg of batteries were collected. sustainable choices The building materials in the selections have BREEAM of natural resources The product in our selections meet the NOR classification. At the end of 2016, around 65,000 We reduce the amount of landfill waste. We In 2016, a campaign for collecting old, plastic flower pots applicable environmental criteria. product articles were included in the NOBB database. develop segregation and recycling. from customers was organised at the stores. Over 20,000 plastic flower pots were collected for recycling. Working community: We perform and Trainings will continue in 2017. offer high-quality work Our personnel are committed, active and enterprising. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 111 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konekesko Lithuania Konekesko Latvia Objective Progress Objective Progress Working community: We perform and In 2016, 57% of the personnel completed the Working community: We perform and Representatives of employees participate in the meetings offer high-quality work responsibility eLearning programme and 78% completed offer high-quality work of the management board four times a year. Strategy We organise corporate responsibility the K Code of Conduct eLearning programme. We improve the flow of information communications have been enhanced. training for all employees. We include our between management and employees. personnel in our corporate responsibility 70% of the personnel participated in the cleaning and In autumn 2016, training in conducting performance work. excercise days arranged by the company. We take care of the balance between work and development discussions was arranged for middle and private life. management. In performance and development discussions, personnel's satisfaction with the flow of Society: We build a better society Konekesko Lithuania is a member of the following information rose to 65% (52% in the previous survey in together organisations: 2014). Monitoring of overtime and unused holidays has We participate in organisational activities. been enhanced. Deviations have been taken up. We provide training opportunities for • Lietuvos atsakingo verslo asociacija LAVA, a students. We participate in charity projects. responsibility organisation of Latvian companies. In Responsible purchasing and sustainable The development of the telephone service system for 2016, Konekesko Lithuania's representative was the selections: We purchase and sell responmaintenance was completed in 2016. The objective is to Chair of the organisation. sibly and support customers in making develop a mobile application for maintenance service in • Baltic Institute of Corporate Governance BICG sustainable choices 2017. We develop maintenance services.We In 2016, training jobs were offered to three students. develop online services. Environment: We jointly mitigate climate Store lights will be replaced by LED lamps in 2017–2018. In 2016, support was given to youth and adult sports and change and promote the sustainable use museum activities. of natural resources We reduce the electricity consumption of stores. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 112 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Konekesko Estonia Indoor Estonia Objective Progress Objective Progress Working community: We perform and In 2016, the focus continued to be placed on personnel's Environment: We jointly mitigate climate In 2016, 14,516 kg of cardboard (32%of purchased offer high-quality work performance and development discussions and change and promote the sustainable use packaging cardboard) and 1,509 kg of plastic (34% of We focus on performance and development performance appraisals. of natural resources puchased packaging plastic) were recycled. By 2019, the discussions. We organise an eLearning We reduce the amount of landfill waste. We objective is to raise the recycling rate of both packaging programme in corporate responsibility for The set objectives were achieved. Personnel's training improve segregation and recycling. material to 45%. supervisors. was increased. In 2016, the total number of training days was 241 (100 in 2015). In early 2016, cooperation with a recycling centre was started. Customers' good condition furniture are Responsible purchasing and sustainable In 2016, the focuscontinued to be placed on customer accepted to be distributed to those in need. In 2017, the selections: We purchase and sell responguidance and customer events. The customer satisfaction operation will be expanded by publishing newspaper sibly and support customers in making index remained at the previous year's good level (4.1). advertisementrs about recycling activities. sustainable choices We give our customers guidance on the Responsible purchasing and sustainable The entire personnel (100%) completed the K Code of properties and technical solutions of machiselections: We purchase and sell responConduct eLearning programme. The trainings will be nery and equipment. sibly and support customers in making repeated and continued in 2017. sustainable choices We harmonise our pricing. We avoid camThe system development project was continued. The paigns of excessive length. objective is to achieve the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard certificate in 2017. The online store will be developed to make it more user friendly in 2017. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 113 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Economic impacts Economic benefits from Kesko’s operations to stakeholder groups Economic performance VALUE ADDED DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED GENERATED 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Kesko's operations generate economic benefits for the different stakeholder groups in Kesko’s CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES PAYMENTS TO operating countries and market areas. Key stakeholder groups include shareholders, customers, Revenues Goods, materials and Salaries, fees and social PROVIDERS OF CAPITAL €10,879 million services purchased security expenses Net finance income / personnel, retailers, suppliers of goods and providers of services, and society. Kesko promotes €-723 million costs €-2 million €-9,839 million the growth of welfare throughout its supply chain, including developing countries. PUBLIC SECTOR COMMUNITY OWNERS The following tables show cash flows between Kesko and its stakeholders, as well as the distriTaxes INVESTMENTS Dividend bution of economic value added between stakeholder groups. The most important cash flows €-49 million Donations €-199 million €-2 million comprise revenue from customers and retailers, purchases from suppliers of goods and providers of services, dividends to shareholders, salaries and wages paid to personnel, taxes and capital expenditure. DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS ACTIVITIES €67 million In April 2016 Kesko acquired Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, in June 2016 Onninen Oy and in December 2016 Oy Autocarrera Ab. Suomen Lähikauppa Oy (currently K-Market Oy) has been consolidated into Kesko Group as of 12 April 2016, Onninen Group as of 1 June 2016 and Oy Autocarrera Ab as of 1 December 2016. In March 2015, Kesko sold the department store chain Anttila Oy. Anttila Oy is consolidated into Kesko Group until 16 March 2015. In 2016 Kesko disposed of the Russian grocery trade and the Russian Intersport business. The Russian grocery trade business is included in the figures until 30 November 2016. Further information on the structural changes is available in note 3 to the financial statements. The consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of financial position and the consolidated statement of cash flows can be read in full in the financial statements section. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 114 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Economic benefits from Kesko's operations to stakeholder groups Economic benefits from Kesko’s operations by market area in 2016 € million 2016 2015 2014 Salaries and Social Customers 1 Revenues 10,879 9,479 9,800 Capital share-based ­security € million Purchases expenditure payments expenses Taxes¹ Total Value added generated 10,879 9,479 9,800 Finland 5,661 630 428 99 777 7,595 Other Nordic 905 3 53 19 51 1,032 Distribution of value added: countries Suppliers Goods, materials and services -9,839 -8,593 -8,828 Baltic countries 453 25 70 7 97 653 purchased and Poland Employees Salaries, fees and social -723 -545 -614 Russia and Belarus 265 85 35 10 14 409 security expenses Other countries 1,305 1,305 Payments to providers of capital Net finance income/costs -2 -7 -6 Total 8,588 743 587 136 940 10,994 Owners Dividend -1992 -248 -149 Public sector Taxes3 -49 -92 -54 1 Taxes include income taxes, real estate taxes, value-added taxes, excise duties, car taxes, customs duties, net-worth taxes and withholding taxes Community investments Donations -2 -1 -1 Development of business 67 -7 147 operations Further information on the financial statements' indicators and Kesko shares and shareholders The data is based on audited figures. 1 Incl. net sales and other operating income can be found in the financial statements section. 2 Proposal to the General Meeting 3 Incl. income taxes, real estate taxes and net worth taxes Store network The division of the economic benefit generated by Kesko and K-retailers to Finnish regions is Kesko operates in the grocery trade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. Kesko presented at 203-2. has over 2,000 stores engaged in chain operations in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus. Dividend policy According to its dividend policy, Kesko Corporation distributes at least 50% of its comparable The K-food store network is comprehensive and there are K-food stores in nearly all Finnish municiearnings per share as dividends, taking into account, however, the company’s financial position palities (see the table below). The K-food stores are visited by around 1.2 million customers every day. and operating strategy. Kesko’s Board of Directors proposes to the General Meeting to be held in April 2017 that a total dividend of €199 million be paid for the year 2016, which would repreA multi-channel approach is becoming increasingly important in retailing. The growth of sent 201.3% of earnings per share and 99.5% of comparable earnings per share. In 2016, Kesko e-commerce and electronic services coupled with a comprehensive store site network are a key distributed a total of €248 million as dividends for the 2015 profit, which represented 243.8% of competitive factor for Kesko. Read more about the importance of a multi-channel approach. earnings per share and 146.7% of comparable earnings per share. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 115 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the end of 2016, Kesko had over 1,080 independent K-retailer entrepreneurs as partners. Kesko's community investments Kesko’s sales to retailer entrepreneurs accounted for 45.4% of total sales in 2016. Kesko and € 1,000 2016 2015 2014 K-retailers form the K Group, whose retail sales totalled around €12.5 billion (VAT 0%) in 2016. Non-governmental, environmental and other organisations 412 555 474 The K Group employs around 45,000 people. Sports (adults) 891 721 556 K-food stores in Finnish municipalities (as at 31 Dec. 2016) Youth sports and other youth work 56 64 244 Science, research and education 67 61 65 Municipali% of all muniNumber of K-food stores ties in 2016 cipalities Culture 14 32 36 10 or more 29 9.3 Health 270 12 11 7–9 20 6.4 Veteran organisations and national defence 3 5 4 5–6 25 8.0 Political parties and organisations 8 5 3–4 44 14.1 Total 1,713 1457 1,395 2 67 21.4 In addition, Veikkaus Oy contributed an estimated revenue of €60–65 million to the Ministry of Education and Culture, 1 95 30.4 generated from the sales of games by Veikkaus points of sale located at K-stores. The calculation is based on the average breakdown of each euro spent on games in 2016. The estimate has been calculated by Veikkaus Oy. The 0 33 10.5 Ministry of Education and Culture distributes the total proceeds to Finnish arts, sports, science and youth work. Municipalities total 313 100.0 More detailed information on donation recipients is available in the responsibility programme. Employee benefit expenses € million 2016 2015 2014 Salaries and fees 575 440 497 Social security expenses pension costs 78 55 64 social security expenses 57 43 47 Share-based payments 12 6 6 Total 723 545 614 In 2016, foreign operations accounted for €159 million of total salaries and for €36 million of total pension costs and other social security expenses. In 2016, the Kesko Group employed an average of 22,476 (18,955) people, of whom 10,714 (8,300) were located in Finland and 11,762 (10,655) outside of Finland. The personnel increase was due to the acquisitions completed during the year. At the end of the year, the number of personnel at Suomen Lähikauppa was 3,129, at Onninen it was 3,068 and at AutoCarrera it was 37. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 116 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Regulation • Climate change may have an impact in terms of risks involved in regulation, such as various organisation’s activities related to climate change permit procedures, or costs arising from emission pricing and taxation. One of the key objectives of Kesko’s responsibility work is mitigating the progress of climate • The implementation of the EU and Finnish Government climate and energy policy will affect change. Kesko has committed to set emission targets in line with two degree climate warming energy solutions and may increase energy prices, adding to pressures for energy savings and and approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. The work to calculate the targets began energy self-sufficiency. in December 2016. Customers Kesko’s operations are surveyed regularly by risk assessments, which also cover changes that • Customers are paying increasing attention to issues related to climate change. Environmentally friendly products, corporate responsibility communications, retail stores’ K-responsibility may be necessitated by climate change. The Group’s risk map, the most significant risks and concept and package labelling can help customers make purchasing decisions that mitigate uncertainties, as well as changes in and management responses to them are discussed by the climate change. Any failures to implement responsible practices in this area may weaken Kesko Board’s Audit Committee when the interim reports and financial statements are handled. Kesko’s reputation. • Kesko contributes to the development of circular economy by providing recycling services Read more about risk management and control practices > in conjunction with stores, and by taking part in circular economy trials, such as the Kinkku­ temppu campaign and the Liiteri trial. Climate change presents physical and regulatory risks and opportunities as well as risks and opportunities affecting reputational factors • The K-maatalous Experimental Farm tests the suitability of crop varieties for the Finnish climate. The aim is to help customers choose optimal varieties and cultivation methods for Finnish conditions, also as the climate changes. Physical impact • Extreme weather phenomena, such as storms and heavy rains, have consequences for the Opportunities and risks related to climate change are also described in the report’s our operatbuilt environment. Physical risks are related to both the physical store network and logistics. ing environment / opportunities and risks section. Unusual weather patterns can cause interruptions in operations or problems in the availability of products and changes in sales, particularly in the building and technical trade. 201-3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit plan obligations • Climate change can affect the procurement sources and availability of products both within The Group operates several pension plans in its different operating countries. In Finland, statand outside Europe. Due to drought and desertification, water has become less available in many countries, reducing the productive potential of local economies. Agricultural producutory pension provision for personnel is organised through pension insurance companies and tion will suffer if desertification and rising sea levels reduce the arable land area. Drought or voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly organised through Kesko Pension Fund’s floods may destroy agricultural harvests. Intensifying competition for raw materials may lead department A. At the end of the year, the number of employees eligible to receive supplementato higher prices. ry retirement benefits from department A was 2,717. • The availability of energy sources and emission limitations may affect energy prices. The statutory pension provision organised through a pension insurance company is a defined con• Accidents and epidemics resulting from natural phenomena can cause damage or business tribution plan. The supplementary pension provision organised by Kesko Pension Fund is a defined interruptions that cannot be prevented. benefit plan. As at 31 December 2016, the plan obligation was €300.4 million (€266.1 million in KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 117 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015), which is fully covered. Calculated under IFRS, the surplus amount was €164.1 million as at The first part of Easton Helsinki will open to customers in autumn 2017. The next part is estimated to 31 December 2016 (€176.4 million in 2015). Calculated under IFRS (the Pension Fund’s insurance be completed in 2019. The capital expenditure of the whole complex is valued at over €200 million. premium is based on a defined benefit plan), the Group’s total premium represents 13.6% of the amount of salaries (12.5% in 2015). Read more in the financial statements section, note 17. In addition to statutory waste recycling obligations, K-stores provide the following recycling services: In the other countries, pensions are arranged in compliance with local legislation, and there are • collection of impregnated wood no defined benefit plans, except in Norway. The number of employees eligible to receive supple• collection of clothing mentary retirement benefits in Norway is immaterial in proportion to the whole Group. Waste statistics are presented under 306-2 Waste. 201-4 Financial assistance received from government In 2016, the Group received financial assistance of €0.9 million from the public sector. This amount Kesko’s community investments are presented under 201-1 Direct economic value generated mainly consists of assistance received from Finland (€0.6 million) and from Sweden (€0.3 million). and distributed. 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of Indirect economic impacts impacts 203-1 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Kesko is a service sector company which has significant indirect impacts related to the producservices supported tion, use and recyclability of products. Especially outside growth centres, retail stores can offer community services which may otherwise be scarcely available. In 2016, the following were located in connection with K-food stores: Purchases by Kesko and the retailers have economic impacts on the suppliers and service providers, such as an increase in the number of jobs. Furthermore, purchases from local producers • cashback service at more than 1,000 stores affect regional business activities. The salaries, taxes, employee benefit expenses and capital • over 325 Posti service points expenditure paid by Kesko and retailers have impacts on regional economic wellbeing. • over 140 Posti automatic parcel pick-up points Kesko operates in nine countries in which it is engaged in both retail and wholesale. It is one of • over 560 Matkahuolto parcel pick-up points Kesko’s principles that taxes on operating income and assets are always paid to the respective operating country in compliance with local laws and regulations. • over 25 DHL’s automatic parcel lockers Kesko is a significant tax payer. In 2016, the income taxes paid by Kesko to Finland were €31.2 For several upcoming years, Kesko’s most significant store site project will be the new shopping million and to other countries €10.1 million. The Group’s effective tax rate was 21.6%. Kesko centre, Easton Helsinki, being built in Itäkeskus, Helsinki. The capital expenditure of the first phase is paid €3.5 million in real estate taxes and net worth taxes to Finland and €4.2 million to its other valued at €100 million. Its employment impact is about 250 person-years for a period of two years. operating countries in 2016. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 118 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko collects, reports and remits also indirect taxes, such as value-added taxes and excise duTaxes by country 2016 ties. Kesko remits value-added taxes to tax recipients in its capacity as a company selling goods € million Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus and services. In 2016, Kesko remitted value-added taxes in Finland to the amount of €380.3 Income 31.2 -0.2 0.5 3.6 4.5 1.7 million, and €110.5 million in other countries. Kesko remits car taxes and excise duties on, for taxes instance, confectionery, alcohol and soft drinks. In 2016, Kesko remitted excise duties in Finland Real estate 3.5 0.3 0.1 0 0.2 0 0.7 0.1 to a total amount of €66.9 million. taxes Net-worth 2.6 0.2 Kesko’s measurable indirect impact on society, such as its employment impact, increased munictaxes ipal tax income, or income in the producer and supply chain, should be evaluated case-by-case, Car taxes 177.6 in connection with the establishment of a new store, for example. Customs 6.7 0.1 2.6 0.1 0 1.7 0 1.1 1.2 duties Taxes payable 2016 Taxes remitted in 2016 Excise 66.9 duties Total 285.9 0.4 2.5 0.1 0.7 5.3 0.0 8.9 3.2 Income taxes, Finland € 331.2 1.2 million 63.7% Value-added taxes, Finland € 380 .3 million 42.7% 380.3 Income taxes, other countries € 10 10..1 million Value-added taxes, other countries € 110 110.5 .5 million 20 20..6% 12.4% Real estate taxes, Finland € 3.5 million 7.1% Withholding taxes, Finland € 111.2 million 12.5% Real estate and net-worth taxes, other countries Withholding taxes, other countries € 30 30.7.7 million € 4.2 million 8. 8.6% 6% 3.4% Car taxes, Finland € 17 1777.6 million 19 19.9% .9% Customs duties, Finland € 6.7 million 0.8% Customs duties, other countries € 6.8 million 0.8% Excise duties, Finland € 66.9 million 7.5% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 119 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Economic benefit generatd by Keko and K-retailers to Finnish regions in 2016 Region Kesko's purchases of K-retailers' direct Kesko's and K-retailers' Salaries paid by € million goods ­purchases of goods capital expenditure1 Salaries paid by Kesko ­K-retailers Taxes paid by K-retailers Total Åland 32.2 0.0 0.1 32.4 Southern Karelia 6.8 13.7 6.2 6.2 11.0 0.6 44.4 Southern Ostrobothnia 237.7 30.8 4.9 6.3 12.8 0.7 293.1 Southern Savo 41.9 13.7 9.3 5.3 11.4 1.1 82.8 Kainuu 5.8 7.3 1.7 1.8 6.2 0.4 23.2 Kanta-Häme 52.3 25.7 3.3 7.4 11.2 1.3 101.2 Central Ostrobothnia 53.4 13.6 5.3 2.2 5.0 0.5 80.0 Central Finland 61.2 25.5 7.8 11.7 18.1 1.2 125.6 Kymenlaakso 43.5 15.7 3.8 7.8 10.8 1.3 82.9 Lapland 20.6 24.5 14.4 8.7 18.7 2.0 88.9 Pirkanmaa 262.2 33.0 32.7 34.7 33.2 2.7 398.5 Ostrobothnia 161.5 11.2 2.8 6.7 9.5 0.7 192.4 Northern Karelia 29.1 26.0 2.2 5.3 11.6 1.6 75.8 Northern Ostrobothnia 139.4 43.8 10.1 19.4 26.4 2.4 241.5 Northern Savo 180.5 34.5 5.7 12.0 19.8 1.5 254.0 Päijät-Häme 147.3 25.9 7.8 11.7 12.1 0.8 205.7 Satakunta 160.5 27.0 4.3 8.1 15.3 1.0 216.2 Uusimaa 3,296.7 162.4 604.7² 287.8 120.9 12.5 4,485.1 Varsinais-Suomi 688.5 67.4 11.1 30.2 35.3 4.1 836.7 Total 5,621.2 601.5 738.0 473.8 389.4 36.4 7,860.4 1 Incl. increase in lease liabilities of K-retailers' equipment 2 Incl. acquisitions in 2016 (Suomen Lähikauppa, Onninen and AutoCarrera) €445.5 million The figures are for those K-retailers whose accounts and payroll are managed by Vähittäis­ kaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, representing around 85% of K-retailers’ total business volume. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 120 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Procurement practices In 2014–2016, Kesko and Ruokatieto ry, an association that promotes Finnish food culture, organised Local Food Date (Lähiruokatreffit) events that brought together local food producers and K-retailers. The purpose was networking as well as improving the supply of local products in 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers the K-food stores in the area and thereby supporting Finnish work. Kesko assesses the economic benefit it generates by reporting its purchases by operating country and the company’s country of domicile. Kesko also reports K-retailers’ direct purchases of The 'Thank the Producer' operating model provides customers with an easy way to support goods in Finland. Finnish food producers. K-food stores sell 12 Pirkka ’Thank the Producer’ products for which K Group pays an extra support directly to producers. Most of the economic benefit generated by Kesko’s operations – approximately 84% of Kesko’s net sales – flows to suppliers of goods, from which purchases were valued at €8.6 billion in 2016. Kesko's purchases by operating country in 2016 Suppliers of Suppliers of In 2016, Kesko had around 24,600 suppliers and service providers from whom purchases were goods and goods and valued at a minimum of €1,000 during the year. Of these, around 11,900 operated in Finland, services in services in otoperating Purchases from her operating Purchases from around 10,200 in Kesko’s other operating countries, and around 2,500 elsewhere. country suppliers of goods countries suppliers of goods number € million % number € million % The ten largest suppliers accounted for 24.3% (24.2% in 2015) of the Group’s purchases of goods, and the 100 largest suppliers for 54.4% (53.1% in 2015). Seven out of the ten largest supFinland 11,609 5,621 81.1% 2,304 1,307 18.9% pliers were Finnish food industry companies, one import company operating in Finland and two Sweden 1,573 207 85.1% 238 36 14.9% German car manufacturers. Norway 1,434 529 98.2% 100 10 1.8% Estonia 1,048 65 52.1% 442 59 47.9% The purchases of all Kesko companies from suppliers operating in Finland totalled €5,661 million, Latvia 764 23 34.5% 467 44 65.5% accounting for 65.9% (67.2% in 2015) of the Group’s total purchases. Lithuania 384 94 31.3% 189 206 68.7% Poland 1,263 99 94.6% 61 6 5.4% The purchases of goods by Kesko Group’s Finnish companies totalled €6,928 million. Of these Russia 1,657 194 95.9% 30 8 4.1% purchases, 81.1% were from suppliers operating in Finland and 18.9% from other countries. It Belarus 734 48 61.0% 305 31 39.0% should be noted that because some of the suppliers operating in Finland are import companies, reliable statistics cannot be compiled on the origin of goods supplied by them. Total 20,466 6,880 80.1% 4,136 1,708 19.9% Kesko actively increases the amount of local purchases and encourages K-retailers to include products from nearby producers in their selections. In 2016, K-retailers’ direct purchases from Finnish regions totalled €602 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 121 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko's purchases by company's and supplier's country of domicile in 2016 Company's country of domicile Supplier's country of domicile € million Suomi Ruotsi Norja Viro Latvia Liettua Puola Venäjä Valko-Venäjä Muut maat Yhteensä Finland 5,621 142 10 51 4 9 12 1 1 1,077 6,928 Sweden 13 207 5 1 0 0 0 16 243 Norway 0 9 529 0 538 Estonia 15 1 1 65 6 3 6 28 124 Latvia 4 0 0 7 23 1 2 0 29 68 Lithuania 6 1 0 9 24 94 33 1 3 129 300 Poland 0 0 0 99 5 104 Russia 1 1 0 194 7 203 Belarus 0 0 0 1 16 48 13 79 Total 5,661 361 545 134 58 109 152 212 52 1,305 8,588 Capital expenditure In 2016, Kesko’s capital expenditure totalled €743 million (€219 million in 2015), or 7.3% of net sales (2.5% in 2015). Capital expenditure in store sites was €216 million (€167 million in 2015). Capital expenditure in foreign operations accounted for 15.2% (40.2% in 2015) of the total capital expenditure. Duting the financial year, Kesko Group acquired Onninen Oy, Suomen L ­ ähikauppa Oy and Oy Autocarrera Ab. The total capital expenditure on the acquisitions was €445.5 million. In addition to Kesko, K-retailers make capital expenditures in the fixtures of stores used by the K-Group. These figures included, the total capital expenditure in Finland was around €738 million in 2016. Kesko’s capital expenditure has a positive financial impact on the operations of building firms, building sector service companies, and suppliers of fixtures, equipment and information systems, for example. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 122 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Anti-corruption Towards the end of 2016, Kesko introduced the Group-wide SpeakUp channel through which employees and business partners can report any violations of the K Code of Conduct. In 2016, 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption, six incidents were reported via the SpeakUp channel. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and In 2016, no corruption related lawsuits against any Kesko Group company came to our knowledge. procedures, 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Anti-competitive behaviour Risks related to corruption are discussed as part of Kesko Group's risk management. Key risks, including risks related to corruption, are identified, assessed, managed, monitored and reported 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and regularly as part of business operations at the Group, division, company and unit levels in all monopoly practices operating countries. In 2016, there were no legal actions, fines or other sanctions relating to anti-competitive laws Kesko’s anti-corruption principles are included in the K Code of Conduct guidelines updated and regulations. in 2016. The guidelines and website have been published in the languages of all our operating countries. Kesko employees and business partners have their own versions of the K Code of Conduct. Kesko has prepared a mandatory eLearning package for its employees to smoothly internalise the K Code of Conduct. Kesko arranges annual Value Discussions on the K Code of Conduct in its companies. In 2016, a Value Discussion event was organised in Suomen Lähikauppa and two Russian subsidiaries. They mainly focused on issues related to corruption and malpractice. In 2016, one of the focus areas in Kesko’s risk management and corporate security function was the prevention of malpractice. During the year, individual cases of suspected malpractice came to our knowledge. The Risk Management and Corporate Security Unit assisted in investigating them. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 123 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Environmental impacts Energy Kesko participates in mitigating climate change by purchasing and producing more of its own renewable energy. Renewable electricity Kesko has decided to purchase electricity produced with 100% renewable energy from the beginning of 2017. Kesko will purchase approximately 540 GWh of electricity in Finland in 2017. The electricity is used in K-stores and other Kesko properties. Kesko purchases renewable electricity with the Renewable Energy Guarantee of Origin (REGO) from the Nordic countries. In 2017, electricity purchases will especially focus on Finnish bioenergy. Bioenergy is based on, for example, by-products from the forest industry and wood based fuels. Solar power plants at K-stores In 2016, Kesko made significant investments in the construction of solar power plants. In June 2016, Finland’s biggest property specific solar power plant was completed on the rooftop of K-Citymarket Tammisto, Vantaa. Additionally, a total of 11 K-Supermarkets and K-Citymarkets had a solar power plant installed on their rooftops by the end of 2016. A total of 210 MWh of electricity was produced with solar power in 2016. By summer 2017, Kesko will have two more solar power plants installed. After this, Kesko will have 15 solar power plants producing approximately 3,559 MWh annually. The new investments will make the Kesko Finland’s biggest producer and consumer of solar power. Watch the video on solar power use at K Group > KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 124 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Energy consumption in properties in Finland At the end of 2016, properties managed by Kesko in Finland (owned and leased) included ofEnergy consumption of properties fices, warehouses and approximately 1,450 store sites. The total area of the property portfolio Finland 2016 2015 2014 increased by 16.5% due to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen. Electricity (MWh) 1 458,690 694,544 2 754,301 The total consumption of heat increased by 22% due to the increased stock of real estate. The District heat (MWh) 308,924 254,2142 292,453 majority of properties used district heat, but in addition 1.6% of the heat energy was self-proFuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 5,169 3,406 4,233 duced. In 2016, the heat energy produced with natural gas and oil at properties in Finland Total energy consumption (MWh) 772,783 952,164 1,050,987 totalled 18.6 TJ (5.2 GWh). Total energy consumption (TJ) 2,782 3,428 3,784 Beginning in 2016, the electricity consumption of Kesko in Finland includes only electricity Other operating countries 2016 2015 2014 purchased by Kesko. In previous years, the electricity purchased by retailer entrepreneurs at Electricity (MWh) 100,808 103,038 96,231 properties managed by Kesko has been estimated and reported. Heat consumption is reported for properties managed by Kesko. District heat (MWh) 18,893 17,8402 17,607 Fuel for self-produced heat (MWh) 29,874 26,890 2 29,116 Calculation methods and electricity and heating consumption statistics by property type and Total energy consumption (MWh) 149,575 147,768 142,954 changes in properties in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking and EnvironTotal energy consumption (TJ) 538 532 515 mental profile reports. Energy consumption in properties in other operating countries All operating countries 2016 2015 2014 Total energy consumption (MWh) 922,358 1,099,932 1,193,941 During 2016, Kesko’s stock of real estate outside of Finland changed significantly due to the acquisition of Onninen and the divestment of the K-food stores in Russia. Onninen operates in Total energy consumption (TJ) 3,320 3,960 4,299 Kesko’s previous operating countries and additionally in Poland. 1 The reporting boundary has changed in 2016, includes only electricity purchased by Kesko 2 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report The heating energy was partly self-produced with natural gas and oil. In Belarus, a small amount of timber (950 MWh) and peat (130 MWh) were also used for heating. In 2016, the fuels used for self-produced heat totalled 107.5 TJ (29.9 GWh). Subsidiaries outside of Finland report their fuel and purchased energy consumptions to Kesko and statistics per country are compiled from this data. The heating energy data is not reported for some properties (5% excluding Onninen’s properties) because it is included in the lease or is not available. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 125 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Primary energy consumption 302-3 Energy intensity The primary energy consumption for purchased energy in all operating countries in 2016: Specific consumptions of energy, properties managed by Kesko • Renewable: 407 TJ (6%) kWh/br-m2 2016 2015 2014 • Nuclear power: 5 348 TJ (77%) Finland Specific consumption of electricity 204 207 205 • Non-renewable: 1 143 TJ (17%) Specific consumption of district heat 79 76 79 Fuel consumption of logistics in Finland Other operating countries The energy consumed by Kesko Logistics' own transportation or that under its direct control was Specific consumption of electricity 88 99 94 503.9 TJ in 2016. The fuel used was diesel. In 2016, the total distance driven by Kesko Logistics Specific consumption of heat 42 431 46 was 32.3 million km (31.1 million km in 2015). 1 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Energy consumption was calculated using data on kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies and the transportation fleet. The calculation was made according to the Lipasto calculation system The cold chain and the need for heated premises in food stores and warehouses require greater of the VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland. amounts of energy in comparison with other retail sectors. Fuel consumption of logistics in other operating countries The calculation methods for the properties in Finland are available in the Energy consumption Most of Kesko’s subsidiaries have outsourced logistics operations. In 2016, the logistics in tracking report. The specific consumptions of properties in the other operating countries are ­Estonia consumed 4.1 TJ of fuel (diesel and gasoline). calculated based on the total area of properties (1,152,000 m2 in 2016). Total energy consumption 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption In 2016, Kesko’s energy consumption in all operating countries totalled 3,828 TJ. The K Group participated in the trading sector energy efficiency agreement for 2008-2016. The K Group was committed to improving its annual energy consumption by 65 GWh by the end of A total of 634.1 TJ of fuels from non-renewable sources were used for transportation as well as 2016. The final results of the agreement will be published by Motiva in summer 2017. self-produced heat of properties. In addition, 3.4 TJ of renewable fuels were used. The K Group is participating in the next action plan of the commerce sector Energy Efficiency Agreement for the years 2017–2025. In accordance with the agreement, the K Group commits itself to reducing its energy consumption by 7.5% through various energy saving measures. All K Group store chains are included in the agreement. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 126 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Energy solutions in K-stores 4. Remote monitoring In February 2017, the building automation of 204 Kesko facilities was monitored by a remote energy management centre. The set points of properties and equipment running hours can be 6 changed from the management centre as necessary, which also enables rapid response to disturbances. Setting the correct running times and set points is the easiest and most effective way to 4 improve energy efficiency. 1 The remote monitoring of refrigeration systems in stores helped save approximately 3.63 GWh of energy in 2016. Remote monitoring enables refrigeration equipment to be adjusted for optimum temperatures and defrosting cycles. In addition, deviations can be responded to immediately. 5 5. Condensation heat recovery 3 2 Condensation heat from refrigeration equipment is recovered at nearly all K-food stores, which means additional heat energy is needed only during very low sub-zero temperatures. Increasingly many K-food stores also save energy by using carbon dioxide recovered from industrial processes as the refrigerant in their refrigeration equipment. Carbon dioxide is an environ1. Lighting mentally friendly refrigerant. By February 2016, LED lights are used in all lighting solutions of property development projects. Adjustable, correctly directed LED-lighting can help save up to 50% of electricity consumed CO2 refrigeration plants enable the efficient use of condensation energy together with low temperacompared to traditional fluorescent tube and metal halide lighting solutions. ture heating systems. This combination achieves a considerably higher heat energy recovery efficiency compared to the traditional solutions using condensation heat from HFC-refrigeration units. 2. Lids and doors on refrigeration units In food stores, the consumption of refrigeration systems can account for more than half of the 6. Solar power total electricity consumption at small store sites. Lids on freezer chests save 40% of the electricity Solar power plants are becoming more widely used on the rooftops of K-stores. The electricity consumed by uncovered equipment. Doors on dairy and juice cabinets also help save e ­ lectricity. consumption of food stores is greatest during the summer, when the stores and their refrigeration equipment require a lot of electricity for cooling. On a sunny summer day, solar power can 3. Real estate managers cover as much as 60% of the food store's current consumption. The solar panels to be installed Kesko has around 40 Real Estate Managers to help K-stores find ways in which to make their enon the K-food store roofs will cover around 10–15% of the store’s annual electricity consumption. ergy consumption more efficient. Regular monitoring, technical supervision and comparison of reports from separate properties are used to maintain an optimal level of energy consumption. Information about energy saving efforts by Kesko Logistics can be found in the section 305-5. Real Estate Managers also help stores with long-term planning. Renovation programmes contain estimates of the refurbishment that should be made within five to six years. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 127 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Water Water consumption by country m3 2016 2015 2014 Finland has abundant water resources. However, due to the large consumption of imported Finland 933,812 884,0811 935,472 processed goods and the virtual water footprint associated with them, almost half (47%) of Sweden 7,247 6,3541 5,504 the water footprint of Finnish consumption falls outside of Finland. Kesko’s most significant Norway 1,424 1,445 1,407 impacts from water consumption are thus caused by imported products for sale, which originate Estonia 5,922 4,954 4,876 from areas suffering from water scarcity or contamination. Latvia 9,480 10,128 11,297 Kesko has initiated a water risk assessment for its own-brand products in order to identify the Lithuania 40,268 38,472 38,903 water basins most affected by water scarcity and contamination issues in its supply chain. The Poland 3,100 water risk assessment is in progress and results will be used to plan actions. Russia 84,431 79,755 75,056 Belarus 48,797 43,342 39,741 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Total 1,134,481 1,068,531 1,112,256 Properties managed by Kesko use water from municipal water supplies in all operating countries. In addition, a few wells are in use on properties in Estonia, Lithuania and Belarus. The water 1 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report consumption from these wells accounts for a minor part (3%) of total water consumption and is thus reported with the municipal water consumption. Waste water from Kesko's operations goes to municipal sewer systems. Water is mainly used for cleaning purposes in the K Group's own operations. Maintaining a high The growth in the property portfolio due to the acquisition of Onninen caused changes in water level of hygiene is particularly important in food stores and legal requirements for hygiene must consumption also in the operating countries outside of Finland as well as in the new operating be fulfilled. country, Poland. The water consumption data from other countries is compiled from figures reported by the companies, which are based on water billing or consumption data. At some Car wash facilities at Neste K service stations in Finland are big individual consumers of water. stores located in leased properties, water consumption is included in the lease and not available for reporting (6% of locations in other operating countries, excluding Onninen’s properties). The consumption of water at properties in Finland increased significantly in 2016, which was due Additionally, data was not available for 1% of properties. to the growth in the number of properties resulting from the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen. Water consumption statistics by property type and changes in the property portfolio in Finland are available in the Energy consumption tracking report. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 128 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Biodiversity Climate change also impacts biodiversity, especially as areas of drought expand. Read more about Kesko’s diverse efforts to reduce food waste and greenhouse gas emissions in the responKesko participates in the Business & Biodiversity Finland programme, organised jointly by the sibility programme. Corporate Responsibility Network FIBS and the Ministry of the Environment. Kesko has identified biodiversity impacts and opportunities in its operations. The objective is to take part in K-maatalous Experimental Farm projects that promote biodiversity in cooperation with other operators. The K-maatalous Experimental Farm in Hauho focuses on the development of crop varieties and research for the benefit of sustainable cultivation methods and better domestic food production. The research conducted on the Experimental Farm aims to provide K-maatalous retailers and 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on farmers with solutions tested in Finnish conditions for making productive product choices and biodiversity optimising their harvests. In Finland, around 80% of K-food stores’ purchases are from domestic suppliers, which is why sustainable and vital Finnish agriculture is important to the K Group. Supply chain Kesko’s greatest impacts on biodiversity occur throughout the lifecycle of the products on sale. In June 2016, the K-maatalous Experimental farm made a Baltic Sea Commitment to the Baltic Raw materials critical to biodiversity in Kesko’s supply chain include fish and shellfish, timber, Sea Action Group (BSAG). The Experimental Farm tested measuring devices and methods palm oil and soy. Their sustainable sourcing is guided by sourcing policies. aimed at providing practical ways to measure and monitor the use of nutrients and to assess the soil condition in rapid succession. In October 2016, the K Group committed itself to measures aimed at reducing the consumption of plastic bags, and published a plastics policy. The objective is to reduce plastics ending up in Measuring methods promote sustainable agriculture as investments can be optimised according water bodies and elsewhere in the environment. to crop targets and use, soil potential and the requirements of plant varieties. Good soil condition and appropriate fertilisation, as well as transforming nutrients to good crops are important Read more about the plastics policy > profitability factors for farmers, but also reduce the nutrient leakages to the Baltic Sea. Properly treated soil also sequesters carbon to soil and thus combats climate change. Global food production for a growing population is one of the biggest threats to biodiversity in the world. Food security can be improved through sustainable and efficient agricultural practices and minimising food waste. Food waste and climate change Minimising food waste along the entire food supply chain from agriculture all the way to the end-consumer reduces the need for primary production and thereby impacts on biodiversity. When food ends up in waste, all emissions from its production, transportation, selling and preparation have been useless. Minimising food waste also reduces related emissions. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 129 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 305-1 and 305-2 Direct and energy indirect GHG emissions Kesko builds store sites only in areas planned by municipalities for business properties. Surveys (Scope 1 and 2) of contaminated land are made annually in connection with construction work and real estate transactions. Scope 1 and 2 emissions, all operating In 2016, one Kesko property was restored in Porvoo, from which a total of around 93 tons of Scope 1 and 2 emissions, Finland countries contaminated soil material was removed from a site of 3,385 m2. No concentrations of hydroCO2e tonnes CO2e Net sales, € million carbons exceeding the guideline level were left in the restored area. The Uusimaa Centre for Economic Development, Transport and the Environment has checked the restoration report and 200,000 400,000 10,500 stated that no further soil restoration is needed in the area. 38,017 300,000 10,000 Kesko does not have protected habitats of its own. 150,000 Tonnes 34,977 Tonnes 200,000 9,500 Emissions 100,000 44, 44,005 005 43,30 43,3022 135,891 121,115 36,478 C CO O2e Tonnes Tonnes Tonnes 100,000 43, 43,00 0022 9,000 50,000 Kesko reports direct and indirect (Scope 1 and 2) greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from its 157,691 144,266 56,533 81,963 operations according to the GHG Protocol standard. Tonnes 0 8,500 2014 2015** 2016 0 • Scope 1: GHG emissions caused by fuel consumption for producing heat at properties man2014 2015 2016 aged by Kesko and for transportation of goods directly controlled by Kesko Scope 1 Scope 1 Scope 2* • Scope 2: GHG emissions caused by generation of electricity purchased by Kesko and district Scope 2* Net sales heating consumed in properties managed by Kesko * The boundarychanged reportingboundary The reporting changedin 2016. in 2016. * The boundarychanged reportingboundary The reporting changed in 2016. in 2016. ** Scope Scope22figure figureadjusted forfor adjusted improved improved accuracy since accuracy the previous since report. previous report. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 130 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions Scope 1 Tonnes CO2e 2015 2014 In 2016 the Scope 1 emissions of Kesko in Finland increased due to the acquisition of Suomen Direct (Scope 1) 43,002 43,302 44,005 Lähikauppa. The new stores caused an increase in logistics and own production of heat. Finland 36,478 34,977 38,017 Emissions from logistics in the other operating countries were reported for Estonia in 2016. The logistics (Kesko Logistics) 35,079 34,117 36,915 data for Belarus’ logistics was not available. Most of the logistics in the other operating countries self-produced heat (natural gas and oil) 1,399 860 1,102 are outsourced and are partially reported in the Scope 3 emissions. Other operating countries 6,524 8,325 5,988 logistics (Belarus and Estonia) 344 1,115 The transportation of goods for Kesko's grocery trade in Finland is managed by Kesko Logistics self-produced heat (natural gas, oil, peat and timber ) 1 6,180 7,210 5,988 and includes its own transportation and that under its direct control. Kesko Logistics’ emissions Indirect (Scope 2) 81,963 144,266 157,691 were calculated based on data including kilometres driven, volumetric efficiencies, and the Finland 56,533 121,115 135,891 transportation fleet using the Lipasto calculation system developed by the VTT Technical Repurchased electricity (market-based) 0 73,734 81,495 search Centre of Finland. The emissions for logistics operations in Estonia were calculated based on fuel consumption. purchased electricity (location-based)2 95,866 153,087 165,946 purchased district heat (location-based) 56,533 47,381 54,396 Scope 2 Other operating countries 25,430 23,151 21,800 In 2016, the emissions from purchased energy in Finland decreased by 53% because of a change purchased electricity (location-based) 20,218 18,475 17,362 in the reporting boundary. Starting from 2016, the emissions caused by electricity purchased by purchased district heat (location-based) 5,212 4,6763 4,438 Kesko are reported in Scope 2. The emissions caused by electricity purchased by retailer entreTotal 124,965 187,568 201,696 preneurs are reported in Scope 3 category 14, franchising (retailer entrepreneurs). Finland, Scope 1 and 2 total 93,011 156,092 173,908 Other operating countries, Scope 1 and 2 total 31,954 31,476 27,788 Kesko’s electricity was supplied by Helsingin Energia from the beginning of 2016 and by Fortum starting from 1 September 2016. The supplied electricity was carbon-free. 1 The biogenous CO2 emission figure of the timber used for heating one facility in Belarus is reported in Scope 1, because its proportion of the total fuel quantity is insignificant (about 2%). The emissions from purchased energy for the other operating countries increased by 10%, which 2 Following the GHG Protocol standard, the location-based emission figure for electricity consumption in Finland has been reported. The market-based figure is used for the emissions totals. Location-based emissions are calculated with was affected by the acquisition of Onninen. national emission factors and market-based emissions with energy supplier emission factors. 3 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report The calculation principles and more detailed calculations for Scope 1 and 2 emissions attributed to properties managed by Kesko can be found in the Environmental profile reports for Finland and the other operating countries. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 131 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity The Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions intensity is calculated based on net sales (€10,180 Scope 3 GHG emissions million in 2016), the average number of employees (22,476 in 2016) and the area of properties Tonnes CO2e 2016 2015 2014 managed by Kesko (4,381,000 m2 in 2016). Upstream Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity Purchased goods and services 6,910,000 5,936,000 5,922,000 2016 2015 2014 Capital goods (buildings) 35,200 18,200 9,900 Based on net sales (tonnes CO2e / € million) 12.3 21.6 22.2 Indirect emissions of purchased energy (other than Scope 1 and 49,400 69,300 76,100 Scope 2) Based on average number of employees (tonnes CO2e / person) 5.6 9.9 10.1 Transport and distribution of goods 18,400 18,300 18,600 Based on area of properties managed by Kesko 28.5 (tonnes CO2e / 1,000 m2) Waste 11,400 9,000 10,100 Business travel 3,000 2,700 2,800 The Scope 2 reporting boundary for 2016 has changed Employee commuting 21,000 6,700 7,800 Downstream Customer commuting (shopping trips) 157,400 154,400 166,100 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Use of sold products 1,685,800 852,900 1,093,900 Science Based Targets End-of-life treatment of sold products 36,500 16,300 28,000 Kesko has committed to set emission targets in line with two degree climate warming and Franchises (retailer entrepreneurs) 114,700 22,800 27,800 approved by the Science Based Targets initiative. The work to calculate the targets began in December 2016. The greatest other indirect emissions of Kesko are caused in the supply chain of the products for sale (76%), in the use phase of the products (19%) and by the shopping commutes of customers Energy efficiency of properties (2%). Kesko has signed the trading sector energy efficiency agreement and committed to actions to improve its annual energy consumption by 65 GWh during the period 2008–2016. Motiva will The Scope 3 calculation principles can be found in the Kesko Scope 3 Report. publish the results of the agreement period in June 2017. By increasing solar power Kesko decreases the emissions caused by property. Read more in the Energy section. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 132 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Logistics Efficient logistics fleet The target of Kesko Logistics is to reduce CO2 emissions relative to the net sales index by 10% during 2012–2020 from the base year of 2011. By the end of 2016, the relative emissions had decreased by 1.9% from the base level. In 2016, the emissions increased by 3.8% in comparison to 2015. The increase in the number of stores resulting from the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa affected the increase in emissions. Kesko’s own-brand Pirkka products were delivered to the new stores and conversion of the stores to K-Markets required the delivery of refill loads as separate deliveries. Kesko Logistics works ambitiously to reduce emissions: • Efficiency of logistics: centralised distribution, optimisation of delivery routes and high volumetric efficiency • Efficient reverse logistics: collection of purchase loads, carrier trays, pallets, roll containers and recycled bottles and cans on the return route • Economical driving courses: all of Keslog’s more than 500 contract drivers have been trained • New replacements in the vehicle fleet: nine two-tier trailers and one extra-long Ecotruck in use in long-distance transportation between main warehouses KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 133 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scope 3 emissions reductions In 2016, K Group participated in the Kinkkutemppu Campaign, in which customers could donate Products for sale fat from roasting their Christmas hams to collection points at K-food stores. The fat was used to By far, the greatest indirect emissions of Kesko are caused in the supply chain and during the make renewable diesel. Customers donated 12,000 kg of ham fat, which was used to produce use phase of the products for sale. These emissions can be influenced by offering selections of 10,000 liters of renewable diesel. products and services causing less emissions and by customer communications. Read more about ‘Kinkkutemppu‘ > Grocery trade Customers are becoming increasingly aware of the environmental impacts of their consumption Read more about our work to reduce food waste and advance the circular economy in Effluents choices. By reducing the amount of animal-based products and household food waste consumand waste. ers can reduce the environmental impact of their food consumption. The rising popularity of vegetables and plant-based products in Finland was one of the biggest food trends in 2016. Building and technical trade Vegetarian display cabinets were introduced in K-food stores in 2016. The 'Vege' cabinets gather The building and technical trade offers consumers and business customers diverse product plant-based products in one place in order to make choosing environmentally friendly products selections and expertise for improving the energy efficiency of building and renovation projects. easier for the customer. By the end of 2016, already 100 K-food stores included a 'Vege' cabinet. The K-Rauta stores and Onninen offer environmentally friendly solutions for homes and properAdditionally, the K-Ruoka media offers diverse recipes and tips for cooking vegetarian meals. ties from practical energy saving tips to intelligent energy management systems solutions. These include heating, cooling, solar and wind energy solutions. Read more about the ‘Vege’ cabinets > The sharing economy enables reduction of emissions because less products need to be manufacKesko encourages customers to reduce food waste accumulated at home. Kesko and the K-food tured when many consumers can use the same product. In 2016, K-Rauta participated in a tool stores participated in the Food Waste Week organised by the Consumers' Union of Finland rental service pilot project called Liiteri in the Teurastamo area of Helsinki. in September 2016 by offering information, tips and recipes in customer communications for reducing food waste. Read more about Liiteri pilot project > Kesko continued the cooperation started in 2015 with Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti to utilise Car trade biogas produced from inedible organic waste collected from K-food stores and the Kesko Logistics In February 2017, the selection of VV-Auto included four plug-in hybrid car models (PHEV) and central warehouse as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2016, approximately two electric cars. In addition, the selection included five car models using natural gas or biogas 3,700 tonnes of organic waste was transformed into 2,800 MWh of biogas. CO2 emissions were as fuel. In 2016, the registrations of Volkswagen and Audi plug-in hybrids in Finland increased reduced by 550 tonnes compared to natural gas (calculated with emission factor 198 g CO2/kWh) 204% compared to the previous year. and by 740 tonnes compared to fuel oil (calculated with emission factor 267 g CO2/kWh). Customer shopping commutes The emissions caused by customer shopping commutes are a significant source of indirect emissions for Kesko. The majority of shopping commutes are made by car. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 134 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko is building an extensive network of electric vehicle charging points adjacent to K Group Kesko's company car policy recommends low-emission car models with an emission level below stores in order to progress the electrification of cars. In March 2017, already 13 K Group stores 150 g CO2/km. In 2016, the average emission level was 122 g CO2/km (127 g CO2/km in 2015) and 3 Neste K service stations offered electric and hybrid charging points for customer use. and the emissions from company cars totalled 2,648 CO2 tonnes (2,367 CO2 tonnes in 2015). Dozens of new charging stations will be built at Neste K service stations along main highways This calculation also includes private use of company cars. during 2017. The aim is to build charging stations at all Neste K stations and 10–15 charging stations at K-Citymarket parking lots annually during the next few years. In 2016, the air miles of Kesko employees travelling for business totalled 8.2 million (8.0 million in 2015). Encouraging the use of virtual meetings is one of the ways Kesko endeavours to deK Group offers Finland’s most comprehensive network of neighbourhood stores with the best crease the amount of air travel. The amount of virtual meetings held via the Skype for Business services. The stores are tailored to each store’s own customer demand. When the nearby neighapplication has increased by 43% since the previous year. In 2016, a total of 67,842 hours of bourhood store offers a selection suited for its customers, shopping commutes are shortened Skype meetings were held (47,453 hours in 2015). At the end of 2016, the Kesko Group had 30 and they can be travelled more often by foot, bicycle or public transportation, especially in Videra video conferencing facilities in use and the total duration of all video meetings between cities. The extra services available at K-stores reduce emissions caused by customer commuting, two or more facilities was 1,793 hours (3,812 hours in 2015). because many errands can be run during the same shopping trip. Increasingly, online shopping also reduces customer commuting. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and other Employee commuting and business travel ­significant air emissions In December 2016, a survey on commuting to work was conducted for the Helsinki area office workers by using the Helsinki Region Transport (HSL) commuting calculator. According to the The electricity and heating energy consumed in properties managed by Kesko in Finland in 2016 survey, the average emissions per employee were 8.8 kg CO2/working day. The results of the caused: survey will be used as a basis for developing the employee commuting for Kesko's new K-kampus main office building. An employee commuting plan will be made in order to encourage commut• 133 tonnes of NOx emissions (212 t in 2015) ing to the K-kampus which is sustainable and improves the wellbeing of employees. • 117 tonnes of SO2 emissions (179 t in 2015) At the end of 2016, Kesko had 690 company cars in use in Finland (607 in 2015). The number • 1.2 tonnes of radioactive waste (1.4 t in 2015) of company cars increased due to the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen, which resulted in an increase in the number of employees. The changes in comparison to the 2015 figures are due to a change in the reporting boundary. For 2016 the electricity purchased by retailers is not included in Kesko’s electricity consumption. • 6 ethanol-fueled cars (12 in 2015) The figures for 2015 have been adjusted for improved accuracy since the last report. The calcula• 312 petrol-fueled cars (263 in 2015) tion principles and more detailed calculations are available in the Environmental profile report. • 370 diesel-fueled cars (330 in 2015) Only CO2 emissions data is collected for transportation of goods. • 2 natural gas cars (2 in 2015) KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 135 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Effluents and waste Circular economy Kesko promotes the circular economy by taking part in innovative circular economy projects and Kesko’s objective is to minimise and recover all waste from its operations. by providing customers with diversified recycling services. Food waste Energy from biowaste The goal of Kesko’s grocery trade is to minimise the food waste resulting from its operations and The cooperation with Gasum, Myllyn Paras and Wursti, started in 2015, continued. Biogas made utilize inevitably accumulated organic waste. Read more about the objective in Kesko’s responfrom food waste unfit for human consumption from K-food stores and Kesko Logistics’ central sibility programme. warehouse is used as energy in the manufacture of new Pirkka products. In 2016, around 3,700 tonnes of biowaste was turned into 2,800 MWh of biogas. In 2016, the K Group took part in the ’Kinkkutemppu’ campaign in which customers returned Food waste prevention measures: electronic forecast and order fat arising from roasting their Christmas hams to K-stores’ recycling points for conversion into systems, efficient logistics, employee training, and renewable diesel. As much as 10,000 litres of renewable diesel was manufactured from the total optimisation of packaging properties of 12,000 kg of fat returned by customers. Read more about ‘Kinkkutemppu’ > Price reductions of products approaching their best before dates Recycling services for customers The recycling services on K-store premises make customers’ daily lives easier and provide an efficient way for households to recycle discarded goods and consumer packages. Donations of food removed from sale to charity In December 2016, there were 396 Rinki eco take-back points intended for recycling consumer packages (fibre, glass, metal) in connection with K-food stores. Plastic was collected at 160 eco take-back points (2015: 38). In connection with K Group stores, deposit beverage containers returned by customers, batterUtilisation of ies and accumulators, WEEE, lead accumulators, impregnated timber and discarded clothing non-edible organic waste for energy were also accepted. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 136 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Packages and items returned by customers to recycling points at K Group stores Kesko Logistics’ centralised collection services 2016 2015 2014 Cardboard and plastic bales from 236 K-food stores were centrally directed by Kesko's grocery Deposit aluminium cans (million pcs) 378 311 320 trade for industry reuse in 2016. Around 2,806 tonnes of cardboard and 70 tonnes of plastic were collected. Deposit recyclable plastic bottles (million pcs) 116 94 96 Kesko Logistics’ reverse logistics transport beverage containers and boxes from stores for reuse and recovery. Packaging collected by Kesko Logistics reverse logistics for reuse and recovery Deposit recyclable glass bottles (million pcs) 29 26 27 1,000 pcs 2016 2015 2014 Aluminium cans 82,169 96,479 93,107 Batteries and accumulators (tonnes) 289 210 193 PET bottles 54,648 61,403 54,296 WEEE (tonnes) 92 951 170 Recyclable glass bottles1 11,292 9,462 9,667 Lead-acid accumulators, K-Rauta and Rautia 3.5 1.6 4.3 (tonnes) Impregnated timber, K-Rauta ja Rautia (tonnes) 814 914 1,003 Reusable crates 17,893 17,294 16,501 Used clothing, UFF recycling points (tonnes) 3,123 2,915 2,507 1 Figure has been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report. In October 2016, the K Group committed itself to take actions in order to reduce the consumption of plastic bags and published a plastics policy. Since January 2017, Pirkka ESSI circular economy bags have been made from plastic recycled by customers Read more about ESSI circular economy bag and Kesko’s plastics policy > KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 137 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Waste: Finland, Sweden and Norway Finland Sweden Norway Waste in all operating countries Tonnes 2016 1 2015 2014 2016 2015 2 2014 2016 2015 2014 Tonnes 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazardous waste 18,366 10,737 11,890 3,479 2,692 2,788 410 633 1,022 Non-hazardous waste 38,051 27,832 30,699 Recycling/recovery 18,204 10,621 11,525 3,220 2,470 2,206 410 593 1,019 Recycling/recovery 27,444 18,474 19,675 Landfill 162 116 365 259 222 582 0 40 3 Landfill 10,607 9,358 11,024 Hazardous waste 273 1,125 43 81 60 29 215 15 55 Hazardous waste 774 1,261 164 Recycling/recovery 183 160 3 3 200 Recycling/recovery 524 171 Hazardous waste treatment 90 965 78 57 15 15 Hazardous waste treatment 250 1,090 Total 18,639 11,862 11,933 3,560 2,752 2,817 625 648 1,077 Total 38,825 29,093 30,863 Recovery rate % 99 99 97 93 92 79 100 94 99 The figures for 2015 have been adjusted for improved accuracy 1 A small part of the data is based on estimation (0.3% of total waste in Finland) 2 The 2015 figures for Sweden have been adjusted for improved accuracy since the previous report Waste recovery rates Kesko’s waste statistics in Finland mainly cover warehousing operations, while in the other counWaste: Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania tries, the majority of waste statistics cover store operations. According to statistics, the recovery Estonia Latvia Lithuania rate in Kesko’s waste management in Finland was 99% in 2016 and in the other operating counTonnes 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 tries it was 48%. The recovery rate includes all waste except waste to landfill. Non-hazardous waste 733 680 631 640 612 545 3,946 2,605 3,545 Recycling/recovery 689 608 392 163 156 127 2,271 1,699 2,430 Kesko offers K-retailers in the southern Finland area the opportunity to participate in a centralLandfill 44 72 239 477 456 418 1,675 906 1,115 ised waste management agreement. In 2016, 114 K-food stores, 11 building and home improveHazardous waste 27 20 14 5 3 3 152 36 18 ment stores and 14 other stores participated in the framework agreement. The recovery rate of the waste generated in these stores was 100% (98% in 2015) and the recycling rate was around Recycling/recovery 1 119 8 66% (67% in 2015). Hazardous waste treatment 26 20 5 3 33 28 Total 760 700 645 645 615 548 4,098 2,641 3,563 Based on good experiences and convincing results, it was decided to expand the centralised Recovery rate % 94 90 63 26 26 24 59 66 69 waste management agreement nationwide. In November 2016, an agreement enabling all K Group stores to make recycling more efficient and to adopt the modern circular economy was signed. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 138 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Waste: Poland, Russia and Belarus Poland Russia Belarus Tonnes 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 2016 2015 2014 Non-hazardous waste 218 8,594 8,303 8,537 1,665 1,570 1,741 Recycling/recovery 51 2,382 2,279 1,918 55 48 58 Landfill 167 6,212 6,024 6,619 1,610 1,522 1,683 Hazardous waste 15 1 1 1 3 1 1 Recycling/recovery 15 2 0.1 Hazardous waste treatment 1 0.8 0.6 0.9 Total 233 8,595 8,304 8,538 1,668 1,571 1,742 Recovery rate % 28 28 27 22 3 3 3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 139 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Changes in the number of Kesko employees Social impacts 2016 2015 2014 Finland at 31 Dec. 14,845 10,081 12,180 Employment Other operating countries at 31 Dec. Total at 31 Dec. 12,811 27,656 11,854 21,935 11,614 23,794 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Finland, average 10,714 8,300 9,580 Other operating countries, average 11,762 10,655 10,396 In April 2016 Kesko acquired Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, in June 2016 Onninen Oy and in December 2016 Oy Autocarrera Ab. Suomen Lähikauppa Oy (currently K-Market Oy) has been Total, average 22,476 18,955 19,976 consolidated into Kesko Group as of 12 April 2016, Onninen Group as of 1 June 2016 and Oy Autocarrera Ab as of 1 December 2016 (excluding Saele og Holleviks Trading AS adn TM ChrisFixed-term and part-time employments at Kesko tensen VVS Detajer). 2016 2015 2014 Fixed-term employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % In 2016, Kesko had an average of approximately 22,476 (2015: 18,955) full-time equivalent employFinland 12.0 11.5 13.9 ees in nine countries: Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and BelaCompanies in other operating countries 6.1 6.1 7.2 rus. 48% of the personnel were based in Finland and 52% were in the other operating countries. Whole Group, total 9.2 8.6 10.7 Distribution of Kesko personnel by division at Part-time employees of total personnel at 31 Dec., % 31 Dec. 2016, % Finland 43.9 39.4 43.6 Companies in other operating countries 6.7 8.1 7.1 Whole Group, total 26.7 22.5 25.8 Grocery trade 37 37.4% .4% Building and technical trade 56.5% Car trade 3% Common operations 3. 3.1% 1% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 140 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Kesko’s personnel statistics for 2016 analysed by operating country Recruits, age distribution 2016, % Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Total number of personnel 14,845 1,165 424 714 627 4,170 846 1,981 2,884 at 31 Dec. Average number of 10,714 1,028 299 632 521 3,442 486 2,992 2,362 personnel in 2016 Number of new employments1 women 3,055 113 14 96 76 1,038 16 1,006 408 men 2,052 184 33 133 203 1,448 55 800 622 Number of terminated 4,696 269 102 187 191 3,330 26 1,585 701 Under 26 years 57 57..1% employments1 26-35 years 23.9% Terminated by employer, % 5.3 10.4 0.0 2.7 2.6 9.3 69.2 8.5 0.4 36-45 years 11% Total turnover rate, % 2 20.2 23.1 23.3 17.1 22.8 78.0 3.1 80.0 24.3 46-55 years 6.2% Over 55 years 1.9% 1 Including summer employees 2 Excluding summer employees In all of the operating countries, Kesko supports its employees’ leisure activities in different ways. When calculating the number of terminated employments, each employee is included only once, whereas one person The Finnish companies, for example, provide vouchers for physical exercise and cultural benefits. may have several new employments included in the total number. Some of the companies operating in Russia, Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania also give financial support to their employees through different situations in life, such as when a child is born, during a child's first year at school, in the event of the death of a close relative and in other special situa401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided tions. Employees are also provided with a diverse range of shopping benefits that apply in K Group to temporary or part-time employees stores and staff shops. A company phone and car are also provided if required for the job. The Kesko Group offers benefits to its personnel in all of the countries in which it operates. In Performance bonuses and share remuneration plan Finland, employees on permanent, fixed-term and part-time contracts are offered the following: The performance bonus schemes cover the entire personnel, with the exception of sales assistant jobs and jobs covered by other types of bonus or commission systems. The indicators of • Occupational health care the performance bonus scheme include, for example, the Group’s and the division’s total profits, • Insurance against occupational injuries and occupational diseases the sales and profit of the employee’s own unit, and customer satisfaction. The job satisfaction of personnel also affects supervisors' performance bonuses. In spring 2016, around €11.5 • Parental leave million (€12.4 million in 2015) was paid in Finland in bonuses under the 2015 performance bonus • Retirement benefits schemes, accounting for approximately 3.7% (4.0% in 2015) of the total payroll. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 141 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In 2016, the total remuneration paid in the form of performance bonuses, sales commissions and Labour/management relations other corresponding monetary remuneration was as follows: 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes • In Finland, €14.5 million (€13.1 million in 2015) Kesko complies with local legislation in all of its operating countries. In Finland, the key statutes • In the other operating countries, €8.3 million (€5.0 million in 2015) governing restructuring situations are included in the Act on Co-operation within Undertakings, which stipulates that the employer must provide reasonable notice of decisions for consideration Kesko Group’s management and key personnel (approximately 150 individuals) are participants on the basis of negotiations. The collective agreement for the trading sector does not specify in a performance-based bonus scheme. The maximum bonus amounts vary depending on the any minimum notice periods applying to restructuring situations. profit impact of the person’s role and are equivalent to 3–8 months’ salary. Kesko operates the 2014–2016 share remuneration scheme covering approximately 150 members of management In Sweden, the statutory minimum notice period in the event of organisational changes is 8–24 personnel and other named key individuals. The share remuneration plan has three vesting weeks depending on the nature of the change. The collective agreement applying to operations periods: the 2014, 2015 and 2016 calendar years. The shares awarded as bonuses have a comin Sweden also does not specify minimum notice periods for restructuring situations. No specific mitment period of three calendar years following each vesting period. During the commitment minimum notice period for organisational changes is defined in Norway, but both legislation and period, the shares cannot be transferred. In February 2016, the Board decided to grant a total the collective agreement stipulate that personnel shall be informed of organisational changes at of 140,365 Company B shares to 142 members of management personnel and other named key the earliest opportunity. individuals based on the fulfilment of the vesting criteria for the 2015 vesting period of the share remuneration plan. Russian legislation states that personnel must be informed of restructuring 8.5 weeks before the new structure takes effect. For major organisational changes concerning more than 20% of the personPensions nel, the authorities must also be informed 8–12 weeks prior to the change. In Estonia and Latvia, the New pensions were granted to 271 (168 in 2015) people in the Kesko Group in Finland. The figure minimum notice period in restructuring situations is four weeks. The corresponding notice period in includes employees retiring on part-time pensions, partial disability pensions and rehabilitation Belarus is eight weeks. There are no collective agreements in these operating countries. benefits in addition to those who retired on old-age pensions and disability pensions. Rehabilitation benefit is a form of fixed-term disability pension granted with the aim that the employee is In all its operating countries, Kesko applies the notice periods specified in local labour legislarehabilitated and returns to working life. Rehabilitation benefits were granted for the purpose of tion. In Finland, the notice period is from two weeks to six months depending on the duration of retraining or work trials to 87 (50 in 2015) people who were at a clear risk of losing their working employment. capacity within a few years. The average retirement age of employees in 2016 was 60 (59 in 2015). In the other operating countries, 28 (15 in 2015) employees retired. Employees can ask questions, give feedback and suggest ways to develop matters related to the operations of Kesko or its subsidiaries anonymously using the Direct Line feedback channel on Keskonet, Kesko's intranet. Responses are published on Keskonet for all to see. The Mail for the President and CEO feedback channel on Keskonet also enables the personnel to send their greetings, comments and suggestions directly to the President and CEO. Confidential feedback can also be given via the SpeakUp reporting channel. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 142 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Occupational health and safety Kesko’s contribution to occupational health care, Finland 2016 2015 2014 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker €/person 499 359 412 health and safety committees Labour protection activities are arranged separately for each company, region or place of business in compliance with local legislation. Outside the Nordic countries, labour protection matInjuries and occupational diseases in Finland ters are handled by OHS (Occupational Health and Safety) committees. Kesko's HR functions 2016 2015 2014 arrange occupational safety training for Kesko employees and K-retailers. Group companies also Fatal injuries 0 0 0 arranged training sessions tailored to their specific needs. Occupational injuries, excl. commuting injuries 227 93 124 Commuting injuries 81 35 32 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Injury rate¹ /million working hours 10 6 6 days, and absenteeism and number of work-related fatalities Average degree of injury severity, days 15.8 16.9 17.6 Within Kesko Group, the occupational health service's normal operations include providing advice and counselling related to employees’ health and wellbeing at work, analysing health Suspected occupational diseases 1 4 11 risks related to work and preventing illnesses, and providing treatment – even in the event of Occupational diseases 2 0 0 serious illnesses – in collaboration with primary health care practitioners and specialist health Sick days due to occupational injuries, commuting injuries and 5,744 2,166 2,751 care providers. In Finland, 15,000 (10,200 in 2015) employees were covered by Kesko’s own occupational diseases occupational health services. Kesko's occupational health service purchases occupational health Per employee 0.5 0.3 0.3 care from various service providers for employees in Finland outside Greater Helsinki. CentralThe calculation method: small injuries, i.e. those leading to absence of less than three days, are not included in the ised purchasing and target-oriented management enable consistent contents and operating figures. Statistics do not include contractors or the following companies: Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Vähittäiskaupan methods in occupational health service. In other countries, occupational health care is arranged Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, the Agricultural Foundation of Trade. in compliance with local legislation and practice. A total of € 7.5 million (€3.7 million in 2015) was spent on occupational health care in Finland in 2016. Kela (the Social Insurance Institution) reim1 Excl. small injuries and commuting injuries, calculated with actual working hours bursed Kesko for approximately €3.7 million (€2.0 million in 2015) of this sum. In 2016, Kesko’s occupational health service spent €499 (€359 in 2015) per employee on maintaining employees’ Sickness absences by country in 2016 working capacity and providing medical care. Finland Sweden Norway Estonia Latvia Lithuania Poland Russia Belarus Total number of sick days 133,211 6,931 4,412 4,105 5,164 33,494 5,258 28,664 27,890 Per employee 12.4 6.7 14.8 6.5 9.9 9.7 10.8 9.6 11.8 Per million working hours 6,592 3,831 8,384 3,199 4,907 4,817 5,201 4,838 5,811 The calculation method: sick days per employee have been calculated on the average number of employees during the year. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 143 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statistics on injuries in Finland and breakdowns of sickness absences by country are presented Training and education in the tables above. In the other countries, a total of 71 injuries occurred resulting in sickness absences of more than three days in 2016. The corresponding figure in Finland was 227. In 2016, the sickness absence rate in the Group companies in Finland was 4.4% of hours worked (4.4% 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee, in 2015). Approximately 74.6% (77.4% in 2015) of sickness absences were short-term absences (paid sick days). In the other countries, the sickness absence rate was 4.2% (3.7% in 2015). 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes Trend in number of sick days Systematic, business-driven development of personnel is a critical factor for future success. The transformation of the trading sector and the increase in electronic transactions have created needs Sick days/million working hours for new competencies. The revised supervisor training programmes have already reached a large proportion of supervisors, and a separate training programme for middle managers was launched 7k 6,59 6,5922 in the autumn. Further investments were made in digital thinking as the K Digital Academy training 6,424 programme was executed for the third time and the K Digital Trainee programme offered train5,9 5,9774 6k ee placements for recent graduates with a digital orientation. In addition, a mindfulness training course was piloted with good results. Numerous regional social media training courses were held 5, 5,016 016 4,963 for retailers. Updated and uniform electronic tools for induction were adopted. 5k 4,585 Other core areas of competence development included: 4k • Immediate supervisory work 3k • Leadership • Digitality 2k • Project management • Interaction and negotiation skills 1k • Safety and responsibility 0 • Customer experience; sales and service competences 2014 2015 2016 Finland Other operating countries KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 144 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Training days and costs in 2016 2017, a dozen or so talented young people will be sought for inclusion in the K Trainee pro2016 2015 2014 gramme. Training days1 Future K-retailers are trained in the retailer coaching programmes. The coaching involves online Finland 7,421 6,891 9,083 studies and on-the-job training under a mentor retailer, as well as regional and national on-site Other countries2 11,033 14,614 14,285 training periods. Those completing the programme are qualified to start a career as independent Training days per employee1 K-retailers. Investments were made in the continuous development of existing retailers' comFinland 0.7 0.8 0.9 petences by updating the supplementary training for retailers, which includes several targeted Other countries 2 0.9 1.4 1.4 training sessions and the more extensive Success Factors training entity, which forms part of the Training costs, € million MBA degree. Finland 2.9 2.5 2.9 Other countries 0.9 0.9 0.8 Distribution by education at Training costs per employee, € 31 Dec. 2016, % Finland 268 299 298 Other countries 79 87 80 1 2015: Excluding Konsoma JLLC, Belarus and OOO Kesko Real Estate, Russia 2 2014: Excluding Konsoma JLLC, Belarus. 2015: Excluding Konsoma, Belarus and OOO Kesko Real Estate, Russia The updated gamified Master Sales Assistant training course offers store personnel a colourful and interesting way of developing their sales skills. Store personnel were also offered vocational training and the opportunity to obtain vocational qualifications. In addition, we trained 91 new workplace instructors for K-stores. Comprehensive school 17% In-house job rotation provides an extensive selection of alternative careers. In Finland, approxUpper secondary vocational education 55.8% imately 4,837 (1,800 in 2015) internal transfers took place, while the total figure for the other Lower university degree 11.5% operating countries was 2,923 (2015 in 2,900). Higher university degree 15.7% In Finland, the K Group's recruitment is supported by the K Trainee and retailer coaching proNorway and Byggmakker, Norway Byggmakker, K-rauta,Sweden andK-rauta, Swedennot notincluded. included. grammes. The sixth K Trainee programme ended in October 2016, and five K-trainees graduated from the digitally-oriented programme to take on permanent employments in the K Group. In KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 145 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Diversity and equal opportunity career development reviews Performance and career development reviews and performance assessment of key personnel are carried out at all Kesko Group companies and operating countries. In the performance and 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees career development reviews, the performance of the past period is evaluated and targets are set Equal opportunities, justice, non-discrimination and equality are important principles that are for the upcoming period, including a discussion on the development of the employee, supervisoobserved at Kesko. Kesko Corporation and its division parent companies and subsidiaries in Finry work and the working community. Every member of personnel has a performance and career land draw up statutory company-specific HR, training, equality and non-discrimination plans and development review, and in 2015, they were carried out twice: in the spring and the autumn. The define objectives for improvement. At the beginning of 2017, Kesko established the TASY gender implementation of performance and career development reviews was surveyed in conjunction equality working group in accordance with the non-discrimination plan, tasked with handling with the personnel survey conducted at the beginning of 2016. The response rate to the personmatters related to non-discrimination and equality within the Group. The working group includes nel survey was 85%. 79% of the women who responded to the survey and 82% of the men who representatives of the employer, personnel and labour protection functions. The working group responded had had a performance and career development review in 2015. In 2016, they were analyses recruitment, career development and training, remuneration and the reconciliation of conducted at least once: in the spring and/or the autumn. work and family life. The objective of performance evaluation is to give feedback on performance in the previous • Of Kesko employees in Finland, 60% were women and 40% were men. In the other operating countries, the figures were 48% and 52% respectively. year, support the person's development and encourage enhanced performance. Uniform evaluation criteria enable equitable evaluation of performance and competence for all employees. • In Finland, the average age of employees was 41.8 years in 2016. In the other countries, the Systematic and effective performance reviews provide important information and form a strong average age of employees varied from 36 to 46 years. basis for other HR processes. • Lengths of employee careers: under 10 years: 67% and over 10 years: 33% in Finland and 87% and 13% respectively in the other countries. Long careers are not rare: 1,438 employees have Job satisfaction worked at Kesko for over 25 years. The personnel survey is one of the key tools for developing internal operating practices and • Two of the seven members of Kesko’s Board of Directors were women. developing the quality of supervisory work. The personnel survey is conducted in Kesko Group and some K-stores in Finland at the same time as in other countries. The survey seeks to identify • Two of the nine members of the Group Management Board were women. the commitment of personnel to the organisation, the operating methods that enable good work • In the subsidiaries engaging in retailing in Finland, the proportion of women in supervisory performance, the implementation of our shared operating principles, the occupational wellbeing duties was significant: 87% of the department managers at K-Citymarket hypermarkets were of personnel, and satisfaction with the work of immediate supervisors and management. The surwomen. vey results are used as the basis for agreeing upon development measures, which are integrated • At the end of 2016, 46% of all supervisors in Finland (51% in 2015) were women and 54% into the annual operational and personnel plan and the implementation of which is monitored. (49% in 2015) were men. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 146 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In recent years, the K Group has initiated projects to employ members of special groups: Age distribution of Kesko personnel in Age distribution of Kesko personnel in the Finland in 2016, % other operating countries in 2016, % • In 2012, the K-Retailers' Association started a project named ‘Many kinds of performers’ in collaboration with the Finnish Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (FAIDD). A permanent operating model was created for employing people with developmental disabilities. Many of the people with developmental disabilities who were employed as part of the project are still working at the K Group. • In 2013, Kesko and the K-Retailers’ Association launched the ‘Youth Guarantee in K Group’ programme, which aimed to provide a job, a work trial or an apprenticeship in the K Group by the end of 2014 for 1,000 young people under 30, who were at high risk of social exclusion. The target group also included young immigrants and young people with disabilities. By the end of 2015, when the Youth Guarantee in K Group programme ended, more than 2,500 young people had found a position with the help of a work trial, pay subsidy or apprenticeship under 26 years 23.2% under 26 years 18. 18.6% 6% training. 26–35 years 26.4% 26–35 years 35.2% 36–45 years 22% 36–45 years 24.9% • The employment of young people and special groups continues as a permanent operating 46–55 years 1919..1% 46–55 years 14.9% model. In 2016, the K-Retailers' Association had a youth guarantee coordinator who provided over 55 years 9.2% over 55 years 6.4% K-retailers and Kesko's supervisors with advice on employing and training young people and special groups and acted as a liaison to the authorities and associations. By the end of 2016, more than 3,200 young people from the target group had received a position in the K Group Years of service in Finland in 2016, % Years of service in the other operating with the help of a work trial, pay subsidy or apprenticeship training. countries in 2016, % under 2 years 25. 25.6% 6% under 2 years 42.3% 2–5 years 21. 21.6% 6% 2–5 years 29 29.7% .7% 6–10 years 19 19.3% .3% 6–10 years 15.4% 11–15 years 11.7% 11–15 years 8. 8.1% 1% 16–20 years 8% 16–20 years 3.4% 21–25 years 4.4% 21–25 years 0.7% over 25 years 9.4% over 25 years 0.5% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 147 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Equal opportunity for men and women Percentage of women by employee category, other countries 2016 2015 2014 Top management 0.0 0 0.0 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Middle management 49.1 47.7 46.8 The average annual salary of Kesko employees was €38,794 in Finland, €40,313 in the other Supervisors and specialists 48.4 54.4 54.7 Nordic countries, and €10,113 in the Baltic countries, Russia, Poland and Belarus. As the Kesko Workers and white-collar employees 47.2 47.8 46.2 Group operates in many lines of business, the average salary is not a good indicator of salary Total 47.8 50.5 51.5 level or structure. The wage groups and tables specified in the collective agreement are applied to jobs covered by the agreement, such as sales assistants and warehouse workers. Salaries are 2014 and 2015: Excluding Senukai, Lithuania also influenced by role-based responsibility bonuses, years of experience and the cost-of-living category of the locality. Besides the role and its requirements, the salary of a senior clerical employee is determined by competence, experience, performance and results. Equality in remuneration is considered as part of annual company-specific equality plans. Gender is not a factor Non-discrimination which influences remuneration, and no significant differences between comparable jobs have been detected. Equality plans strive to promote pay equality in jobs where comparisons can be 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken made. In 2016, there was one case in the Finnish courts of law in which a Kesko Group company was ordered to pay compensation under the Non-Discrimination Act. Percentage of women by employee category, Finland 2016 2015 2014 Top management 24.1 20 15.6 Middle management 20.0 21.1 18.6 Supervisors and specialists 41.9 46.4 48.2 Workers and white-collar employees 64.4 57.8 61.5 Total 60.1 55.4 58.8 The figures also include those called to work on demand KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 148 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of ­association and collective bargaining may be at risk In Kesko’s operations in the EU countries (Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland), the freedom of association or the right to collective bargaining is not seen to be at risk. Out of the total personnel, 50% are covered by collective agreements. So far, no binding industry-wide collective agreements have been drawn up in Russia. The control of the association of suppliers’ employees in high-risk countries and corrective actions are included in social responsibility audits. Human rights assessments 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments In September 2016, Kesko published its statement of commitment on human rights and impact assessment in compliance with the UN's Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. The extensive survey involved listening to the views of customers, personnel and high-risk country factory workers on human rights and on the implementation of human rights in K Group's operations. The survey covered the customers of all of Kesko’s lines of business, and personnel in Finland. Surveys in high-risk countries were carried out in China, India, Bangladesh and the Philippines. Read more about Kesko's commitment and impact on assessment > Find out more about Kesko's collaboration with SASK > KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 149 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Supplier social assessment The K Code of Conduct operating guidelines include a section on human rights. The K Code of Conduct eLearning programme targeted at the entire personnel had been completed by 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria, 3,159 people by the end of 2016. A plan for the year 2017 was drawn up with actions promoting awareness of the K Code of Conduct, such as communications and training events scheduled for 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken each quarter of the year. The training events in 2016 focused on human rights and their implementation in international Purchasing from high-risk countries purchasing chains. Nine events were arranged for people working in purchasing and sales in In 2016, direct purchases by Kesko's Finnish companies from suppliers in high-risk areas totalled different divisions, as well as for the Product Research Unit. The training sessions discussed the €85 million (€90 million in 2015) and accounted for 1% (1.2%) of Kesko's total purchases. Direct assurance process in purchasing from high-risk countries, the BSCI Code of Conduct principles imports from high-risk countries accounted for 11.9% (14.8%) of Kesko's total imports into and the social responsibility assessment systems approved by Kesko. Trainings in responsible Finland. The most significant high-risk countries of import of Kesko’s Finnish companies are prepurchasing will continue in 2017. sented in the table below. No statistics are available on direct imports from high-risk countries by Kesko's subsidiaries in other countries. High-risk countries typically produce clothing and home textiles, shoes and other leather goods, furniture, carpets, interior decoration items, tools, sports equipment, toys, agricultural products (such as coffee, tea, cocoa, fruit, vegetables, wines) and canned fish, fruit and vegetables. Since 2015, Kesko has published on its website a list of factories that operate in high-risk countries manufacturing Kesko’s own-brand clothing and shoes to be directly imported by Kesko. The list is updated once a year, most recently on 21 June 2016. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 150 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Social responsibility audits of our suppliers in high-risk countries Suppliers’ social responsibility audits in Kesko’s 10 largest high-risk countries of import Kesko recommends the use of BSCI audits and SA8000 certification in the assessment of social Direct purchases from suppliers in high-risk countries account for 1% of Kesko’s total purchases responsibility of suppliers in high-risk countries. Kesko also accepts other social responsibility assessment systems, if their criteria correspond to those of BSCI auditing and the audit is convalue of imports ducted by an independent party. As part of the sourcing cooperation between Kesko’s grocery number of valid audits China trade and ICA Global Sourcing, Kesko also accepts the ICA Social Audit. In that case, however, €42.6m Turkey 255 audits suppliers are required to adopt BSCI auditing after a maximum of two ICA audits. The social €6.9m Thailand 8 audits responsibility auditing systems accepted by Kesko are listed under ‘Management models and €6.1m 14 audits systems’. Some of Kesko’s suppliers are themselves members of BSCI and thus promote audits Vietnam €7.3m in their own supply chains. Ukraine €1.7m 16 audits 0 audits Philippines €0.9m Kesko’s own direct imports from high-risk countries, 10 largest countries in 20161 India 1 audit €8.5m 20 audits Country Value of imports, € million Bangladesh China 42.6 €2.9m 9 audits India 8.5 Vietnam 7.3 Indonesia €1.6m Turkey 6.9 South Africa 1 audit €1.0m 24 audits Thailand 6.1 Bangladesh 2.9 Ukraine 1.7 Indonesia 1.6 South Africa 1.0 The Philippines 0.9 1 ICIF, direct imports forwarded by Kesko Logistics and Onninen Finland only, excluding imports by VV-Auto KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 151 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At the beginning of 2017, Kesko's suppliers in high-risk countries had: The results of the BSCI audits of Kesko’s suppliers’ factories in 2016 are shown below. The majority of the deficiencies occurred in management practices, observance of working time • 274 (start of 2016: 200) valid BSCI audits regulations, and matters related to occupational health and safety. Corrective actions and mon• 13 (start of 2016: 16) valid SA8000 certifications itoring are included in the audit process. In accordance with BSCI's operating model, a full audit is conducted at factories every two years to assess every sub-area of the auditing protocol. If a • 24 valid SMETA audits factory receives an audit result of C, D or E, a follow-up audit within 12 months must be arranged • 11 valid ICTI CARE certifications to assess the deficiencies identified in the full audit and the corrective measures implemented to address them. • 22 valid SIZA audits • 11 valid Fairtrade certifications Kesko does not terminate cooperation with a supplier that undertakes to resolve the grievances specified in the audit report. In 2016, it was decided to terminate cooperation with one supplier • 5 valid ICS audits due to ambiguities related to social responsibility. It was not possible to reach a consensus with • 2 valid WRAP certifications the supplier regarding the necessary corrective actions. • 24 valid ICA Social Audits Kesko's BSCI audit results in 2016, full Kesko's BSCI audit results in 2016, followAs regards Onninen, the figures only include the BSCI audits of suppliers to the Kesko Onninen audits up audits Purchasing Office (KOPO) in Shanghai. Kesko’s principle in high-risk countries is to collaborate only with suppliers that are already included in the scope of social responsibility audits or that start the process when cooperation begins. Since the beginning of 2016, Kesko’s grocery trade requires all of its suppliers in highrisk countries to have been audited. It will not enter into collaboration with new suppliers unless they have passed an acceptable audit. The map presented here shows the number of suppliers’ valid social responsibility audits and certifications in Kesko’s 10 largest high-risk countries of import. BSCI audit results Outstanding (A) 5% Outstanding (A) 8% Good (B) 6% Good (B) 14% In 2016, suppliers' factories or plantations underwent Acceptable (C) 76% Acceptable (C) 68% Insufficient (D) 13% Insufficient (D) 10% • 210 (2015: 107) full BSCI audits Unacceptable (E) 0% Unacceptable (E) 0% • 60 (2015: 80) BSCI follow-up audits KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 152 S an oci W d al M or Ca ke sc ana rs InW a d S ge T o vo r e oc m Ef ia e 0 25 50 75 100 % lvke fe l Mnt an he e mrs I ct aSy d Trihg ennv nast Co eht g…em t oa l lle risgoh ct ftsF n ve dm iv ore e f eF P re n Ba dr o ott rg eemd eacn ai o tido … ni m fA n ng os fsAo N c ssia o otci D o…n Outstanding (A) isc rim KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 Fa in at ir io Re n Acceptable (C) D m ec u ne O en ra cc tW tio Unacceptable (E) up or n at k io i n na g lH H ea ou lth rs Sp an eSc d ipae Sa l cP N fe iaro l Pt o ty STRATEGY REPORT erco Ch tieo ild cnt io L ab fnY ou N oof r o uYn o Good (B) Pr gu ec nWg ar oW io rko e…r us Em s pl Insufficient (D) N o ym Pr o en ot Bo t ec nd tio ed n L of ab th ou Et e r hi En ca vi GRI REPORT lB ro us nm in en es t sB eh av io ur Kesko's BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2016, full audits S an oci W d al M or Ca ke s an rs W cad aSg In o e oecm 0 25 50 75 100 % T v olrke Ef iae n an he T ve rs fe l M m In ct taSy d rihge en v nast Co htr o t a lv g…em lle sigoh ct ftsF ndem iv roef e e Pr n ot t a Ba eFdroe rg m e ec nd FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ai dom tio … ni f A n ng os fsA ocs N s iao o tcio… D n Outstanding (A) isc rim Fa in at ir io Re n Acceptable (C) D m ec un O en er cc at tW io Unacceptable (E) up or n at ki io ng na lH H ea ou lth rs Sp an eSc d ipae Sa l cP iar N fe o ty ol tP erco C hi ttieo ld cnt La io bo fnY N oof ur o uYno Good (B) Pr ec gunW go ar io Wrko e… CORPORATE GOVERNANCE us rs Em pl Insufficient (D) N oy Pr o m Bo en ot ec nd t tio ed n La of bo th Et e ur hi En ca v iro lB nm us in en es t sB eh av io ur 153 Kesko's BSCI audit results, distribution in different areas in 2016, follow-up audits STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Fairtrade products supporting the factories in implementing the BSCI operating principles. The project involved 13 Kesko's grocery trade has an extensive collaboration agreement with Fairtrade Finland. The K-food Vietnamese suppliers and 18 factories. trade chain concepts and K-retailers determine the selections of Fairtrade products at the store level. A follow-up study was conducted in autumn 2016 to gauge the long-term impacts at ten of the factories involved in the project. The aim of the impact assessment was to evaluate the effects • In 2016, Kesko's grocery trade selections included 367 (2015: 212, excluding Kespro) Fairtrade of the project on factory working conditions eight years later in terms of occupational health and products, of which 36 (2015: 40) were Pirkka products and 7 were Kespro's Menu products. safety, relations between managers and workers, and environmental management systems. • In 2016, the products sold by Kesko's grocery trade and Kespro generated Fairtrade premiums for social development projects amounting to €649,459 (2015: €481,405). The results of the impact assessment show that the project had long-term benefits. Almost all of the factories being assessed had continued to improve working conditions after the project In 2016, the products generating the largest Fairtrade premiums were flowers (€268,358), fruit finished. In eight years, the factories had made tangible improvements to their working environ(€135,764) and coffee (€169,635). According to Fairtrade Finland’s statistics, the sales of own ments, the situation of workers and their environmental systems. brand – Pirkka and Menu – Fairtrade coffee alone employed 184 small-scale coffee farmers in 2016 on Fairtrade's terms. Find out more about Kesko's collaboration with SASK > Risk assessment of ingredients in Pirkka and K-Menu food products Collaboration with Plan Kesko aims to identify the entire supply chain of the products and also verify the sustainability of Kesko and Plan International Finland, an organisation promoting children’s rights, continue their products' ingredients. Work began in 2015 to analyse the origins of the ingredients in own-brand cooperation to improve the responsibility of the Thai fishing industry and the situation of migrant grocery products, and the sustainability of 1,923 ingredients in Pirkka and K-Menu food prodworkers. A collaboration agreement has been made for the period from 2015 to 2018. The joint ucts was assessed. The project continued in 2016, when risk analyses were conducted for the project aims to improve the working conditions of Cambodian migrant workers, as well as eduingredients in 160 new own brand food products. In 2016, 29 of the studied products contained cation and protection for their children in Thailand. A further goal is to increase transparency in ingredients for which additional sustainability investigation will be required. The suppliers will be the supply chain. requested to investigate the social responsibility of the suppliers of these ingredients. As part of the project, two learning centres were established for children of migrant workers in Studies of the ingredients in own-brand food products will continue in 2017. Based on the results, the Rayong and Trat provinces in spring 2015. The learning centres provide children from miKesko intends to decide upon ingredient-specific follow-up measures to promote the sustainabilgrant workers' families with the skills they need to attend public schools in Thailand and support ity of the supply chains of Pirkka and K-Menu products. them in continuing their studies. In 2016, 159 children aged between 4 and 17 were registered at the learning centres, and 99 children were admitted to school with the help of the project. BSCI Follow-up study on the impact of a training project for Vietnamese supplier training for suppliers began in November 2016. 16 suppliers from the Thai fishing industry took Kesko was involved in a training project conducted by Union Aid Abroad APHEDA and the part in the first training event, which was held in Bangkok. The training will continue in spring Trade Union Solidarity Centre of Finland SASK from 2006 to 2008, with the aim of improving 2017. Find out more about our collaboration with Plan. the working conditions in the factories of selected Vietnamese suppliers shipping to Finland and KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 154 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Public policy When developing own-brand products, Kesko’s grocery trade pays special attention, in line with its strategy, to the health aspects of the products. 415-1 Political contributions In election years, political parties and candidates are given equal opportunities to arrange camAs proposed in The EC White Paper on Nutrition, Overweight and Obesity-related Health Ispaign events in the yards and entrance halls of K Group stores. In addition, Kesko may participate sues, sugar, saturated fat and salt were reduced in more than 150 Pirkka products during the pein economic and tax policy seminars arranged by political parties, on content basis at its discretion riod 2007–2013. The health aspects of new Pirkka products are taken into account at the product and without indicating partiality. development stage. Kesko follows the discussion about reformulation restarted by the launch of the Roadmap for Action on Food Product Improvement in spring 2016. As the national Finnish Kesko does not make monetary donations to political parties. In 2016, Kesko did not participate targets are likely to be established in 2017, Kesko’s grocery trade will revise its reformulation in political parties’ seminars subject to a charge and did not publish commercial advertisements in policy statement. party newspapers. In 2016 and early 2017, a study on the likelihood of food fraud was conducted and a fraud control Customer health and safety plan was prepared (Vulnerability Assessment and Critical Control Points, VACCP). 77 threats of fraud were identified. Six of them were assessed to be critical control points, which are analyt416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and ically monitored by fraud control on a regular basis, in addition to normal product and supplier service categories, assurances. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety Product Research is also responsible for product recalls, which numbered 101 in 2016 (124 in impacts of products and services 2015). Of these, 26 (27 in 2015) were Kesko’s grocery trade’s own-brands; in the other cases, Product Research assisted the manufacturers in recalls. There were two public recalls involving The activities of the Product Research Unit of Kesko’s grocery trade include assessing the a potential health hazard resulting from product flaws or defects in Kesko’s grocery trade’s ownimpacts of products on health and safety. It requires manufacturers of its own-brands to have brand products in 2016 (3 in 2015). certification that assures international product safety. The standards approved by Kesko’s grocery trade include BRC, IFS, FSSC 22000 and GlobalGAP. In 2016, the total number of certified In 2016, K-Rauta made one product recall in Finland. suppliers was 538 (532 in 2015). This number also includes old audits conducted according to Kesko’s grocery trade’s own audit guidelines. Onninen made four recalls in 2016: two in Finland, one in Sweden and one in Poland. A total of 7,770 (8,037 in 2015) product samples were analysed. Most of them related to the In 2016, there were no legal proceedings or fines related to product health or safety. product development of own brands. A total of 2,387 (2,158 in 2015) own control samples were analysed. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 155 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Marketing communications and product information 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling Engine software adjusting nitrogen oxides As for its own-brand products and own imports, Kesko’s grocery trade complies with Regulation In September 2015, the California Air Resources Board (CARB) and the Environmental Pro(EC) No 1169/2011 on the provision of food information to consumers and the supplementary tection Agency (EPA) uncovered engine software that adjusted nitrogen oxides in Volkswagen Regulation (EC) No 1337/2013 laying down rules for the indication of origin of certain meats. Group’s type EA 189 cars with diesel engines. This software is fitted in EA 189 series 1.2 litre, 1.6 These regulations lay down the rules for providing information on product ingredients, among litre and 2.0 litre diesel engines. other things. As far as the brands represented by VV-Auto are concerned, the number of such cars in Finland The name and location of the manufacturer are indicated on all Finnish Pirkka products and on is around 53,000. The case applies to all of the brands imported by VV-Auto (Volkswagen, Audi, all K-Menu products. Foreign Pirkka products carry the name of the country of manufacture. The SEAT and Volkswagen commercial vehicles). country of origin of meat is also indicated in the list of ingredients of Pirkka products that contain meat as one of the main ingredients, although related national legislation is only planned. In 2016, the German authority (KBA) approved all technical corrective measures for type EA 189 The country of origin is indicated on all own-brand products of K-Citymarket and Kesko’s builddiesel engines. The 1.2 litre and 2.0 litre diesel engines will get a software update. The 1.6 litre ing and technical trade. diesel engines will also get a software update and have a “flow rectifier” fitted directly in front of the air mass sensor. In addition to statutory package labelling, voluntary labelling can be added to inform the consumer of matters related to corporate responsibility. Such labelling may include organic labels Earlier in the spring of 2016, the German authority confirmed that the technical measures will and ecolabelling, as well as labelling indicating social responsibility. not impair fuel consumption, engine power, CO2 emissions, handling or acoustics. The corrective measures will not have an impact on the cars’ taxation in Finland, because nitrogen oxide The packages of Kesko’s own-brand chemical products — such as detergents and paints — bear emissions (NOx) are not car tax or vehicle tax bases in Finland. After the technical measures warning labelling in accordance with CLP regulation EC 1272/2008 on the classification, labelhave been implemented, the cars will fulfil the applicable type approval emission standards. ling and packaging of chemicals. In Finland, the importer has sent informative letters to the customers concerned. After receivThe own brand products of Kesko’s grocery trade bear material symbols on their packaging. ing the letter, the customer can book an authorised repairer. The corrective measure will take These symbols help and guide consumers to recycle packaging materials. Chemicals that are from 30 minutes to one hour, most conveniently in connection with a maintenance visit or tyre hazardous to the environment have warning labelling in accordance with the CLP regulation. change. The corrective measure can only be made at an authorised repairer and it is free of charge to the customer. The customer will be given a certificate to confirm that the corrective measure has been implemented. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 156 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE If the customer has not received a recall letter before the next vehicle inspection, they can have Customer privacy the car inspected as usual and the corrective measure will be implemented after the inspection. 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer Due to the great number of different air mass sensors, the recalls will take place on a schedule privacy and losses of customer data agreed with KBA. For that reason, all models and engine/gearbox versions are not recalled at the same time. In 2016, K-Plus Oy did not detect any leaks of information or other personal data breaches. By the end of 2016, the corrective solution has been available for a total of around 50,000 cars The company received one complaint from a customer regarding the deletion of personal data and 25% of them have been corrected. from K-Plus Oy’s customer register. The case resulted in the Data Protection Ombudsman contacting the company. The Ombudsman stated that there was no need for an order as referred to Product recalls resulting from defective product labelling in the Personal Data Act because K-Plus Oy had deleted the customer’s personal data from its On the product labelling of its own-brand products and imports, Kesko complies with Finnish law systems. and EU legislation. Socioeconomic compliance In 2016, there were 24 product recalls resulting from defective product labelling (46 in 2015), of which 7(9 in 2015) were Kesko’s grocery trade’s own-brands. 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications In 2016, there were no cases of non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. Kesko constantly monitors the amendments to legislation and authorities’ recommendations related to marketing communications and provides information about them to the staff responsible for marketing in each unit. In 2016, there were no advertisements by Kesko or its subsidiaries submitted for consideration by the Council of Ethics in Advertising nor were there any incidents of non-compliance with legislation or voluntary principles. In December 2016, the Consumer Ombudsman imposed a prohibition reinforced with a penalty payment in the case concerning Indoor Group Ltd’s discount sale marketing in 2014–2015. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 157 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Reporting principles The conclusions, observations and recommendations by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy are detailed in the assurance report. The assurance is commissioned by the operative management of Kesko Corporation. in accordance with the GRI standards Since 2000, Kesko has annually reported on its corporate responsibility actions in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines for reporting on sustainable development. Global Compact reporting The GRI report integrated in Kesko’s Annual Report is prepared in accordance with the GRI The report describes Kesko’s progress on the 10 principles of the Global Compact initiative. The standards and covers the key areas of economic, social and environmental responsibility. For GRI and UNGC index shows which disclosures and Topic-specific Standards have been used each reported standard, the GRI content index refers to the year of the version used. This report for evaluating performance in fulfilling human rights, labour rights, environment principles and has been prepared in accordance with the 2016 standards. anti-corruption principles. In our operations, we apply the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles: stakeholder inclusivity, identification of material aspects and responsiveness to stakeholders. Report stakeholders Various stakeholders use the report as their source of information when assessing Kesko’s Kesko has taken account of the ISO 26000 standard as a source document providing guidelines results in the different areas of responsibility. The most important target groups of the report for corporate responsibility. include investors, owners, analysts and rating agencies, as well as society (the media, authorities, NGOs and other organisations, and trade unions). In the report, we also want to take into We have divided the report into four sections: responsibility management, responsibility proaccount Kesko’s other important stakeholders: retailers, personnel, potential employees, suppligramme, disclosures, and GRI and UNGC. The report is available in Finnish and in English, and it ers and service providers, and customers. is published online only. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Topic-speReporting period and contact information cific Standards are reported with respect to the material topics for Kesko. A comparison of the This report describes the progress and results of responsibility work in 2016. It includes some contents of the report and the GRI standards is given in the GRI and UNGC index. information from January to March 2017. The report for 2015 was published in March 2016. Assurance of reporting An independent third party, PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, has provided assurance for the perforThe report for 2017 will be published in the spring of 2018. mance indicators on economic, social and environmental responsibility in the Finnish language GRI report. The congruence between responsibility information presented in the Finnish and Further information on the topics covered in the report can be obtained from Kesko’s contact English versions has been checked. persons. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 158 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Materiality assessment Materiality matrix The materiality assessment of Kesko’s corporate responsibility identifies the key responsibility topics for Kesko and its stakeholders. The materiality assessment guides Kesko’s corporate O C A responsibility work and stakeholder work and defines actions to meet stakeholder expectations. I D B LEVEL OF STAKEHOLDER CONCERN P Kesko’s material corporate responsibility topics are presented in the matrix below, where the H Q G vertical axis shows the level of concern for stakeholders and the horizontal axis the current or N F potential impact on Kesko. The level of concern for stakeholders has been assessed as a whole, R J which is why the stakeholder specific weightings are not reflected in the matrix. E L The materiality assessment was last updated in 2012. In 2017, the material topics for reporting M were defined in compliance with the requirements of the new GRI standards. The identified K topics are included in Kesko’s current materiality assessment, and no need was seen to update the materiality matrix. CURRENT OR POTENTIAL IMPACT ON KESKO Good corporate governance Customers Society and finance H Promoting wellbeing L Local approach A Financial profitability J Guiding customers M Sense of community B Good corporate governance K Servitisation of products and risk management D Accessibility and multichannel approach N Shopping safety and security Working community Responsible purchasing and Environment E Personnel's competence sustainable selections F Efficient logistics development C Product safety and quality I Energy and resource efficiency G A fair working community O Sustainable product selections R Promoting sustainable agriculture Q Changing expectations P Human rights and the for work-life environmental impacts of production in the purchasing chain KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 159 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI and UNGC index Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact General Standard Disclosures 102-1 Name of the organisation Kesko in brief 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Kesko in brief, Finnish Alcohol Act 1143/1994, Divisions Section 14: Retail trade of alcoholic beverages containing a maximum of 4.7 percentage by volume ethyl alcohol, which are prepared through fermentation, may be carried on, besides by the State Alcohol Monopoly, by whoever the licensing authority has granted a retail licence. The origin and production conditions of products, food products in particular, and their health outcomes are relatively often topics of public discussion in the media and/or on social media. 102-3 Location of headquarters Kesko in brief 102-4 Location of operations Kesko in brief 102-5 Ownership and legal form Kesko in brief 102-6 Markets served Kesko in brief 102-7 Scale of the organisation Kesko in brief KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 160 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Social impacts Employment No distribution by gender. Information not available. There are no independent X The aim is to report the entrepreneurs among Kesko information in 2017−2018. employees, nor does suppliers' or hired labour perform a significant part of the work. There are no significant seasonal fluctuations in the number of employees. 102-9 Supply chain Our operating environment, 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers, Responsibility programme/Responsible purchases and sustainable selections 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply Review by the President and CEO, Kesko in brief, chain Divisions, Stock exchange releases on 12 April 2016, 1 June 2016, 30 November 2016, 1 December 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our operating environment 102-12 External initiatives Corporate responsibility in Kesko's strategy 102-13 Membership of associations Activities in organisations 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Review by the President and CEO 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Our operating environment, How we create value, Stakeholders, Responsibility programme 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour Policies and principles, Responsibility programme: X good corporate governance and finance 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Notification of concerns and non-compliances X 102-18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Statement 2016 102-19 Delegating authority Management model and systems 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, EVP, CFO; EVP for marketing, communications, Both are members of the environmental and social topics corporate responsibility and corporate relations Group Management Board. Reporting model 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, Stakeholders, Corporate Governance Statement and social topics 2016 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 161 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its Board of Directors, Corporate Governance committees Statement 2016 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Board of Directors, Corporate Governance Statement 2016 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance Corporate Governance Statement 2016 body 102-25 Conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Statement 2016, Kesko complies with the K Code of Conduct Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, Corporate Governance Statement 2016, values, and strategy Management model and systems 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body's performance Corporate Governance Statement 2016 Only the Board's self-assessment has been reported. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, Corporate Governance Statement 2016 and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Corporate Governance Statement 2016 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Corporate Governance Statement 2016 102-32 Highest governance body's role in sustainability Corporate governance principles reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns Stakeholders, Corporate Governance Statement 2016 102-35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement 2016, Remuneration Statement 2016, Management model and systems 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholders 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social impacts/Freedom of association and collective X bargaining 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholders 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholders KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 162 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Note 37 to the consolidated financial statements statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Materiality assessment, reporting principles 102-47 List of material topics Materiality assessment 102-48 Restatements of information Changes reported in connection with topic specific information. 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes. 102-50 Reporting period Reporting principles 102-51 Date of most recent report Reporting principles 102-52 Reporting cycle Reporting principles 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Contact information 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Reporting principles Standards 102-55 GRI content index GRI and UNGC table 102-56 External assurance Reporting principles Management approach 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Boundaries of responsibility programme themes 103-2 The management approach and its components Responsibility programme 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Responsibility programme Topic specific content Topic specific content is reported regarding aspects identified as material. Economic impacts 201 Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic impacts/Economic performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Economic impacts/Economic performance Monetary evaluations or realisations have not been X opportunities due to climate change reported. 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement Economic impacts/Economic performance plans 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Economic impacts/Economic performance KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 163 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 203 Indirect economic impacts 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Economic impacts/Indirect economic impacts 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic impacts/Indirect economic impacts 204 Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Economic impacts/Procurement practices 205 Anti-corruption 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Economic impacts/Anti-corruption The number and percentage of assessments have not Risks related to corruption are X been reported. Risks related to corruption have not discussed as part of Kesko's been specified in detail. risk management. Key risks are identified and assessed regularly throughout the year. 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Economic impacts/Anti-corruption Percentages have not been reported. Information not X policies and procedures available. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Economic impacts/Anti-corruption X 206 Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiEconomic impacts/Anti-competitive behaviour trust, and monopoly practices Environmental impacts 301 Materials 301-3 Materials used by weight or volume Environmental impacts/Effluents and waste Percentage calculation model in accordance with the GRI standard is no applicable to Kesko's operations. 302 Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Environmental impacts/Energy X 302-2 Energy consumption outside the organisation Environmental impacts/Emissions Only limited information on energy consumption X outside the organisation is compiled for Scope 3 review (305-3). 302-3 Energy intensity Environmental impacts/Energy X 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environmental impacts/Energy X KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 164 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 303 Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environmental impacts/Water X 304 Biodiversity 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services Environmental impacts/Biodiversity X on biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental impacts/Biodiversity X 305 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental impacts/Emissions 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental impacts/Emissions Emissions from district heat in Finland and emissions in X the other operating countries have not been reported according to the marketbased method, because the Information was not collected. 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environmental impacts/Emissions X 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental impacts/Emissions X 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environmental impacts/Emissions Review has not been made in CO2e tonnes. X 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulphur oxides (SOx), and other Environmental impacts/Emissions X significant air emissions 306 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environmental impacts/Effluents and waste X Social impacts 401 Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Social impacts/Employment New employee hires have not been reported by age X group. Turnover rate has not been reported by age group and gender. Information is not available. The aim is to report the information in 2017–2018. 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Social impacts/Employment Benefits exceeding the statutory level have not been provided to temporary or part-time employees reported in detail. Practices vary in different operating countries. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 165 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 402 Labour/Management relations 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Social impacts/Labour/Management relations X changes 403 Occupational health and safety 403-1 Workers' representation in in formal joint management Social impacts/Occupational health and safety Percentage of employees has not been reported. – worker health and safety committees Information not available. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Social impacts/Occupational health and safety Not reported by gender. Information not available. diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of The aim is to report the information in 2017–2018. work-related fatalities Reporting does not cover suppliers and service providers. 404 Training and education 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Social impacts/Training and education Not reported by gender and employee category. X Information not available. 404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and Social impacts/Training and education transition assistance programmes 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular Social impacts/Training and education Not reported by gender and employee category. X performance and career developmetn reviews Information not available. 405 Social impacts/Training and education 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Social impacts/Diversity and equal opportunities Not reported by gender and employee category. X Information not available. The aim is to report age group information in 2017–2018. 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to Social impacts/Diversity and equal opportunities The ratio of basic salary of men and women has not X men been reported. Information not available. The aim is to report the information in 2017–2018. 406 Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Social impacts/Non-discrimination X taken KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 166 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 407 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Social impacts/Freedom of association and collective X of association and collective bargaining may be at risk bargaining 412 Human rights assessment 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights Social impacts/Human rights assessment X reviews or impact assessments 412-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Social impacts/Supplier social assessment X actions taken 414 Supplier social assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Social impacts/Supplier social assessment The percentage of suppliers screened has not been separately reported out of new suppliers but out of all suppliers in high-risk countries. 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and Social impacts/Supplier social assessment actions taken 415 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions Social impacts/Public policy X 416 Customer health and safety 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Social impacts/Customer health and safety Percentage calculation model in accordance with the product and service categories GRI standard is no applicable to Kesko's operations. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health Social impacts/Customer health and safety and safety impacts of products and services 417 Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and Social impacts/Marketing and labelling labelling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and Social impacts/Marketing and labelling service information and labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing Social impacts/Marketing and labelling communications KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 167 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Code* GRI content Location Omissions Further information Global Compact 418 Customer privacy 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of Social impacts/Customer privacy customer privacy and losses of customer data 419 Socioeconomic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Social impacts/Socioeconomic compliance and economic area * All standards: version 2016. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 168 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Practitioner’s responsibility ­Report Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the CR Information and on the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our work in accordance (Translation from the Finnish original) with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised) “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information”. That Standard TO THE MANAGEMENT OF KESKO CORPORATION requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether We have been engaged by the Management of Kesko Corporation (hereinafter also the Comthe CR Information is free from material misstatement. pany) to perform a limited assurance engagement on the economic, social and environmental performance indicators for the reporting period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 disclosed In addition, we have conducted our work in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard on Kesko Corporation’s website in the “GRI report” section of “Kesko’s Annual report 2016” 2008. For conducting a Type 2 assurance engagement as agreed with the Company, this Stand(hereinafter CR Information). ard requires planning and performing of the assurance engagement to obtain moderate (limited) assurance on whether any matters come to our attention that cause us to believe that Kesko In terms of the Company’s GRI Standards reporting and GRI content index, the scope of the asCorporation does not adhere, in all material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles surance has covered economic, social and environmental disclosures listed within the Topic-speand that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting cific Standards as well as Disclosures 102-8, 102-41 and 102-54 of the Universal Standards. criteria. Furthermore, the assurance engagement has covered Kesko Corporation’s adherence to the In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than for AA1000 AccountAbility Principles with moderate (limited) level of assurance. a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. An assurance engagement involves performing procedures to obtain Management’s responsibility evidence about the amounts and other disclosures in the CR Information, and about the ComThe Management of Kesko Corporation is responsible for preparing the CR Information in acpany’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. The procedures selected depend on cordance with the Reporting criteria as set out in the Company’s reporting instructions and the the practitioner’s judgement, including an assessment of the risks of material misstatement of GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative. The Management of Kesko Corporation is also the CR Information and an assessment of the risks of the Company’s material nonadherence to responsible for such internal control as the management determines is necessary to enable the the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. preparation of the CR Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Management of Kesko Corporation is also responsible for the Company’s adherence to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles of inclusivity, materiality and responsiveness as set out in AccountAbility’s AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 169 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our work consisted of, amongst others, the following procedures: When reading our assurance report, the inherent limitations to the accuracy and completeness of corporate responsibility information should be taken into consideration. • Interviewing senior management of the Company. • Interviewing employees from various organisational levels of the Company with regards to Our assurance report has been prepared in accordance with the terms of our engagement. We materiality, stakeholder expectations, meeting of those expectations, as well as stakeholder do not accept, or assume responsibility to anyone else, except to Kesko Corporation for our engagement. work, for this report, or for the conclusions that we have reached. • Assessing stakeholder inclusivity and responsiveness based on the Company’s documentation and internal communication. Observations and recommendations Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, we provide the • Assessing the Company’s defined material corporate responsibility aspects as well as assessfollowing observations and recommendations in relation to Kesko Corporation’s adherence to ing the CR Information based on these aspects. the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. These observations and recommendations do not affect • Analysing references to the Company from the reporting period in online media. the conclusions presented earlier. • Visiting the Company’s Head Office as well as one site in Russia. • Inclusivity: The Company has processes in place for stakeholder inclusivity, collection of • Interviewing employees responsible for collecting and reporting the CR Information at the feedback and stakeholder engagement. During the past reporting period, the Company has Group level and at the site where our visit took place. developed the collection of feedback in various channels and systemized the analysis of feedback received. We recommend that the Company continues to develop its activities related to • Assessing how Group employees apply the reporting instructions and procedures of the stakeholder inclusivity. Company. • Materiality: The Company has a process in place to evaluate and determine the materiality of • Testing the accuracy and completeness of the information from original documents and syscorporate responsibility aspects. During 2016 the Company carried out corporate acquisitions tems on a sample basis. that widened the operations both geographically and division wise. We recommend that the Company assesses the need to update its materiality assessment taking into consideration the • Testing the consolidation of information and performing recalculations on a sample basis. possible new aspects and needs for changes deriving from the acquisitions. • Responsiveness: The Company takes its stakeholders’ expectations into account in its opLimited assurance conclusion erations and responds to them through the continuous development of its activities. During Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, nothing has 2016, the Company has increasingly identified the further growing expectations regarding corporate responsibility matters from the investor community. We recommend that the Comcome to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation does not adhere, in all pany further develops and widens the utilisation as well as offering of corporate responsibility material respects, to the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles. information to investors. Furthermore nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Kesko Corporation’s CR Information for the reporting period ended 31 December 2016 is not properly prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting criteria, or that the CR Information is not reliable, in all material respects, based on the Reporting criteria. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 170 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Practitioner’s independence, qualifications and quality control We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. Our multi-disciplinary team of corporate responsibility and assurance specialists possesses the requisite skills and experience within financial and non-financial assurance, corporate responsibility strategy and management, social and environmental issues, as well as the relevant industry knowledge, to undertake this assurance engagement. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Helsinki, 6 March 2017 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Enel Sintonen Sirpa Juutinen Partner, Authorised Public Accountant Partner Assurance Services Sustainability & Climate Change KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 171 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Contact persons Name Role Business unit This list gives contact information of the people who primarily provide additional information on Riikka Toivonen Head of Financial Communications Kesko Corporation, Group Identity different areas of the report. and Communications Lena Leeve Financial Communications Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity This list does not include all Kesko employees who have participated in editing the report. and Communications Esko Mansikka Managing Director Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy Email addresses: firstname.lastname@kesko.fi Human resources responsibility: Matti Mettälä Executive Vice President, Human Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR Name Role Business unit resources Development, coordination and responsibility for report editing: Kati Matela Specialist, HRIS Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Common Services Controlling Katriina Ahtee Director, OHS & Wellbeing Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Riikka Toivonen Head of Financial Communications Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Common Services and Communications Mikko Myyryläinen Director, HR Services Kesko Corporation, Kesko HR / Lena Leeve Financial Communications Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Common Services and Communications Responsible purchasing: Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Sohvi Vähämaa Corporate Responsibility Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Responsibility and Communications and Communications Pirjo Nieminen Corporate Responsibility Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Tuuli Luoma Product Group Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Communications Specialist and Communications Mia Haavisto Quality Manager Kespro Ltd Financial responsibility: Johanna Teinilä-Kurvinen Project Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Jukka Erlund Senior Vice President, CFO Kesko Corporation, Accounting, Leena Takaveräjä Purchasing Manager Kesko's building and technical trade, Finance and IT commerce Eva Kaukinen Vice President, Group Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling Tiina Nyrhi Corporate Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling Erika Välkkynen Financial Controller Kesko Corporation, Group Controlling KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 172 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Name Role Business unit Product safety: Matti Kalervo Vice President, Corporate Kesko Corporation, Group Identity Responsibility and Product Safety and Communications Heta Rautpalo Product Research Manager Kesko's grocery trade, Product Research Environmental responsibility: Minna Saari Environmental Specialist Kesko Corporation, Group Identity and Communications Timo Jäske Sustainability Manager Kesko's grocery trade, commerce Jari Suuronen Technical Building Services Manager Kesko's grocery trade, store sites and retailer operations Jesse Mether Sustainability Manager Kesko's building and technical trade, commerce Harri Jyränkö Development Manager VV-Autotalot Oy Hannu Pekuri Group Development and Quality Onninen Oy (hannu.pekuri@onninen.com) Manager Corporate governance, risk management and corporate security: Anne Leppälä-Nilsson Executive Vice President, Group Kesko Corporation, Legal Affairs Counsel Pasi Mäkinen Chief Audit Executive Kesko Corporation, Internal Audit Ismo Riitala Vice President, Risk Management Kesko Corporation, Accounting, and Strategy Process Finance and IT Privacy protection/customer loyalty system: Tapio Näveri Director, Plussa concept and Kesko Corporation, K Digital customer service Kaija Kuusimaa Corporate Counsel, Privacy Officer Kesko Corporation, Legal Affairs KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 173 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report by the board of directors 175 Group's key performance indicators 189 Calculation of performance indicators 196 Analysis of shareholding 197 Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) 200 Consolidated income statement 200 Consolidated statement of financial position 202 Consolidated statement of cash flows 203 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 204 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 206 Parent company's financial statement (FAS) 278 Parent company's income statement 278 Parent company's balance sheet 279 Parent company's cash flow statement 281 Notes to the parent company's financial statements 282 Financial Signatures 294 statements Auditor's report 294 Kesko's Annual Report 2016 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report by the Board of Directors Financial performance tries, net sales increased by 26.0% and in local currencies, acquisitions and disposals excluded, by 3.9%. International operations accounted for 20.3% (18.9%) of net sales. Net sales and profit for 2016 The Group’s net sales were €10,180 million, which is 17.3% up on the corresponding period of the The Group’s comparable operating profit was €272.9 million (€244.5 million). In the grocery previous year (€8,679 million). Acquisitions and disposals excluded, net sales in local currencies trade, profitability was good. Comparable operating profit remained at the previous year’s level grew by 1.6%. Suomen Lähikauppa Oy has been consolidated into Kesko Group as of 12 April 2016, while an intensive reform of business operations was carried out, the acquisition of Suomen Onninen Group as of 1 June 2016 and Oy AutoCarrera Ab as of 1 December 2016. The Russian Lähikauppa was implemented and its integration into Kesko’s business operations was started. business of the grocery trade is included in the figures until 30 November 2016 and Anttila was The real estate arrangement completed in June 2015 had a €6.5 million negative impact on the included in the figures for the comparative period until 16 March 2015. comparable operating profit of the grocery trade. In the building and technical trade, profitability was improved by the acquisition of Onninen during the financial period, the disposal of InterIn the grocery trade, the 12.0% net sales growth was significantly attributable to the acquisition of sport’s business in Russia, the good profit performance in the building and home improvement Suomen Lähikauppa. Net sales in local currencies, excluding Suomen Lähikauppa and the Russian trade in Lithuania and Sweden, in the agricultural and machinery trade and in the furniture trade, business, were down 0.2%. In the building and technical trade, net sales increased by 26.2% and as well as the divestment of Anttila completed in the previous year. In the car trade, profitabilin local currencies, excluding Onninen and Anttila, by 2.1%. In the car trade, net sales were up ity continued to improve thanks to good sales performance. The total impact of the real estate markedly, by 13.5%, and excluding the acquisition of AutoCarrera, by 13.0%. The Group’s net sales arrangement completed in June 2015 on the Group’s comparable operating profit in the grocery in Finland increased by 15.3%, and acquisitions and disposals excluded, by 1.1%. In the other countrade and the building and technical trade was €-8.4 million. Operating The operating profit was €146.8 million (€194.6 million). The items affecting comparability toNet sales Change Change in local currency excl. profit* Change talled €-126.2 million (€-49.9 million). The most significant items affecting comparability includ1–12/2016 € million % ­acquisitions and disposals,% € million € million ed a €69.2 million loss on the disposal of the Russian grocery trade, €30.0 million in impairment Grocery trade 5,236 +12.0 -0.2 175.9 -1.5 charges, €11.4 million in costs related to the conversion of Suomen Lähikauppa’s chains, and Building and 4,100 +26.2 +2.1 97.9 +34.4 €6.9 million in asset transfer taxes on acquisitions included in structural arrangements. Due to technical trade the change in the Russian real estate market, the functional currency of the building and home Car trade 849 +13.5 +13.0 29.5 +3.4 improvement trade’s Russian properties was changed from euro to rouble on 31 December 2016, Common functions -5 (..) (..) -30.5 -7.7 and as a result, a €15 million impairment charge was allocated to the properties. In the previous and eliminations year, the items affecting the comparability of the operating profit included a €130 million loss on Total 10,180 +17.3 +1.6 272.9 +28.5 the divestment of Anttila and €101 million in gains on the disposal of real estate. * Comparable (..) Change over 100% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 175 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Items affecting comparability, € million 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Taxes Comparable operating profit 272.9 244.5 The Group's taxes were €31.4 million (€70.7 million). The effective tax rate was 21.6% (37.6%). Items affecting comparability +gains on disposal +4.2 +101.2 Capital expenditure The Group's capital expenditure totalled €743.1 million (€218.5 million), or 7.3% (2.5%) of net -losses on disposal -71.0 -131.8 sales. Capital expenditure in store sites was €216.7 million (€166.7 million), in acquisitions €461.6 -impairment charges -30.0 million, in IT €29.3 million (€20.4 million) and other capital expenditure was €35.5 million (€31.4 +/-structural arrangements -23.1 -19.3 million). +/-others -6.3 +0.0 Total items affecting comparability -126.2 -49.9 Personnel Operating profit 146.8 194.6 The average number of personnel in Kesko Group was 22,476 (18,956) converted into full-time employees. The increase was due to the acquisitions of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen. At the end of December 2016, the number of personnel was 27,656 (21,935), of whom 14,845 The Group's profit before tax was €145.2 million (€188.0 million). The Group’s earnings per share were (10,081) worked in Finland and 12,811 (11,854) outside Finland. The number of Suomen Lähikaup€0.99 (€1.03). The Group’s equity per share was €20.44 (€21.82). pa’s personnel was 3,129, that of Onninen 3,068 and that of AutoCarrera 37. K Group's (i.e. Kesko's and the chain stores') retail and B2B sales (VAT 0%) were €12,463 million, up Segments 14.6% compared to the previous year. The K-Plussa customer loyalty programme gained 73,218 new households in 2016. At the end of December, there were 2.3 million K-Plussa households and 3.6 million Seasonal nature of operations K-Plussa cardholders. The Group’s operating activities are affected by seasonal fluctuations. The net sales and the operating profits of the reportable segments are not earned evenly throughout the year. Instead, Finance they vary by quarter depending on the characteristics of each segment. In terms of the level The cash flow from operating activities was €170.2 million (€276.4 million). The cash flow from of operating profit, the second and third quarter are strongest, whereas the impact of the first investing activities was €-501.1 million (€217.1 million). The cash flow impact of the disposal of quarter on the full year profit is smallest. The acquisitions of Suomen Lähikauppa and Onninen the Russian grocery trade business on the cash flows from investing activities was €167.0 million. increase the seasonal fluctuations between quarters. The operating profit levels of Onninen and Suomen Lähikauppa are lowest for the first quarter. At the end of December, liquid assets totalled €391 million (€887 million). Interest-bearing liabilities were €515 million (€439 million) and interest-bearing net debt was €123 million (€-448 million) at the end of December. The equity ratio was 48.6% (54.7%). The Group's net finance costs were €1.0 million (€7.1 million). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 176 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Grocery trade services improve significantly and the acquisition provides significant economies of scale and 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 synergies for Kesko. In November, the Russian grocery trade was disposed of, the growth of Net sales, € million 5,236 4,673 which would have required significant capital expenditures. Operating profit, comparable, € million 175.9 177.5 The comparable operating profit of the grocery trade was €175.9 million (€177.5 million). CompaOperating margin, comparable, % 3.4 3.8 rable operating profit remained at the previous year’s level while an intensive reform of business Capital expenditure, € million 238.1 128.9 operations was carried out, the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa was implemented and its integration into Kesko’s business operations was started. Profitability was improved by cost savings Net sales, € million 1–12/2016 Change, % and the synergies achieved from the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa. The real estate arrangeSales to K-food stores 3,161 -0.0 ment completed in June 2015 had a €6.5 million negative impact on comparable operating profit. K-Citymarket, home and speciality goods 588 +0.0 The operating profit of the grocery trade was €93.0 million (€249.4 million). The items affecting Suomen Lähikauppa 575 comparability were €-82.9 million (€71.9 million) the most important of which are the €69.2 Kespro 804 +1.5 million loss on the disposal of the Russian grocery trade and the €11.4 million expenses related to the conversion of Siwas and Valintatalos into K-Markets. Suomen Lähikauppa contributed €-7.4 K-ruoka, Russia 105 -1.9 million, and taking synergies into account, €-3.2 million to the comparable operating profit. Others 4 -85.9 Total 5,236 +12.0 The capital expenditure of the grocery trade was €238.1 million (€128.9 million), of which €159.6 million (€117.7 million) was in store sites and €54.3 million in acquisitions. The net sales of the grocery trade were €5,236 million (€4,673 million), representing a growth of Building and technical trade 12.0%. Suomen Lähikauppa and the Russian business excluded, net sales performance was -0.2%. 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 The grocery sales of K-food stores in Finland increased by 0.5% (VAT 0%) (excluding Suomen Net sales, € million 4,100 3,250 Lähikauppa) and Suomen Lähikauppa included, by 12.1%. In the grocery market in Finland, retail Comparable operating profit, € million 97.9 63.6 prices are estimated to have changed by approximately -0.6% compared to the previous year Comparable operating margin,% 2.4 2.0 (VAT 0%; Kesko’s own estimate based on the Consumer Price Index of Statistics Finland) and the Capital expenditure, € million 451.7 55.3 total market (VAT 0%) is estimated to have increased by approximately 1% (Kesko’s own estimate). The acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa was completed on 12 April 2016 and the conversion of the Siwa and Valintatalo stores into K-Market stores was begun in May. By the end of the year, 223 Siwas and Valintatalos had been converted into K-Markets. At the same time, the renewal of the entire K-Market chain started. As a result of the acquisition, Kesko’s neighbourhood retail KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 177 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Net sales, € million 1–12/2016 Change,% net sales grew in Sweden by 4.7%, in Norway by 0.6% and in Russia by 0.3%. In the building Building and home improvement trade, Finland 826 +4.1 and home improvement trade, growth strengthened especially in B2B trade. In the building and K-rauta, Sweden 217 +3.6 technical trade, the market share of K Group’s building and home improvement trade is estimatByggmakker, Norway 402 -3.8 ed to have strengthened especially in Finland, Sweden, the Baltics and Belarus. K Group's sales K-rauta, Russia 174 -9.5 of building and home improvement products in Finland increased by a total of 4.3% and the total market (VAT 0%) is estimated to have grown by approximately 1.9% (Kesko's own estimate). Kesko Senukai, Baltics 486 +5.7 OMA, Belarus 101 -12.7 The net sales of the agricultural and machinery trade were €608 million (€615 million), down Onninen 908 1.1% compared to the previous year. Net sales in Finland were €479 million, down 4.2%. The net Agricultural and machinery trade 608 -1.1 sales from foreign operations were €129 million, up 12.3%. The retail sales of the K-maatalous Intersport, Finland 178 +2.1 chain in Finland were €424 million, down 3.1%. Indoor 187 +4.3 Others 30 -70.9 The net sales of the leisure trade in Finland were €197 million (€193 million), an increase of 2.0%. Total 4,100 +26.2 The net sales of the furniture trade were €187 million (€179 million), which was up 4.3%. The net sales of the building and technical were €4,100 million (€3,250 million), up 26.2%. Net The comparable operating profit of the building and technical trade was €97.9 million (€63.6 sales in local currencies, excluding acquisitions, increased by 2.1%. million), up €34.4 million compared to the previous year. Profitability was improved by the acquisition of Onninen during the financial period, the disposal of Intersport’s Russian business, The net sales of the building and technical trade in Finland were €2,142 million (€1,719 million), as well as the good profit performance of the building and home improvement trade in Lithuania up 24.6%. Acquisitions and disposals excluded, net sales in Finland grew by 0.5%. The net sales and Sweden, in the agricultural and machinery trade and in the furniture trade. The profit for the from foreign operations were €1,959 million (€1,530 million), up 28.0%. In local currencies, comparative period includes a €12.7 million operating loss from Anttila divested in March 2015. excluding acquisitions and disposals, the net sales from foreign operations increased by 3.9%. Onninen’s contribution to the comparable operating profit was €18.2 million, adversely impacted Foreign operations contributed 47.8% (47.1%) to the net sales of the building and technical trade. by the fair value allocations of inventories written off in the amount of €5.1 million. The acquisition of Onninen was completed on 1 June 2016. Onninen’s net sales were €908 The operating profit of the building and technical trade was €60.8 million (€-57.2 million). The million. The acquisition accelerates the implementation of the international growth strategy of most significant items affecting comparability are the €15 million in impairment charges related Kesko’s building and technical trade and provides significant synergy potential. to the change of the functional currency of the Russian properties and the €5.8 million in asset transfer taxes related to acquisitions. In the previous year, the most significant items affecting The net sales of the building and home improvement trade were €2,196 million (€2,181 million), comparability included a €130 million loss on the divestment of Anttila and €28 million recogan increase of 0.7%. In local currencies, net sales were up by 3.7%. In respective local currencies, nized in gains on the disposal of real estate. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 178 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The capital expenditure of the building and technical trade totalled €451.7 million (€55.3 million), million, and the profit was adversely impacted by the fair value allocations of inventories written of which €380.1 million was in acquisitions and €55.8 million (€40.8 million) in store sites. The off in the amount of €0.1 million. acquisitions include €364.1 million for the acquisition of Onninen and €10.0 million for increasing the ownership interest in the Belarusian OMA. The capital expenditure of the car trade was €41.4 million (€16.0 million). Car trade Changes in the Group composition 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Kesko implemented the arrangement it had agreed in the autumn of 2015 to centralise its Baltic Net sales, € million 849 748 building and home improvement trade in UAB Senuku Prekybos centras (Senukai). The company's name has been changed to Kesko Senukai. In the arrangement, Kesko sold the shares in its Comparable operating profit, € million 29.5 26.1 wholly owned companies responsible for the operations of K-rauta stores in Estonia and Latvia Comparable operating margin,% 3.5 3.5 to its subsidiary Senukai, in which Kesko has a majority interest. (Stock exchange release on 1 Capital expenditure, € million 41.4 16.0 April 2016). Net sales, € million 1–12/2016 Change,% Kesko Food Ltd, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, acquired the whole share capital of Suomen VV-Auto 845 +13.0 Lähikauppa Oy from the private equity investment firm Triton. (Stock exchange release on 12 AutoCarrera 4 April 2016). Suomen Lähikauppa Oy was renamed to K-Market Oy in August. Total 849 +13.5 Kesko Corporation acquired Onninen Oy's whole share capital from Onvest Oy. The acquisition The net sales of the car trade were €849 million (€748 million), up 13.5%. The combined market does not include Onninen’s steel business or Russian subsidiary. (Stock exchange release on 1 performance of first registrations of passenger cars and vans was 10.2% (2.8%). The combined June 2016). market share of passenger cars and vans imported by VV-Auto was 18.8% (19.1%) and Volkswagen was the most registered passenger car brand in 2016. In June, the Group’s ownership interest in the Group’s Belarusian subsidiary OMA increased to 25% (previously 9%). On 1 December 2016, VV-Auto acquired the share capital of Oy Autocarrera Ab and as a result, the import and retailing of Porsche transferred to VV-Auto. In December, AutoCarrera’s net sales were In July, Kesko Corporation disposed of the Intersport business in Russia. €4.4 million. The net sales growth of the car trade, excluding AutoCarrera’s impact, was 13.0%. In September, Kesko acquired the Russian project business from Onvest Oy. The profitability of the car trade continued to improve thanks to good sales performance. The comparable operating profit was €29.5 million (€26.1 million). The operating profit was €28.9 Kesko Corporation’s wholly owned subsidiaries Rautakesko Ltd, Keslog Ltd and Musta Pörssi Ltd million (€26.1 million). Comparability was affected by the €0.6 million expenses related to the acmerged into Kesko Corporation on 31 October 2016. quisition of Oy AutoCarrera Ab. AutoCarrera’s impact on comparable operating profit was €0.0 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 179 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In November, Kesko Food Russia Holding Oy, part of Kesko Group, sold its grocery trade In 2016, a total of 1.7 million (2.4 million) A shares were traded on Nasdaq Helsinki, a decrease business in Russia and the real estate companies related to the operations to Lenta Ltd. (Stock of 26.7%. The exchange value of A shares was €65 million. The number of B shares traded was exchange release on 30 November 2016). 51.6 million (59.4 million), a decrease of 13.2%. The exchange value of B shares was €2,015 million. Nasdaq Helsinki accounted for 55% of the Kesko A and B share trading in 2016. Kesko In December, Kesko Corporation's subsidiary VV-Auto Group Oy acquired the whole share shares were also traded on multilateral trading facilities, the most significant of which were BATS capital of Oy AutoCarrera Ab. As a result of the transaction, the import and retailing of Porsche Chi-X with 27% and Turquoise with 16% of the trading (source: Fidessa). have transferred to VV-Auto (Stock exchange release on 14 November 2016, 24 November 2016 and on 1 December 2016). During the financial year, the Board had the authority to decide on the transfer of a maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares. On 3 February 2016, the Board Shares, securities market and Board authorisations decided to grant own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares to persons included in At the end of December 2016, the total number of Kesko Corporation shares was 100,019,752, the target group of the 2015 vesting period, based on this share issue authorisation and the of which 31,737,007, or 31.7%, were A shares and 68,282,745, or 68.3%, were B shares. At 31 Defulfilment of the vesting criteria of the 2015 vesting period of Kesko’s three-year share-based cember 2016, Kesko Corporation held 746,109 own B shares as treasury shares. These treasury compensation plan. This transfer of a total of 137,054 own B shares was announced in a stock shares accounted for 1.09% of the number of B shares, 0.75% of the total number of shares, and exchange release on 17 March 2016, and the transfer of 2,670 own B shares was announced in 0.19% of votes attached to all shares of the Company. The total number of votes attached to all a stock exchange release on 27 April 2016. Based on the 2014-2016 share-based compensation shares was 385,652,815. Each A share carries ten (10) votes and each B share one (1) vote. The plan decided by the Board, a total maximum of 600,000 own B shares held by the Company as Company cannot vote with own shares held by it as treasury shares and no dividend is paid on treasury shares can be granted within a period of three years based on the fulfilment of the vestthem. At the end of December 2016, Kesko Corporation's share capital was €197,282,584. ing criteria. The Board decides on the vesting criteria and the target group separately for each vesting period. The share-based compensation plan was announced in a stock exchange release The price of a Kesko A share quoted on Nasdaq Helsinki was €31.12 at the end of 2015, and on 4 February 2014. During the year, a total of 8,256 shares granted based on the fulfilment of €43.85 at the end of December 2016, representing an increase of 40.9%. Correspondingly, the vesting criteria of the share-based compensation plans (the 2011-2013 and the 2014-2016 the price of a B share was €32.37 at the end of 2015, and €47.48 at the end of December 2016, share-based compensation plans) was returned to the Company in accordance with the terms representing an increase of 46.7%. The highest A share price was €44.54 and the lowest was and conditions of the share-based compensation plans. The returns during the reporting period €28.98. The highest B share price was €48.48 and the lowest was €29.56. The Nasdaq Helsinki were notified in a stock exchange release on 17 March 2016, 31 March 2016, 27 April 2016, 30 All-Share index (OMX Helsinki) was up by 3.6% and the weighted OMX Helsinki Cap index by May 2016 and 15 November 2016. 8.2%. The Retail Sector Index was up by 40.6%. Kesko’s Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2016 authorised the Company’s Board to make At the end of December 2016, the market capitalisation of A shares was €1,392 million, while decisions concerning the transfer of a total maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares held by the that of B shares was €3,207 million, excluding the shares held by the parent company as treasury Company as treasury shares (the 2016 share issue authorisation). The authorisation cancelled shares. The combined market capitalisation of A and B shares was €4,598 million, an increase of the earlier share issue authorisation corresponding in content. Based on the authorisation, own €1,429 million from the end of 2015. B shares held by the Company as treasury shares can be issued for subscription by shareholders in a directed issue in proportion to their existing holdings of the Company shares, regardless of KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 180 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE whether they own A or B shares. Shares can also be issued in a directed issue, departing from possible acquisitions, capital expenditure or other arrangements within the scope of the Compathe shareholder's pre-emptive right, for a weighty financial reason of the Company, such as ny's business operations. The amount paid for the shares is recognised in the reserve of invested using the shares to develop the Company's capital structure, to finance possible acquisitions, non-restricted equity. The authorisation also includes the Board's authority to decide on the capital expenditure or other arrangements within the scope of the Company's business operashare subscription price, the right to issue shares for non-cash consideration and the right to tions, and to implement the Company's commitment and incentive scheme. Own B shares held make decisions on other matters concerning share issues. by the Company as treasury shares can be transferred either against or without payment. A share issue can only be without payment, if the Company, taking into account the best interests At the end of December 2016, the number of shareholders was 39,404, which is 125 less than of all of its shareholders, has a particularly weighty financial reason for it. The authorisation also at the end of 2015. At the end of December, foreign ownership of all shares was 32%. Foreign includes the Board’s authority to make decisions concerning any other matters related to share ownership of B shares was 46% at the end of December. issues. The amount possibly paid for the Company’s own shares is recorded in the reserve of unrestricted equity. The authorisation is valid until 30 June 2020. Flagging notifications Kesko Corporation did not receive any flagging notifications during the reporting period. The Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2016 also approved the Board's proposal for its authorisation to decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares of the Key events during the reporting period Company (the 2016 authorisation to acquire own shares). B shares are acquired with the ComTomi Korpisaari, a member of Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors, announced that he would pany's distributable unrestricted equity, not in proportion to the shareholdings of shareholders, resign from the Company's Board of Directors for reasons of health as of 1 March 2016. Kaariat the market price quoted in public trading organised by Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd ( the exchange ) na Ståhlberg was appointed General Counsel and member of the Management Board of Posti at the date of acquisition. The shares are acquired and paid in accordance with the rules of the Group Corporation as of 1 March 2016, as a result of which Ståhlberg announced that she would exchange. The acquisition of own shares reduces the amount of the Company's distributable resign from Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors as of 1 March 2016. (Stock exchange release unrestricted equity. B shares are acquired for use in the development of the Company's capital on 5 February 2016 and 15 February 2016) structure, to finance possible acquisitions, capital expenditure and/or other arrangements within the scope of the Company's business operations, and to implement the Company's commitment The arrangement agreed by Kesko in the autumn of 2015 to centralise the Baltic building and and incentive scheme. The Board makes decisions concerning any other issues related to the home improvement trade in UAB Senuku Prekybos centras (Senukai) was completed. The acquisition of own B shares. The authorisation is valid until 30 September 2017. company's name has been changed to Kesko Senukai. In the arrangement, Kesko sold the shares in its wholly owned companies responsible for the operations of K-Rauta stores in Estonia and In addition, the Board has a share issue authorisation according to which the Board is authorLatvia to its subsidiary Senukai, in which Kesko has a majority interest. (Stock exchange release ised to issue a maximum of 20,000,000 new B shares (the 2015 share issue authorisation). on 1 April 2016) The authorisation is valid until 30 June 2018. The shares can be issued against payment to be subscribed by shareholders in a directed issue in proportion to their existing holdings of the The transaction agreed between Kesko Corporation's subsidiary Kesko Food and the private eqCompany shares regardless of whether they hold A or B shares, or, departing from the shareuity investment firm Triton to acquire Suomen Lähikauppa was completed. The debt-free price of holder's pre-emptive right, in a directed issue, if there is a weighty financial reason for the the acquisition, structured as a share purchase, was €54 million. In 2015, Suomen Lähikauppa's Company, such as using the shares to develop the Company's capital structure and financing net sales were €935.7 million, it had around 600 Siwa and Valintatalo stores and around 3,800 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 181 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE employees. The Finnish Competition and Consumer Authority (FCCA) announced their approval Events after the reporting period of the acquisition on 11 April 2016. The permission contains conditions imposed by the FCCA. The court of arbitration dismissed Voimaosakeyhtiö SF's action against Kestra KiinteistöpalveThe FCCA made the acquisition conditional on the sale of 60 stores of Suomen Lähikauppa Oy lut Oy concerning the further financing of the Fennovoima nuclear power plant project. (Stock to competitors. In case the sale of some store or some stores is not possible, the selling obligaexchange release on 10 January 2017) tion imposed on Kesko Food Ltd will cease. (Stock exchange release on 11 April 2016 and 12 April 2016) Resolutions of the 2016 Annual General Meeting and decisions of the Board's organisational meeting The transaction agreed between Kesko Corporation and Onvest Oy to acquire the whole share Kesko Corporation's Annual General Meeting, held on 4 April 2016, adopted the financial statecapital of Onninen Oy was completed. The acquisition does not include Onninen’s steel business ments and the consolidated financial statements for 2015 and discharged the Board members or Russian subsidiary. In 2015, the pro forma net sales of the acquired business were €1,465 and the Managing Director from liability. The General Meeting also resolved to distribute a million and the EBITDA was €39 million. The price of the debt-free acquisition, structured as a dividend of €2.50 per share as proposed by the Board, or a total amount of €248,195,187.50. The share purchase, was €364 million. (Stock exchange release on 12 January 2016, 20 April 2016 dividend pay date was 13 April 2016. and 1 June 2016) The General Meeting resolved to leave the number of Board members unchanged at seven. The Johan Friman, 51, Master of Science (Economics), was appointed Executive Vice President reterm of office of each of the seven (7) Board members elected by the Annual General Meetsponsible for Kesko's car trade and President of VV-Auto Group Oy. He also became a member ing on 13 April 2015, i.e. retailer, Business College Graduate Esa Kiiskinen, retailer, Master of of Kesko's Group Management Board. Johan Friman took over his new position on 1 January Science in Economics Tomi Korpisaari, retailer, eMBA Toni Pokela, eMBA Mikael Aro, Master 2017 and Pekka Lahti, the current Executive Vice President for the car trade, will retire on a of Science in Economics Matti Kyytsönen, Master of Science in Economics Anu Nissinen and pension in accordance with his service contract on 1 April 2017. (Stock exchange release on 21 Master of Laws Kaarina Ståhlberg, will expire at the close of the 2018 Annual General Meeting September 2016) in accordance with Kesko's Articles of Association. Korpisaari and Ståhlberg had resigned from the membership of the Company's Board of Directors as of 1 March 2016. The General Meeting Kesko Food Russia Holding Oy, part of Kesko Group, sold its grocery trade business in Russia resolved to replace them by retailer, trade technician Matti Naumanen and Managing Director, to Lenta Ltd. The aggregate consideration for the disposal including sales price adjustment was Master of Science in Economics Jannica Fagerholm until the close of the Annual General Meetapproximately RUB 11.4 billion (approximately EUR 163 million). (Stock exchange release on 30 ing to be held in 2018. In addition, the General Meeting resolved to leave the Board members' November 2016) fees and the basis for reimbursement of expenses unchanged. Kesko Corporation's subsidiary VV-Auto Group Oy acquired the whole share capital of Oy The General Meeting elected the firm of auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, Authorised AutoCarrera Ab. As a result of the transaction, the import and retailing of Porsche transferred Public Accountants, as the Company's auditor with APA Mikko Nieminen as the auditor with to VV-Auto. The price of the acquisition, structured as a share purchase, was approximately principal responsibility. €27 million (Stock exchange release on 14 November 2016, 24 November 2016 and 1 December 2016) The General Meeting approved the Board's proposal for share issue authorisation according to which the Board may decide on the transfer of a total maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares held KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 182 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE by the Company as treasury shares (the 2016 share issue authorisation). The General Meeting Kespro was granted the MSC and ASC Chain of Custody the traceability certificate in April. also approved the Board's proposal for the authorisation to acquire own shares, according to All phases of Kespro's fish and shellfish supply chain have been audited, and Kespro and its cerwhich the Board may decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares of the tified customer restaurants can use MSC and ASC ecolabelling in their marketing. Company (the 2016 authorisation to acquire own shares). Kesko and the child rights organization Plan International Finland continue cooperating to imIn addition, the General Meeting approved the Board's proposal for its authorisation to decide prove the responsibility of the fishing industry and the situation of migrant workers in Thailand. on the donations in a total maximum of €300,000 for charitable or similar purposes until the As a part of the project, already 60 children from migrant families have been able to start school. Annual General Meeting to be held in 2017 and to decide on the donation recipients, purposes of use and other terms of the donations. Kesko's grocery trade and the Finnish cancer foundation Syöpäsäätiö signed an agreement on main sponsorship in the Pink ribbon campaign in May. The objective is to generate tenfold donaAfter the Annual General Meeting, Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors held an organisations to the fundraising from K-food stores compared to what they were before. tional meeting in which it elected M.Sc. (Econ.) Jannica Fagerholm as the Chair of the Audit Committee, re-elected eMBA Mikael Aro as its Deputy Chair and M.Sc. (Econ.) Matti Kyytsönen Pirkka Street Basket events were arranged in 16 localities in Finland in May. Pirkka Street Basket as its member. Business College Graduate Esa Kiiskinen (Ch.), Mikael Aro (Dep. Ch.) and M.Sc. 2016 is part of the Little Wolves project by the Finnish Basketball Association and Kesko's gro(Econ.) Anu Nissinen were re-elected to the Board's Remuneration Committee. cery trade that aims to promote physical activity for children. The resolutions of Annual General Meeting and the decisions of the Board’s organisational Kesko had Finland's largest property-specific solar utility built on the roof of K-citymarket meeting were announced in more detail in stock exchange releases on 4 April 2016. Tammisto in Vantaa in May-June. The peak power of the solar utility is 503 kWp and it generates electricity for the property. Corporate responsibility Kesko was the best trading sector company (Food & Staples Retailing) on 'The Global 100 Most The K-maatalous Experimental farm made a Baltic Sea Commitment to Baltic Sea Action Group, Sustainable Corporations' list of 2016. Kesko placed 15th on the list. BSAG, in June. The Experimental farm's commitment concentrates on developing soil condition and nutrient usage measurement practices and technology. In February, Kesko, Arla Finland, HKScan Finland and Unilever Finland initiated a Finnish soy commitment in cooperation with WWF Finland. The members of the commitment pledge to enKesko has completed a human rights impact assessment in compliance with UN's Guiding Princisure that by 2020, all the soy used in the production chain of their private label products will be ples on Business and Human Rights and published a human rights commitment on its web pages responsibly produced, either Round Table on Responsible Soy (RTRS) or ProTerra certified soy. in September. At the beginning of April, the Pirkka Thank the Producer product range expanded from meat In January-September, Pirkka 'Thank the Producer' products sold at K-food stores generated a products to milks. A certain proportion of the price of the products in the range is paid directly support amount of approximately €170,000 to be remitted to Finnish producers. The aim is to to Finnish producers. The objective of K Group is to support Finnish producers with hundreds of add more products to the product group, provided that their good sales performance continues. thousands of euros through the Thank the Producer operating model in 2016. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 183 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In September, K-food stores and Kesko joined the Consumer Association's Food Waste Week nection with K-food stores. The new investments will make K Group the biggest producer and Campaign to promote the reduction of food wastage and increase the appreciation of food. user of solar power in Finland. In September-October, K-food stores took part in the Pink Ribbon campaign raising funds Information contained in the notes to the financial statements for Finnish breast cancer research and cancer counselling. The aim is to increase tenfold the Information on the Group’s personnel is disclosed in note 6. Related party transactions are amounts donated by K-food stores to the Pink Ribbon campaign. disclosed in note 33. K-rauta is a partner in the Liiteri tool rental service trial targeted at urban home renovators, Risk management which was launched in September at Teurastamo, Helsinki. Risk management in Kesko Group is guided by the risk management policy approved by Kesko's Board of Directors. The policy defines the goals and principles, organisation, responsibilities Kesko received the A– score in CDP’s Climate Change Disclosure inquiry. and practices of risk management in Kesko Group. The management of financial risks is based on the Group's finance policy confirmed by Kesko's Board of Directors. The managements of Kesko participates in the 2017–2025 action plan of the commerce sector Energy Efficiency the business and the common functions are responsible for the execution of risk management. Agreement. In accordance with the agreement, Kesko commits itself to reducing its energy Kesko Group applies a business-oriented and comprehensive approach to risk assessment and consumption by 7.5% through various saving measures. All K Group store chains are included in management. This means that key risks are systematically identified, assessed, managed, monithe agreement. tored and reported as part of business operations at the Group, division and function levels in all operating countries. K Group is committed to the EU’s aim to keep the annual consumption of plastic bags below 40 bags per inhabitant. Actions to achieve this target include charging a price for plastic bags and Kesko Group's risks are considered by the Kesko Board's Audit Committee in connection with providing alternative shopping bags. the quarterly interim reports, the half year financial report and the financial statements. The Audit Committee Chair reports on risk management to the Board as part of the Audit Committee Kesko’s updated operating principles, the K Code of Conduct, outline the shared guidelines for report. The most significant risks and uncertainties are reported to the market by the Board in the work of all Kesko personnel and business partners. the Report by the Board of Directors and any material changes in them in the interim reports and the half year financial report. Kesko is committed to support the UN Sustainable Development Goals, the SDGs, in its operations. The website ’UN Sustainable Development Goals and Kesko’, published in November, The following describes the risks and uncertainties assessed as significant. explains about the actions taken to contribute to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. In December, K Group started the building of seven new solar power plants on the rooftops of K-food stores. By summer 2017, there will be as many as 15 solar power plants operating in conKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 184 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Significant risks and uncertainties Strong change in the trading sector caused by digitalisation In the midst of the retail transition, the achievement of business objectives requires an active Trends in purchasing power and trading sector demand especially in Finland approach and strong expertise in the development of digital services and online stores that The uncertain outlook for the Finnish economy, increases in taxes and public payments resulting are attractive to customers, and the use of a multichannel approach with supporting customer from the indebtedness of the public sector as well as high unemployment weaken purchasing communications. There is a risk that some of the traditional brick and mortar stores become power and consumer confidence and can cause a long-term decline in the level of demand. This unprofitable and that the progress of e-commerce and digital service development projects is would have negative repercussions especially on Kesko's building and technical trade and car outpaced by competitors. Competition can also be intensified by companies entering the value trade in Finland. chain of trade by introducing new business models. Decline in price levels and intensification of price competition in Finnish grocery trade Employee competencies and working capacity The level of food prices in Finland declined further in 2016. As consumers' purchasing power The implementation of strategies and the achievement of objectives require competent and has fallen in recent years, competition has become more intense and stores have lowered their motivated personnel. There is a risk that the trading sector does not attract the most competent prices in order to increase market shares. The decline in price levels and the intensified price people. The acquisitions in progress as well as other significant business and development procompetition can weaken the profitability of Kesko's grocery trade and retailers. jects, coupled with an increased need for special competencies increase the key-person risk and the dependency on individual expertise. Neighbourhood market strategy of grocery trade In 2016, Kesko acquired Suomen Lähikauppa as part of the neighbourhood market strategy imSuppliers and distribution channels plementation. The integration of Suomen Lähikauppa’s business operations into those of Kesko, In divisions strongly dependent on individual principals and suppliers, such as the car trade, ownthe conversion of Siwa and Valintatalo stores into K-Markets as well as the replacement of the ership arrangements and changes in the strategy of a principal or a supplier as well as changes stores’ business model by the retailer business model are significant change projects and the in product selections, product pricing and distribution channel solutions can mean weakened achievement of their objectives involves operational and financial risks. competitiveness, a decrease in sales or loss of business. Business arrangement of building and technical trade Product safety and supply chain quality The integration of the Onninen acquisition into Kesko’s business operations and the combination A failure in product safety control or in the quality assurance of the supply chain can result in of Kesko Senukai’s business in the Baltics are demanding and extended projects. The integration financial losses, the loss of customer confidence and reputation or, in the worst case, a health of business operations and the creation of uniform operating models involve risks that can make hazard to customers. the achievement of the operational and financial objectives and targets set for the arrangement more difficult. Store sites and properties With a view to business growth and profitability, good store sites are a key competitive factor. The acquisition of store sites can be delayed by town planning and permit procedures and the KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 185 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE availability and pricing of sites. Considerable amounts of capital or lease liabilities are tied up in Risks of damage properties for years. When the market situation changes, the business is rearranged, the signifiAccidents, natural phenomena and epidemics can cause significant damages to people, property cance of e-commerce grows, or a chain concept proves inefficient there is a risk that a store site or business. In addition, risks of damage may cause business interruptions that cannot be preor a property becomes unprofitable and operations are discontinued while long-term liabilities vented. There is also the risk that insurance policies do not cover all unexpected accidents and remain. damages, or covering them with insurance is not profitable. Business interruptions and information system failures Crime and malpractice The trading sector is characterised by increasingly complicated and long supply chains and a Crimes are increasingly committed through data networks and crime has become more internahigher dependency on information systems, data communications and external service protional and professional. A failure, especially if it affects the security of payment transactions and viders. Failures can be caused by hardware failures, software errors or external cyber threats. personal information, can cause losses, claims for damages and reputational harm. Extended malfunctions in information systems, payment transfers, or in other parts of the supply chain, can cause significant losses in sales and weaken customer satisfaction. Outlook Estimates for the outlook of Kesko Group's net sales and comparable operating profit are given Responsible operating practices and reputation management for the 12-month period following the reporting period (1/2017-12/2017) in comparison with the Various aspects of corporate responsibility, such as ensuring responsibility in the purchasing 12 months preceding the end of the reporting period (1/2016-12/2016). chain of products, fair and equal treatment of employees and environmental protection, are increasingly important to customers. Any failures of corporate responsibility would result in The general economic situation and the expected trend in consumer demand vary in Kesko’s negative publicity for Kesko and can cause operational and financial damages. different operating countries. In Finland, the trading sector is expected to grow slightly. In the Finnish grocery trade, intense competition is expected to continue. The market for the Finnish Compliance with laws and agreements building and technical trade is expected to improve slightly. In Sweden and Norway, the market Compliance with laws and agreements is an important part of Kesko's corporate responsibility. is expected to grow but at a somewhat slower rate. The trend in the Russian market is expected Non-compliance can result in fines, claims for damages and other financial losses, and a loss of to remain modest. In the Baltic countries, the market is expected to grow. confidence and reputation. Kesko Group's net sales for 2017 are expected to exceed the level of the previous year. The comReporting to market parable operating profit for 2017 is expected to exceed the level of 2016. Kesko's objective is to produce and publish reliable and timely information. If any information published by Kesko proved to be incorrect, or communications failed to meet regulations in other respects, it can result in losing investor and other stakeholder confidence and in possible sanctions. Significant business arrangements, tight disclosure schedules and the dependency on information systems create challenges to the accuracy of financial information. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 186 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Proposal for profit distribution Net sales Comparable operating profit The parent's distributable profits are €1,006,169,969.92, of which the profit for the financial year is €147,927,559.98. € million € million The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 April 2017 that a 10,000 300 273 8, 8,117 117 dividend of €2.00 per share be paid on shares held outside the Company at the date of dividend 7,9 ,924 24 7,661 7,401 7,042 239 233 244 230 distribution. No dividend is paid on own shares held by the Company as treasury shares at the record date of dividend distribution. 5,000 200 2, 2,063 063 At the date of the proposal for distributions of profits, 1 February 2017, a total of 99,273,643 1,7 1,762 62 1,654 1, 654 1,669 1, 669 1, 1,637 637 100 shares were held outside the Company, amounting to a total dividend of €198,547,286.00. 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Annual General Meeting Other countries 0 The Board of Directors decided to convene the Annual General Meeting at Messukeskus Finland 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Helsinki, on 3 April 2017 at 13.00. Kesko Corporation will publish a notice of the General Meeting at a later date. Profit before tax € million 300 242 210 200 188 145 145 100 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 187 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Comparable return on equity Comparable return on capital Equity ratio employed % % % 15 15 60 54.5% 54.5 % 54.5 % 54.5% % 54.7% 54.7 52.5 52.5% % 11.9% 11.9 % 48.6 48. 6% 48.6% 11.7 11.7% % 99.8% .8 % 99.8% .8 % 9.9% 9.9 % 10 10 40 9. .0% 8.2 8.2% % 77.7% .7 % 77.6% .6 % 6.9 6.9% % 5 5 20 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Capital expenditure Payout ratio Capital expenditure Comparable earnings/share and dividend/share € million % € million € 1000 200 1,000 3 2.50 743 146.7% 146.7 % 750 743 2. 2. 2.01 01 01 2. 00 00 2...00 150 750 2 1.68 1.68 1.70 1.7 0 1. 1.65 65 1.47 1.40 1.50 1.20 99 99.5 99.5% .5 % 91.1% 500 100 83.3% 500 81.8 81.8% % 378 1 378 219 50 250 17 1711 194 219 250 17 1711 194 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* 0 0 0 Comparable earnings/share, basic 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016* 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Dividend/share * Proposal to the General Meeting * Proposal * Proposalto the General to the Meeting General Meeting Payout ratio * Proposal to the General Meeting % KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 188 200 146.7 % STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group's key performance indicators 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Income statement Net sales € million 9,686 9,315 9,071 8,679 10,180 Change in net sales % 2.4 -3.8 -2.6 -4.3 17.3 Comparable operating profit € million 230.0 238.8 232.6 244.5 272.9 Comparable operating profit as percentage of net sales % 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.8 2.7 Profit for the year (incl. non-controlling interests) € million 136 185 108 117 114 Profit for the year as percentage of net sales % 1.4 2.0 1.2 1.4 1.1 Profitability Return on equity % 6.0 8.0 4.7 5.2 5.2 Comparable return on equity % 6.9 7.7 7.6 8.2 9.8 Return on capital employed % 8.3 10.2 6.4 9.3 6.4 Comparable return on capital employed % 9.0 9.8 9.9 11.7 11.9 Funding and financial position Interest-bearing net liabilities € million 135.3 -126.4 -99.2 -448.1 123.3 Gearing % 6.0 -5.4 -4.4 -20.0 5.8 Equity ratio % 52.5 54.5 54.5 54.7 48.6 Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA 0.4 -0.3 -0.3 -1.4 0.4 Other performance indicators Capital expenditure € million 378 171 194 219 743 Capital expenditure as percentage of net sales % 3.9 1.8 2.1 2.5 7.3 Cash flow from operating activities € million 382 414 304 276 170 Cash flow from investing activities € million -391 -152 -182 217 -501 Personnel, average for the period 19,747 19,489 19,976 18,955 22,476 Personnel, as at 31 Dec. 24,080 23,863 23,794 21,935 27,656 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 189 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Share performance indicators Earnings/share, diluted € 1.26 1.75 0.97 1.03 0.99 Earnings/share, basic € 1.27 1.75 0.97 1.03 0.99 Comparable earnings/share, basic € 1.47 1.68 1.65 1.70 2.01 Equity/share € 22.48 22.96 22.05 21.82 20.44 Dividend/share € 1.20 1.40 1.50 2.50 2.00* Payout ratio % 94.5 79.9 154.7 243.8 201.3* Comparable payout ratio % 81.8 83.3 91.1 146.7 99.5* Cash flow from operating activities/share, adjusted € 3.88 4.17 3.07 2.79 1.71 Price/earnings ratio (P/E), A share, adjusted 19.30 15.35 29.49 30.35 44.14 Price/earnings ratio (P/E), B share, adjusted 19.60 15.35 31.16 31.57 47.80 Effective dividend yield, A share % 4.9 5.2 5.3 8.0 4.6* Effective dividend yield, B share % 4.8 5.2 5.0 7.7 4.2* Share price as at 31 Dec. A share € 24.39 26.80 28.56 31.12 43.85 B share € 24.77 26.80 30.18 32.37 47.48 Average share price A share € 23.71 24.85 29.06 31.85 37.30 B share € 22.75 24.11 29.82 33.52 39.03 Market capitalisation as at 31 Dec., A share € million 774 851 906 988 1,392 Market capitalisation as at 31 Dec., B share € million 1,644 1,810 2,031 2,182 3,207 Turnover A share Million pcs 2 1 2 2 2 B share Million pcs 68 51 47 59 52 Relative turnover rate A share % 7.6 3.6 6.3 7.5 5.4 B share % 102.0 77.0 69.5 87.0 74.3 Diluted average number of shares Thousand pcs 98,472 99,136 99,161 99,114 99,249 Yield of A share for the last five financial years % -4.5 8.5 8.3 2.3 9.1 Yield of B share For the last five financial years % -3.7 13.7 10.1 3 18.6 For the last ten financial years % 14.6 13.4 10.2 7.7 6.6 * Proposal to the General Meeting KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 190 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Net sales by segment Operating profit by segment € million 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change,% € million 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change,% Grocery trade, Finland 5,131 4,566 12.4 Grocery trade 93.0 249.4 -156.4 Grocery trade, other countries* 105 107 -1.9 Building and technical trade 60.8 -57.2 118.0 Grocery trade, total 5,236 4,673 12.0 Car trade 28.9 26.1 2.8 of which intersegment trade 10 15 -34.3 Common functions and eliminations -36.0 -23.7 -12.2 Group total 146.8 194.6 -47.8 Building and technical trade, Finland 2,142 1,719 24.6 Building and technical trade, other countries* 1,959 1,530 28.0 Building and technical trade, total 4,100 3,250 26.2 Comparable operating profit by segment of which intersegment trade 11 1 (..) € million 1–12/2016 1–12/2015 Change,% Grocery trade 175.9 177.5 -1.5 Car trade, Finland 849 748 13.5 Building and technical trade 97.9 63.6 34.4 Car trade, total 849 748 13.5 Car trade 29.5 26.1 3.4 of which intersegment trade 0 0 -57.7 Common functions and eliminations -30.5 -22.7 -7.7 Group total 272.9 244.5 28.5 Common functions and eliminations -5 8 (..) Finland, total 8,117 7,042 15.3 Other countries, total* 2,063 1,637 26.0 Group total 10,180 8,679 17.3 * Net sales in countries other than Finland (..) Change over 100% KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 191 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group's performance indicators by quarter 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Net sales, € million 2,082 2,227 2,203 2,166 2,013 2,610 2,792 2,765 Change in net sales,% -2.2 -6.0 -4.4 -4.4 -3.3 17.2 26.7 27.6 Operating profit, € million -103.6 175.8 83.1 39.3 33.5 68.0 85.5 -40.3 Operating margin,% -5.0 7.9 3.8 1.8 1.7 2.6 3.1 -1.5 Comparable operating profit, € million 26.5 76.4 82.5 59.1 32.3 79.1 98.2 63.3 Comparable operating profit,% 1.3 3.4 3.7 2.7 1.6 3.0 3.5 2.3 Finance income/costs, € million -0.3 -4.2 -3.5 0.9 2.7 1.7 -1.1 -4.3 Profit before tax, € million -103.7 172.1 78.8 40.7 35.7 68.1 84.8 -43.5 Profit before tax,% -5.0 7.7 3.6 1.9 1.8 2.6 3.0 -1.6 Return on capital employed,% -18.1 31.9 17.6 8.2 6.7 12.3 13.6 -6.4 Comparable return on capital employed,% 4.6 13.9 17.5 12.4 6.5 14.3 15.6 10.1 Return on equity,% -19.9 28.0 8.9 4.8 5.1 9.8 12.8 -6.9 Comparable return on equity,% 3.1 10.6 10.6 9.2 4.8 11.7 14.7 8.4 Equity ratio,% 51.5 52.2 54.2 54.7 54.8 44.8 47.9 48.6 Capital expenditure, € million 51.5 58.6 41.5 66.9 51.4 512.7 73.6 105.4 Earnings/share, diluted, € -1.11 1.48 0.43 0.22 0.28 0.49 0.63 -0.40 Equity/share, € 21.30 21.21 21.41 21.82 22.13 20.31 20.84 20.44 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 192 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Items affecting comparability € million 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Items affecting comparability Gains on disposal 0.3 99.6 1.2 0.1 1.3 2.9 0.8 -0.8 Losses on disposal -130.6 -1.0 -0.2 -0.3 -0.1 -70.6 Impairment charges -7.9 -3.1 -18.9 Structural arrangements -19.3 0.0 -9.1 -4.6 -9.4 Others 0.2 0.9 -0.4 -0.7 3.3 -5.7 -3.9 Items in operating profit affecting comparability -130.1 99.4 0.7 -19.9 1.3 -11.1 -12.7 -103.6 Items in income taxes affecting comparability 2.1 -4.5 -10.4 -4.6 0.1 0.8 2.7 21.6 Total items affecting comparability -128.0 95.0 -9.7 -24.5 1.4 -10.3 -10.0 -82.0 Comparable operating profit Operating profit -103.6 175.8 83.1 39.3 33.5 68.0 85.5 -40.3 Net of Items in operating profit affecting comparability -130.1 99.4 0.7 -19.9 1.3 -11.1 -12.7 -103.6 Comparable operating profit 26.5 76.4 82.5 59.1 32.3 79.1 98.2 63.3 Comparable operating margin,% 1.3 3.4 3.7 2.7 1.6 3.0 3.5 2.3 Capital employed, average 2,295 2,204 1,889 1,907 1,990 2,207 2,523 2,497 Comparable return on capital employed,% 4.6 13.9 17.5 12.4 6.5 14.3 15.6 10.1 Comparable profit before tax Profit before tax -103.7 172.1 78.8 40.7 35.7 68.1 84.8 -43.5 Net of Items in operating profit affecting comparability -130.1 99.4 0.7 -19.9 1.3 -11.1 -12.7 -103.6 Comparable profit before tax 26.4 72.7 78.2 60.6 34.5 79.2 97.5 60.2 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 193 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Items affecting comparability € million 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Comparable profit Comparable profit before tax 26.4 72.7 78.2 60.6 34.5 79.2 97.5 60.2 Net of Income tax -7.0 -19.4 -30.4 -14.0 -7.0 -14.3 -16.4 6.4 Items in income tax affecting comparability -2.1 4.5 10.4 4.6 -0.1 -0.8 -2.7 -21.6 Comparable profit 17.4 57.8 58.2 51.3 27.3 64.0 78.4 44.9 Equity, average 2,227 2,184 2,189 2,220 2,265 2,195 2,131 2,143 Comparable return on equity,% 3.1 10.6 10.6 9.2 4.8 11.7 14.7 8.4 Comparable profit attributable to owners of the parent Comparable profit 17.4 57.8 58.2 51.3 27.3 64.0 78.4 44.9 Profit attributable to non-controlling interests -1.1 5.9 5.8 5.1 1.3 5.5 5.7 2.8 Comparable profit attributable to owners of the parent 18.5 51.9 52.5 46.1 26.0 58.6 72.7 42.1 Average number of shaers, basic, 1,000 pcs 99,024 99,084 99,104 99,114 99,163 99,221 99,240 99,249 Comparable earnings/share, € 0.19 0.52 0.53 0.47 0.26 0.59 0.73 0.42 Net sales by segment € million 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Grocery trade 1,103 1,149 1,171 1,249 1,094 1,353 1,367 1,422 Building and technical trade 773 883 857 736 695 1,046 1,238 1,121 Car trade 210 190 170 177 225 214 190 221 Common functions and eliminations -3 4 4 4 -1 -2 -3 1 Group total 2,082 2,227 2,203 2,166 2,013 2,610 2,792 2,765 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 194 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Operating profit by segment € million 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Grocery trade 35.2 115.8 45.0 53.4 30.2 44.1 44.8 -26.1 Building and technical trade -144.7 61.5 36.8 -10.9 1.8 32.8 37.9 -11.7 Car trade 9.8 6.5 6.0 3.8 9.4 5.8 6.8 7.0 Common functions and eliminations -3.9 -8.0 -4.6 -7.1 -7.8 -14.7 -4.0 -9.5 Group total -103.6 175.8 83.1 39.3 33.5 68.0 85.5 -40.3 Items affecting comparability € million 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Grocery trade 0.3 72.4 0.2 -1.0 -1.1 0.5 -4.4 -78.0 Building and technical trade -130.4 27.0 1.0 -18.4 1.5 -5.1 -7.4 -26.1 Car trade -0.6 Common functions and eliminations 0.0 -0.6 -0.5 0.9 -6.5 -0.9 1.1 Group total -130.1 99.4 0.7 -19.9 1.3 -11.1 -12.7 -103.6 Comparable operating profit by segment € million 1–3/2015 4–6/2015 7–9/2015 10–12/2015 1–3/2016 4–6/2016 7–9/2016 10–12/2016 Grocery trade 34.9 43.3 44.8 54.5 31.3 43.6 49.2 51.9 Building and technical trade -14.2 34.5 35.8 7.5 0.3 37.9 45.3 14.4 Car trade 9.8 6.5 6.0 3.8 9.4 5.8 6.8 7.5 Common functions and eliminations -3.9 -8.0 -4.1 -6.7 -8.7 -8.2 -3.1 -10.5 Group total 26.5 76.4 82.5 59.1 32.3 79.1 98.2 63.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 195 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Calculation of performance indicators Profitability Share performance indicators (Profit/loss before tax − Income tax) x 100 Earnings/share, Profit/loss – Non-controlling interests Return on equity, % diluted Shareholders' equity, average of the beginning and end of the reporting period Average number of shares adjusted for the dilutive effect Profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparability before tax − Income tax adjusted for Profit/loss − Non-controlling interests Comparable return Earnings/share, basic the tax effect of the items affecting comparability) x 100 Average number of shares on equity, % Shareholders' equity, average of the beginning and end of the reporting period Profit/loss adjusted for items affecting comparability Return on capital Operating profit x 100 Earnings/share, basic, − Non-controlling interests employed, % (Non-current assets + Inventories + Receivables + Other current assets comparable Average number of shares – Non-interest-bearing liabilities) on average for the reporting period Comparable Equity/share Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Comparable operating profit x 100 Basic number of shares at the balance sheet date return on capital Non-current assets + Inventories + Receivables + Other current assets employed, % – Non-interest-bearing liabilities) on average for 12 months Payout ratio, % (Dividend/share) x 100 (Earnings/share) EBITDA Operating profit + Depreciation and amortisation + Impairments Price/earnings ratio Share price at balance sheet date (P/E) (Earnings/share) Effective dividend (Dividend/share) x 100 Funding and financial position yield, % Share price at balance sheet date Shareholders' equity x 100 Equity ratio, % (Balance sheet total − Prepayments received) Market capitalisation Share price at balance sheet date x Number of shares Interest-bearing net liabilities x 100 Cash flow from operCash flow from operating activities Gearing, % ating activities/share Average number of shares Shareholders' equity Interest-bearing Yield of A share and Interest-bearing liabilities −Money market investments − Cash and cash equivalents Change in share price + Annual dividend yield net debt B share Interest-bearing Interest-bearing liabilities net debt/EBITDA EBITDA KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 196 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Analysis of shareholding Analysis of shareholding by shareholder type as at 31 Dec. 2016 All shares Number of shares, pcs Percentage of all shares,% Non-financial corporations and housing corporations 24,496,401 24.49 Financial and insurance corporations 7,100,230 7.10 General government* 6,017,157 6.02 Households 25,140,166 25.14 Non-profit institutions** 5,290,423 5.29 Rest of the world 349,744 0.35 Nominee registered 31,625,631 31.62 Total 100,019,752 100.00 A shares B shares Number of shares, Percentage of A Percentage of all Number of shares, Percentage of B Percentage of all pcs shares,% shares,% pcs shares,% shares,% Non-financial corporations and housing 18,441,913 58.11 18.44 Non-financial corporations and housing 6,054,488 8.87 6.05 corporations corporations Financial and insurance corporations 4,097,314 12.91 4.10 Financial and insurance corporations 3,002,916 4.40 3.00 General government* 401,002 1.26 0.40 General government* 5,616,155 8.22 5.62 Households 6,130,446 19.32 6.13 Households 19,009,720 27.84 19.01 Non-profit institutions** 1,889,840 5.95 1.89 Non-profit institutions** 3,400,583 4.98 3.40 Rest of the world 21,179 0.07 0.02 Rest of the world 328,565 0.48 0.33 Nominee registered 755,313 2.38 0.76 Nominee registered 30,870,318 45.21 30.86 Total 31,737,007 100.00 31.73 Total 68,282,745 100.00 68.27 * General government, for example, municipalities, the provincial administration of Åland, authorised pension providers and social security funds ** Non-profit institutions, for example, foundations awarding scholarships, organisations safeguarding certain interests and various charitable associations KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 197 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Analysis of shareholding by number of shares held as at 31 Dec. 2016 All shares Number of sharePercentage of Percentage of Number of shares holders, pcs shareholders,% Share total, pcs shares,% 1−100 13,834 35.11 735,255 0.74 101−500 14,102 35.79 3,771,603 3.77 501−1,000 4,900 12.44 3,856,491 3.86 1,001−5,000 5,105 12.96 11,192,661 11.19 5,001−10,000 788 2.00 5,591,464 5.59 10,001−50,000 555 1.41 11,244,776 11.24 50,001−100,000 65 0.16 4,648,968 4.65 100,001−500,000 39 0.10 7,805,124 7.80 500,001−999,999,999,999 16 0.04 51,173,410 51.16 Total 39,404 100.00 100,019,752 100.00 A shares B shares Number of sharePercentage of A Percentage of Number of sharePercentage of B Percentage of Number of shares holders, pcs shareholders,% A share total, pcs shares,% Number of shares holders, pcs shareholders,% B share total, pcs shares,% 1−100 2,864 36.03 124,616 0.39 1−100 11,957 35.33 661,383 0.97 101−500 1,916 24.10 495,374 1.56 101−500 13,036 38.51 3,492,651 5.11 501−1,000 1,038 13.06 894,864 2.82 501−1,000 4,093 12.09 3,151,020 4.61 1,001−5,000 1,449 18.23 3,526,671 11.11 1,001−5,000 3,985 11.77 8,396,440 12.30 5,001−10,000 351 4.42 2,478,311 7.81 5,001−10,000 426 1.26 3,032,853 4.44 10,001−50,000 279 3.51 5,961,278 18.78 10,001−50,000 283 0.84 5,479,867 8.03 50,001−100,000 32 0.40 2,253,856 7.10 50,001−100,000 33 0.10 2,403,071 3.52 100,001−500,000 15 0.19 3,525,577 11.11 100,001−500,000 23 0.07 4,656,401 6.82 500,001−999,999,999,999 5 0.06 12,476,460 39.31 500,001−999,999,999,999 11 0.03 37,009,059 54.20 Total 7,949 100.00 31,737,007 100.00 Total 33,847 100.00 68,282,745 100.00 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 198 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 10 largest shareholders by number of shares held Management's shareholdings as at 31 Dec. 2016 Number of Percentage Number of Percentage At the end of December 2016, Kesko Corporation's Board members, the President and CEO shares, pcs of shares,% votes of votes,% and the corporations controlled by them held 306,814 Kesko Corporation A shares and 22,000 1. K-Retailers' Association 4,017,154 4.02 40,171,540 10.42 Kesko Corporation B shares, i.e. a total of 328,814 shares, which represents 0.33% of the total 2. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3,491,771 3.49 27,148,568 7.04 number of shares and 0.80% of votes carried by all shares of the Company. 3. Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 3,438,885 3.44 34,388,850 8.92 4. Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,990,632 1.99 5,596,320 1.45 At 31 December 2016, the President and CEO held 20,005 Kesko Corporation B shares, which 5. Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1,340,439 1.34 13,404,390 3.48 represented 0.02% of the total number of shares and 0.01% of votes carried by all shares of the 6. Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail 1,147,164 1.15 10,610,205 2.75 Company. At 31 December 2016, the Group Management Board including the President and Trade CEO held 104,678 Kesko Corporation B shares, which represented 0.1% of the total number of 7. Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,130,986 1.13 1,130,986 0.29 8. Oy The English Tearoom Ab 1,000,000 1.00 1,000,000 0.26 shares and 0.03% of votes attached to all shares of the Company. 9. The State Pension Fund 950,000 0.95 950,000 0.25 10. Elo Mutual Pension Insurance Company 896,968 0.90 896,968 0.23 10 largest shareholders by number of votes as at 31 Dec. 2016 Number of Percentage Number of Percentage shares, pcs of shares,% votes of votes,% 1. K-Retailers' Association 4,017,154 4.02 40,171,540 10.42 2. Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy 3,438,885 3.44 34,388,850 8.92 3. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy 3,491,771 3.49 27,148,568 7.04 4. Valluga-sijoitus Oy 1,340,439 1.34 13,404,390 3.48 5. Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail 1,147,164 1.15 10,610,205 2.75 Trade 6. Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company 1,990,632 1.99 5,596,320 1.45 7. K-Food Retailers' Club 484,336 0.48 4,843,360 1.26 8. Heimo Välinen Oy 470,000 0.47 4,700,000 1.22 9. Food Paradise Oy 469,541 0.47 4,695,410 1.22 10. T.A.T. Invest Oy 198,020 0.20 1,931,600 0.50 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 199 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consolidated financial statements (IFRS) Consolidated income statement € million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 % 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 % € million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 % 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 % Profit for the year attributable to Net sales 2 10,180.4 100.0 8,678.9 100.0 Owners of the parent 98.6 101.6 Cost of goods sold -8,718.7 -85.6 -7,540.4 -86.9 Non-controlling interests 15.3 15.7 Gross profit 1,461.7 14.4 1,138.5 13.1 Earnings per share for profit attributable to Other operating income 4 5 699.0 6.9 800.4 9.2 owners of the parent Employee benefit expense 6 30 -722.8 -7.1 -544.8 -6.3 Basic, € 10 0.99 1.03 Lease expenditure -458.1 -4.5 -407.7 -4.7 Diluted, € 10 0.99 1.03 Marketing costs -219.2 -2.2 -221.6 -2.6 Property and store site maintenance -129.0 -1.3 -105.4 -1.2 Information system expenses -91.8 -0.9 -78.5 -0.9 Other operating expenses 4 -231.4 -2.3 -249.6 -2.9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 11 12 -161.6 -1.6 -136.8 -1.6 Operating profit 146.8 1.4 194.6 2.2 Interest income and other finance income 7 15.0 0.1 10.4 0.1 Interest expense and other finance costs 7 -11.6 -0.1 -14.2 -0.2 Foreign exchange differences 7 -4.4 0.0 -3.3 0.0 Total finance income and costs 7 -1.0 0.0 -7.1 -0.1 Investments accounted for using the equity -0.6 0.0 0.6 0.0 method Profit before tax 145.2 1.4 188.0 2.2 Income tax 8 -31.4 -0.3 -70.7 -0.8 Profit for the year 113.8 1.1 117.4 1.4 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 200 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consolidated statement of comprehensive income € million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 Profit for the year 113.8 117.4 Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Actuarial gains and losses 9 17 -11.1 23.0 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Currency translation differences related to a 9 10.4 -17.4 foreign operation Cash flow hedge revaluation 9 2.4 0.0 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial 9 0.5 1.1 assets Others 9 -0.3 -0.3 Total comprehensive income for the year, 2.0 6.4 net of tax Total comprehensive income for the year 115.8 123.8 Comprehensive income for the year attributable to Owners of the parent 100.8 118.9 Non-controlling interests 15.0 4.9 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 201 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consolidated statement of financial position € million Note 31 Dec 2016 % 31 Dec 2015 % € million Note 31 Dec 2016 % 31 Dec 2015 % ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Non-current assets Equity attributable to owners of the Property, plant and equipment 11 1,150.4 1,282.1 parent Intangible assets 12 430.5 168.4 Share capital 22 197.3 197.3 Equity accounted investments 13 37 107.9 99.2 Share premium 22 197.8 197.8 Available-for-sale financial assets 23 32 15.1 15.3 Other reserves 22 265.6 265.5 Non-current receivables 14 15 23 62.6 62.9 Currency translation differences 22 -23.7 -44.6 Deferred tax assets 16 5.8 3.9 Revaluation reserve 22 3.2 0.2 Pension assets 17 164.7 176.4 Retained earnings 1,389.0 1,547.1 Total non-current assets 1,937.1 43.9 1,808.3 43.7 2,029.1 46.0 2,163.4 52.3 Non-controlling interests 97.3 2.2 78.6 1.9 Current assets Total equity 2,126.3 48.2 2,241.9 54.2 Inventories 18 978.9 735.0 Interest-bearing receivables 19 23 3.7 10.0 Non-current liabilities Trade receivables 19 23 32 831.2 581.7 Interest-bearing non-current liabilities 23 24 32 358.7 258.3 Income tax assets 19 23 21.2 2.0 Non-interest-bearing non-current 23 32 40.2 42.2 Other non-interest-bearing receivables 19 23 198.6 114.6 liabilities Financial assets at fair value through 23 32 93.3 374.2 Deferred tax liabilities 16 48.1 71.4 profit or loss Pension obligations 17 0.8 0.9 Available-for-sale financial assets 20 23 32 156.8 371.7 Provisions 25 14.9 15.6 Cash and cash equivalents 141.3 141.2 Total non-current liabilities 462.5 10.5 388.4 9.4 Total current assets 2,424.9 55.0 2,330.5 56.3 Non-current assets held for sale 21 45.7 1.0 0.5 0.0 Current liabilities Total assets 4,407.7 100.0 4,139.3 100.0 Current interest-bearing liabilities 23 32 156.0 180.8 Trade payables 23 26 32 1,069.2 795.1 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 23 26 32 226.9 212.6 Income tax liabilities 23 26 32 8.7 31.4 Accrued liabilities 23 26 32 316.2 251.3 Provisions 25 41.0 37.8 Total current liabilities 1,818.0 41.2 1,509.0 36.5 Liabilities related to available-for-sale 0.8 0.0 non-current assets Total liabilities 2,281.3 51.8 1,897.3 45.8 Total equity and liabilities 4,407.7 100.0 4,139.3 100.0 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 202 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consolidated statement of cash flows € million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 € million Note 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from financing activities Profit before tax 145.2 188.0 Interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) 63.0 -58.6 Adjustments Repayments of finance lease liabilities -3.6 -2.8 Depreciation according to plan 137.6 127.6 Interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) 2.0 1.8 Finance income and costs 1.0 7.1 Dividends paid -249.5 -156.1 Other adjustments 31 90.6 40.1 Proceeds from issue of shares 12.6 229.2 174.8 Acquisition of treasury shares -0.3 Change in working capital Short-term money market investments, increase (-)/decrease (+) 364.5 -269.2 Current non-interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) -43.8 -1.8 Other items 6.9 19.3 Inventories increase (-)/decrease (+) 5.1 -43.9 Net cash flows from financing activities 195.6 -465.7 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) -78.5 7.0 -117.2 -38.8 Change in cash and cash equivalents and current -135.3 27.8 available-for-sale financial assets Interest paid and other finance costs -17.0 -17.6 Interest received 14.1 8.9 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale finan31 334.1 313.3 Dividends received 0.0 0.1 cial assets as at 1 January Income taxes paid -84.1 -38.9 Currency translation difference adjustment and change in value 2.1 -7.1 Net cash flows from operating activities 170.2 276.4 Cash and cash equivalents and current available-for-sale 31 200.8 334.1 financial assets as at 31 December Cash flows from investing activities Payments for acquisition of subsidiary shares, net of cash 3 -427.5 acquired Payments to acquire equity accounted investments 31 -11.0 Payments for tangible and intangible assets 31 -277.4 -203.8 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed of 31 160.9 -47.3 Equity repaid by associates and joint ventures 9.5 Proceeds from sale of tangible and intangible assets 44.0 470.4 Proceeds from sale of available-for-sale financial assets 0.4 Non-current loan and receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) -1.5 -0.6 Net cash flows from investing activities -501.1 217.1 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 203 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to owners of the parent Currency translation Revaluation Non-controlling € million Share capital Reserves differences reserve Treasury shares Retained earnings Total interest Total equity Balance as at 1 January 2016 197.3 463.4 -44.6 0.2 -27.5 1,574.6 2,163.4 78.6 2,241.9 Share-based payment 4.3 4.3 4.3 Treasury shares -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Dividends -248.2 -248.2 -1.1 -249.3 Increase in share capital 12.6 12.6 Disposal of subsidiary 10.2 -10.2 0.0 0.0 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 0.0 0.5 0.5 -7.8 -7.4 Other changes 0.0 8.6 8.6 8.6 Transactions with owners, total 0.0 10.2 4.0 -249.3 -235.1 3.7 -231.4 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 98.6 98.6 15.3 113.8 Actuarial gains/losses -14.0 -14.0 -14.0 Currency translation differences related to a foreign 0.0 10.6 10.6 -0.2 10.4 operation Cash flow hedge revaluation 3.1 3.1 3.1 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 0.7 0.7 0.7 Others -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Tax related to other comprehensive income -0.7 2.8 2.1 2.1 Total comprehensive income for the period 0.0 10.6 3.0 87.2 100.8 15.0 115.8 Balance as at 31 December 2016 197.3 463.4 -23.7 3.2 -23.5 1,412.4 2,029.1 97.3 2,126.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 204 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Attributable to owners of the parent Currency translation Revaluation Non-controlling € million Share capital Reserves differences reserve Treasury shares Retained earnings Total interest Total equity Balance as at 1 January 2015 197.3 463.3 -37.9 -0.9 -31.5 1,593.5 2,183.9 81.6 2,265.5 Share-based payment 4.0 4.0 4.0 Treasury shares -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 Dividends -148.7 -148.7 -7.3 -156.1 Acquisition of non-controlling interest 0.0 0.1 0.1 -0.6 -0.5 Other changes 0.0 0.0 5.3 5.3 0.0 5.3 Transactions with owners, total 0.0 0.0 4.0 -143.3 -139.3 -8.0 -147.3 Comprehensive income Profit for the year 101.6 101.6 15.7 117.4 Actuarial gains/losses 28.8 28.8 28.8 Currency translation differences related to a foreign 0.0 -6.6 -6.6 -10.8 -17.4 operation Cash flow hedge revaluation 0.0 0.0 0.0 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial assets 1.4 1.4 1.4 Others -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Tax related to other comprehensive income -0.3 -5.8 -6.1 -6.1 Total comprehensive income for the period 0.0 -6.6 1.1 124.3 118.9 4.9 123.8 Balance as at 31 December 2015 197.3 463.4 -44.6 0.2 -27.5 1,574.6 2,163.4 78.6 2,241.9 Further information on share capital and reserves is disclosed in note 22, on components of other comprehensive income in note 9 and on share-based compensation plans in note 30. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 205 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note 1. Accounting policies for the consolidated financial statements. The notes to the consolidated financial statements also include compliance financial statements with Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. Basic information about the company New standards were not adopted during the financial year 2016. Kesko is a Finnish listed trading sector company. Kesko has over 2,000 stores engaged in chain operations in the Nordic and Baltic countries, Poland, Russia and Belarus. All amounts in the consolidated financial statements are in millions of euros and based on original cost, with the exception of items specified below, which have been measured at fair value in Kesko Group's reportable segments consist of its business divisions, namely the grocery trade, compliance with the standards. the building and technical trade, and the car trade. Critical accounting estimates and assumptions The Group's parent company, Kesko Corporation, is a Finnish public limited company constiThe preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with international accounting tuted in accordance with the laws of Finland. The Company's business ID is 0109862-8, it is standards requires the use of certain estimates and assumptions about the future that affect the domiciled in Helsinki, and its registered address is PO Box 1, FI-00016 KESKO. Copies of Kesko reported amounts of assets and liabilities, contingent liabilities, and income and expense. The Corporation's financial statements and the consolidated financial statements are available from actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. The most significant circumKesko Corporation, PO Box 1, Helsinki, FI-00016 KESKO, visiting address Sörnäistenkatu 2, stances for which estimates have been required are described below. Helsinki, and from the internet at www.kesko.fi. The estimates and judgements made are continuously evaluated, and they are based on historiKesko's Board of Directors has approved these financial statements for disclosure on 1 February cal experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be 2017. reasonable under the circumstances. General information Measurement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed Kesko's consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with International Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations are measured at their fair Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) approved for adoption by the European Union, and they values at the date of acquisition. The fair values on which the allocation of costs and liabilities is comply with the IAS and IFRS standards and respective SIC and IFRIC Interpretations effective based are determined by reference to market values to the extent they are available. If market on 31 December 2015. The International Reporting Standards refer to standards and their intervalues are not available, the measurement is based on the estimated earnings-generating capacipretations approved for adoption within the EU in accordance with the procedure enacted in EU ty of the asset and its future use in Kesko's operating activities. The measurement of intangible regulation (EC) 1606/2002, included in the Finnish Accounting Act and regulations based on it. assets, in particular, is based on the present values of future cash flows and requires manageAccounting standards not yet effective have not been adopted voluntarily for the consolidated ment estimates regarding future cash flows and the use of assets. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 206 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Impairment test Provisions The recoverable amounts of cash generating units have been determined using calculations The existence of criteria for recognising provisions and the amounts of provisions are deterbased on value in use. In the calculations, forecast cash flows are based on financial plans apmined based on estimates of the existence and amount of the obligation. Estimates may differ proved by management, covering a period of three years. (Note 12) from the actual future amount of the obligation and with respect to the existence of the obligation. Employee benefits The Group operates both defined contribution pension plans and defined benefit pension plans. Critical judgements in applying accounting policies Items relating to employee benefits are calculated using several factors that require the appliThe Group's management uses its judgement in the adoption and application of accounting cation of judgement. Pension calculations under defined benefit plans in compliance with IAS 19 policies in the financial statements. Management has exercised its judgement in the application are based on, among others, the following factors that rely on management estimates (Note 17): of accounting policies when, for example, measuring receivables, determining provisions for restructuring and classifying leases. • discount rate used in calculating pension expenses and obligations and net finance cost for the period Consolidation principles • future salary level trend • employee service life Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements combine the financial statements of Kesko Corporation Changes in these assumptions can significantly impact the amounts of pension obligation and fuand subsidiaries controlled by the Group. Control exists when the Group has more than half of ture pension expenses. In addition, a significant part of the pension plan assets is invested in real the voting rights of a subsidiary or otherwise exerts control. An investor controls an investee estate and shares, whose value adjustments impact the recognised amount of pension assets. when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the investee. Acquired subsidiMeasurement of inventories aries are consolidated from the date on which the Group gains control until the date on which The Group regularly reviews inventories for obsolescence and turnover, and for possible reduccontrol ceases. The existence of potential voting rights has been considered when assessing the tion of net realisable value below cost, and records an impairment as necessary. Such reviews existence of control in the case that the instruments entitling to potential control are currently require assessments of future demand for products. Possible changes in these estimates may exercisable. Subsidiaries are listed in note 37. cause changes in inventory measurement in future periods. Mutual shareholding is eliminated by using the acquisition cost method. The cost of assets Trade receivables acquired is determined on the basis of the fair value of the acquired assets as at the acquisition The Group companies apply a uniform practice to measuring receivables past due. Possible date, the issued equity instruments and liabilities resulting from or assumed on the date of the changes in customers' solvency may cause changes in the measurement of trade receivables in exchange transaction. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are future periods. measured at the fair value at the acquisition date, gross of non-controlling interest. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 207 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Intragroup transactions, receivables and payables, unrealised profits and internal distributions of The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement. profits are eliminated when preparing the consolidated financial statements. Unrealised losses The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the are not eliminated if the loss is due to the impairment of an asset. Non-controlling interest in the investment. If the Group’s share of losses in a joint venture equals or exceeds its interest in the profit for the period is disclosed in the income statement and the amount of equity attributable joint venture, the Group does not recognise further losses. to the non-controlling interests is disclosed separately in equity. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the joint ventures are eliminated to The Group accounts for its real estate company acquisitions as acquisitions of assets. the extent of the Group’s interests in the joint ventures. Unrealised losses are also eliminated, unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Dividends Associates received from joint ventures are deducted from the Group's result and the cost of the shares. An Associates are companies over which the Group has significant influence but not control. In investment in a joint venture includes the goodwill generated by the acquisition. Goodwill is not Kesko Group, significant influence accompanies a shareholding of between 20% and 50% of amortised. the voting rights. Investments in associates are accounted for using the equity method and are initially recognised at cost. Mutual real estate companies Mutual real estate companies are consolidated as common operations on a line-by-line basis in The Group’s share of post-acquisition profits or losses is recognised in the income statement. proportion to ownership. The Group's share of mutual real estate companies' loans and reserves The cumulative post-acquisition movements are adjusted against the carrying amount of the is accounted for separately in the consolidation. investment. If the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in the associate, the Group does not recognise further losses. Subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies are listed in note 37. Unrealised gains on transactions between the Group and the associates are eliminated to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associates. Unrealised losses are also eliminated, unless Foreign currency items the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset transferred. Dividends received The consolidated financial statements are presented in euros, which is both the functional curfrom associates are deducted from the Group's result and the cost of the shares. An investment rency of the environment in which the Group’s parent operates and the presentation currency. in an associate includes the goodwill generated by the acquisition. Goodwill is not amortised. On initial recognition, the amounts with respect to the result and financial position of the Group companies located outside the euro zone are recorded in the functional currency of each of Joint arrangements their operating environments. Until 31 December 2016, the functional currency of the real estate Joint arrangements are arrangements in which the sharing of joint control has been contractually companies operating in Russia in St. Petersburg and Moscow was the euro, which is why no agreed between two or more parties. Joint control exists only when decisions about the relevant significant exchange differences have not been realised from their balance sheets to the Group. activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. A joint venture is a joint A change has taken place in the Russian real estate market as a result of which, an increasing arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the number of leases is rouble denominated. Earlier leases were mainly denominated in the euro. net assets of the arrangement. Investments in joint ventures are accounted for using the equity As of 1 January 2017, the functional currency of Russian real estate companies is the rouble as a method, and on initial recognition, they are recognised at cost. result of the change in the Russian rental market. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 208 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Foreign currency transactions are recorded in euros by applying the exchange rate at the date of Financial assets the transaction. Receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are translated into The Group classifies its financial assets into the following categories: euros using the closing rate. Exchange rate gains and losses on foreign currency transactions and receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are recognised in the income • financial assets at fair value through profit or loss statement, with the exception of those loan exchange rate movements designated as hedges of • available-for-sale financial assets foreign net investments and regarded as effective. These exchange differences are recognised in • loans and receivables equity, in compliance with the rules of hedge accounting, and their changes are presented in other comprehensive income. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from operating activities The classification at initial recognition depends on the purpose for which the financial asset was are included in the respective items above operating profit. Foreign exchange gains and losses acquired. from foreign exchange forward contracts and options used for hedging financial transactions, and from foreign currency borrowings are included in financial income and costs. Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date. Financial assets are classified as non-current, if they have a maturity of more than 12 months after the balance The income statements of the Group companies operating outside the euro zone, and whose sheet date. If financial assets are expected to be settled within 12 months, they are classified as functional currency is not that of a hyperinflationary economy, have been translated into euros current. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are classified as current. at the average rate of the financial year, and the balance sheets at the closing rate. The foreign exchange difference resulting from the use of different rates, and the translation differences Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial asset arising from the elimination of the acquisition cost of subsidiaries outside the euro zone, and the have expired or have been transferred from the Group, and when the risks and rewards of ownhedging result of net investments in them are recognised in equity, and the changes are presentership have been transferred from the Group. ed in other comprehensive income. In connection with the disposal of a subsidiary, translation differences are recognised in the income statement as part of the gains or losses on the disposal. At each date of the financial statements, the Group assesses whether there is evidence that a financial asset is impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is Goodwill arising on the acquisition of foreign operations and the fair value adjustments of assets estimated. The recoverable amount is the fair value based on the market price or the present valand liabilities made upon their acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of these foreign ue of cash flows. The fair value of financial assets is determined on the basis of a maturity based operations and translated into euros at the closing rate. interest rate quotation. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of financial assets exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised within the financial The assets and liabilities of entities operating in countries that have been identified as hyperinitems of the income statement. flationary economies have been restated to correspond to the change in purchasing power prior to foreign currency translation. The income statements and balance sheets of these entities have Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss been translated into euros at the rate of the balance sheet date. In 2016, the Group did not have Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include instruments initially classified as entities operating in hyperinflationary economies. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (the fair value option). These instruments are managed based on fair value and they include investments in money market funds, as well as investments in other interest-bearing instruments with maturities of over three months, as defined KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 209 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE by the Group's treasury policy. The interest income from these financial assets and changes in Cash and cash equivalents their fair values, as well as any commissions returned by the funds are presented on a net basis Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and deposits with banks. The cash and cash in the interest income of the relevant class in the income statement. equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet also include amounts relating to the retail operations of the division parent companies, used as cash floats in stores, or amounts being transIn addition, financial assets at fair value through profit or loss include all derivatives that do not ferred to the respective companies. qualify for hedge accounting in compliance with IAS 39. Derivatives are carried at fair value using prices quoted in active markets. The results of derivatives used for hedging purchases and Financial liabilities sales are recognised in other operating income or expenses. The result of derivatives used for Financial liabilities have initially been recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs. In the hedging financial items is recognised in financial items, unless the derivative has been designatfinancial statements, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest ed as a hedging instrument. rate method. Arrangement fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities and financial liabilities are amortised over the period of the facility to which it relates. Financial liabilities having maturities Available-for-sale financial assets of more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are classified as non-current liabilities. Those Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative assets designated as available for sale at maturing within 12 months after the balance sheet date are classified as current liabilities. the date of initial recognition. Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value at the balance sheet date and the changes in their fair values are recognised in equity and presented Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting in other comprehensive income. The fair value of publicly quoted financial assets is determined When derivative contracts are entered into, they are recognised at fair value and in the financial based on their market value. Financial assets not quoted publicly are measured at cost if their statements, they are re-measured at their fair value. The recognition of changes in the fair value fair values cannot be measured reliably. of derivatives depends on whether the derivative instrument qualifies for hedge accounting and, if so, on the hedged item. When entered into, derivative contracts are treated either as fair value Dividends from equity investments included in available-for-sale financial assets are recognised hedges of receivables or liabilities, or in the case of interest rate risk and electricity price risk, in financial items in the income statement. The interest income from available-for-sale finanas cash flow hedges, as hedges of net investments in a foreign entity, or as derivative contracts cial assets is recognised in the financial items of the relevant class. When an available-for-sale that do not meet the hedge accounting criteria. If the hedge accounting criteria are not met, the financial asset is sold, the accumulated changes in fair value recognised in equity are included in results of instruments hedging a commercial foreign exchange risk are recognised in profit or other financial income/expenses in the income statement. loss within other operating income or expenses. Concerning derivatives hedging financial transactions, the amount to be recognised in the income statement is included in financial items. Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative assets with fixed or measurable payments, and they When a hedging arrangement is entered into, the relationship between the hedged item and the are not quoted in active markets. Loans and receivables also include trade receivables and other hedging instrument, as well as the objectives of the Group's risk management are documented. The receivables. They are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. effectiveness of the hedge relationship is tested regularly and the effective portion is recognised, according to the nature of the hedged item, against the change in the fair value of the hedged item, in translation differences in equity, or in the revaluation reserve. The ineffective portion is recognised, according to its nature, either in financial items or other operating income and expenses. The effecKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 210 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE tive portion of changes in the fair value of instruments used for hedging cash flows, such as long-term binding commercial contracts denominated in a currency which is not the functional currency credit facilities, is recognised in the revaluation reserve. A change in the fair value of foreign currency of either party and not commonly used in the economic environment in which the transaction derivatives relating to the credit facility is recognised in borrowings, and a change in the fair value of takes place. The fair value of embedded derivatives is determined using the market prices at the interest rate derivatives in other non-interest-bearing receivables or liabilities. measurement date and the change in fair value is recognised in the income statement. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when the Property, plant and equipment contract is terminated or exercised. Any cumulative gain or loss existing in equity at that time Property, plant and equipment mainly comprise land, buildings, machinery and equipment. Propremains in equity until the forecast transaction has occurred. erty, plant and equipment are carried at historic cost net of planned depreciation and possible impairment. The property, plant and equipment of acquired subsidiaries are measured at fair Measurement principles value at the date of acquisition. The fair value of forward rate agreements is determined by reference to the market prices at the balance sheet date. The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated on the basis of the present Subsequent costs relating to items of property, plant and equipment are included in the asset’s value of future cash flows, using the market prices at the balance sheet date. The fair value of carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset only when it is probable that future ecoforeign exchange forward contracts is determined by measuring the forward contracts at the fornomic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be ward rate at the balance sheet date. Currency options are measured using the counterparty's price measured reliably. The carrying amount of any component accounted for as a separate asset is quotation, but the Group also verifies the price by applying the Black−Scholes method. Electricity derecognised when replaced. The machinery and equipment of buildings are treated as sepaderivatives are measured at fair value using the market quotations at the balance sheet date. rate assets and any significant expenditure related to their replacement is capitalised. All other repair, service and maintenance expenditures of items of property, plant and equipment are Hedging a net investment in foreign operations charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred. During the financial year, the Group has not hedged net investments in foreign operations. If a hedge is initiated, the Group applies hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 to hedge foreign Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated using the straight-line method over currency net investments in foreign operations. Foreign exchange forward contracts or foreign their estimated useful lives. Land is not depreciated. currency borrowings are used as hedging instruments. Spot price changes in foreign exchange forward contracts are recognised in translation differences under equity, and disclosed in other The most common estimated useful lives are: comprehensive income. The premiums of forward contracts are recognised as income under financial items. The exchange difference of foreign currency borrowings is recognised in translation Buildings 10−33 years differences under equity. When a foreign operation is partially or wholly disposed of or wound up, Components of buildings 8−10 years cumulative gains or losses from the hedging instruments are recognised in profit or loss. Machinery and equipment 3−8 years Cars and transport equipment 5 years Embedded derivatives The Group has prepared method descriptions for identifying embedded derivatives and applies The residual values and useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed at least at the fair value measurement to them. In Kesko Group, embedded derivatives can be included in end of each financial year. If the estimates of useful life and the expected pattern of economic KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 211 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE benefits are different from previous estimates, the change in the estimate is accounted for. Research and development expenses The costs of research and development activities have been expensed as incurred, because the Depreciation of property, plant and equipment ceases when an item is classified as a non-curGroup does not have development costs eligible for capitalisation. Development costs previousrent asset held for sale. ly recognised as an expense are not recognised as an asset in subsequent periods. Gains and losses on disposals of property, plant and equipment are recognised in the income Software statement and stated as other operating income and expenses. The salary costs of the Group employees working on projects for developing new software and other directly attributable costs are capitalised as part of the software cost. On the balance Intangible assets sheet, software is included in intangible assets and its cost is amortised over the useful life of the software. Costs associated with maintaining the software are recognised as an expense as Goodwill and trademarks incurred. Goodwill is not amortised but is instead tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment. For testing purposes, goodwill is allocated to the cash generating units. Impairment of non-financial assets Goodwill is measured at initial cost and that acquired prior to 1 January 2004, at deemed cost At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that an asset net of impairment. Any negative goodwill is immediately recognised as income. For goodwill, a may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated. recognised impairment loss is not reversed. The recoverable amount of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives is assessed every year whether or not there is an indication of impairment. In addition, an impairment test is Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised. They are tested for impairment performed whenever there is an indication of impairment. annually and whenever there is an indication of impairment. These intangible assets include trademarks capitalised upon acquisition, recorded at their fair values at the acquisition date. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs to sell and value in use. Often, it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount for an individual asset. Then, as in Other intangible assets the case of goodwill, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash generating unit to which The cost of intangible assets with definite useful lives are recorded in the balance sheet and recthe goodwill or asset belongs. ognised as expenses during their useful lives. Such intangible assets include software licences, customer relationships and licences measured at the fair value at the date of acquisition, and An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoveraleasehold interests that are amortised during their probable lease terms. ble amount. The impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. An impairment loss recognised for an asset in prior years is reversed, if the revaluation shows an increase in the The estimated useful lives are: recoverable amount. However, the reversal of an impairment loss of an asset should not exceed the carrying amount of the asset without impairment loss recognition. For goodwill, a recognised Software and licences 3−5 years impairment loss is not reversed under any circumstances. Customer and supplier relationships 10 years Licences 20 years KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 212 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Leases tion is less than the carrying amount of the asset, a loss equal to the amount of the difference The Group acts as both lessor and lessee of real estate and machines. Leases in which risks and between the carrying amount and fair value is recognised immediately. rewards incidental to ownership are not transferred to the lessee are classified as operating leases. Lease payments related to them are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line Inventories basis over the lease term. Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less direct costs necessary to make Leases that substantially transfer all risks and rewards incidental to ownership to the Group are the sale. The cost is determined using weighted average costs. The cost of certain categories of classified as finance leases. An asset leased under a finance lease is recognised in the balance inventory is determined using the FIFO method. The cost of finished goods comprises all costs sheet at the lower of the fair value at the inception date and the present value of minimum lease of purchase including freight. The cost of self-constructed goods comprises all costs of converpayments. The lease obligations of finance leases are recorded in interest-bearing liabilities in sion including direct costs and allocations of variable and fixed production overheads. The cost the balance sheet. Lease payments are recognized as finance costs and a decrease in the liability. excludes borrowing costs. Assets acquired under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. Trade receivables Trade receivables are recognised in the amounts of initial sale. Impairment is recognised when Similarly, leases in which assets are leased out by the Group and substantially all the risks and rethere is objective evidence of impairment loss. The Group has established uniform principles for wards incidental to ownership are transferred to the lessee, are classified as finance leases. Assets the determination of impairment of trade receivables based on the time receivables have been leased under such contracts are recognised as a receivable in the balance sheet and the receivable overdue. In addition, impairment is recognized, if there is other evidence of a debtor's insolvenis stated at present value. The financial income from finance leases is determined so as to achieve cy, bankruptcy or liquidation. Impairment is recognised as an expense in other operating expensa constant periodic rate of return on the remaining net investment for the lease term. es. If an amount previously written off is subsequently settled, it is recognised as a reduction of other operating expenses. In sale and leaseback transactions, the selling price and the future lease payments are usually interdependent. If a sale and leaseback transaction results in a finance lease, any proceeds exNon-current assets held for sale and discontinued operations ceeding the carrying amount are not immediately recognised as income. Instead, the amount is Non-current assets (or a disposal group) are classified as held for sale, if their carrying amount recognised as a liability in the balance sheet and amortised over the period of the lease. If a sale will be recovered principally through the disposal of the assets and the sale is highly probable. and leaseback transaction results in an operating lease and the transaction was executed at fair If their carrying amount will be recovered principally through their disposal rather than through value, any profit or loss is recognised immediately. their continuing use, they are measured at the lower rate of the carrying amount and fair value net of costs to sell. If the selling price is less than fair value, any profit or loss is recognised immediately, unless the loss is compensated by future lease payments at below market price, in which case the loss is The comparative information in the income statement is adjusted for operations classified as disdeferred and amortised over the period for which the asset is expected to be used. If the selling continued during the latest financial period being reported. Consequently, the result of disconprice exceeds fair value, the excess over fair value is deferred and amortised over the period for tinued operations is presented as a separate line item also for the comparatives. In the financial which the asset is expected to be used. If fair value at the time of a sale and leaseback transacyears 2016 and 2015, the Group had no discontinued operations. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 213 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Equity In defined benefit plans, the Group may incur obligations or assets after the payment of the The Group classifies the instruments it has issued either in equity or in financial liabilities contribution. The pension obligation represents the present value of future cash flows from based on their nature. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest the benefits payable. The present value of pension obligations has been calculated using the proin the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. Expenses related to the issuance or jected unit credit method. Pension costs are expensed during employees' service lives based on acquisition of equity instruments are presented as an allowance for equity. If Kesko Corporation actuarial calculations. The discount rate assumed in calculating the present value of the pension acquires equity instruments of its own, their cost is deducted from equity. obligation is the market yield of high-quality corporate bonds. Their maturity substantially corresponds to the maturity of the pension liability. The assets corresponding to the pension obligaProvisions tion of the retirement benefit plan are carried at fair values at the balance sheet date. Actuarial A provision is recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as gains and losses are recognised in comprehensive income in the income statement. the result of a past event, and it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and that a reliable estimate can be made of Share-based payment the amount of the obligation. Provision amounts are reviewed on each balance sheet date and Share awards adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. Changes in provisions are recorded in the income The costs relating to share-based payments are recorded in the income statement and the statement in the same item in which the provision was originally recognised. The most significant corresponding liability for share-based payments settled in cash is recognized in the balance part of the Group's provisions relates to warranties given to products sold by the Group and to sheet. The liability in the balance sheet is measured at fair value at each balance sheet date. For onerous lease contracts. equity-settled share-based payment transactions, an increase corresponding to the expensed amount is recorded in equity. A warranty provision is recognised when a product covered by warranty provisions is sold. The provision amount is based on historical experience about the level of warranty expenses. Leases The Company's Board of Directors has granted a share-based compensation plan to management become onerous and a provision is recognised for them, if the leased premises remain vacant, or under which an award consisting of B series shares and an amount in cash is paid upon fulfilling the if they are subleased at a rate lower than the original. A provision is recognised for the estimated plan’s terms. The fair value of the award paid in shares is the value of the share at the grant date loss from vacant leased premises over the remaining lease term and for losses from subleased and it is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting and commitment period premises. of the plan. The expensed amount is based on the Group's estimate of the amount of award payable in shares at the end of the vesting period. The effects of non-market conditions are not includEmployee benefits ed in the fair value of the awards. Instead, they are accounted for in the assumptions of the number of shares expected to vest at the end of the vesting period. A cash component is paid to cover Pension plans the taxes and tax-like charges incurred under the award. The cash component is recognised as an The Group operates both defined contribution pension plans and defined benefit pension plans. expense during the vesting period. Changes in estimates are recorded in the income statement. The contributions payable under defined contribution plans are recognised as expenses in the income statement for the period to which the payments relate. In defined contribution plans, the Revenue recognition policies Group does not have a legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions, in case the Net sales comprise the sale of goods, services and energy. The contribution of the sales of serpayment recipient is unable to pay the retirement benefits. vices and energy to total net sales is not significant. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 214 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE For net sales, sales revenue is adjusted for indirect taxes, sales adjustment items and the exDirectly attributable transaction costs clearly associated with a certain borrowing are included change differences of foreign-currency-denominated sales. Sales adjustment items include loyalin the original amortised cost of the borrowing and amortised as an interest expense using the ty award credits relating to the K-Plussa customer loyalty scheme, which are recognised at fair effective interest method. values as part of sales transactions. Loyalty award credits affect the net sales of those segments which grant K-Plussa customer loyalty credits and are engaged in retailing. Income tax The taxes recognized in the consolidated income statement include the Group companies' taxes The Group sells products to retailers and other retail dealers in addition to engaging in own on current net profits on an accrual basis, prior period tax adjustments and changes in deferred retailing. Income from sales of goods is recognised when significant risks, benefits and control taxes. The Group companies' taxes have been calculated from the taxable income of each comrelating to the ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer, and it is probable that pany determined by local jurisdiction. the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Group. As a rule, income from sales of goods can be recognised at the time of transfer. Sales to retailers and other retail Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised on all temporary differences arising between dealers are based on invoicing. Retail sales are mainly in cash and by credit card. the tax bases and carrying amounts of assets and liabilities. Deferred tax liability has not been calculated on goodwill insofar as goodwill is not tax deductible. Deferred tax on subsidiaries' Income from services is recognised after the service has been performed and when a flow of undistributed earnings is not recognised unless a distribution of earnings is probable, causing tax economic benefits associated with the service is probable. implications. Interest income is recognised on a time apportionment basis using the effective interest method. Deferred tax has been determined using the tax rates enacted at the balance sheet date, and as Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. the rates changed, at the known new rate. A deferred income tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that it can be utilised against future taxable income. The Group's deferred Other operating income and expenses income tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to income taxes levied by the same Other operating income includes income other than that associated with the sale of goods or taxation authority. services, such as lease income, store site and chain fees and various other service fees and commissions. Other operating income and expenses also include gains and losses on the disposal of The most significant temporary differences arise from defined benefit pension plans, property, property, plant and equipment as well as realised and unrealised gains and losses on derivatives plant and equipment (depreciation difference), provisions and measurements at fair value of used for hedging foreign currency risks associated with commercial transactions. asset items in connection with acquisitions. Borrowing costs Dividend distribution The Group has not capitalised interest costs incurred as part of the acquisition of assets, beThe dividend proposed by the Board of Directors to the General Meeting has not been deductcause the Group does not have qualifying assets. ed from equity. Instead, dividends are recognised on the basis of the resolution by the General Meeting. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 215 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE New IFRS standards and IFRIC interpretations and amendments to Kesko Group’s income mainly consists of sales of goods and services to business and consumer the existing standards and interpretations customers under ordinary trading sector terms and conditions. Management estimates that the In addition to the standards and interpretations presented in the 2016 financial statements, the adoption of the new standard will not have a material impact on the consolidated financial stateGroup will adopt the following standards, interpretations and amendments to standards and ments. The standard is not estimated to have any impact on customer agreements or business interpretations issued for application in its 2017 or subsequent financial statements. operations. The adoption of the standard is estimated to have only minor impacts on business support processes or information systems. IFRS 9 Financial instruments The standard addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and The effective date of the standard is 1 January 2018. The standard has been endorsed for adopfinancial liabilities. IFRS 9 allows financial assets to be classified into three measurement catetion by the EU. gories: amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive income and fair value through profit and loss. The measurement category is determined on initial recognition. Classification IFRS 16 Leases depends on the business model for managing financial assets and the contractual cash flow On 13 January 2016, IASB issued a new IFRS standard, IFRS 16 Leases. The standard addresses characteristics of the instrument. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most of the IAS 39 the definition, recording, measurement of lease contracts and notes related to lease arrangerequirements. The main change is that, in cases where the fair value option is taken for financial ments. According to the standard, all leases of over 12 months are recognized as assets and liabilities, the part of a fair value change due to an entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other liabilities (right-of-use assets). comprehensive income, unless this creates an accounting mismatch. The Group's management estimates that the new standard will have a minor impact on the accounting treatment of finanThe store site network is a strategic competitive factor for K Group. Kesko Group leases store cial assets. sites for use in its business operations in all of its operating countries. At the end of 2016, Kesko Group had over 1,500 leased properties the rental liability for which was €2,957 million. The effective date of the standard is 1 January 2018. The standard has been endorsed for adoption by the EU. Management estimates that the new leasing standard will have a significant impact on the Company’s income statement, balance sheet and performance indicators. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customer The standard replaces IAS 11, ‘Construction contracts’ and IAS 18, ’Revenue’ and related interThe effective date of the standard is 1 January 2019. The standard has not yet been endorsed for pretations’. Revenue is recognised when control of goods or services transfers to a customer. adoption by the EU. A customer obtains control when it has the ability to direct the use of and obtain the benefits from the goods or services. The core principle is that an entity recognises revenue to depict the Management estimates that the other issued new IFRS standards, IFRIC interpretations and transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration amendments to the existing standards and interpretations will not have a material impact on the to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. consolidated financial statements or their presentation. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 216 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 2. Segment information The Group's reportable segments are composed of the Group's divisions, namely the grocery ployed consist of trade payables, the share of other non-interest-bearing liabilities and provitrade, the building and technical trade, and the car trade. sions. The Group’s real estate assets and the revenue and costs generated from them have been allocated to the segments. Segment information is reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-maker, responsible for allocatCapital employed does not include deferred tax assets and liabilities, financial assets at fair value ing resources to the operating segments, has been identified as the Group Management Board. through profit or loss, except for fair value measurements of foreign exchange forward contracts The reportable operating segments derive their net sales from the food trade, the building and recognised in the balance sheet, available-for-sale financial assets, cash and cash equivalents, or technical trade, and the car trade. Sales between segments are charged at prevailing market interest-bearing liabilities. rates. Grocery trade The Group Management Board assesses the segments' performances based on operating profit, The grocery trade comprises the wholesale and B2B trade of groceries in Finland. In Finland, Kecomparable operating profit, and return on capital employed. Exceptional transactions outside sko Food operates under the K-retailer business model. The Russian grocery trade business was the ordinary course of business are treated as items affecting comparability and allocated to disposed of on 30 November 2016. Following the acquisition of Suomen Lähikauppa Oy, Kesko the segments. The Group identifies gains and losses on the disposal of real estate, shares and Food itself acts as a retailer in Finland. The conversion of Siwas and Valintatalos into K-Markets operating activities, impairments and significant costs of discontinuing operations and rewas begun in May 2016 and by the end of the year, 223 stores had been converted. Suomen structurings as non-recurring items. Gains on disposals are presented in the income statement Lähikauppa Oy was renamed K-Market Oy in autumn 2016. There are around 900 K-food stores within other operating income, and losses on disposals within other operating expenses. In operating under the K-retailer business model. These stores form the K-Citymarket, K-Superother respects, the Management Board’s performance monitoring is in full compliance with IFRS market and K-Market grocery retail chains. Kesko Food manages the operations of the chains reporting. Finance income and costs are not allocated to the segments, as the Group’s cash and made up of the stores. Chain operations ensure higher competitiveness and a strong operationcash equivalents are managed by the Group Treasury. Changes in the fair values of intra-Group al basis for K-retailers in terms of purchasing goods, building selections, marketing and price foreign exchange forward contracts entered into are reported as part of other operating income competition. Kesko Food’s subsidiary Kespro Ltd engages in grocery wholesaling in the Finnish and expenses to the extent that they hedge the segments’ foreign exchange risk. hotel, restaurant and catering (HoReCa) business. K-citymarket, home and speciality goods, is a retailer of home and speciality goods in Finland. The assets and liabilities of a segment’s capital employed consist of operating items that can be justifiably allocated to the segments. The assets of capital employed comprise property, plant Building and technical trade and equipment and intangible assets, investments accounted for using the equity method and The building and technical trade operates in the wholesale, retail and B2B trade in Finland, Sweother investments, pension assets, inventories, trade receivables and other non-interest-bearing den, Norway, the Baltic countries, Poland, Russia and Belarus. In the building and home improvereceivables, interest-bearing receivables and assets held for sale. The liabilities of capital emment trade, Kesko is responsible for the chains’ concepts, marketing, purchasing and logistics KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 217 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE services and the store site network in all operating countries and for retailer resources in Finland. The Group itself acts as a retail operator in Sweden, the Baltic countries, Russia and Belarus. The retail store chains are K-Rauta, Rautia, Byggmakker (Norway), K-Senukai (the Baltic countries) and OMA (Belarus). The building and home improvement stores serve both consumer and professional customers. On 1 June 2016, Kesko Corporation acquired Onninen Oy which specialises in the B2B trade. Onninen is one of the leading suppliers of HEPAC and electrical products and related service providers. The group specialises in the B2B trade and has around 150 places of business in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, the Baltic countries and Russia. Kesko's business operations in the HEPAC and electrical product groups will expand and it will be able to provide better service to contractor customers in particular. This reportable segment also includes the agricultural and machinery trade in Finland, the machinery trade in the Baltic countries, the leisure trade in Finland and the furniture trade. The furniture trade chains in Finland and the Baltic countries are Asko and Sotka. Intersport, Budget Sport and Kookenkä are the leisure chains. Intersport engages in the sports equipment trade in Finland. The agricultural and machinery trade comprises the operations of K-maatalous and Konekesko. The machinery trade is a service company specialising in the import and trade of construction, environmental, agricultural and recreational machinery. Car trade The car trade comprises the business operations of VV-Auto. VV-Auto imports and markets Volkswagen, Audi and Seat passenger cars and Volkswagen and MAN commercial vehicles in Finland. VV-Auto also engages in car retailing and provides after-sales services at its own retail outlets. In December 2016, VV-Auto Group acquired Oy AutoCarrera Ab and as a result, the import and retailing of Porsche transferred to VV-Auto. Common functions Common functions comprise Group support functions. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 218 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Segment information for 2016 Profit Building and € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade Common functions Total Segment net sales 5,235.6 4,100.3 849.2 123.4 10,308.5 of which intersegment sales -10.1 -11.2 -0.2 -106.7 -128.1 Net sales from external customers 5,225.5 4,089.2 849.0 16.8 10,180.4 Other segment income 527.2 169.6 4.4 10.8 712.0 of which intersegment income -5.7 -8.8 1.5 -13.0 Other operating income from external customers 521.5 160.8 4.4 12.2 699.0 Depreciation and amortisation -73.0 -48.5 -9.0 -7.1 -137.6 Impairment -0.4 -17.6 -6.0 -24.0 Operating profit 93.0 60.8 28.9 -36.0 146.8 Items affecting comparability -82.9 -37.2 -0.6 -5.5 -126.2 Comparable operating profit 175.9 97.9 29.5 -30.5 272.9 Finance income and costs -1.0 Investments accounted for using the equity method -0.6 Profit before tax 145.2 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 219 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Assets and liabilities Building and € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade Common operations Eliminations Total Tangible and intangible assets 791.5 661.6 95.9 28.9 2.9 1,580.9 Equity accounted investments and other investments 4.8 1.5 0.0 117.4 -0.6 123.0 Pension assets 40.6 16.2 107.9 164.7 Inventories 233.3 601.4 144.1 0.0 978.9 Trade receivables 294.5 486.6 51.1 14.8 -15.9 831.2 Other non-interest-bearing receivables 64.7 106.5 9.2 56.3 -15.0 221.6 Interest-bearing receivables 0.8 2.9 0.0 60.8 64.5 Assets held for sale 2.6 42.7 0.5 45.7 Assets included in capital employed 1,432.9 1,919.5 300.3 386.5 -28.7 4,010.5 Unallocated items Deferred tax assets 5.8 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 93.3 Available-for-sale financial assets 156.8 Cash and cash equivalents 141.3 Total assets 1,432.9 1,919.5 300.3 386.5 -28.7 4,407.7 Trade payables 516.9 539.8 21.3 4.5 -13.4 1,069.2 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 229.6 212.3 76.3 59.5 -15.5 562.2 Provisions 6.1 10.5 37.9 1.4 55.8 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 0.8 0.8 Liabilities included in capital employed 752.6 763.5 135.4 65.4 -28.8 1,688.1 Unallocated items Interest-bearing liabilities 514.6 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 30.6 Deferred tax liabilities 48.1 Total liabilities 752.6 763.5 135.4 65.4 -28.8 2,281.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 220 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Building and € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade Common operations Eliminations Total Total capital employed as at 31 December 680.3 1,156.1 164.8 321.1 0.2 2,322.4 Average capital employed 827.6 1,000.4 123.9 337.8 -2.2 2,287.5 Return on capital employed, comparable, % 21.3 9.8 23.8 -9.0 11.9 Capital expenditure 238.1 451.7 41.4 14.9 -3.0 743.1 Number of personnel as at 31 December 10,338 15,630 817 871 27,656 Average number of personnel 8,200 12,744 780 752 22,476 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 221 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Segment information for 2015 Profit Building and € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade Common operations Total Segment net sales 4,672.9 3,249.8 747.9 129.4 8,799.9 of which intersegment sales -15.4 -0.6 -0.4 -104.6 -121.0 Net sales from external customers 4,657.5 3,249.1 747.5 24.8 8,678.9 Other segment income 607.9 187.6 4.3 14.7 814.5 of which intersegment income -6.1 -10.0 0.0 2.0 -14.1 Other operating income from external customers 601.9 177.6 4.3 16.7 800.4 Depreciation and amortisation -69.1 -44.6 -8.0 -5.8 -127.6 Impairment 0.0 -9.2 -9.2 Operating profit 249.4 -57.2 26.1 -23.7 194.6 Items affecting comparability 71.9 -120.8 -1.0 -49.9 Comparable operating profit 177.5 63.6 26.1 -22.7 244.5 Finance income and costs -7.1 Investments accounted for using the equity method 0.6 Profit before tax 188.0 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 222 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Assets and liabilities Building and € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade Common operations Eliminations Total Tangible and intangible assets 788.3 523.7 75.7 60.0 2.9 1,450.5 Equity accounted investments and other investments 4.7 0.2 0.0 110.2 -0.6 114.5 Pension assets 40.6 16.3 119.5 176.4 Inventories 211.9 382.3 140.9 0.0 735.0 Trade receivables 284.5 256.6 43.4 11.3 -14.1 581.7 Other non-interest-bearing receivables 50.5 60.7 4.1 24.2 -21.0 118.5 Interest-bearing receivables 3.8 3.8 0.3 63.1 71.0 Assets held for sale 0.5 0.5 Assets included in capital employed 1,384.3 1,243.5 264.4 388.8 -32.8 3,248.1 Unallocated items Deferred tax assets 3.9 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 374.2 Available-for-sale financial assets 371.7 Cash and cash equivalents 141.2 Total assets 1,384.3 1,243.5 264.4 388.8 -32.8 4,139.3 Trade payables 424.4 355.3 17.4 7.7 -9.8 795.1 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 233.5 131.3 69.2 88.8 -15.7 507.2 Provisions 4.0 16.6 31.9 0.9 53.4 Liabilities included in capital employed 661.9 503.3 118.6 97.5 -25.4 1,355.7 Unallocated items Interest-bearing liabilities 439.1 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 31.2 Deferred tax liabilities 71.4 Total liabilities 661.9 503.3 118.6 97.5 -25.4 1,897.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 223 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Building and € million Grocery trade technical trade Car trade Common operations Eliminations Total Total capital employed as at 31 December 722.4 740.3 145.8 291.3 -7.4 1,892.4 Average capital employed 871.4 823.0 103.7 292.2 -7.1 2,083.2 Return on capital employed, comparable, % 20.4 7.7 25.2 11.7 Capital expenditure 128.9 55.3 16.0 18.5 -0.2 218.5 Number of personnel as at 31 December 8,364 12,270 783 518 21,935 Average number of personnel 6,420 11,269 780 487 18,955 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 224 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group-wide information The Group operates in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus. The grocery trade operates in Finland and, until the end of November 2016, in Russia. The building and technical trade operates in Finland, Sweden, Norway, the Baltic countries, Poland, Russia and Belarus, and the car trade operates in Finland. Net sales, assets, capital expenditure and personnel are presented by location. Other countries include Russia, Belarus and Poland. 2016 € million Finland Other Nordic countries Baltic countries Others Eliminations Total Net sales 8,133.6 899.6 661.8 502.7 -17.4 10,180.4 Assets 3,035.7 332.5 258.9 383.3 4,010.5 Capital expenditure 630.1 3.1 24.7 85.2 743.1 Average number of personnel 10,714 1,327 4,597 5,838 22,476 2015 € million Finland Other Nordic countries Baltic countries Others Eliminations Total Net sales 7,056.8 627.2 584.1 426.8 -16.0 8,678.9 Assets 2,357.1 182.3 216.3 492.5 3,248.1 Capital expenditure 130.6 4.2 4.1 79.6 218.5 Average number of personnel 8,300 988 4,508 5,160 18,955 Net sales are nearly completely derived from sales of goods. The amount derived from sales of services is minor. Kesko Group does not have income derived from a single customer amounting to more than 10% of Kesko Group’s total income. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 225 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 3. Business acquisitions and disposals of assets Acquisitions Suomen Onninen Oy Auto-­ On 12 April 2016, Kesko Food Ltd, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, acquired the whole share € million Lähikauppa Group carrera Ab capital of Suomen Lähikauppa Oy from the private equity investment firm Triton. Kesko CorCash flow impact of acquisition poration acquired Onninen Oy's whole share capital from Onvest Oy on 1 June 2016. VV-Auto Consideration paid -54 -364 -25 Group acquired the whole share capital of Oy AutoCarrera Ab and as a result, the import and Cash and cash equivalents acquired 8 17 0 retailing of Porsche transferred to VV-Auto. Suomen Onninen Oy Auto-­ Cash flow impact of acquisition -46 -347 -25 € million Lähikauppa Group carrera Ab Consideration paid 54 364 27 Suomen Lähikauppa Oy On 12 April 2016, Kesko Food Ltd, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, acquired the whole share capProvisionally determined fair values of assets acquired ital of Suomen Lähikauppa Oy from the private equity investment firm Triton. The debt-free price and liabilities assumed as at the date of acquisition of the acquisition, structured as a share purchase, was €54 million. Intangible assets 5 94 2 Tangible assets and investments 33 21 1 Suomen Lähikauppa has concentrated on grocery stores located near customers. The acquisition Inventories 33 227 9 underpins Kesko's new strategy, one focus area of which is to increase and renew the neighbourReceivables 12 238 4 hood store network. Deferred tax asset 22 3 The tables above are a condensed presentation of the consideration paid to Triton, the values of Cash and cash equivalents 8 17 0 the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Kesko Group as at the date of the acquisition, as well Total assets 113 599 16 as the cash flow impact of the acquisition. Trade payables, other payables, provisions 134 275 7 The €76 million goodwill from the acquisition reflects the synergies expected to arise especially Deferred tax liability 0 16 1 from purchasing and logistics, marketing, store site network development, information system Total liabilities 134 291 8 expenses and administration. Kesko estimates that it will gain annual synergy benefits of over 30 million at EBITDA level from the acquisition as of 2018. The achievement of synergies will require Net assets acquired, total -22 309 8 conversion costs for the renewal of the stores acquired from Suomen Lähikauppa. The costs of store and network conversion, to be treated as restructuring costs affecting the comparability of the operating profit, will total approximately €30 million in 2016-2018. The goodwill derived from Goodwill 76 55 19 the acquisition is not tax deductible. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 226 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Group's profit for January-December 2016 includes costs incurred from an acquisition in the The €55 million goodwill from the acquisition reflects the synergies expected to mainly arise from amount of €1.2 million, the most significant of which is the €0.6 million asset transfer tax. The the utilisation of the common customer relationships, from purchasing and logistics, the developcosts are presented within items affecting comparability. ment of the store site network, as well as from ICT and administration. Kesko estimates that it will gain annual synergy benefits of approximately €30 million at EBITDA level from the acquisition as Suomen Lähikauppa contributed €575 million to the net sales of the April-December period. The of 2020. The achievement of synergies will require both capital expenditures and non-recurring impact on the comparable operating profit for the April-December period was €-7.4 million and costs. The combined net cash flow impact of synergy benefits is estimated at around €25 million taking synergies into account, €-3.2 million. Management estimates that if the acquisition had positive in 2016-2019. The goodwill derived from the acquisition is not tax deductible. been completed on 1 January 2016, the impact on the Group's net sales would have been approximately €795 million. The impact on the comparable operating profit would have been €-17 million. The Group's profit for January-December 2016 include costs incurred from an acquisition in the When determining the amounts of net sales and comparable operating profit, management amount of €6.8 million, the most significant of which is the €5.8 million asset transfer tax. The estimates that the fair values recognized at the date of acquisition would have been the same if the costs are presented within items affecting comparability. acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2016. Onninen contributed €908 million to the net sales of the June-December period. The impact Onninen Oy on the comparable operating profit for the June-December period was €18.2 million, adversely Kesko Corporation acquired Onninen Oy's whole share capital from Onvest Oy on 1 June 2016. impacted by the fair value allocations of inventories written off in the amount of €5.1 million. ManThe debt-free price of the acquisition, structured as a share purchase, was €364 million. agement estimates that if the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2016, the impact on the Group's net sales would have been approximately €1,500 million. The impact on the comparable Onninen is one of the leading providers of HEPAC and electrical products and services in the Baltic operating profit would have been €17.7 million. When determining the amounts of net sales and Sea Region and Scandinavia. The group specialises in the B2B trade and has around 140 places of comparable operating profit, management estimates that the fair values recognized at the date of business in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Poland, the Baltic countries and Russia. Kesko's business acquisition would have been the same if the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2016. operations will expand in the HEPAC and electrical product groups and it will be able to better serve contractor customers in particular. In addition, Kesko will gain new customer relationships in Oy AutoCarrera Ab the infrastructure and industry customer groups. In December VV-Auto Group, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, acquired the whole share capital of Oy AutoCarrera Ab. As a result, the import and retailing of Porsche transferred to VV-Auto. The The tables above are a condensed presentation of the consideration paid to Onvest Oy, the values price of the acquisition, structured as a share purchase, was €27 million. of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Kesko Group as at the date of the acquisition, as well as the cash flow impact of the acquisition. The tables above are a condensed presentation of the consideration paid, the values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by Kesko Group as at the date of the acquisition, as well as the The total value of the intangible assets acquired as at the date of the acquisition (including cash flow impact of the acquisition. customer relationships and trademarks) is €94 million. The balance sheet value of current trade receivables equals their fair value. The €19 million goodwill derived from the acquisition reflects the synergies and growth potential expected to be realised as Porsche increases VV-Auto's car selection. The acquisition will also KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 227 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE create synergies in the car trade processes, suc as purchases, store site network, logistics, ICT and In 2015, Kesko also sold four properties to Kesko Pension Fund. A €22.9 million selling profit administration. The goodwill derived from the acquisition is not tax deductible. affecting comparability was recorded. The Group's profit for December 2016 include costs incurred from an acquisition in the amount of €0.6 million, the most significant of which is the €0.4 million asset transfer tax. Note 4. Other operating income and AutoCarrera contributed €4.4 million to the net sales of December. The impact on the compaother operating expenses rable operating profit for the December was €-0.0 million, adversely impacted by the fair value allocations of inventories written off in the amount of €0.1 million. Management estimates that if Other operating income the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2016, the impact on the Group's net sales would € million 2016 2015 have been approximately €45 million. The impact on the comparable operating profit would have Income from services 535.3 544.3 been €2.2 million. When determining the amounts of net sales and comparable operating profit, Lease income 41.9 44.5 management estimates that the fair values recognized at the date of acquisition would have been Gains on disposal of tangible and intangible assets 3.3 102.7 the same if the acquisition had been completed on 1 January 2016. Realised gains on derivative contracts and changes in fair value 5.2 6.6 In 2015 Kesko Group did not have acquisitions to be accounted for as business combinations. Others 113.3 102.3 Total 699.0 800.4 Disposals of assets In July 2016, Kesko sold its shares in OOO Johaston and at the same time, disposed of the InterIncome from services mainly comprises chain and store site fees paid by chain companies. sport business in Russia. Other operating income includes €1.8 million (€101.0 million) of items affecting comparability. In November 2016, Kesko sold the grocery business in Russia to Lenta Ltd. The aggregate considMore information on items affecting comparability is presented in note 5. eration for the disposal was approximately €178 million, on which a €69 million comparable loss affecting comparability was recognised. Other operating expenses € million 2016 2015 In 2015, Kesko sold the department store chain Anttila Oy to the German investment fund 4K Other operating expenses -161.9 -112.2 INVEST at a price of €1 million. The date of the transaction was 16 March 2015. A €-130 million loss Losses on disposal of tangible assets and shares -65.8 -130.6 on the disposal affecting comparability was recorded on the transaction. Realised losses on derivative contracts and changes in fair value* -3.7 -6.8 Total -231.4 -249.6 In 2015, Kesko, AMF Pensionsförsäkring and Ilmarinen established a joint real estate investment company. Kesko sold some of its store sites in both Finland and Sweden to the established joint * Includes changes in fair values of embedded derivatives. venture. A €75.6 million selling profit affecting comparability was recorded. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 228 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Auditors' fees In 2016, the items affecting comparability include €69.2 million loss on the disposal of the € million 2016 2015 Russian grocery trade, €30.0 million in impairment charges, €11.4 million in costs related to the PricewaterhouseCoopers, firm of auditors conversion of Suomen Lähikauppa’s chains, and €6.9 million in asset transfer taxes on acquisitions included in structural arrangements. Due to the change in the Russian real estate market, Audit 0.9 0.8 the functional currency of the building and home improvement trade’s Russian properties was Tax consultation 0.1 0.1 changed from euro to rouble on 31 December 2016, and as a result, a €15 million impairment Other services 0.3 0.6 charge was allocated to the properties. In 2015, the items affecting comparability include a €130 Total 1.4 1.5 million loss on the divestment of Anttila, gains on disposal of properties in the amount of €101.0 million, and relating to the restructuring of Intersport Russia's operations, a total of €17.2 million Other audit firms 2.0 1.2 of impairment charges and provisions. Note 5. Items affecting comparability Note 6. Employee benefit expense, management € million 2016 2015 compensation and number of personnel Gains on disposal of properties and shares 4.2 101.2 Losses on disposal of properties and shares -71.0 -131.8 € million 2016 2015 Impairment losses -30.0 Salaries and fees -574.7 -440.2 Structural arrangements -23.1 -19.3 Social security costs -57.5 -43.2 Other items -6.3 0.0 Pension costs -78.3 -55.0 Total -126.2 -49.9 Defined benefit plans 2.2 0.5 Defined contribution plans -80.5 -55.5 Exceptional transactions outside the ordinary course of business are treated as items affecting Share-based payment -12.3 -6.4 comparability and they have been allocated to segments. The Group identifies gains and losses Total -722.8 -544.8 on disposal of real estate, shares and business operations, impairment charges and significant costs of discontinuing business operations and restructurings as items affecting comparability. Information on the employee benefits of the Group’s management personnel and other related Gains on disposal have been presented within other operating income, and losses on disposal party transactions are presented in note 33, and on share-based payment in note 30. within other operating expenses in the income statement. Impairment charges have been presented within depreciation, amortisation and impairment in the income statement. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 229 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration of the Group companies’ managing directors and € million 2016 2015 board members Interest expense and other finance costs Interest expense on financial liabilities at amortised cost -10.8 -11.6 € million 2016 2015 Losses on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 0.0 -1.1 Salaries of managing directors (incl. fringe benefits) 8.0 6.0 Other finance costs -0.8 -1.6 Remuneration of Board members 0.4 0.4 Total interest expense and other finance costs -11.6 -14.2 Total 8.3 6.4 Exchange differences Exchange differences and changes in fair values of derivatives, borrowings -4.4 -3.3 denominated in foreign currencies not qualifying for hedge accounting, and Average number of the Group personnel cash at bank Total exchange differences -4.4 -3.3 2016 2015 Grocery trade 8,200 6,420 Total finance income and costs -1.0 -7.1 Building and technical trade 12,744 11,269 Car trade 780 780 The interest expense includes €0.1 million (€0.2 million) of interests on finance leases recognised Common functions 752 487 as expenses for the period. Total 22,476 18,956 The realised result of interest rate derivatives used for hedging a USD-denominated Private Placement credit facility is recognised in net terms in interest expense with the loan interest. Note 7. Finance income and costs Exchange differences recognised in the income statement € million 2016 2015 Interest income and other finance income € million 2016 2015 Interest income on loans and receivables 11.3 7.8 Sales -0.1 -0.1 Interest income on financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 0.7 0.8 Other income 2.7 6.6 Interest income on available-for-sale financial assets 1.6 1.6 Purchases 0.2 0.2 Gains on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 1.0 0.1 Other expenses -3.7 -5.4 Other finance income 0.4 0.1 Finance income and costs -4.4 -3.3 Total interest income and other finance income 15.0 10.4 Total -5.3 -2.1 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 230 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 8. Income tax Note 9. Components of other comprehensive € million 2016 2015 income Current tax -41.3 -83.4 Components of other comprehensive income and related tax Tax for prior years -0.8 0.0 2016 Tax 2015 Tax Deferred tax 10.7 12.8 Before charge/ Before charge/ Total -31.4 -70.7 € million tax credit After tax tax credit After tax Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss Reconciliation between tax expense shown in the income statement Actuarial gains and losses -14.0 2.8 -11.1 28.8 -5.8 23.0 and tax calculated at parent's rate Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss € million 2016 2015 Currency translation differences relating 10.4 10.4 -17.4 -17.4 to a foreign operation Profit before tax 145.2 188.0 Cash flow hedge revaluation 3.1 -0.6 2.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 Tax at parent's rate 20.0% -29.0 -37.6 Revaluation of available-for-sale financial 0.7 -0.1 0.5 1.4 -0.3 1.1 Effect of foreign subsidiaries' different tax rates 3.3 3.0 assets Effect of tax-free income 0.6 2.8 Others -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 -0.3 Effect of expenses not deductible for tax purposes -7.1 -32.8 Total -0.1 2.1 2.0 12.5 -6.1 6.4 Effect of tax losses -4.9 -5.7 Effect of consolidation 6.4 -0.3 Tax for prior years -0.8 0.0 Effect of change in tax rate 0.3 0.3 Others -0.2 -0.4 Tax charge -31.4 -70.7 The impact of the corporation tax rate change, effective from 1 January 2017 in Norway, on the deferred tax for the financial year 2016 was €0.3 million. The impact of the corporation tax rate change, effective from 1 January 2016 in Norway, on the deferred tax for the financial year 2015 was €0.3 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 231 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 10. Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net profit for the period attributable to the parent’s equity holders by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of all shares to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive shares. 2016 2015 Profit for the period attributable to equity holders of the parent, € million 98.6 101.6 Number of shares Weighted average number of shares outstanding 99,248,794 99,113,741 Diluted weighted average number of shares outstanding 99,248,794 99,113,741 Earnings per share from profit attributable to equity holders of the parent Basic, € 0.99 1.03 Diluted, € 0.99 1.03 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 232 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 11. Property, plant and equipment 2016 Machinery and Prepayments and € million Land and waters Buildings equipment Other tangible assets construction in progress Total 2016 Cost Cost as at 1 January 357.2 1,184.2 508.5 83.3 71.1 2,204.4 Currency translation differences 0.9 4.2 7.0 1.0 0.2 13.3 Additions 13.5 68.4 58.3 5.8 86.2 232.2 Acquisitions 1.4 11.2 44.9 0.2 1.7 59.4 Deductions -2.4 -19.9 -55.3 -0.4 -0.7 -78.6 Disposals -52.1 -180.8 -34.4 -26.1 -2.7 -296.0 Transfers between items -15.7 -8.6 1.7 -5.5 -54.8 -82.7 Cost as at 31 December 302.8 1,058.9 530.7 58.4 101.1 2,052.0 Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment as at -11.7 -486.1 -391.3 -33.1 -922.3 1 January Currency translation differences -1.4 -2.9 -0.5 -4.8 Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment on 9.6 40.8 15.8 4.3 70.4 disposals Accumulated depreciation and amortisation on deductions 11.4 44.9 -0.2 56.1 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation on transfers 25.9 3.6 5.2 34.8 Depreciation charge for the year and impairments -4.0 -76.1 -48.8 -6.9 -135.8 Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment as at -6.1 -485.6 -378.7 -31.2 -901.6 31 December Carrying amount as at 1 January 345.5 698.1 117.2 50.2 71.1 1,282.1 Carrying amount as at 31 December 296.6 573.3 152.0 27.2 101.1 1,150.4 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 233 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015 Machinery and Prepayments and € million Land and waters Buildings equipment Other tangible assets construction in progress Total 2015 Cost Cost as at 1 January 426.0 1,513.0 547.0 97.1 48.0 2,631.1 Currency translation differences -0.5 -7.8 -6.4 -1.1 0.0 -15.6 Additions 6.3 61.9 41.0 6.3 65.5 180.9 Deductions -74.8 -419.5 -76.5 -20.5 -0.2 -591.6 Transfers between items 0.2 36.6 3.4 1.5 -42.2 -0.4 Cost as at 31 December 357.2 1,184.2 508.5 83.3 71.1 2,204.4 Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges as -11.7 -550.1 -408.7 -36.5 -1,007.0 at 1 January Currency translation differences 1.2 3.0 0.3 4.5 Accumulated depreciation of deductions and transfers 125.9 55.6 10.1 191.7 Depreciation charge for the year and impairments -63.2 -41.2 -7.1 -111.5 Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment charges -11.7 -486.1 -391.3 -33.1 -922.3 as at 31 December Carrying amount as at 1 January 414.3 962.9 138.3 60.7 48.0 1,624.1 Carrying amount as at 31 December 345.5 698.1 117.2 50.2 71.1 1,282.1 Property, plant and equipment include the following amounts of machinery and equipment leased under finance leases: € million 2016 2015 Cost 23.4 26.8 Accumulated depreciation -15.3 -21.5 Carrying amount 8.1 5.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 234 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 12. Intangible assets 2016 € million Goodwill Trademarks Other intangible assets Prepayments Total 2016 Cost Cost as at 1 January 101.6 70.9 229.5 8.4 410.3 Currency translation differences 0.0 1.8 2.3 4.1 Additions 152.2 25.1 14.6 191.8 Acquisitions 58.3 39.6 6.2 104.0 Disposals -0.1 -9.8 -9.9 Deductions -10.5 -0.2 -10.7 Transfers between items -4.0 8.0 -10.7 -6.7 Cost as at 31 December 249.6 131.0 284.0 18.3 682.9 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Accumulated amortisation and impairment charges as at 1 January -60.6 -7.4 -174.0 0.0 -241.8 Currency translation differences 0.1 -0.4 -1.8 -2.1 Accumulated depreciation, amortisation and impairment on disposals 0.1 3.8 3.9 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation on deductions 0.6 10.5 11.1 Amortisation charge for the year and impairments -23.4 -23.4 Accumulated amortisation and impairment charges as at 31 December -59.7 -7.8 -184.9 0.0 -252.3 Carrying amount as at 1 January 41.0 63.5 55.5 8.4 168.4 Carrying amount as at 31 December 189.9 123.3 99.1 18.3 430.6 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 235 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2015 € million Goodwill Trademarks Other intangible assets Prepayments Total 2015 Cost Cost as at 1 January 145.2 72.9 213.2 11.5 442.7 Currency translation differences 0.1 -2.0 -2.8 0.0 -4.6 Additions 19.1 6.5 25.6 Deductions -43.8 -4.4 -5.4 -53.6 Transfers between items 4.3 -4.2 0.1 Cost as at 31 December 101.6 70.9 229.5 8.4 410.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment Accumulated amortisation and impairment charges as at 1 January -104.2 -7.8 -152.9 -264.8 Currency translation differences -0.1 0.5 2.4 2.8 Accumulated amortisation of deductions and transfers 43.8 1.8 45.6 Amortisation charge for the year and impairments -25.3 -25.3 Accumulated amortisation and impairment charges as at 31 December -60.6 -7.4 -174.0 0.0 -241.8 Carrying amount as at 1 January 41.0 65.1 60.4 11.5 177.9 Carrying amount as at 31 December 41.0 63.5 55.5 8.4 168.4 Other intangible assets include other non-current expenditure, of which €55.4 million (€33.4 million) are software and licence costs. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 236 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Goodwill and intangible rights by segment Discount rate (WACC)** Discount rate (WACC)** € million Trademarks* 2016 Goodwill 2016 2016 Trademarks* 2015 Goodwill 2015 2015 Grocery trade 76.1 6.0 Building and technical trade Byggmakker, Norway 25.9 7.0 24.5 6.0 Onninen 58.3 55.1 7.1 Kesko Senukai, Baltics 20.5 7.0 18.3 7.0 K-rauta Rus, Russia 14.5 11.0 14.6 11.4 Indoor, Finland 39.1 4.1 7.0 39.1 4.1 6.0 Car trade 19.7 7.0 0.2 Total 123.3 189.9 63.5 37.2 * Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives ** After tax, rate used in impairment testing The car trade excluded, the cash generating units have been identified at a lower level than the Impairment test for goodwill and intangible assets reportable segments. The units have been identified at the chain level. The €3.8 million goodIn impairment testing, the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is determined based on will related to Konekesko's Yamarin business is presented within available-for-sale non-current value-in-use calculations. These calculations use cash flow projections based on financial plans assets. approved by management, covering a period of three years. The key assumptions used for the plans are total market growth and profitability trends, changes in store site network, product The useful lives of trademarks (brands) included in intangible assets have been classified as and service selection, pricing and movements in operating costs. Cash flows beyond this period indefinite, because it has been estimated that the period over which they generate cash inflows have been extrapolated mainly based on 1.0–4.0% (1.0–4.0%) forecast growth rates, allowing for is indefinite. This is because no foreseeable limit to the period over which they are expected to country-specific differences. generate net cash inflows for the Group can be seen. Trademarks are part of assets acquired in connection with acquisitions. The discount rate used is the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) after tax, specified for each segment and country and adjusted for tax effect in connection with the test. The WACC Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested annually for possible impairment and formula inputs are risk-free rate of return, market risk premium, industry-specific beta factor, whenever there is an indication of impairment. target capital structure, borrowing cost and country risks. As a result of the update of calculation parameters, discount rates fell in Russia and rose in Norway and Finland compared to the previous year. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 237 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Impairment losses Disclosures on equity accounted investments and the Group’s ownThere were no impairment charges recognised on goodwill or intangible rights in the financial ership interest in their aggregated assets, liabilities, net sales and years 2016 and 2015. profits/losses: Sensitivity analysis The key variables used in impairment testing are the EBITDA margin and the discount rate. The Ownership most sensitive to movements in assumptions in the building and technical trade are the brand € million Assets Liabilities Net sales Profit/loss interest, % related to the Byggmakker business and the goodwill related to the Russian business. If their 2016 residual EBITDA decreased by more than 0.3-0.5 percentage points, an impairment would be Mercada Oy, Helsinki 668.9 624.0 48.3 3.8 33.3 recognised. Regarding the other cash generating units, according to management’s estimates, a Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy, Helsinki 257.3 131.9 12.9 8.5 49.0 foreseeable change in any key variable would not create a situation in which the unit’s recoveraValluga-sijoitus Oy, Helsinki 30.2 0.3 0.0 2.7 46.2 ble amount would be lower than its carrying amount. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Helsinki 86.8 0.3 1.4 7.4 34.3 Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, 7.2 1.7 9.1 0.0 30.0 Note 13. Equity accounted investments Helsinki Others 43.8 35.7 0.1 -0.1 Total 1,094.1 793.9 71.8 22.3 € million 2016 2015 Carrying amount as at 1 January 99.2 92.2 2015 Share of the profit for the financial year -1.3 0.2 Mercada Oy, Helsinki 670.7 627.3 26.9 10.2 33.3 Additions 9.9 16.3 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy, Helsinki 261.7 148.5 13.1 7.2 49.0 Repaid equity 0.0 -9.4 Valluga-sijoitus Oy, Helsinki 27.3 0.0 1.6 46.2 Carrying amount as at 31 December 107.9 99.2 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, Helsinki 79.3 0.2 1.4 4.5 34.3 Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy, 7.4 1.9 9.3 0.2 30.0 The shares in associates and joint ventures are not quoted publicly. Helsinki Others 4.4 3.1 0.2 0.0 Total 1,050.8 781.0 51.0 23.6 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 238 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 14. Non-current receivables Note 15. Finance lease receivables Maturity analysis of non-current receivables as at 31 Dec 2016 2016 2015 Present Present € million 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022− Total value of value of Minimum Unearned minimum Minimum Unearned minimum Non-interest-bearing non-current 1.4 0.0 0.2 0.4 1.8 lease finance lease lease finance lease receivables € million receivables income receivables receivables income receivables Loans and receivables from associates and 1.5 56.0 57.5 joint ventures Finance lease receivables are due as follows: Other non-current receivables 0.3 2.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 3.3 No later than 1 year 0.3 0.0 0.3 2.7 0.0 2.7 Total 3.2 2.9 0.0 0.2 56.4 62.6 Later than 1 year and 0.3 0.0 0.3 no later than 5 years The carrying amount of non-interest-bearing non-current receivables and finance lease Later than 5 years ­receivables equal their fair value. Total finance lease 0.3 0.0 0.3 3.0 0.0 3.0 receivables Maturity analysis of non-current receivables as at 31 Dec 2015 € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021− Total Non-interest-bearing non-current 1.4 0.0 0.0 0.4 1.9 receivables Finance lease receivables 0.3 0.3 Loans and receivables from associates and 1.5 56.0 57.5 joint ventures Other non-current receivables 0.4 0.4 2.3 0.1 0.1 3.3 Total 2.1 1.9 2.3 0.1 56.5 62.9 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 239 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 16. Deferred tax Movements in deferred tax in 2016 Income statement Tax charged/credited € million 1 Jan 2016 charge to equity Exchange differences Other changes 31 Dec 2016 Deferred tax assets Provisions 9.6 0.3 0.0 0.1 10.0 Defined benefit pension plans 0.1 0.0 0.1 Tax loss carry-forwards 8.3 -3.2 2.1 18.4 25.6 Other temporary differences 19.8 0.1 -0.6 1.3 -1.1 19.4 Total 37.8 -2.8 -0.6 3.4 17.3 55.1 Deferred tax liabilities Difference between accounting depreciation and tax depreciation 49.6 -12.2 -6.5 30.9 Fair value allocation 9.3 -1.5 0.3 15.3 23.5 Defined benefit pension plans 35.3 0.6 -2.8 33.1 Other temporary differences 11.0 0.2 0.2 0.7 -2.2 9.9 Total 105.2 -12.9 -2.7 1.1 6.6 97.4 Net deferred tax liability 67.5 42.3 Balance sheet division of net deferred tax liability € million 2016 2015 Other temporary differences within deferred tax assets include €3.6 million of deferred tax asDeferred tax assets 5.8 3.9 sets arising from compliance with the Group’s accounting principles and €4.2 million of deferred Deferred tax liabilities 48.1 71.4 tax assets resulting from timing differences between local accounting principles and taxation. Total 42.3 67.5 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 240 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Movements in deferred tax in 2015 Income statement Tax charged/credited € million 1 Jan 2015 charge to equity Exchange differences Other changes 31 Dec 2015 Deferred tax assets Provisions 13.2 -0.7 -2.9 9.6 Defined benefit pension plans 0.3 -0.2 0.1 Tax loss carry-forwards 10.1 0.8 -2.6 8.3 Other temporary differences 18.0 9.9 0.0 -1.2 -6.9 19.8 Total 41.5 9.8 0.0 -3.8 -9.8 37.8 Deferred tax liabilities Difference between accounting depreciation and tax depreciation 54.1 -4.5 49.6 Fair value allocation 11.3 -1.6 -0.4 9.3 Defined benefit pension plans 29.5 0.0 5.8 35.3 Other temporary differences 9.8 1.4 0.3 -0.5 11.0 Total 104.7 -4.7 6.1 -0.9 0.0 105.2 Net deferred tax liability 63.2 67.5 Tax loss carry-forwards Tax losses carried forward for which tax assets have not been recognised expire as follows: As at 31 December 2016, the Group’s unused tax losses carried forward were €169.0 million, for which deferred tax assets have not been recognised, because at the balance sheet date, the € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022− Total realisation of the related tax benefit through future taxable profits is not probable. 0.8 9.0 8.6 7.6 1.6 141.3 169.0 Deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised for taxes that would be payable on subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings, because the subsidiaries’ distributions are at the discretion of the Group, and a distribution of profits with tax effect is not probable in the near future. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 241 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 17. Pension assets In addition to its rules, the Pension Fund's operations are regulated by the Employee Benefit Funds Act, the decrees under the Act and official instructions, and the Fund's operations are The Group operates several pension plans in different operating countries. In Finland, the statcontrolled by the Financial Supervisory Authority. The regulations include stipulations on the utory pension provision of personnel is provided through pension insurance companies and the calculation of pension obligation and its coverage, for example. The pension obligation shall be voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly provided through Kesko Pension Fund. The fully covered by the plan assets, any temporary deficit is only allowed exceptionally. In addition, statutory pension provision provided through pension insurance companies is a defined conthe regulations include detailed stipulations on the acceptability of the covering assets and the tribution plan. The supplementary pension provision provided through Kesko Pension Fund is a diversification of investment risks. defined benefit plan. Kesko Group does not expect to pay contributions to the Pension Fund in 2017. As regards foreign subsidiaries, the pension plan operated in Norway is classified as a defined benefit plan. As at 31 December 2016, the net liability in respect of the defined benefit plan in The defined benefit asset recognised in the balance sheet in respect of Kesko Pension Fund Norway was €0.2 million (€0.3 million). The defined benefit plan in Norway is not included in the is determined as follows: tables below, because its impact on the consolidated amounts is insignificant. The pension plans € million 2016 2015 in the other foreign subsidiaries are managed in accordance with local regulations and practices Present value of defined benefit obligation -300.4 -266.1 in each country and they are defined contribution plans. Fair value of plan assets 464.5 442.4 Net assets recognised in the balance sheet 164.1 176.4 Kesko Pension Fund Kesko Pension Fund is a pension provider of its members providing supplementary retirement benefits to employees who are beneficiaries of the Pension Fund's department A. Department Movement in the net assets recognised in the balance sheet: A was closed on 9 May 1998. As the conditions set out in the Fund's rules are met, beneficiaries As at 1 January 176.4 147.2 between 60 and 65 years of age are granted an old-age pension. The amount of retirement benIncome/cost recognised in the income statement 2.2 0.5 efit granted by the Fund is the difference between the employee's retirement benefit based on Remeasurement -14.1 28.8 his/her pensionable salary calculated in accordance with the Fund's rules and the statutory penContributions to plan and plan costs -0.4 -0.4 sion. In addition to the individually calculated pensionable salary, the retirement benefit amount As at 31 December 164.1 176.4 of each beneficiary is impacted by the duration of his/her membership of the Pension Fund. At the end of 2016, the Pension Fund had 2,717 beneficiaries, of whom 641 were active employees and 2,076 were retired employees. Kesko Group's contribution to the Pension Fund's obligation is 96.7% (96.7%). The notes present Kesko Group's interest in the Pension Fund except for the analysis of assets by category and the maturity analysis of the obligation. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 242 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Present value of Present value of defined benefit Fair value of defined benefit Fair value of € million obligation plan assets Total € million obligation plan assets Total As at 1 January 2016 -266.4 442.8 176.4 As at 1 January 2015 -289.3 436.5 147.2 Current service cost -1.8 -1.8 Current service cost -2.8 -2.8 Interest cost/income -6.0 10.0 4.1 Interest cost/income -6.5 9.8 3.3 -7.8 10.0 2.2 -9.3 9.8 0.5 Remeasurement Remeasurement Return on plan assets 26.6 26.6 Return on plan assets 11.5 11.5 Gain/loss from changes in demographic assumptions 0.0 Gain/loss from changes in demographic assumptions 0.6 0.6 Gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions -41.4 -41.4 Gain/loss from changes in financial assumptions 9.0 9.0 Experience gains/losses 0.7 0.7 Experience gains/losses 7.7 7.7 -40.7 26.6 -14.1 17.4 11.5 28.8 Contributions to plan and plan costs -0.4 -0.4 Contributions to plan and plan costs -0.4 -0.4 Benefit payments 14.7 -14.7 0.0 Benefit payments 14.5 -14.5 0.0 As at 31 December 2016 -300.4 464.5 164.1 As at 31 December 2015 -266.4 442.8 176.4 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 243 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Plan assets were comprised as follows in 2016 Plan assets were comprised as follows in 2015 € million Quoted Unquoted Total € million Quoted Unquoted Total Europe Europe Equity instruments 100.3 56.5 156.8 Equity instruments 89.7 43.0 132.7 Debt instruments 26.5 37.0 63.5 Debt instruments 26.5 31.6 58.1 Investment funds 35.0 17.2 52.2 Investment funds 30.3 18.4 48.7 Properties 147.4 147.4 Properties 159.3 159.3 United States United States Equity instruments 4.7 4.7 Equity instruments 6.0 6.0 Investment funds 32.8 32.8 Investment funds 27.8 27.8 Other countries Other countries Investment funds 22.7 22.7 Investment funds 26.5 26.5 Total 222.0 258.1 480.1 Total 206.8 252.3 459.1 € million 2016 2015 Kesko Corporation shares included in fair value 23.0 15.7 Properties leased by Kesko Group included in fair value 179.5 186.1 Principal actuarial assumptions: 2016 2015 Discount rate 1.50% 2.30% Salary growth rate 2.30% 2.20% Inflation 1.80% 1.70% Pension growth rate 2.10% 1.90% Average service expectancy, years 10 10 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 244 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Weighted average duration of pension obligations and expected maturity analysis of Risks related to pension plan undiscounted pension obligations Asset related risks 2016 2015 Weighted average duration of pension obligations, years 16 15 The Pension Fund's investment assets comprise properties, shares and equity funds, private equity funds and both long-term and short-term money market investments. The Pension Fund's investment policy defines the investment restrictions pertaining to classes of assets and the Expected maturity analysis of undiscounted pension obligations, € million allowed investees. The investment plan, annually confirmed by the Pension Fund board, sets the investment allocation and return targets for the year ahead. The objective of investing activity Less than 1 year 15.0 15.2 is to secure a return on the investments and their convertibility into cash, as well as ensuring Between 1−10 years 118.6 118.6 appropriate diversity and diversification of investments. On an annual basis, the objective is Between 10−20 years 112.4 111.5 to exceed the Pension Fund's obligation expenses and costs, so that contributions need not be Between 20−30 years 78.0 77.5 charged to the members. The long-term target return on investment activity is 5.0%. The risks Over 30 years 70.7 71.5 involved in investing activity are managed by continuously monitoring market developments and Total 394.6 394.3 analysing the adequacy of the return and risk potential of the investments. The returns compared to chosen reference indices and the breakdown of investments are reported on a monthly basis. In 2016, the realised return on investing activity was 8.3%. Finnish pension reform It has been decided to reform the statutory pension provision in Finland and the amendments If the return on investment assets underperforms the discount rate applied to the calculation of will come into force at the beginning of 2017. The objective of the amendments is to extend the present value of defined pension obligation, a deficit in the plan may arise. The diversification working life in order that the financing of the statutory earnings-related pension scheme and of assets is aimed to reduce this risk in varying financial conditions. If a deficit is created in the sufficient pension provision can be ensured. pension plan, such that the pension obligation is not fully covered, Pension Fund members are obligated to pay contributions to the Fund in order to cover the obligation. Calculated in compliance In the financial year 2016, the rules of the Pension Fund were changed to the effect that the with the IAS 19 standard, the amount of plan assets exceeded the plan obligation by €164.1 million Pension Fund's supplementary retirement benefit does not compensate for the lowering of the as at 31 December 2016. Local rules concerning the Pension Fund may also create a contribution statutory pension provision resulting from the rise of the statutory pension age. The effect of obligation in situations in which the IAS 19 obligation is fully covered. In such a case, the amount of the change in the rules was a €2 million decrease in the defined benefit obligation, which was contributions charged increases the amount of pension assets according to IAS 19. recorded in the financial statements at 31 December 2016. Obligation related risks In addition to the general level of interest rates, the defined benefit obligation is impacted by changes in the statutory pension provision, future salary increases, index-based pension increases and changes in life expectancy. The pension promise made to the Fund's beneficiaries is tied to the amount of pensionable salary and it is a lifelong benefit. The total pension amount KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 245 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE consists of the statutory pension and the supplementary pension provided by the Fund. Salary The impacts of sensitivity analysis have been calculated so that the impact of a change in the increases will increase the future pension amount. Changes in statutory pension provision, such assumption is calculated while assuming that all other assumptions are constant. In practice, this as an increase in the retirement age or a reduction of pension provision, which are compensated is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may correlate with each other. The to pensioners by the supplementary pension and, consequently, the changes would increase sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the same method as when the defined benefit obligation. The amount of future pensions is adjusted annually with an calculating the pension obligation recognised within the statement of financial position. index-based increase in accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. The extension of life expectancy will result in an increase in plan obligation. Note 18. Inventories Changes in the general level of interest rates and the market yield of high-quality bonds have an impact on the present value of the defined benefit obligation. When the level of interest rates € million 2016 2015 falls, the present value of the defined benefit obligation rises. Because the Pension Fund's investGoods 969.3 729.7 ment assets are invested and their return targets are set for long terms, changes in the annual Prepayments 9.5 5.3 return on investments do not necessarily correlate in the short term with changes in the discount Total 978.9 735.0 rate applied to the defined benefit obligation. Sensitivity analysis Write-down of inventories to net realisable value 48.0 39.2 The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is presented in the following table. Note 19. Trade and other current receivables Impact on defined Impact on defined benbenefit obligation, € million 2016 2015 Actuarial assumption Change in assumption efit obligation, increase decrease Interest-bearing receivables 2016 Finance lease receivables 0.3 2.7 Discount rate 0.50% -7.30% 8.30% Interest-bearing loans and receivables 3.4 7.3 Salary growth rate 0.50% 1.50% -1.40% Total interest-bearing receivables 3.7 10.0 Pension growth rate 0.50% 6.40% -5.80% Trade receivables 831.2 581.7 Income tax assets 21.2 2.0 2015 Other non-interest-bearing receivables Discount rate 0.50% -6.80% 7.60% Non-interest-bearing loans and receivables 24.5 19.6 Salary growth rate 0.50% 1.40% -1.40% Prepaid expenses 174.1 95.0 Pension growth rate 0.50% 6.00% -5.40% Total other non-interest-bearing receivables 198.6 114.6 Total 1,054.6 708.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 246 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A total amount of €6.7 million (€3.7 million) of trade receivables has been recognised within Note 21. Non-current assets classified as held for credit losses in the income statement. The credit risk is described in more detail in note 32. sale and related liabilities Prepaid expenses mainly comprise allocations of purchases and employee benefit expenses. € million 2016 2015 The fair values of current trade and loan receivables, and those of current interest-bearing reIntangible assets 3.9 ceivables are estimated to equal the carrying amounts due to their short maturities. Land 10.4 0.3 Buildings and real estate shares 6.7 0.2 Note 20. Current available-for-sale Machinery and equipment 1.1 financial assets Inventories 23.5 Total 45.7 0.5 € million 2016 2015 In December 2016, Kesko signed an agreement concerning the sale of properties in use by the Carrying amount as at 1 January 371.7 271.7 building and technical trade in Estonia and Latvia. According to the agreement, the Kesko Group companies will sell three properties in Estonia and four in Latvia, including the real estate comChanges -215.7 99.8 panies that own them, to a Lithuanian real estate investment company. After completion of the Changes in fair value 0.7 0.2 transaction, the Group companies will lease the properties back for use in their business operaCarrying amount as at 31 December 156.8 371.7 tions, and the Kesko subsidiary SIA Kesko Real Estate Latvia will become a minority shareholder in the real estate investment company with a 10% ownership interest. The carrying amount of The available-for-sale financial assets include current investments in commercial papers, certifithe properties and the real estate companies is around €17 million. The transaction is expected cates of deposits and other interest rate instruments. An analysis of the assets is given in note 32. to be completed in the first half of 2017. In addition, Konekesko Ltd, part of Kesko Group, has signed an agreement to sell its Yamaha representation, Yamarin boat business and certain other representations of it to Inhan Tehtaat Oy Ab, owned by Yamaha Motor Europe N.V. The carrying amount of assets related to the business to be sold is around €28 million. The transaction is expected to be completed in the first half of 2017. The total liabilities related to the non-current assets classified as held for sale are €0.8 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 247 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 22. Shareholders' equity At the end of December 2016, the total number of Kesko Corporation shares was 100,019,752, maximum. Each A share carries ten (10) votes and each B share one (1) vote. The total number of which 31,737,007, or 31.7%, were A shares and 68,282,745, or 68.3%, were B shares. All issued of votes attached to all shares was 385,652,815. At the end of December 2016, Kesko Corporashares have been fully paid. The maximum number of A shares is 250 million and the maximum tion's share capital was €197,282,584. number of B shares is also 250 million, so that the total number of shares is 400 million at Changes in share capital Number of shares Reserve of invested Share capital non-restricted equity Share premium Total Share capital A B Total € million € million € million € million 1 January 2015 31,737,007 67,287,430* 99,024,437* 197.3 22.8 197.8 417.8 Transfer of treasury shares 117,738 117,738 31 December 2015 31,737,007 67,405,168* 99,142,175* 197.3 22.8 197.8 417.8 Transfer of treasury shares 131,468 131,468 31 December 2016 31,737,007 67,536,636* 99,273,643* 197.3 22.8 197.8 417.8 Number of votes 317,370,070 67,536,636 384,906,706 * Excluding treasury shares which totalled 746,109 (877,577) at the end of the financial year. Treasury shares Authorised by the General Meeting, the Board of Directors acquired a total of 700,000 own a total of 139,724 own shares held by the Company as treasury shares to the persons included B shares (purchase price €23.7 million) in the financial year 2011 and a total of 500,000 own in the target groups of the vesting periods. The transfers of treasury shares were announced in B shares (purchase price €16.1 million) in the financial year 2014. The total prices paid for the a stock exchange release on 1 April 2015, 7 April 2015, 17 March 2016 and 27 April 2016. During shares have been deducted from retained earnings in equity. The shares are held by the Compathe financial year, a total of 8,256 shares already granted were returned to the Company in acny as treasury shares and the Company Board is entitled to transfer them. Based on the authorcordance with the terms and conditions of the share-based compensation plan. At the end of the isations to issue own shares and the fulfilment of the vesting criteria of the 2014 vesting period financial year, the Company held 746,109 (877,577) own B shares as treasury shares. The €23.5 of Kesko's share-based compensation plans, the Board granted a total of 120,022 own shares million (€27.5 million) acquisition cost of these shares has been deducted from retained earnings held by the Company as treasury shares, and based on the fulfilment of the 2015 vesting period, in equity. Details of the share-based payments are disclosed in note 30. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 248 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dividends Revaluation reserve After the balance sheet date, the Board of Directors has proposed that €2.00 per share be disThe revaluation reserve includes the change in the fair value of available-for-sale financial tributed as dividends. A dividend of €2.50 per share was distributed on the profit for 2015. instruments and the effective portion of the change in the fair value of derivatives for which cash flow hedge accounting is applied. Cash flow hedges include electricity derivatives and interest Equity and reserves rate derivatives hedging the Private Placement note interest. The change in the reserve is stated Equity consists of share capital, share premium, reserve of invested non-restricted equity, other within comprehensive income. reserves, revaluation reserve, currency translation differences and retained earnings net of treasury shares. In addition, the portion of accumulated depreciation difference and optional Result of cash flow hedging provisions net of deferred tax liabilities are included in equity. Hedge accounting is applied to hedging electricity price risk. As a result, an amount of €1.8 million (€2.6 million) was removed from equity and included in the income statement as purchase Share premium cost adjustment, and €1.4 million (€-3.2 million) was recognised in equity, respectively. Their The amount exceeding the par value of share received by the Company in connection with share combined effect on the revaluation reserve for the year was €3.2 million (€-0.5 million) before subscriptions was recorded in the share premium in cases where options had been granted accounting for deferred tax assets. under the old Limited Liability Companies Act (29 Sept. 1978/734). As at the end of the financial year, the share premium was €197.8 million. A fair value change of €-0.1 million (€0.5 million) was recognised in equity for the USD-denominated Private Placement facility before accounting for deferred taxes. In addition, a €0.3 million Reserve of invested non-restricted equity (€0.5 million) interest expense adjustment for interest rate derivatives was recognised in the The reserve of invested non-restricted equity, €22.8 million, includes the other equity-related income statement. investments and share subscription prices to the extent not designated to be included in share capital. Other reserves Other reserves, a total of €242.8 million, have mainly been created and increased as a result of resolutions by the General Meeting. Other reserves mainly comprise contingency reserves to a total amount of €242.3 million at the end of the financial year. Currency translation differences Currency translation differences arise from the translation of foreign operations’ financial statements. Gains and losses arising from net investment hedges in foreign operations are also included in currency translation differences, provided they qualify for hedge accounting. The change in currency translation differences is stated within comprehensive income. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 249 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 23. Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by category As at 31 December 2016 Financial assets/ Carrying amounts of liabilities at fair value Available-for-sale Financial liabilities at Derivatives used for assets as per balance Balance, € million through profit or loss Loans and receivables financial assets amortised cost hedging sheet Fair value Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 15.1 15.1 15.1 Non-current non-interest-bearing receivables 1.8 1.8 1.8 Derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 58.1 58.1 58.1 Derivatives 2.7 2.7 2.7 Total non-current interest-bearing 58.1 2.7 60.8 60.8 receivables Total non-current financial assets 59.9 15.1 2.7 77.8 77.8 Current financial assets Trade and other non-interest-bearing 1,028.0 1,028.0 1,028.0 receivables* Derivatives 1.5 0.2 1.7 1.7 Total trade and other non-interest-bearing 1.5 1,028.0 1,029.7 1,029.7 receivables* Interest-bearing receivables 3.7 3.7 3.7 Financial assets at fair value through profit 93.3 93.3 93.3 or loss Available-for-sale financial assets 156.8 156.8 156.8 Total current financial assets 94.8 1,031.7 156.8 0.0 1,283.5 1,283.5 Carrying amount by category 94.8 1,091.6 171.9 2.7 1,361.3 1,361.3 * Excluding €21.2 million (€2.0 million) in income tax receivables and €9.0 million (€31.4 million) in income tax liabilities. ** Excluding €35.3 million (€38.2 million) in prepayments received. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 250 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial assets/ Carrying amounts of liabilities at fair value Available-for-sale Financial liabilities at Derivatives used for assets as per balance Balance, € million through profit or loss Loans and receivables financial assets amortised cost hedging sheet Fair value Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 358.7 358.7 364.8 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 358.7 358.7 364.8 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 39.6 39.6 39.6 Derivatives 0.6 0.6 0.6 Total non-current non-interest-bearing 39.6 0.6 40.2 40.2 liabilities Total non-current financial liabilities 398.2 0.6 398.8 405.0 Current financial liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 156.0 156.0 156.1 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 156.0 156.0 156.1 Trade payables 1,053.7 1,069.2 1,069.2 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities** 205.7 190.2 190.2 Derivatives 1.3 1.3 1.3 Total other non-interest-bearing liabilities** 205.7 1.3 191.6 191.6 Accrued expenses* 311.7 311.7 311.7 Derivatives 4.6 4.6 4.6 Total accrued expenses* 4.6 311.7 316.2 316.2 Total current financial liabilities 4.6 1,727.1 1.3 1,733.0 1,733.1 Carrying amount by category 4.6 2,125.3 1.9 2,131.8 2,138.1 * Excluding €21.2 million (€2.0 million) in income tax receivables and €9.0 million (€31.4 million) in income tax liabilities. ** Excluding €35.3 million (€38.2 million) in prepayments received. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 251 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE As at 31 December 2015 Financial assets/ Carrying amounts of liabilities at fair value Available-for-sale Financial liabilities at Derivatives used for assets as per balance Balance, € million through profit or loss Loans and receivables financial assets amortised cost hedging sheet Fair value Non-current financial assets Available-for-sale financial assets 15.3 15.3 15.3 Non-current non-interest-bearing receivables 1.9 1.9 1.9 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 59.1 59.1 59.1 Derivatives 2.0 2.0 2.0 Total non-current interest-bearing 59.1 2.0 61.1 61.1 receivables Total non-current financial assets 61.0 15.3 2.0 78.2 78.2 Current financial assets Trade and other non-interest-bearing 687.9 687.9 687.9 receivables* Derivatives 8.4 8.4 8.4 Total trade and other non-interest-bearing 8.4 687.9 696.3 696.3 receivables* Interest-bearing receivables 7.0 7.0 7.0 Derivatives 2.9 2.9 2.9 Total interest-bearing receivables 7.0 2.9 10.0 10.0 Financial assets at fair value through profit 374.2 374.2 374.2 or loss Available-for-sale financial assets 371.7 371.7 371.7 Total current financial assets 382.6 694.9 371.7 2.9 1,452.2 1,452.2 Carrying amount by category 382.6 755.9 387.0 4.9 1,530.4 1,530.4 * Excluding €21.2 million (€2.0 million) in income tax receivables and €9.0 million (€31.4 million) in income tax liabilities. ** Excluding €35.3 million (€38.2 million) in prepayments received. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 252 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial assets/ Carrying amounts of liabilities at fair value Available-for-sale Financial liabilities at Derivatives used for assets as per balance Balance, € million through profit or loss Loans and receivables financial assets amortised cost hedging sheet Fair value Non-current financial liabilities Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 258.3 258.3 269.5 Total non-current interest-bearing liabilities 258.3 258.3 269.5 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 38.7 38.7 38.7 Derivatives 3.5 3.5 3.5 Total non-current non-interest-bearing 38.7 3.5 42.2 42.2 liabilities Total non-current financial liabilities 297.0 3.5 300.5 311.7 Current financial liabilities Current interest-bearing liabilities 180.8 180.8 181.7 Derivatives 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total current interest-bearing liabilities 180.8 0.0 180.8 181.7 Trade payables 795.1 795.1 795.1 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities** 170.6 170.6 170.6 Derivatives 3.7 3.7 3.7 Total other non-interest-bearing liabilities** 170.6 3.7 174.3 174.3 Accrued expenses* 242.7 242.7 242.7 Derivatives 8.6 8.6 8.6 Total accrued expenses* 8.6 242.7 251.3 251.3 Total current financial liabilities 8.6 1,389.2 3.7 1,401.5 1,402.4 Carrying amount by category 8.6 1,686.1 7.2 1,702.0 1,714.1 * Excluding €21.2 million (€2.0 million) in income tax receivables and €9.0 million (€31.4 million) in income tax liabilities. ** Excluding €35.3 million (€38.2 million) in prepayments received. The fair values of borrowings have been calculated based on the present value of future cash flows using the 0.1%−1.5% market rates of interest of the balance sheet date. The fair value of current interest-bearing liabilities has been estimated to approximately equal their balance sheet value. The maturity analysis of non-current receivables is presented in note 14, and that of non-current borrowings in note 32. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 253 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 24. Finance lease liabilities Note 25. Provisions 2016 2015 Warranty Present Present € million Onerous leases provisions Other provisions Total value of value of Provisions as at 1 Jan 2016 12.4 21.3 19.7 53.4 Minimum Future minimum Minimum Future minimum Foreign exchange effects 0.0 0.0 lease finance lease lease finance lease Additional provisions 16.8 14.8 7.6 39.2 € million payments charges payments payments charges payments Unused amounts reversed -0.6 -10.7 -4.9 -16.2 Minimum lease payments Amounts charged against -11.2 -0.6 -9.9 -21.7 provision Within 1 year 3.1 0.2 2.9 4.7 0.2 4.5 Changes in the Group structure -5.1 0.1 6.2 1.1 Later than 1 year and 6.0 0.6 5.4 4.4 0.6 3.7 no later than Provisions as at 31 Dec 2016 12.3 24.9 18.6 55.8 5 years Later than 5 years 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 0.1 Analysis of total provisions Total lease payments 9.1 0.7 8.4 9.2 0.9 8.3 Non-current 0.2 13.1 1.5 14.9 Current 12.1 11.8 17.1 41.0 Expected sublease 0.3 3.0 payments The provisions for onerous leases relate to lease liabilities for premises vacated from the Group’s operating activities, and to net rental losses on subleased premises. A provision has been recogFinancial lease liabilities mainly comprise warehouse technology leased by the Group from nised for warranties and care plans of vehicles and machines sold by the Group companies. The finance companies and store equipment leased by the Group and subleased to chain companies. provision amount is based on experience of realised warranty obligations in previous years. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 254 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 26. Trade payables and other current Note 27. Joint operations non-interest-bearing liabilities The figures in the following table represent the Group’s interests in the joint operations' assets and liabilities and profit included in the consolidated statement of financial position and the € million 2016 2015 consolidated income statement. The joint operations are mutual real estate companies. Trade payables 1,069.2 795.1 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 226.9 212.6 € million 2016 2015 Income tax liabilities 8.7 31.4 Non-current assets 36.5 38.0 Accrued expenses 316.2 251.3 Current assets 0.7 0.7 Total current non-interest-bearing liabilities 1,621.1 1,290.3 Total 37.2 38.7 Accrued expenses are mainly due to the timing of purchases and employee benefit expenses. Non-current liabilities 2.5 2.8 Current liabilities 5.2 5.2 Total 7.7 8.1 Net assets 29.5 30.6 Income 2.7 3.5 Costs 3.9 3.9 Profit -1.2 -0.3 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 255 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 28. Commitments Note 29. Operating leases € million 2016 2015 Group as lessee Collateral given for own commitments Minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating lease agreements: Pledges 124.2 76.2 € million 2016 2015 Mortgages 23.3 23.3 Within 1 year 414.8 357.8 Guarantees 5.1 17.7 Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 1,344.0 1,154.7 Other commitments and contingent liabilities 32.9 34.4 Later than 5 years 1,269.9 1,108.4 Total 3,028.7 2,620.9 Collateral given for others Guarantees 0.3 0.3 Expected future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable sublease 52.9 69.9 Other commitments and contingent liabilities 19.6 14.2 agreements The guarantees given do not include guarantees related to the item presented within liabilities in Lease and sublease payments recognised for the financial year: the consolidated statement of financial position or as a lease liability in note 29. Minimum lease payments 423.0 372.0 Sublease income 21.8 34.3 The 2016 income statement includes capital lease payments and maintenance rentals on real estate under operating leases, and other rentals to a total amount of €458.1 million (€407.7 million). Maintenance rentals are not included in minimum lease payments. Kesko leases retail and logistics premises for its operating activities. Most of the leases are index-linked and in conformity with local market practice. Some of the property leases contain extension options. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 256 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group as lessor beginning of the year following the vesting period, Kesko's Board of Directors determines the final amounts of Kesko B shares to be granted based on the fulfilment of the vesting criteria. The Minimum lease payments received under non-cancellable operating lease agreements: criteria for the vesting periods 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 and 2016 were, with equal weight€ million 2016 2015 ings, the growth percentage of Kesko Group's sales exclusive of tax, Kesko's comparable basic Within 1 year 10.3 7.8 earnings per share (EPS), and the percentage by which the total shareholder return of a Kesko B share exceeds the OMX Helsinki Benchmark Cap GI index. Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 18.7 13.0 Later than 5 years 28.5 24.6 The award possibly paid for a vesting period is paid in Kesko B shares. In addition, a cash Total 57.4 45.4 component equalling at maximum the value of the shares, is paid to cover the taxes and tax-like charges incurred under the award. Aggregate contingent rents charged to the income statement 2.2 1.8 A commitment period of three calendar years following each vesting period is attached to the Kesko leases premises to entrepreneurs other than K-retailers in order that the total service shares granted, during which the shares must not be pledged or transferred, but the other rights offer of a store site supports its profit generation potential. Such premises typically include soattached to the shares remain in force. If a person's employment or service relationship termicalled store entrance stores at large retail outlets. nates prior to the expiry of a commitment period, he/she must, as a rule, return the shares under transfer restriction to Kesko or its designate for no consideration. In individual cases, the Board may decide that the grantee can keep the shares under the return obligation, or some of them. Note 30. Share-based payment If the grantee retires in the commitment period, he/she is entitled to keep the shares and other securities already received. Share-based compensation plan Based on the 2015 vesting period, 139,724 shares were assigned during the financial year ended Kesko operates two share-based compensation plans, the 2011−2013 plan and the 2014−2016 31 December 2016. Based on the 2014 vesting period, 120,022 shares were assigned during the plan, decided by the Company's Board of Directors and intended for members of the Group's financial year ended 31 December 2015. Based on the 2013 vesting period, 50,520 shares were management and selected other key persons. Under both plans, a total maximum of 600,000 assigned during the financial year ended 31 December 2014. Based on the 2012 vesting period, own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares can be granted within a period of three 66,331 shares were assigned during the financial year ended 31 December 2013. Based on the years. 2011 vesting period, 92,751 shares were assigned during the financial year ended 31 December 2012. Both of the share-based compensation plans have three vesting periods, namely the calendar years 2011, 2012 and 2013, and 2014, 2015 and 2016 respectively. Kesko's Board of Directors The assumptions used in accounting for the share-based compensation plan are presented in the decides the vesting criteria, the target group and the maximum amounts of the share award following tables. separately for each vesting period based on the Remuneration Committee's proposal. At the KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 257 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Share award grant dates and fair values, Share award grant dates and fair values, vesting period 2012 vesting period 2015 Grant dates 2 Feb. 2012 20 Feb. 2012 22 Mar. 2012 Grant dates 9 Feb. 2015 Grant date fair value of share award, € 23.76 25.04 23.44 Grant date fair value of share award, € 30.74 Share price at grant date, € 24.96 26.24 24.64 Share price at grant date, € 32.24 Share-based compensation plan duration Share-based compensation plan duration Vesting period start date 1 Jan 2012 Vesting period start date 1 Jan 2015 Vesting period end date 31 Dec 2012 Vesting period end date 31 Dec 2015 Commitment period end date 31 Dec 2015 Commitment period end date 31 Dec 2018 Share award grant dates and fair values, Share award grant dates and fair values, vesting period 2013 vesting period 2016 Grant dates 5 Feb. 2013 Grant dates 3.2.2016 Grant date fair value of share award, € 23.30 Grant date fair value of share award, € 32.45 Share price at grant date, € 24.50 Share price at grant date, € 34.95 Share-based compensation plan duration Share-based compensation plan duration Vesting period start date 1 Jan 2013 Vesting period start date 1.1.2016 Vesting period end date 31 Dec 2013 Vesting period end date 31.12.2016 Commitment period end date 31 Dec 2016 Commitment period end date 31.12.2019 Share award grant dates and fair values, Vesting Vesting Vesting Vesting Vesting vesting period 2014 Assumptions applied in determining the period period period period period Grant dates 3 Feb. 2014 fair value of share award 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Grant date fair value of share award, € 25.66 Number of share awards granted, 263,000 262,800 278,400 263,600 257,400 maximum, pcs Share price at grant date, € 27.06 Changes in the number of shares granted, pcs -9,800 -3,600 -2,000 -9,500 -6,575 Share-based compensation plan duration Actual amount of share award, pcs 139,724 120,022 50,520 66,331 Vesting period start date 1 Jan 2014 Vesting period end date 31 Dec 2014 Number of plan participants at end of 131 142 143 134 125 Commitment period end date 31 Dec 2017 financial year Share price at balance sheet date, € 47.48 32.37 30.18 26.80 24.77 Assumed fulfilment of vesting criteria, % 56.7 53.4 43.4 20.0 30.0 Estimated number of share awards returned 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 prior to the end of commitment period, % KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 258 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The impact of the above share-based compensation plans on the Group's profit for 2016 was Share-based compensation -1.2 -0.8 €-12.3 million (€-6.3 million). Defined benefit pensions -0.8 -1.3 Others -5.7 0.6 As at 31 December 2016, the amount to be recognised as expense for the financial years Total 90.6 40.1 2016−2018 is estimated at a total of €-5.9 million. The actual amount may differ from the estimate. The group ‘Others’ within the adjustments to cash flows from operating activities includes the adjustment of unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on purchases and sales, and the adjustment of other transactions of a non-cash nature. Note 31. Notes related to the statement of cash Net assets of subsidiaries sold flows Capital expenditure and non-cash financing activities € million 2016 2015 Tangible and intangible assets 266.9 16.5 € million 2016 2015 Inventories 7.3 71.7 Total purchases of fixed assets 280.8 218.5 Receivables 9.6 29.4 Total acquisitions of subsidiaries 434.5 Cash and cash equivalents 6.1 21.5 of which cash payments 567.6 214.8 Deferred taxes -3.2 Loans relating to acquired companies 139.7 Liabilities -180.4 -34.4 Payments arising from prior period investing activities -4.9 -4.9 Provisions -15.8 Capital expenditure financed with finance lease or other liability 12.9 8.6 Net assets total 106.3 89.0 Adjustments to cash flows from operating activities Cash and cash equivalents within the statement of cash flows € million 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 Adjustment of non-cash transactions in the income statement and items Available-for-sale financial assets (maturing in less than 3 months) 59.6 192.8 presented elsewhere in the statement of cash flows: Cash and cash equivalents 141.3 141.2 Change in provisions 4.9 -0.6 Total 200.8 334.1 Investments accounted for using the equity method 0.6 -0.6 Impairments 24.0 9.2 In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents include those recognised in the balCredit losses 6.7 3.7 ance sheet and portions of available-for-sale financial assets with maturities of less than three Non-recurring gains on disposal of fixed assets -3.7 -102.9 months from acquisition. Non-recurring losses on disposal of fixed assets 65.8 132.7 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 259 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 32. Financial risk management non-controlling interest in equity. Relative to the Group's volume of operations and the balance sheet total, the foreign currency translation risk is low. Financial risk management With respect to financial risk management, the Group observes a uniform treasury policy that Until 31 December 2016, the functional currency of the real estate companies operating in Russia has been approved by the Company's Board of Directors. Compliance with this policy and in St. Petersburg and Moscow was the euro, which is why no significant exchange differences developments in the Group’s financial situation are monitored by the Board’s Audit Committee. have not been realised from their balance sheets to the Group. A change has taken place in the The Group Treasury is centrally responsible for obtaining financial resources for the Group, for Russian real estate market as a result of which, an increasing number of leases is rouble denomliquidity management, relations with providers of finance, and the management of financial risks. inated. Earlier leases were mainly denominated in strong currencies, such as the euro. As of 1 In the main, the Group’s financial resources have been obtained through the parent company, January 2017, the functional currency of Russian real estate companies is the rouble. and the Group Treasury arranges financial resources for subsidiaries in their functional currencies. For subsidiaries with significant external ownership, the Group has not guaranteed financial Group's translation exposure liabilities in excess of its ownership interest. as at 31 Dec 2016 € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN Foreign exchange risks Net investment 80.1 96.1 67.9 24.4 7.0 Kesko Group conducts business operations in nine countries, in addition to which it makes purchases from numerous countries. In consequence, the Group is exposed to various foreign Group's translation exposure exchange risks arising from net investments in foreign operations (translation risks) and from as at 31 Dec 2015 assets, liabilities and forecast transactions (transaction risks) denominated in foreign currencies. € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN Net investment 29.6 94.4 70.3 3.5 The Group companies’ financial resources are arranged in their functional currencies. The parent company bears the ensuing foreign exchange risk and hedges the risk exposure using derivatives The following table shows how a 10% change in the Group companies’ functional currencies or borrowings denominated in the relevant foreign currencies. The Belarusian currency BYN is would affect the Group’s equity. not a freely convertible currency and hedging the associated exposure to foreign exchange risk is not possible. Sensitivity analysis, impact on equity as at 31 Dec 2016 Translation risks € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN The Group is exposed to foreign currency translation risks relating to net investments in subsidiChange +/-10% 8.0 9.6 6.8 2.4 0.7 aries outside the euro zone held on the balance sheet. This balance sheet exposure has not been hedged. The hedge can be designated if equity is repatriated, or if a currency is expected to Sensitivity analysis, impact on equity as at be exposed to a significant devaluation risk. The most significant translation exposures are the 31 Dec 2015 Swedish krona, the Russian rouble and the Norwegian krone. The exposure does not include the € million NOK SEK RUB PLN BYN Change +/-10% 3.0 9.4 7.0 0.4 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 260 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Transaction risks Group's transaction exposure as at 31 Dec 2016 International purchasing activities and foreign currency denominated financial resources ar€ million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN ranged by the parent to subsidiaries expose the Group to transaction risks relating to several Group's transaction risk -3.9 16.6 22.6 16.6 32.1 1.8 currencies. The currency-specific transaction risk exposure comprises foreign currency denomHedging derivatives 31.3 -12.0 -18.2 -9.1 -19.6 inated receivables and liabilities in the balance sheet, forecast foreign currency cash flows, and Open exposure 27.4 4.6 4.4 7.5 12.5 1.8 foreign subsidiaries’ liabilities and receivables with respect to the parent. The risk is commercially managed by, for example, transferring exchange rate changes to selling prices, or by replacing suppliers. The remaining exposures are hedged using foreign currency derivatives. The subsidiGroup's transaction aries report their foreign exchange exposures to the Group Treasury on a monthly basis. exposure as at 31 Dec 2015 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN In the main, the subsidiaries hedge their risk exposures with the Group Treasury, which in turn Group's transaction risk -1.1 -13.2 23.9 7.0 -0.2 hedges risk exposures using market transactions within the limits confirmed for each currency. Hedging derivatives 29.4 7.1 -18.7 -13.6 Intra-Group derivative contracts are allocated to the segments in segment reporting. Open exposure 28.3 -6.1 5.1 -6.6 -0.2 The Group does not apply hedge accounting in accordance with IAS 39 to the hedging of transaction risks relating to purchases and sales. In initial measurement, derivative instruments are A sensitivity analysis of the transaction exposure shows the impact on profit or loss of a +/-10% recognised at fair value and subsequently in the financial statements, they are remeasured at fair exchange rate change in intra-Group receivables and liabilities denominated in foreign currenvalue. The change in fair value of foreign currency derivatives used for hedging purchases and cies and foreign currency derivatives and borrowings used for hedging. sales is recognised in other operating income or expenses. Sensitivity analysis, impact The Group monitors the transaction risk exposure in respect of existing balances and forecast on pre-tax profit as at cash flows. The following table analyses the transaction exposure excluding future cash flows. 31 Dec 2016 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN The presentation does not illustrate the Group’s actual foreign exchange risk after hedgings. When forecast amounts are included in the transaction exposure, the most significant differChange +/-10% 2.7 0.5 0.4 0.7 1.3 0.2 ences from the table below are in the USD and RUB exposures. As at 31 December 2016, the exposure with respect to USD was €-54.8 million, and with respect to RUB, it was €37.3 million. Sensitivity analysis, impact on pre-tax profit as at 31 Dec 2015 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN Change +/-10% 2.8 -0.6 0.5 -0.7 0.0 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 261 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Liquidity risk The Group's solvency was excellent throughout the financial year 2016. As at 31 December 2016, Liquidity risk management aims to maintain sufficient liquid assets and credit facilities in order liquid assets totalled €391 million (€887 million). Interest-bearing liabilities were €515 million to ensure the ongoing availability of sufficient financial resources for the Group’s operating (€439 million) and interest-bearing net debt €123 million (€-448 million) as at 31 December activities. 2016. Maturities of financial liabilities and related finance costs as at 31 Dec 2016 € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021− Total Balance Borrowings from financial institutions 5.0 0.3 0.1 0.1 1.7 7.3 7.3 finance costs 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 Private Placement notes (USD)* 22.0 22.0 22.0 finance costs 1.4 1.4 0.7 3.6 Bonds 225.0 225.0 225.0 finance costs 6.2 6.2 12.4 Pension loans 2.4 10.5 17.4 16.3 59.4 105.9 105.9 finance costs 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 1.6 5.3 Finance lease liabilities 2.9 2.8 1.2 1.1 0.5 8.6 8.6 finance costs 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.7 Payables to K-retailers 116.0 116.0 116.0 finance costs 0.0 Other interest-bearing liabilities 29.6 29.6 29.6 finance costs 0.0 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 0.7 10.1 0.8 0.7 27.9 40.2 40.2 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payables 1,069.2 1,069.2 1,069.2 Accrued expenses 316.2 316.2 316.2 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 226.9 226.9 226.9 * The cash flows of Private Placement notes and related currency and interest rate derivatives are settled on a net basis. The interest rate derivative liability related to the arrangement is presented within other interest-bearing liabilities in the balance sheet. The amount of interest-bearing liability in the balance sheet arising from this credit facility totals €20.1 million (€50.2 million). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 262 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Guarantee maturities are €3.5 million in 2017 and €2.0 million in 2018−2021. Maturities of financial liabilities and ­related finance costs as at 31 Dec 2015 € million 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020− Total Balance Borrowings from financial institutions 0.3 0.3 0.1 0.1 1.8 2.7 2.7 finance costs 0.0 Private Placement notes (USD)* 33.1 22.0 55.1 55.1 finance costs 2.5 1.4 1.4 0.7 6.0 Bonds 224.1 224.1 224.1 finance costs 6.2 6.2 6.2 18.6 Pension loans 2.4 2.4 2.4 1.2 8.3 8.3 finance costs 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.3 1.8 Finance lease liabilities 4.5 1.6 1.0 0.6 0.7 8.3 8.3 finance costs 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.3 Payables to K-retailers 114.5 114.5 114.5 finance costs 0.0 Other interest-bearing liabilities 26.1 26.1 26.1 finance costs 0.0 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 0.7 10.6 1.7 0.8 28.5 42.2 42.2 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payables 795.1 795.1 795.1 Accrued expenses 251.3 251.3 251.3 Other non-interest-bearing liabilities 212.6 212.6 212.6 * The cash flows of Private Placement notes and related currency and interest rate derivatives are settled on a net basis. The interest rate derivative liability related to the arrangement is presented within other interest-bearing liabilities in the balance sheet. The amount of interest-bearing liability in the balance sheet arising from this credit facility totals €20.1 million (€50.2 million). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 263 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The terms and conditions of the Private Placement credit facility and the committed facilities The interest rate risk is centrally managed by the Group Treasury, which adjusts the duration by include ordinary financial covenants. The requirements of these covenants have been met. The using interest rate contracts. The target duration is three years, which is allowed to vary between borrowing terms include a financial covenant defining the ratio between net debt and EBITDA, one and a half and four years. The actual duration during the financial year was 1.9 (1.9) years on which remained far from the maximum throughout the financial year. At change of control, Keaverage. sko is obligated to offer a repayment of the whole loan capital to the note holders. According to the terms and conditions of the loan facility, the change of ownership to retailers or an associaOn 11 September 2012, Kesko Corporation issued a €250 million bond. The bond carries a fixed tion of retailers does not constitute a change of control. coupon interest at 2.75% and a maturity of six years from issuance. Payables to K-retailers consist of two types of interest-bearing liabilities by Kesko to K-retailers: On 10 June 2004, Kesko Corporation issued a USD Private Placement in a total amount of USD retailers’ prepayments to Kesko and Kesko’s chain rebate liabilities to retailers. Chain rebates are 120 million in the United States. The facility has three tranches with bullet repayments, of which retrospective discounts given to retailers and the terms vary from one chain to another. USD 60 million was paid on 10 June 2014, USD 36 million was paid on 10 June 2016 and USD 24 million will be due on 10 June 2019. At the balance sheet date, the total equivalent of undrawn committed long-term credit facilities was €150.0 million (€100.0 million). According to the terms and conditions of loan agreements, Kesko Corporation's USD Private Placement credit facility qualifies for hedge accounting against at change of control, the lenders have the right to terminate the credit facility and loan amounts both foreign exchange and interest rate risk and it has been hedged by currency swaps and possibly drawn. According to the terms and conditions of the loan facility, the change of ownerinterest rate swaps with the same amounts and maturities as the borrowing. As a result, the borship to retailers or an association of retailers does not constitute a change of control. In addition, rowing is fully hedged against foreign exchange and interest rate risk. During the financial year, the Group’s uncommitted financial resources available contained commercial paper programmes there was no ineffectiveness to be recorded in the income statement from this credit facility. denominated in euros totalling an equivalent of €449 million (€359 million). In addition, in January 2017, the Group companies held a total of €364.6 million available for re-borrowing in a The sensitivity analysis for changes in interest rate level in respect of commercial paper liabilities pension insurance company. Part of the pension insurance premiums paid annually by the Group realised during the financial year has used average balance values. At the balance sheet date companies are funded and the accumulated funds can be re-borrowed with a term of 1−10 years of 31 December 2016, the effect of variable rate borrowings on the pre-tax profit would have in accordance with regulations confirmed by the Ministry of Social Affairs and Health. Any been €-/+2.0 million (€-/+1.2 million), if the interest rate level had risen or fallen by 1 percentage amount of borrowing requires the posting of adequate collateral. point. Interest rate risk on borrowings and sensitivity analysis The bond, Private Placement notes and pension loans, €353.1 million in aggregate, have fixed Changes in the interest rate level have an impact on the Group’s interest expense. The policy for rates, and their effective interest cost was 2.7%. At the end of the financial year, the average rate hedging interest rate risk is aimed at balancing the effects of changes in the interest rate level on of variable-interest-rate borrowings from financial institutions, payables to retailers and other profit or loss for different financial periods. interest-bearing liabilities was 0.2%. Most of the borrowings are euro-denominated and the Private Placement notes are USD-denominated. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 264 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial assets and liabilities recognised at fair value Fair value as at 31 Dec 2015 The Group’s liquid assets have mainly been invested in the debt instruments of major Finnish Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities companies, in certificates of deposit and deposits with banks operating in Kesko’s market area, € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total in bonds of selected companies and in corporate bond funds. The return on these investments Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss for 2016 was 1.7% (0.3%) and the duration was 0.9 years at the end of the financial year. The Money market funds 209.6 209.6 maximum credit risk is the fair value of these investments in the balance sheet at the balance Commercial papers 65.5 65.5 sheet date. The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by valuation Bank certificates of deposit and deposits 93.7 93.7 method. Bonds 5.5 5.5 Fair value as at 31 Dec 2016 Total 215.1 159.2 374.2 Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities € million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss or loss Money market funds 59.8 59.8 Derivative financial assets 13.3 13.3 Commercial papers 28.5 28.5 Derivative financial liabilities 8.6 8.6 Bank certificates of deposit and deposits 5.0 5.0 Bonds Available-for-sale financial assets Total 59.8 33.5 93.3 Private equity funds and other shares and interests 15.3 15.3 Commercial papers (maturing in less than 3 months) 84.0 84.0 Derivative financial instruments at fair value through profit Bank certificates of deposit and deposits (maturing in less than 108.8 108.8 or loss 3 months) Derivative financial assets 4.4 4.4 Bonds and corporate bond funds 178.9 178.9 Derivative financial liabilities 6.6 6.6 Total 178.9 192.8 15.3 387.0 Available-for-sale financial assets Level 1 instruments are traded in active markets and their fair values are directly based on quotPrivate equity funds and other shares and interests 15.1 15.1 ed market prices. The fair values of level 2 instruments are derived from market data. The fair Commercial papers (maturing in less than 3 months) 53.5 53.5 value of level 3 instruments is not based on observable market data (inputs not observable). Bank certificates of deposit and deposits (maturing in less than 6.0 6.0 3 months) Bonds and corporate bond funds 97.3 97.3 Total 97.3 59.5 15.1 171.9 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 265 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Changes in level 3 instruments creditworthiness, by specifying customer credit terms and collateral requirements, by effec€ million 2016 2015 tive credit control and credit insurances, as applicable. In Finland, the main part of the Group’s Private equity funds and other shares and interests as at 1 January 15.3 13.1 business activities is carried out in cooperation with retailers. According to retailer agreements, Purchases 0.6 3.3 retailers shall arrange overdraft facilities to be held as collateral for their trade payables by the Refunds received -1.3 -2.2 relevant Kesko subsidiary. Gains and losses through profit or loss 0.6 The Group companies apply a uniform practice to measuring past due receivables. A receivable Changes in fair values -0.1 1.2 is written down when there is objective evidence of impairment. The ageing analysis of trade Private equity funds and other shares and interests as at 31 December 15.1 15.3 receivables as at 31 December was as follows: Tasolle 3 sisältyy pääomarahastoja sekä muita osakkeita ja osuuksia. Nämä sijoitukset on Ageing analysis of trade receivables luokiteltu pitkäaikaisiin myytävissä oleviin rahoitusvaroihin. Tason 3 rahoitusvarat arvostetaan € million 2016 2015 yhtiöiltä saatujen laskelmien perusteella. Näistä sijoituksista on kirjattu tulosvaikutteisia voittoja Trade receivables fully performing 731.1 540.7 0,6 milj. euroa tilikaudella 2016. 1−7 days past due trade receivables 49.6 9.9 8−30 days past due trade receivables 18.6 11.4 Interest-bearing receivables and sensitivity analysis 31−60 days past due trade receivables 5.9 5.2 The objective is to invest liquidity consisting of financial assets in the money market using effiover 60 days past due trade receivables 26.0 14.4 cient combinations of return and risk. At regular intervals, the Group’s management approves Total 831.2 581.7 the investment instruments and limits for each counterparty among those analysed by the Group Treasury. The risks and actual returns on investments are monitored regularly. Within trade receivables, €355.7 million (€331.9 million) were from chain retailers. The collateral for In the sensitivity analysis of floating rate receivables, average annual balances of invested assets chain retailer receivables is an overdraft facility granted by a Kesko associate, Vähittäiskaupan Takaus have been used. The receivables include customer financing receivables, finance lease receivaOy, with the maximum always limited to the realisable value of the countersecurity from the ­K-retailer's bles, other interest-bearing receivables, and within investments, commercial papers and money company and its entrepreneur to Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy. At the end of the financial year, the market funds. The sensitivity of money market funds has been determined based on duration. aggregate value of countersecurities was €224.1 million (€171.1 million). In addition, the collateral for If the interest rate level had changed by +/-1 percentage point, the effect of these items on the receivables includes other collaterals, such as business mortgages and other pledged assets. pre-tax profit would have been €+/-2.0 million (€+/-3.5 million) and €+/-1.7 million (€+/-2.7 million) on equity at the balance sheet date. Trade receivables include an impairment charge to a total of €24.6 million (€17.2 million) monitored on a separate allowance account. The original balance sheet value of these trade receivCredit and counterparty risk ables was €35.2 million (€21.9 million). The aggregate amount of credit losses and impairments The divisions' business entities are responsible for the management of the credit risk associatrecognised in the profit for the financial year was €6.7 million (€3.7 million). ed with amounts due from customers. The Group has a credit policy and its implementation is controlled. The aim is to ensure the collection of receivables by carefully assessing customers’ The amount of receivables with renegotiated terms totalled €3.1 million (€3.2 million). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 266 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Financial credit risk Derivatives Financial instruments involve the risk of non-performance by counterparties. Kesko enters into foreign currency and other derivative contracts only with creditworthy banks. Liquid funds are 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2015 invested, in accordance with limits set annually for each counterparty, in instruments with good Positive Negative Positive Negative creditworthiness. Company and bank-specific euro and time limits are set for money market fair value fair value fair value fair value Fair values of derivative contracts (balance sheet (balance sheet (balance sheet (balance sheet investments. These limits are reviewed during the year depending on the market situation. € million value) value) value) value) Commodity risks and their sensitivity analysis Interest rate derivatives 2.7 -2.8 The Group uses electricity derivatives for the purpose of balancing out energy costs. The elecForeign currency derivatives 4.2 -4.6* 13.3 -1.4 tricity price risk is assessed for five-year periods. The changes in the fair values of derivatives Electricity derivatives 0.2 -2.0 -7.2 hedging the price of electricity supplied during the financial year are recognised within adjustments to purchases. Hedge accounting is applied to contracts hedging future purchases. The effective portion of derivatives that qualify for hedge accounting is recognised in the revaluation 31 Dec 2016 31.12.2015 reserve of equity and the ineffective portion in the income statement within other operating Notional Notional income or expenses. The change in the revaluation reserve recognised in equity is presented in Notional principal amounts of derivative contracts principal principal € million amount amount the statement of comprehensive income under revaluation of cash flow hedge. Interest rate derivatives 40.2* 100.4 At the end of the year, the ineffective portion of derivatives hedging the price risk of electricity Foreign currency derivatives 197.8* 287.6 was €0.6 million (€-2.9 million). Electricity derivatives 11.2 9.4 * The derivative contracts include interest rate swaps relating to a foreign currency borrowing facility with a gross As at the balance sheet date, a total quantity of 463,460 MWH (464,832 MWH) of electricity notional principal amount of €40.2 million and a fair value of €-0.1million (€0.0 million), and currency swaps with a had been purchased with electricity derivatives and 236,520 MWH under fixed price purchase notional principal amount of €20.1 million and a fair value of €2.7 million (€4.9 million). agreements. The 1–12 month hedging level was 71% (66%), the 13–24 month level was 43% (60%), the 25–36 month level was 16% (38%), and the 37–48 month level was 3% (4%). The fair values of derivatives are presented as gross amounts. Kesko has entered into netting The sensitivity analysis of electricity derivatives assumed that derivatives maturing in less than arrangements under ISDA contracts with all counterparties engaged in transactions with de12 months have an impact on profit. If the market price of electricity derivatives changed by rivatives. All of these contracts provide for mutual posting of collateral. The threshold level for -/+20% from the balance sheet date 31 December 2016, it would contribute €-/+1.5 million collateral posting had not been exceeded at the balance sheet date. Analysed by counterparty, (€-/+0.7 million) to the 2017 income statement and €-/+0.7 million (€-/+1.1 million) to equity. derivative financial liabilities could be set off in a total of €3.9 million. The impact has been calculated before tax. The maximum credit risk from derivatives is the fair value of the balance sheet at the reporting date. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 267 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Cash flows from derivative contracts as at 31 Dec 2016 € million 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022− Total Payables Foreign exchange forward contracts outside 175.4 175.4 hedge accounting Net settlement of payables Interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives 1.2 0.7 0.1 2.0 Derivatives relating to Private Placement notes* Foreign currency derivatives 1.5 0.0 2.1 Receivables Foreign exchange forward contracts outside 172.4 172.4 hedge accounting Net settlement of receivables Electricity derivatives 0.2 0.1 0.0 0.3 Derivatives relating to Private Placement notes* Foreign currency derivatives 0.0 Interest rate derivatives 0.8 0.7 1.5 * The cash flows from Private Placement notes and related foreign currency derivatives and interest rate derivatives are settled on a net basis. The debt on interest rate derivatives relating to the facility is presented in the balance sheet within 'other interest-bearing liabilities'. The balance sheet shows a total interest-bearing liability of €20.1 million (€50.2 million) relating to this credit facility. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 268 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Cash flows from derivative contracts as at 31 Dec 2015 € million 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021− Total Payables Foreign exchange forward contracts outside 236.1 236.1 hedge accounting Net settlement of payables Interest rate derivatives Electricity derivatives 3.4 2.7 1.1 0.1 7.2 Derivatives relating to Private Placement notes* Foreign currency derivatives Receivables Foreign exchange forward contracts outside 243.0 243.0 hedge accounting Net settlement of receivables Derivatives relating to Private Placement notes* Foreign currency derivatives 3.2 0.1 0.1 2.0 5.4 Interest rate derivatives 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.8 * The cash flows from Private Placement notes and related foreign currency derivatives and interest rate derivatives are settled on a net basis. The debt on interest rate derivatives relating to the facility is presented in the balance sheet within 'other interest-bearing liabilities'. The balance sheet shows a total interest-bearing liability of €20.1 million (€50.2 million) relating to this credit facility. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 269 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Capital structure management Kesko Group’s objectives in capital management include target rates set for the Group’s solvency Note 33. Related party transactions and liquidity. The Group’s capital structure (equity-to-debt ratio) is optimised at the Group level. The objectives for the Group’s solvency and liquidity are set with the purpose of securing the Group’s The Group’s related parties include its management personnel (the Board of Directors, the liquidity in all market situations, enabling the implementation of capital expenditure programmes in President and CEO and the Group Management Board), companies controlled by them, subsidline with the Group’s strategy, and maintaining shareholder value. A target rate has been set for the iaries, associates, joint ventures and Kesko Pension Fund. The subsidiaries, associates and joint performance indicator ‘interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA’. Some of the Group’s interest-bearing ventures are listed in a separate note (note 37). liabilities include covenants, whose terms and conditions have been taken into account in the above target rate. The Group does not have a credit rating from any external credit rating institution. The related party transactions disclosed consist of such transactions carried out with related parties that are not eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. The target levels for Kesko Group’s performance indicators are approved by the Board of Directors. On 26 May 2015, the Board approved, as a part of the Group's medium term financial objectives, the Some members of the Kesko Board are K-retailers. The Group companies sell goods and servicfollowing values for the performance indicators: 'return on capital employed excluding non-recurring es to companies controlled by them. Goods and services have been sold to related parties on items', 'return on equity excluding non-recurring items' and 'interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA'. normal market terms and conditions and at market prices. Level achieved Level achieved The joint ventures consolidated using the equity method, Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy and MercaTarget level in 2016 in 2015 da Oy, own properties which have been leased for use by the Group. Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy Comparable return on capital employed 14% 11.9 11.7 and Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu Oy sell their services to Kesko’s and K-retailers’ retail companies Comparable return on equity 12% 9.8 8.2 and the Lithuanian UAB Mokilizingas provides consumer financing to local consumers. Until Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA < 2,5 0.4 -1.4 10 October 2016, Suomen Lähikauppa was a member of Tuko Logistics Cooperative. Suomen Lähikauppa's purchases from Tuko have been reported within related party transaction until 10 October 2016. The other associates mainly comprise business property companies which have € million 2016 2015 leased their properties for use by Kesko Group. Associates that operate as mutual real estate companies have been consolidated in the financial statements in proportion to their ownership interests. Interest-bearing liabilities 514.6 439.1 Liquid assets 391.4 887.2 Kesko Pension Fund is a stand-alone legal entity which manages the majority of the pension Interest-bearing net debt 123.3 -448.1 assets related to the voluntary pensions of the Group’s employees in Finland. The pension assets include Kesko Corporation shares with a value of €23.0 million (€15.7 million). Properties owned EBITDA 308.4 331.4 by Pension Fund have been leased to Kesko Group. Interest-bearing net debt/EBITDA 0.4 -1.4 During the financial years 2016 and 2015, Kesko Group did not pay contributions to Pension Fund. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 270 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following transactions were carried out with related parties: Other current liabilities include, for example, chain rebate payables to companies controlled by the Kesko Board members. Chain rebates are paid retrospectively based on criteria related to Associates and joint Board and the amount of actual annual purchases and the quality of operations. Income statement ventures management Pension Fund € million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In 2015, Kesko, AMF Pensionsförsäkring and Ilmarinen established a joint venture, Mercada Oy. Sales of goods 0.0 73.6 59.8 The joint venture owns, governs and develops store sites mainly used by Kesko Group. Kesko Sales of services 3.6 3.6 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 sold some of its store sites in Finland and Sweden to the joint venture. The fair value of the stores sites sold totalled €485 million and a €75.6 million selling profit affecting comparability Purchases of goods -128.8 -6.9 -13.8 was recorded on the transaction. The cash inflow from the arrangement was €403 million. Kesko Purchases of services -7.7 -0.2 -0.1 0.0 Group companies lease the sold stores sites for their use with 15-year long-term leases and in Operating income 1.5 0.6 11.3 10.6 0.0 Sweden, with 10-year long-term leases. At shopping centres, the Group companies lease premOperating costs -53.2 -37.0 -1.6 -0.1 -11.3 -12.2 ises for their use with 5−15-year leases. Kesko's equity investment in the joint venture is around Finance income 5.7 3.1 €67 million, comprising an investment in the company's equity and an equity shareholder loan. Associates and joint Board and In addition, Kesko sold four properties to Kesko Pension Fund in 2015. A €22.9 million gain on Balance sheet ventures management Pension Fund the sale affecting comprability was recorded on the transaction. € million 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Current receivables 0.2 1.1 7.6 4.3 0.0 In addition, Kesko had non-current receivables from a real estate associate to the amount of €1.5 Non-current receivables 57.6 57.6 million in 2015. Current liabilities 37.5 19.2 1.6 2.0 5.5 2.1 At the balance sheet date, receivables arisen from Kesko's sales to companies controlled by the Board members were €7.6 million (€4.3 million). The receivables are collateralised by a commercial credit granted by Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy, a Kesko associate, with the maximum amount always limited to the maximum realisable value of the countersecurity from the K-retailer company and entrepreneur to Vähittäiskaupan Takaus. At the end of the financial year, the countersecurity was valued at €5.5 million (€5.0 million). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 271 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Management's employee benefits Their retirement benefits are based on a defined benefit plan. Mikko Helander's old-age pension age The top management comprises the Board of Directors and the Group Management Board. The is 63 and the amount of his old-age pension is 60% of his pensionable earnings in accordance with compensation paid to them for their employee services consists of the following items: the Employees' Pensions Act (TyEL). The pensionable salary is determined based on his non-variable monetary salary, performance bonuses and fringe benefits for the last ten (10) years. The suppleMonetary salaries, fees and fringe benefits mentary pension is based on a defined benefit plan. The cost of the supplementary pension for the € 1,000 2016 2015 period, calculated on an accrual basis, was €1.0 million and the pension asset was €0.6 million. The Mikko Helander President and CEO (since 1 Jan 2015) 1,316.8 1,018.5 pension cost of the President and CEO's statutory pension provision was €0.2 million. Group Management other members 2,534.2 2,275.9 Board Share awards The following share awards were granted to the Group Management Board members: under the Esa Kiiskinen Board Chair 87.5 88.0 2012 plan 15,113 shares (maximum was 56,600 shares), under the 2013 plan 13,500 shares (maximum was 67,500), under the 2014 plan 18,354 shares (maximum was 69,000) and under the Mikael Aro Board Deputy Chair (since 13 Apr. 2015) 60.5 43.5 2015 plan 39,516 shares (maximum was 74,000). The maximum under the 2016 plan is 74,000 Toni Pokela Board member 42.5 43.5 shares. In addition, the taxes and tax-like charges incurred from the award were paid in cash. Matti Kyytsönen Board member (since 13 Apr. 2015) 45.5 33.7 Anu Nissinen Board member (since 13 Apr. 2015) 44.5 32.2 Termination benefits Matti Naumanen Board member (since 4 Apr. 2016) 31.1 If the service contract of the President and CEO or some other Group Management Board memJannica Fagerholm Board member (since 4 Apr. 2016) 34.1 ber is terminated by the Company, he/she is entitled to a monetary salary and fringe benefits for Tomi Korpisaari Board member (until 29 Feb. 2016) 7.2 43.5 the period of notice and a separate non-recurring termination compensation determined on the Kaarina Ståhlberg Board member (since 13 Apr. 2015)(until 29 Feb. 2016) 10.7 35.2 basis of the executive's monetary salary and fringe benefits for the month of notice. The terminaSeppo Paatelainen Board Deputy Chair (until 13 Apr. 2015) 17.0 tion compensation is not part of the executive's salary and it is not included in the determination of the salary for the period of notice, termination compensation or, in case of retirement, penIlpo Kokkila Board member (until 13 Apr. 2015) 12.3 sionable salary. If an executive resigns, he/she is only entitled to a salary for the period of notice Maarit Näkyvä Board member (until 13 Apr. 2015) 13.2 and fringe benefits. When a service relationship terminates due to retirement, the executive is Virpi Tuunainen Board member (until 13 Apr. 2015) 12.3 paid a pension based on his/her service contract without other compensations. Total 4,214.6 3,669.1 Shareholdings Retirement benefits As at 31 December 2016, the President and CEO held 20,005 Kesko Corporation B shares, which The statutory pension provision of the President and CEO and the other members of the Group represent 0.02% of all shares of the Company and 0.01% of votes attached to all shares. As at 31 Management Board is provided through a pension insurance company. Four Group Management December 2016, the Group Management Board, including the President and CEO, held 104,678 Board members are members of Kesko Pension Fund's department A which was closed in 1998, and Kesko Corporation B shares, which represent 0.1% of all shares of the Company and 0.03% of their supplementary pensions are determined based on its rules and their personal service contracts. votes carried by all shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 272 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 34. Legal disputes and possible legal Information about the Group composition as at the balance sheet date: ­proceedings Number of Number of Number of Number of Group companies are parties to certain trials or legal disputes related to the Group's business whollywhollypartlypartlyoperations. According to management's estimate, their outcome will probably not have any maowned owned owned owned Country of Most significant subsidiaries subsidiaries subsidiaries subsidiaries terial impact on the Group's financial position. The Group is also party to possible legal proceedDivision incorporation subsidiaries 2016 2015 2016 2015 ings, either as plaintiff or defendant, the outcome of which is difficult to forecast. Grocery Finland Kesko Food Ltd, 23 26 4 trade K-citymarket Oy, Note 35. Other notes K-Market Oy, Kespro Ltd Building and Finland, Sweden, Onninen Group, 52 49 12 7 Events after the balance sheet date technical Norway, Estonia, Kesko Senukai In January, the court of arbitration dismissed Voimaosakeyhtiö SF's action against Kesko subsiditrade Latvia, Lithuania, ary Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy. Poland, Russia, Belarus On 10 January 2017, the court of arbitration made an arbitration award in the case in which Car trade Finland VV-Auto Group 6 5 Voimaosakeyhtiö SF demanded the court of arbitration to confirm that Kestra KiinteistöpalveOy lut Oy's notification to Voimaosakeyhtiö SF about participation in the further financing of the Others Finland, Estonia 5 10 Fennovoima project is binding on Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy. In its arbitration award, the court of arbitration dismissed Voimaosakeyhtiö SF's action requirements. (Stock exchange release on 10 January 2017) In the financial year 2016, K-talouspalvelukeskus Oy, K-Plus Oy, K-instituutti Oy, Rautakesko Ltd, Musta Pörssi Ltd and Keslog Ltd merged into Kesko Corporation. Note 36. Group composition In addition, the Group has partly owned mutual real estate companies. The Group's subsidiaries, Group composition equity-accounted investments and mutual real estate companies consolidated using the proporKesko Group has 102 (101) subsidiaries. The Group has the majority of voting rights in all comtionate method are listed in note 37. panies. Kesko Group's sub-group, Senukai, has a material non-controlling interest (see section Material non-controlling interest). KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 273 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Material non-controlling interest Summarised financial information on subsidiary with material Senukai Group, which is part of Kesko Group, has a material non-controlling interest. The non-controlling interest sub-group's parent, UAB Kesko Senukai Lithuania, is a subsidiary of Kesko Corporation and it is domiciled in Vilnius, Lithuania. Kesko Group's ownership interest in Senukai Group is 50.0% Senukai Group Senukai Group increased by one share (50.0% increased by one share). Kesko Group has the right to nominate € million 2016 2015 the majority of Board members and the Board Chair. The Board controls the company's operCurrent assets 289.8 167.3 ational activities and makes decisions on the use of resources. The share of non-controlling Non-current assets 98.1 29.6 interests of the profit of Senukai Group was €15.3 million (€15.7 million) and in equity, the share Current liabilities 110.8 75.1 was €97.3 million (€78.6 million). Non-current liabilities 18.2 0.3 Net sales 557.3 437.0 The arrangement agreed by Kesko in the autumn of 2015 to centralise the Baltic building and Profit/loss 31.3 23.1 home improvement trade in UAB Senuku Prekybos centras (Senukai) was completed. The company's name was changed to Kesko Senukai. In the arrangement, Kesko sold the shares in its Parent company owners' share of profit/loss 16.0 7.3 wholly owned companies responsible for the operations of K-rauta stores in Estonia and Latvia Non-controlling interests' share of profit/loss 15.3 15.7 to its subsidiary Senukai, which is majority-owned by Kesko. The Kesko Senukai subgroup operComprehensive income for the period 31.4 9.0 ates in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Belarus. Parent company owners' share of comprehensive income for the period 16.3 4.0 Non-controlling interests' share of comprehensive income for the period 15.0 4.9 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1.1 5.9 Net cash generated from operating activities 28.4 27.1 Net cash used in investing activities -26.0 -5.1 Net cash used in financing activities 38.5 -12.7 The amounts above are before intra-Group eliminations. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 274 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 37. Subsidiaries, equity accounted Owned by the parent Domicile Group's ownership interest,% Parent's ownership interest,% investments and proportionately consolidated K-rauta AB Stockholm, Sweden 100.00 100.00 mutual real estate companies as at 31 Dec. 2016 KR Fastigheter AB Mežciems Real Estate SIA Sollentuna, Sweden Riga, Latvia 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 Subsidiaries Onninen Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Plussa OÜ Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 100.00 Group's ownership Parent's ownerRake Eiendom AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 100.00 Owned by the parent Domicile interest,% ship interest,% VV-Auto Group Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Ankkuri-Energia Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Asunto Oy Kirkkonummen Västeruddintie 33 Kirkkonummi 100.00 100.00 Byggmakker Handel AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 100.00 Group's ownership Parent's ownerOwned by other Group companies Domicile interest,% ship interest,% Fiesta Real Estate AS Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 100.00 Antigravity Payment System UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 Indoor Group Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 App-Hallinta Oy Helsinki 100.00 Intersport Finland Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Oy AutoCarrera Ab Helsinki 100.00 Johaston Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Barker-Littoinen Oy Espoo 100.00 Kenkäkesko Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Daugavkrasts M SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Keru Kiinteistöt Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Ecomtrade Sp z o.o Warsaw, Poland 100.00 Kesko Food Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Hasti-Ari AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Kesko Real Estate Latvia SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 100.00 Indoor Group AS Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 Kesko Senukai Lithuania UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 50.00 50.00 Inovatyvus prekybos sprendimai UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.51 Kiinteistö Mesta Oy Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Insofa Oy Lahti 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Keravan Alikeravantie 77 Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Jyrängön Palvelukeskus Oy Heinola 50.45 Kiinteistö Oy Sunan Hallitalo Helsinki 100.00 100.00 K-citymarket Oy Helsinki 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Voisalmen Liiketalo Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kesko Food Russia Holding Oy Helsinki 100.00 Klintcenter Ab Maarianhamina 100.00 100.00 Kesko Real Estate OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 Konekesko Ltd Helsinki 100.00 100.00 Kesko Senukai Digital UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 275 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group's ownership Parent's ownerGroup's ownership Parent's ownerOwned by other Group companies Domicile interest,% ship interest,% Owned by other Group companies Domicile interest,% ship interest,% Kesko Senukai Estonia AS Tallinn, Estonia 50.00 K rauta SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Kesko Senukai Latvia AS Riga, Latvia 50.00 K-rauta Rus OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 Kespro Ltd Helsinki 100.00 K-rauta Fastigheter i Malmö AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 Kestra Kiinteistöpalvelut Oy Helsinki 100.00 KR Fastigheter i Järfälla AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Furupuro Vantaa 100.00 KR Fastigheter i Linköping AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Helsingin Itäkeskus Helsinki 100.00 KR Fastigheter i Täby AB Sollentuna, Sweden 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Hyvinkään Tuomaankulma Hyvinkää 100.00 LLC LR Rustaveli StP St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Hyvinkään Tuuliankulma Hyvinkää 100.00 Lämpö-Tukku Oy Helsinki 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Kokkolan Kaanaanmaantie 2-4 Kokkola 64.78 Norgros AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Kolmisopentie 3 Kuopio 100.00 Olarin Autokiinteistö Oy Espoo 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Kuvernöörintie 8 Helsinki 100.00 OMA OOO Minsk, Belarus 25.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lappeenrannan Oksasenkatu 4 Helsinki 100.00 Onninen AB Solna, Sweden 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lappeenrannan Rakuunaparkki Lappeenranta 100.00 Onninen AS Skedsmo, Norway 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Liike-Jaako Rovaniemi 67.88 Onninen AS Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Piispansilta Espoo 100.00 Onninen LLP Aktau, Kazakhstan 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Sarviniitynkatu 4 Kerava 100.00 Onninen OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Tarkkaiikka Oulu 100.00 Onninen Russia Holding Oy Helsinki 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Vantaan Kiitoradantie 2 Vantaa 100.00 Onninen SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Vantaan Simonsampo Vantaa 100.00 Onninen Sp. z o.o. Warsaw, Poland 100.00 Kiinteistö Oy Visuveden Liiketalo Ruovesi 100.00 Onninen UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 100.00 K-Market Oy Helsinki 100.00 Parnas 11 OOO St. Petersburg, Russia 100.00 Knuto AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Peltosaaren Liikekeskus Oy Riihimäki 59.67 Konekesko Eesti AS Tallinn, Estonia 100.00 Penktoji Projekto Bendrové UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 25.50 Konekesko Latvija SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Polo LS SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Konekesko Lietuva UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 100.00 Profelco Oy Vantaa 100.00 K Prof SIA Riga, Latvia 100.00 Rake Bergen AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 276 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group's ownership Parent's ownerGroup's ownership Parent's ownerOwned by other Group companies Domicile interest,% ship interest,% Owned by other Group companies Domicile interest,% ship interest,% Romos Holdingas UAB Kaunas, Lithuania 25.00 Fintorus Oy Lappeenranta 21.40 Saele og Hollevik Trading AS Bergen, Norway 100.00 Mokilizingas UAB Vilnius, Lithuania 12.75 Senukai UAB Kaunas, Lithuania 49.61 Rakentamisen MALL Oy Helsinki 25.00 Senuku Tirdzniecibas Centrs SIA Riga, Latvia 50.00 Suomen LVIS-Tietoverkko Oy Vantaa 20.00 SPC Holding UAB Kaunas, Lithuania 50.00 Tampereen Länsikeskus Oy Tampere 100.00 TD-Kiinteistöt Oy Turku 100.00 Proportionately consolidated mutual real estate companies TM Christensen VVS Detaljer AS Oslo, Norway 100.00 Trøgstadveien 13 AS Oppegård, Norway 100.00 Group's ownership Parent's ownerOwned by the parent and others Domicile interest,% ship interest,% VV-Autotalot Oy Helsinki 100.00 Asunto-Oy Punkalaitumen Pankkitalo Punkalaidun 33.82 Asunto Oy Soukan Itäinentorni Espoo 46.60 19.31 Itäkeskuksen Pysäköintitalo Oy Helsinki 36.16 36.16 Equity accounted investments Kiinteistö Oy Lahden Lyhytkatu 1 Lahti 50.00 50.00 Kiinteistö Oy Lukonmäen Palvelukeskus Tampere 34.54 Group's ownership Parent's ownerKiinteistö Oy Pälkäneen Liikekeskus Pälkäne 84.14 Owned by the parent Domicile interest,% ship interest,% Kiinteistö Oy Ulvilan Hansa Ulvila 42.41 42.41 Graanin Liikekeskus Oy Mikkeli 50.00 50.00 Kiinteistö Oy Vantaanportin Liikekeskus Vantaa 27.81 27.81 Kiinteistö Oy Itäaukio Lahti 26.20 26.20 Koskelan Ostokeskus Oy Oulu 29.32 Kiinteistö Oy Janakkalan Linnatuuli Janakkala 29.86 29.86 Laajasalon Liikekeskus Oy Helsinki 50.35 Kiinteistö Oy Joensuun Kaupunginportti Joensuu 22.77 22.77 Lapin Tehdastalo Oy Tampere 21.24 Kiinteistö Oy Mellunmäen Liikeja toimintakeskus Helsinki 23.42 23.42 Munkkivuoren Ostoskeskus Oy Helsinki 30.65 30.65 Kruunuvuoren Satama Oy Helsinki 49.00 49.00 Talo Oy Kalevanpuisto Kuopio 47.60 Mercada Oy Helsinki 33.33 33.33 Voisalmen Ostoskeskus Oy Lappeenranta 50.00 Valluga-sijoitus Oy Helsinki 46.15 46.15 Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy Helsinki 34.35 34.35 Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP Oy Helsinki 30.00 30.00 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 277 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Parent company's financial statements (FAS) Parent company's income statement € 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 Net sales 307,057,226.84 43,091,016.90 Other operating income 145,872,845.35 157,968,731.51 Materials and services -182,055,341.10 -1,753.06 Employee benefit expense -78,391,983.08 -21,213,756.01 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment -25,123,873.93 -21,156,816.18 Other operating expenses -153,377,504.75 -206,748,452.39 Operating profit 13,981,369.33 -48,061,029.23 Finance income and cost 10,150,624.85 -20,534,327.74 Profit before appropriations and taxes 24,131,994.18 -68,595,356.97 Appropriations Change in depreciation reserve 7,253,944.92 15,486,295.81 Group contribution 137,567,419.37 289,585,913.15 Profit before taxes 168,953,358.47 236,476,851.99 Income taxes -21,025,798.49 -74,658,981.88 Profit for the financial year 147,927,559.98 161,817,870.11 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 278 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Parent company's balance sheet € 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 € 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 ASSETS Short-term NON-CURRENT ASSETS Trade receivables 144,796,523.71 712,242.35 INTANGIBLE ASSETS Receivables from subsidiaries 625,191,943.42 839,381,775.07 Intangible rights 7,693,643.06 6,257,340.41 Receivables from associates 991,449.83 910,936.05 Other intangible rights 15,684,207.80 6,786,292.90 Loan receivables 2,019,258.12 Prepayments 8,303,933.25 1,271,305.11 Other receivables 1,638,531.21 3,925.16 31,681,784.11 14,314,938.42 Prepayments and accrued income 69,232,300.91 11,149,444.76 TANGIBLE ASSETS 843,870,007.20 852,158,323.39 Land and waters 85,978,000.42 77,868,955.35 INVESTMENTS Buildings 161,741,464.59 121,044,023.13 Other investments 246,965,095.16 740,652,092.53 Machinery and equipment 11,989,536.91 1,481,275.98 Other tangible assets 5,206,436.83 712,088.96 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 48,104,149.95 45,391,996.15 Prepayments and construction in progress 9,260,388.69 3,900,399.35 TOTAL ASSETS 2,659,869,939.17 2,423,614,208.66 274,175,827.44 205,006,742.77 INVESTMENTS Investments in subsidiaries 805,822,696.65 190,391,107.79 Investments in associates 78,255,203.86 78,255,203.86 Other investments 7,623,896.27 10,373,702.57 891,701,796.78 279,020,014.22 CURRENT ASSETS STOCKS Finished products/goods 46,416,088.41 46,416,088.41 RECEIVABLES Long-term Receivables from subsidiaries 214,140,932.90 227,099,825.48 Receivables from associates 57,629,471.31 57,641,471.31 Other receivables 5,184,785.91 2,328,804.39 276,955,190.12 287,070,101.18 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 279 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Parent company's balance sheet € 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 € 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Current CAPITAL AND RESERVES Private placement notes 30,125,523.01 Share capital 197,282,584.00 197,282,584.00 Advances received 39,667.98 52,373.52 Share premium 197,498,010.90 197,498,010.90 Trade payables 135,005,784.67 6,937,288.22 Other reserves Payables to subsidiaries 527,926,338.03 510,084,729.57 Reserve of invested non-restricted equity 22,753,307.40 22,753,307.40 Payables to associates 21,949,611.28 19,126,189.41 Other reserves 243,415,795.55 243,415,795.55 Other payables 85,096,642.64 5,157,547.10 Retained earnings 592,073,306.99 673,737,292.41 Accruals and deferred income 66,649,076.51 45,461,865.17 Profit for the financial year 147,927,559.98 161,817,870.11 836,667,121.11 616,945,516.00 1,400,950,564.82 1,496,504,860.37 TOTAL LIABILITIES 2,659,869,939.17 2,423,614,208.66 APPROPRIATIONS Depreciation reserve 59,756,479.17 56,903,041.19 PROVISIONS Other provisions 9,168,725.12 913,455.00 LIABILITIES Non-current Bonds 225,005,000.00 225,005,000.00 Private Placement notes 20,083,682.01 20,083,682.01 Pension loans 100,000,000.00 Other creditors 8,238,366.94 7,258,654.09 353,327,048.95 252,347,336.10 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 280 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Parent company's cash flow statement € 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 € 1 Jan–31 Dec 2016 1 Jan–31 Dec 2015 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Profit before extraordinary items 24,131,994.18 -68,595,356.97 Purchases of tangible and intangible assets -25,073,151.29 -9,458,291.76 Adjustments Receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) -2,000,758.55 197,031.14 Depreciation according to plan 17,936,645.13 16,361,194.76 Acquisitions of subsidiaries -280,846,572.73 -6,986,047.00 Finance income and costs -10,150,624.85 20,534,327.74 Acquisitions of associates -10,997,500.00 Other adjustments -31,774,213.98 55,440,430.67 Proceeds from sale of subsidiaries, net of cash disposed of -5,000,000.00 -57,860,016.59 143,800.48 23,740,596.20 Equity repaid by associates and joint ventures 9,446,399.83 Change in working capital Proceeds from disposal of other investments 166,095.44 Current non-interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) 49,585,713.94 -840,197.26 Proceeds from disposal of tangible and intangible assets 29,537,990.00 79,137,019.78 Inventories increase (-)/decrease (+) 5,152,816.06 Net cash used in investing activities -283,216,397.13 3,478,595.40 Current non-interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) 12,543,253.34 -4,046,119.66 67,281,783.34 -4,886,316.92 Cash flows from financing actitivites Interest-bearing liabilities, increase (+)/decrease (-) 127,193,797.33 114,337,761.43 Interests paid and other finance costs -17,959,831.97 -18,027,879.99 Short-term interest-bearing receivables, increase (-)/decrease (+) -237,114,236.83 -9,107,188.00 Interests received 26,198,246.35 19,415,447.46 Short-term money market investments 364,532,233.40 -269,234,272.08 Dividends received 1,975,275.20 3,767,022.20 Dividends paid -248,194,233.30 -148,715,547.00 Income tax paid -71,583,714.69 -23,473,972.12 Group contributions received and paid 137,567,419.37 289,585,913.15 -61,370,025.11 -18,319,382.45 Acquisition of treasury shares -313,793.94 Net cash generated from operating activities 6,055,558.71 534,896.83 Other items 5,737,941.24 21,212,728.94 Net cash used in financing activities 149,409,127.27 -1,920,603.56 Change in liquid assets -127,751,711.15 2,092,888.67 Liquid assets as at 1 January 234,321,700.54 232,228,811.87 Liquid assets as at 31 December 106,569,989.39 234,321,700.54 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 281 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Notes to the parent company's financial The most common estimated useful lives are: Buildings 10−33 years statements Fixtures and fittings 8 years Machinery and equipment 25% reducing balance method Transportation fleet 5 years Note 1. Principles used for preparing the financial Other tangible assets 5−14 years statements Land has not been depreciated. The total of depreciation according to plan and the change Kesko Corporation's financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the Finnish in depreciation reserve comply with the Finnish Business Tax Act. The change in depreciation Accounting Standards (FAS). reserve has been treated as appropriations. In the financial year 2016, K-talouspalvelukeskus Oy, K-Plus Oy, K-instituutti Oy, Rautakesko Valuation of inventories Ltd, Musta Pörssi Ltd and Keslog Ltd merged into Kesko Corporation. Inventories are stated, using the moving-average cost method, at lower of direct purchase cost, replacement cost and probable selling price. Non-current assets Valuation of financial assets Intangible assets Marketable securities have been valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Intangible assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less depreciation according to plan and possible amortisations. Foreign currency items Foreign currency transactions have been recorded in euros using the rate of exchange at the Depreciation plan date of transaction. Foreign currency receivables and payables have been translated into euros Other capitalised expenditure 5−20 years using the rate of exchange at the balance sheet date. If a receivable or a payable is tied to a fixed IT software and licences 3−5 years rate of exchange, it has been used for translation. Exchange rate differences have been recognised in profit or loss. Tangible assets Tangible assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost less depreciation according to plan and Derivative contracts possible amortisations. Interest rate derivatives Depreciation plan Interest rate derivatives are used to modify the durations of borrowings. The target duration is Depreciation according to plan is calculated on a straight line basis so as to write off the cost of three years and it is allowed to vary between one and a half and four years. Cash flows arising tangible assets over their estimated useful lives. from interest rate derivatives are recognised during the financial year as interest income or expenses, according to the maturity date. In the financial statements, outstanding interest rate KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 282 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE forward contracts, interest rate future contracts, interest rate option contracts and interest rate Income tax swap contracts are stated at market values, but unrealised revaluation is not stated as income. Income tax includes the income tax payments for the period calculated based on the profit for Any valuation losses are included in interest expenses. the period, and taxes payable for prior periods, or tax refunds. Deferred taxes are not included in the parent company's income statement and balance sheet. Foreign currency derivatives Notes to the income statement Foreign currency derivatives are used for hedging against translation and transaction risks. Foreign exchange forward contracts are valued using the forward exchange rate of the balance sheet date. The exchange differences arising from outstanding derivative contracts are reported in financial items. If a derivative has been used for hedging a foreign-currency-denominated Note 2. Net sales by division asset, the change in value has been recognised against that of the asset item. The premiums of option contracts are included in the balance sheet accruals until they expire, or if a value change € million 2016 2015 at the balance sheet date so requires, recognition in profit or loss. Building and technical trade 165.9 Others 141.1 43.1 Commodity derivatives Total 307.1 43.1 Ankkuri-Energia Oy, a Kesko Corporation subsidiary, uses electricity derivatives to balance the energy costs of the Group and its retailers. Kesko Corporation is an external counterparty in electricity derivatives with a bank, and enters into corresponding internal hedge with AnkIn the financial year 2016, K-talouspalvelukeskus Oy, K-Plus Oy, K-instituutti Oy, Rautakesko kuri-Energia Oy. At no stage does Kesko Corporation have derivative positions, and thus there Ltd, Musta Pörssi Ltd and Keslog Ltd merged into Kesko Corporation. are no effects on profit or loss. The electricity price risk is reviewed on a 5-year time span. With respect to derivatives hedging the price of electricity supplied during the financial year, change in fair value is recognised at Kesko under finance income and cost. Unrealised gains and losses Note 3. Other operating income on contracts hedging future purchases are not recognised in profit or loss. € million 2016 2015 Pension plans Gains on sales of real estate and shares 2.2 57.7 Personnel's statutory pension provision is organised through pension insurance companies and Rent income 84.5 99.5 the voluntary supplementary pension provision is mainly organised through Kesko Pension Fund. Fees for services 9.0 Pension costs are recognised as expense in the income statement. Profits from mergers 46.2 Provisions Others 3.8 0.7 Provisions stated in the balance sheet include items committed to under agreements or othTotal 145.9 158.0 erwise but not yet realised. Changes in provisions are included in the income statement. Rent liabilities for vacant rented premises no longer used for the Group's business operations, as well as losses resulting from renting the premises to third parties, are included in provisions. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 283 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 4. Average number of personnel Note 6. Depreciation, amortisation and impairment 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 Kesko Corporation 716 180 Depreciation according to plan -17.9 -16.4 Total 716 180 Impairment, non-current assets -7.2 -4.8 Total -25.1 -21.2 Note 5. Employee benefit expense Note 7. Other operating expenses € million 2016 2015 Salaries and fees -64.6 -17.8 € million 2016 2015 Social security costs Rent expenses -57.9 -51.4 Pension costs -10.6 -2.6 Marketing expenses -44.5 -3.7 Other social security costs -3.2 -0.8 Maintenance of real estate and store sites -8.2 -5.6 Total -78.4 -21.2 Telecommunication expenses -25.9 -24.4 Losses from mergers -0.2 Other operating expenses -16.8 -121.6 Salaries and fees to the management Total -153.4 -206.7 € million 2016 2015 The other operating expenses include a €107.6 million loss on the divestment of Anttila. Managing Director 1.3 1.0 Members of the Board of Directors 0.3 0.4 Total 1.6 1.4 An analysis of the management's salaries and fees is included in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 284 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Auditors' fees Note 8. Finance income and costs € million 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 PricewaterhouseCoopers, firm of auditors Income from long-term investments Audit 0.2 0.3 Dividend income from subsidiaries 1.4 3.8 Tax consultation 0.0 0.1 Gains on disposal of shares 0.2 Other services 0.2 0.4 Gains on sales of investments 0.6 Total 0.4 0.8 Income from long-term investments, total 2.1 3.8 Other interest and finance income From subsidiaries 17.1 15.0 From others 11.8 18.6 Interest and finance income, total 29.0 33.6 Impairment of investments held as non-current assets Impairment of shares -2.8 -26.5 Impairment of other investments 0.0 -1.1 Impairment of investments held as non-current assets, total -2.8 -27.6 Interest and other finance costs To subsidiaries -2.2 -2.7 To others -15.9 -27.6 Interest and finance costs, total -18.1 -30.3 Total 10.2 -20.5 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 285 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Notes to the balance sheet Note 9. Appropriations Note 12. Intangible assets € million 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 Difference between depreciation according to plan and depreciation in 7.3 15.5 Intangible rights ­taxation Acquisition cost as at 1 January 9.5 9.0 Group contributions received 216.2 306.0 Increases 5.7 0.6 Group contributions paid -78.7 -16.4 Decreases -0.0 -0.1 Total 144.8 305.1 Transfers between items 0.1 0.1 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 15.3 9.5 Note 10. Changes in provisions Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January -3.2 -1.4 € million 2016 2015 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers -2.0 0.0 Transferred on mergers 5.3 Depreciation and amortisations for the financial year -2.4 -1.9 Other changes 3.0 0.7 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December -7.6 -3.2 Total 8.3 0.7 Book value as at 31 December 7.7 6.3 Note 11. Income taxes Other intangible assets Acquisition cost as at 1 January 20.2 15.6 Deferred taxes Increases 68.1 2.1 Deferred tax assets and liabilities have not been recorded on the balance sheet. The deferred Decreases -5.4 tax liability on accumulated appropriations is €12.0 million. The amount of other deferred tax Transfers between items 0.6 2.5 liabilities or assets is not material. Acquisition cost as at 31 December 83.5 20.2 Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January -13.4 -6.4 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers -51.7 Depreciation and amortisations for the financial year -2.7 -7.1 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December -67.8 -13.4 Book value as at 31 December 15.7 6.8 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 286 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE € million 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 Prepayments Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January -141.1 -178.2 Acquisition cost as at 1 January 1.3 3.6 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers -3.0 48.4 Increases 7.8 0.7 Depreciation for the financial year -10.6 -11.2 Decreases -0.1 -0.4 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December -154.7 -141.1 Transfers between items -0.7 -2.6 Book value as at 31 December 161.7 121.0 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 8.3 1.3 Book value as at 31 December 8.3 1.3 Machinery and equipment Acquisition cost as at 1 January 11.8 15.6 Increases 47.4 0.2 Note 13. Tangible assets Decreases -10.4 -4.1 Transfers between items 2.2 € million 2016 2015 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 51.0 11.8 Land and waters Acquisition cost as at 1 January 77.9 93.4 Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January -10.3 -13.0 Increases 14.0 1.5 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers -26.9 3.2 Decreases -5.9 -17.0 Depreciation for the financial year -1.8 -0.5 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 86.0 77.9 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December -39.0 -10.3 Book value as at 31 December 86.0 77.9 Book value as at 31 December 12.0 1.5 Buildings Other tangible assets Acquisition cost as at 1 January 262.1 365.8 Acquisition cost as at 1 January 3.0 8.1 Increases 61.6 0.9 Increases 6.7 0.0 Decreases -8.6 -104.7 Decreases -0.2 -5.2 Transfers between items 1.3 0.1 Transfers between items 0.0 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 316.4 262.1 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 9.5 3.0 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 287 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE € million 2016 2015 € million 2016 2015 Accumulated depreciation as at 1 January -2.3 -4.4 Impairment as at 1 January -54.3 -55.9 Accumulated depreciation on decreases and transfers -1.6 2.7 Accumulated impairments on decreases 27.8 28.1 Depreciation for the financial year -0.4 -0.5 Impairment for the period -2.8 -26.5 Accumulated depreciation as at 31 December -4.3 -2.3 Impairment as at 31 December -29.3 -54.3 Book value as at 31 December 5.2 0.7 Book value as at 31 December 805.8 190.4 Prepayments and construction in progress Investments in associates Acquisition cost as at 1 January 3.9 0.5 Acquisition cost as at 1 January 78.3 76.7 Increases 9.2 3.5 Increases 11.0 Decreases -0.3 0.0 Returned equity -9.4 Transfers between items -3.5 -0.1 Book value as at 31 December 78.3 78.3 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 9.3 3.9 Book value as at 31 December 9.3 3.9 Other investments Acquisition cost as at 1 January 10.4 9.5 Note 14. Investments Increases 1.2 2.7 Decreases -1.3 -1.8 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 10.2 10.4 € million 2016 2015 Investments in subsidiaries Impairment for the period -2.6 Acquisition cost as at 1 January 244.7 309.9 Impairment as at 31 December -2.6 Increases 724.8 7.6 Book value as at 31 December 7.6 10.4 Decreases -134.4 -72.9 Acquisition cost as at 31 December 835.1 244.7 An analysis of Kesko Corporation's ownership interests in other companies as at 31 December 2016 is presented in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 288 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 15. Receivables € million Prepayments and accrued income 2016 2015 Taxes 20.7 0.0 € million 2016 2015 Employee benefit expense 6.2 0.5 Receivables from subsidiaries Others 42.4 10.6 Long-term Total 69.2 11.1 Loan receivables 214.1 217.1 Subordinated loans 10.0 Long-term, total 214.1 227.1 Note 16. Shareholders' equity Short-term Reserve of Trade receivables 44.0 5.6 invested nonLoan receivables 570.1 832.7 Share Share Contingency restricted Retained Total Prepayments and accrued income 11.1 1.1 € million capital premium fund equity earnings equity Short-term, total 625.2 839.4 Balance as at 1 January 197.3 197.5 243.4 22.8 818.0 1,478.9 Total 839.3 1,066.5 2015 Dividends -148.7 -148.7 Treasury shares 4.7 4.7 € million 2016 2015 Transfer to donations -0.3 -0.3 Receivables from associates and joint ventures Profit for the year 161.8 161.8 Long-term Balance as at 31 December 197.3 197.5 243.4 22.8 835.5 1,496.5 Loan receivables 57.5 57.5 2015 Other receivables 0.1 0.1 Dividends -248.2 -248.2 Long-term, total 57.6 57.6 Treasury shares 5.0 5.0 Transfer to donations -0.3 -0.3 Short-term receivables 1.0 0.9 Profit for the year 147.9 147.9 Total 58.6 58.5 Balance as at 31 December 197.3 197.5 243.4 22.8 740.0 1,400.9 2016 Kesko Corporation has advanced a long-term loan to its joint venture, Mercada Oy, in the amount of €56.0 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 289 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Calculation of distributable profits 2016 2015 own shares and the fulfilment of the vesting criteria of the 2014 vesting period of Kesko's shareOther reserves 266.2 266.2 based compensation plans, the Board granted a total of 120,022 own shares held by the Company Retained earnings 592.1 673.7 as treasury shares, and based on the fulfilment of the 2015 vesting period, a total of 139,724 own Profit for the year 147.9 161.8 shares held by the Company as treasury shares to the persons included in the target groups of Total 1,006.2 1,101.7 the vesting periods. The transfers of treasury shares were announced in a stock exchange release on 1 April 2015, 7 April 2015, 17 March 2016 and 27 April 2016. During the financial year, a total Breakdown of parent company shares Pcs of 8,256 shares already granted were returned to the Company in accordance with the terms and A shares 31,737,007 conditions of the share-based compensation plan. At the end of the financial year, the Company held 746,109 (877,577) own B shares as treasury shares. The €23.5 million (€27.5 million) acquisiB shares 68,282,745 tion cost of these shares has been deducted from retained earnings in equity. Total 100,019,752 Note 17. Provisions Number Votes attached to shares of votes € million 2016 2015 A share 10 Provisions for leases 8.0 B share 1 Other provisions 1.2 0.9 Total 9.2 0.9 Board's authorisations to acquire and issue own shares The Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2016 approved the Board's proposal for its authorisation to decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares of the Company. The authorisation is valid until 30 September 2017. The Board has the authority, granted by the Annual General Note 18. Non-current liabilities Meeting of 13 April 2015 and valid until 30 June 2018, to issue a total maximum of 20,000,000 new B shares. Kesko's Annual General Meeting held on 4 April 2016 also authorised the Company's Board On 10 June 2004, Kesko Corporation issued a Private Placement of USD 120 million in the US. The to make decisions concerning the transfer of a total maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares held by the facility has three tranches with bullet repayments, of which the first tranch (USD 60 million) was Company as treasury shares. The authorisation is valid until 30 June 2020. due in 2014 and the second (USD 36 million) in 2016. The third tranch will be due in 2019 (USD 24 million). Kesko has hedged the loan with currency and interest rate swaps and will apply hedge acTreasury shares counting to the facility. At the balance sheet date, the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives Authorised by the General Meeting, the Board of Directors acquired a total of 700,000 own B hedging the private placement was €+2.7 million and the fair value of the interest rate derivatives shares (purchase price €23.7 million) in the financial year 2011 and a total of 500,000 own B shares was €-0.1 million. The loan capital is €20.1 million and the fixed interest rate is 6.2%. (purchase price €16.1 million) in the financial year 2014. The total prices paid for the shares have been deducted from retained earnings in equity. The shares are held by the Company as treasury On 11 September 2012, Kesko Corporation issued a €250 million bond. The bond carries a fixed shares and the Company Board is entitled to transfer them. Based on the authorisations to issue coupon rate of 2.75%. The bond matures after six years from issuance. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 290 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Note 19. Current liabilities Note 21. Guarantees, liability engagements and € million 2016 2015 other liabilities Liabilities to subsidiaries Trade payables 1.8 0.2 € million 2016 2015 Other payables 520.9 507.3 Real estate mortgages Accruals and deferred income 5.2 2.6 For subsidiaries 4 4 Total 527.9 510.1 Pledged shares 58 28 Liabilities to associates Accrued expenses 0.0 0.1 Guarantees Other payables 21.9 19.0 For subsidiaries 72 81 Total 21.9 19.1 Other liabilities and liability engagements Accruals and deferred income For own debt 15 4 Staff costs 34.0 3.8 Others 32.6 41.7 Rent liabilities on machinery and fixtures Total 66.6 45.5 Falling due within a year 4 1 Falling due later 7 1 Note 20. Interest-free liabilities Rent liabilities on real estate € million 2016 2015 Falling due within a year 104 40 Current liabilities 258.1 57.1 Falling due later 400 156 Non-current liabilities 8.2 7.3 Total 266.3 64.4 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 291 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Foreign currency risks The sensitivity analysis of transaction exposure shows the profit impact of a +/-10% exchange The result of the Company's operating activities is affected by the amount of working capital rate change on the Goup's foreign currency denominated acquisitions and hedging foreign financing granted by the Company to its foreign subsidiaries and in part also, in its capacity of currency derivatives. the Group's parent company, the subsidiaries' hedgings against their parent. Sensitivity analysis, impact The foreign currency exposure is hedged using foreign currency derivatives in accordance with on pre-tax profit as at 31 the confirmed foreign currency risk policy. The fair value of foreign currency derivatives is calcuDec 2016 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN lated by measuring them based on quoted market prices at the balance sheet date. Change +/-10% 1.1 0.8 0.4 0.7 -0.3 0.0 The measurement of derivatives is based on direct market data, in other words, they are classified into level 2. The maximum credit risk of these derivatives corresponds to their fair value at the balance sheet date. Sensitivity analysis, impact on pre-tax profit as at 31 The results of derivatives are recognised in financial items. Dec 2015 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN Change +/-10% 1.0 -0.7 0.5 0.0 -0.3 0.0 Company's transaction exposure as at 31 Dec 2016 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN Transaction risk -20.2 19.6 22.4 16.5 14.4 0.0 Derivatives Hedging derivatives 31.3 -12.0 -18.2 -9.1 -17.6 0.0 Exposure 11.1 7.6 4.2 7.4 -3.1 0.0 31.12.2016 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 31.12.2015 Positive fair Negative fair Positive fair Negative fair Fair values of derivative contracts value (balance value (balance value (balance value (balance € million sheet value) sheet value) sheet value) sheet value) Company's transaction exposure as at 31 Dec 2015 Currency derivatives 4.4 -5.4 12.2 -2.3 € million USD SEK NOK PLN RUB BYN Transaction risk -19.7 -11.2 23.9 0.0 13.4 0.0 Notional amounts of derivative 31.12.2016 31.12.2015 Hedging derivatives 29.4 3.8 -18.7 0.0 -16.7 0.0 contracts Notional Notional € million amount amount Exposure 9.7 -7.4 5.1 0.0 -3.3 0.0 Currency derivatives 213.7 302.8 All currency derivatives mature in 2017. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 292 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE € million Liabilities arising from derivative instruments 2016 Fair Value 2015 Fair Value Note 22. Cash and cash equivalents within the Values of underlying instruments as at 31 December ­statement of cash flows Interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 40 -0.1 100 0.0 € million 2016 2015 Available-for-sale financial assets 58.5 188.9 Foreign currency derivatives Cash and cash equivalents 48.1 45.4 Forward and future contracts 193 -3.6 252 5.1 Total 106.6 234.3 Outside the Group 174 -2.9 225 5.8 Inside the Group 19 -0.7 26 -0.6 In the statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes those recognised in the Option agreements balance sheet and portions of available-for-sale financial assets with maturities of less than three Bought, inside the Group 0 -0.0 0 -0.0 months from acquisition. Written, inside the Group 0 -0.0 1 -0.0 Currency swaps 20 2.7 50 4.9 Note 23. Related parties Commodity derivatives The Group’s related parties include its management personnel (the Board of Directors, the Electricity derivatives 22 0.0 19 -0.0 President and CEO and the Group Management Board), companies controlled by them, subsidOutside the Group 11 -1.7 9 -7.2 iaries, associates, joint ventures and Kesko Pension Fund. The subsidiaries, associates and joint Inside the Group 11 1.7 9 7.2 ventures are listed in a separate note (note 37). Some members of the Kesko Board are K-retailers. The Group companies sell goods and services to companies controlled by them. Goods and services have been sold to related parties on normal market terms and conditions and at market prices. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 293 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Signatures Auditor’s report (Translation from the Finnish Original) Helsinki, 1 February 2017 To the Annual General Meeting of Kesko Oyj Esa Kiiskinen Mikael Aro Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion In our opinion, Jannica Fagerholm Matti Kyytsönen Matti Naumanen • the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance, and cash flows of the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU • the financial statements give a true and fair view of the parent company’s financial perforAnu Nissinen Toni Pokela Mikko Helander mance and financial position in accordance with the laws and regulations governing the President and CEO preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. What we have audited We have audited the financial statements of Kesko Oyj (Business ID: 0109862-8) for the year The Auditor's note ended 31 December, 2016. The financial statements comprise: Our auditor's report has been issued today. • the consolidated statement of financial position, statement of comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and statement of cash flows, and notes to the consolidated Helsinki, 1 February 2017 financial statements, which include a summary of significant accounting policies; and • the parent company’s balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement and notes to the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy financial statements Authorised Public Accountants Basis for opinion Mikko Nieminen We conducted our audit in accordance with good auditing practice in Finland. Our responsibilAPA ities under good auditing practice are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 294 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a Materiality basis for our opinion. The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstateIndependence ment. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or error. They are considered material if individually We are independent of the parent company and of the group in accordance with the ethical or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in Finland, and we have taken on the basis of the financial statements. fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain quantitative thresholds for mateOur audit approach riality, including the overall group materiality for the consolidated financial statements. These, together with qualitative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our audit and the Overview nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements on Overall materiality the financial statements as a whole. • We have defined that in Kesko Group audit material are misstatements whose impact individually or in aggregate is 5% of comparable profit before tax. Calculated from comparable profit We determined that overall group materiality € 13 million. We chose comparable profit before before tax in 2016 financial year it is € 13 million. tax as the benchmark because, in our view, it is the benchmark against which the performance of the Group is most commonly measured by users, and is a generally accepted benchmark. We Group audit scope chose 5% which is within the range of acceptable quantitative materiality thresholds in auditing • We performed an audit in Kesko Group companies that are most significant based on the standards. financial position and result. We have performed audit procedures in Kesko’s nine operating countries. Group audit scope Kesko operates in grocery trade, building and technical trade and car trade. Operations are Key audit matters based in nine countries. We tailored the scope of our audit, taking into account the structure of • Business combination of Suomen Lähikauppa, Onninen and AutoCarrera the Kesko Group, the industry and the accounting processes and controls. • Goodwill and trademarks – management impairment testing • Inventories We performed an audit in Kesko Group companies that are most significant based on the financial position and result. We have performed audit procedures in all nine of Kesko’s operating As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material countries: in Finland, Sweden, Norway, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia and Belarus. misstatement in the financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved By performing those procedures, we have obtained sufficient and appropriate evidence regardmaking assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. ing the financial information of Kesko Group’s legal companies and operations which provides a basis for our opinion on the consolidated financial statements. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 295 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key audit matters Key audit matter in the audit of How our audit addressed Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most signifithe Group the Key audit matter cance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Business combination of Suomen Lähikauppa, Onninen and AutoCarrera As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies for the In our audit we reviewed management’s including among other matters consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that repreconsolidated financial statements), note assessment about, whether acquisitions of sented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud. 12 (Intangible assets) and note 3 (Business Suomen Lähikauppa, Onninen and AutoCaracquisitions and disposals) rera meet the definition of business combination as set out in IFRS 3. During the financial year, Kesko has acquired the whole share capital of Suomen LähikaupWe assessed the appropriateness of the pa Oy, Onninen Oy and Oy AutoCarrera Ab. identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities These acquisitions have been treated as busiassumed at the acquisition date by comparness combinations based on IFRS 3 in Kesko ing these to the clauses laid out in the Asset consolidated financial statements. Purchase Agreements. We reviewed management’s procedure for determining the fair Regarding these acquisitions we focused on value of the net identifiable assets acquired. meeting the criteria of business combination based on IFRS 3, intangible assets identificaWe tested appropriateness of valuation modtion and determination of the fair value of net els and mathematical accuracy by sample as assets. These matters involve management well as by comparing input data used to clausjudgment and the result is dependent on vales laid out in the Asset Purchase Agreements. uation methods, assumptions and inputs used in the model. We tested the amount of goodwill arising from the acquisition by reviewing purchase price allocation accounting principles and formulas of calculations. We assessed whether goodwill arising from the acquisitions is allocated to cash generating units based on applied accounting standards. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 296 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Key audit matter in the audit of How our audit addressed Key audit matter in the audit of How our audit addressed the Group the Key audit matter the Group the Key audit matter Goodwill and trademarks – management impairment testing Inventories Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies for the We reviewed financial plans prepared by the Refer to note 1 (Accounting policies for the In our evaluation of the Group reviews on consolidated financial statements) and note management and compared to the financial consolidated financial statements) and note inventory net realisable value, we walked 12 (Intangible assets) plans approved by the Board of Directors. 18 (Inventories) through monitoring processes over inventory obsolescence and turnover and processes of Kesko Group balance sheet includes goodwill We evaluated appropriateness of value-inKesko Group balance sheet includes inventonet realisation calculation. We identified key in amount of € 189.9 million and trademarks use valuation method used and traced input ry amount of € 978.9 million. controls and tested efficiency of those. € 123.3 million. No impairment loss of goodinformation to the source. will and trademarks has been identified nor Inventories are measured at the lower of cost We reviewed on a sample basis inventory recognised during the financial year. We challenged the management on asand net realisable value. write-off calculations and reconciled source sumptions used in value-in-use calculations. data to inventory accounting. Kesko Group management carries out In evaluating one of the key assumption, The Group regularly reviews inventories for impairment test of goodwill and trademarks Weighted Average Cost of Capital, we utilized obsolescence and turnover, and for possible We tested by sample basis formulas of valuannually. Impairment test result is based on PwC valuation experts. We performed back reduction of net realisable value below cost, ation reports to ensure that formulas lead to management estimates, eg. market growth testing comparing forecasts used in previous and records an impair-ment as necessary. the correct result. and profitability trends estimates, changes years testing to actual results as it would give Such reviews require assessments of future in store site network, product and service an indication of the quality of the forecasting demand for products. In our evaluation over the vendor allowances selection, pricing and movements in operating process. we walked through the Group monitoring costs. The cost of finished goods comprises all costs processes, identified key controls and tested In addition, we assessed the adequacy of the of purchase including freight. Inventory cost efficiency of those. We tested on a sample In our audit we focused on the methodologies disclosures, particularly on sensitivities. is adjusted by vendor allowances. The Group basis vendor allowances calculations and and assumptions used in management impairuses judgment to what extent allowances reconciled input information to clauses laid ment testing. We specially focused on those clauses laid out in purchase agreements are out in purchase agreements and financial cash generating units, whose value-in-use and fulfilled at the financial statements period end year purchases information. In addition, we carrying value difference have been smallest date. reconciled comparable reporting date vendor in previous years and therefore sensitive to allowance accruals to materialized allowances changes in estimations. In our audit we focused on the assessment of to evaluate the quality of the process and net realisable value and underlying assumpaccuracy of the accruals. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 297 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE tions. In addition, we focused on assessment As part of an audit in accordance good auditing practice, we exercise professional judgment and of fulfilment of vendor agreement clauses at maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also: the financial statements period end date. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and We have no key audit matters to report with respect to our audit of the parent company financial obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. statements. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director resentations, or the override of internal control. for the financial statements • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the preparation of consolprocedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing idated financial statements that give a true and fair view in accordance with International Finanan opinion on the effectiveness of the parent company’s or the group’s internal control. cial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU, as well as for the preparation of financial • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accountstatements that give a true and fair view in accordance with the laws and regulations governing ing estimates and related disclosures made by management. the preparation of the financial statements in Finland and comply with statutory requirements. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Managing Director’s use The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control of the going concern basis of accounting and based on the audit evidence obtained, whether as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. on the parent company’s or the group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Directors and the Managing Director are the related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applimodify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date cable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the parent company they either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative or the group to cease to continue as a going concern. but to do so. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entia whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an ties or business activities within the group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with good auditing practice will always audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 298 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with In our opinion, relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all rela• the information in the report of the Board of Directors is consistent with the information in tionships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and the financial statements where applicable, related safeguards. • the report of the Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of the current period If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless the date of this auditor’s report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare cirinformation, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. cumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. Other Opinions We support that the financial statements and the consolidated financial statements should be Other reporting requirements adopted. The proposal by the Board of Directors regarding the use of the profit shown in the balance sheet is in compliance with the Limited Liability Companies Act. We support that the Other information Members of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of the parent company should be The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the other information. The discharged from liability for the financial period audited by us. other information comprises information included in the report of the Board of Directors and in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Helsinki 1 February 2017 We obtained the report of the Board of Directors prior to the date of this auditor’s report and the Annual report is expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditor's report. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Authorised Public Accountants Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information. Mikko Nieminen In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other inAPA formation identified above and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. With respect to the report of the Board of Directors our responsibility also includes considering whether the report of Board of Directors has been prepared in accordance with the applicable legal requirements. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 299 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement 2016 Introduction 301 Descriptions concerning corporate governance 302 Description of internal control procedures and the main features of risk management systems 311 Other information to be provided in the CG statement 316 Board of Directors and Group Management Board 319 Board of Directors 319 Group Management Board 323 Remuneration statement 2016 Decision-making procedure concerning remuneration 328 Main principles of remuneration 329 Remuneration report 331 Corporate Governance Kesko's Annual Report 2016 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction This Corporate Governance Statement has been reviewed at the meeting of the Audit Commitrate Governance Code effective on 1 January 2016 (“Corporate Governance Code”). The tee of Kesko Corporation’s Board of Directors on 31 January 2017. Corporate Governance Code can be read in full at http://cgfinland.fi/files/2015/10/­ hallinnointikoodi2015finweb1.pdf. As provided by the ‘Comply or Explain’ principle of the This is the Corporate Governance Statement in accordance with the Finnish Corporate GovernCorporate Governance Code, the Company departs from the Corporate Governance Code's ance Code issued by the Securities Market Association effective on 1 January 2016 which refers recommendation concerning a Board member’s term of office. The reasons for the departure are to the Report by the Board of Directors. This statement and the other information to be disdescribed below. closed in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, and the Company’s financial statements, the Report by the Board of Directors and the Auditor’s Report are available on K ­ esko’s Departure from Recommendation 6 of the Corporate Governance Code (Term of Office of website at http://kesko.fi/en/investor/corporate-governance/. the Board of Directors) and explanation for departure The term of office of Kesko's Board of Directors departs from the one-year term pursuant to Regulations and Corporate Governance Code observed by Kesko Recommendation 6 (Term of Office of the Board of Directors) of the Corporate Governance Kesko Corporation (“Kesko” or “the Company”) is a Finnish limited liability company in which Code. The term of office of the Company’s Board of Directors is determined in accordance with the duties and responsibilities of management bodies are defined according to the regulations the Company’s Articles of Association. The General Meeting decides on amendments to the observed in Finland. The parent company Kesko and its subsidiaries form Kesko Group. The Articles of Association. According to the Company’s Articles of Association, the term of office Company is domiciled in Helsinki. of a Board member is three (3) years, starting at the close of the General Meeting electing the member and expiring at the close of the third (3rd) Annual General Meeting after the election. Decision-making and corporate governance are in compliance with the Finnish Limited Liability Companies Act, regulations concerning publicly quoted companies, Kesko’s Articles of AssociaA shareholder who, together with related entities, represents over 10% of votes attached to all tion, the charters of Kesko’s Board of Directors and its Committees and the rules and guidelines Kesko shares, has informed the Company's Board of Directors that it considers the term of office of Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd. of three (3) years good for the Company's long-term development and has not seen any need to shorten the term stated in the Articles of Association. Kesko applies the Finnish Corporate Governance Code for Listed Companies in force at any given time. This statement has been prepared in compliance with the Finnish CorpoKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 301 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Descriptions Concerning Corporate Governance Kesko Group's governance model Kesko Group’s Corporate Governance System KESKO CORPORATION GENERAL MEETING SHAREHOLDERS The highest decision-making power in Kesko is exercised by the Company's shareholders at the Company's General Meeting. elects issues an elects audit report At the Annual General Meeting, the Company’s shareholders elect the Company’s Board of AUDITOR BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directors and the Auditor. Kesko Group is managed by the Board of Directors and the Managing Director, who is the President and CEO. The President and CEO is appointed by the Board of AUDIT COMMITTEE Directors. The Company uses a so-called one-tier governance model. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Annual General Meeting is held annually by the end of June, on a date designated by the Company's Board of Directors. The most significant matters falling within the decision-making elects supervises reports power of the General Meeting include the election of the Board members and the Auditor, the controls adoption of the financial statements, the resolution on discharging the Board members and the PRESIDENT AND CEO Managing Director from liability, and the resolution on the distribution of the Company's assets, such as distributions of profit. INTERNAL AUDIT GROUP MANAGEMENT BOARD The Company has share series A and B, which differ with respect to the number of votes attached to the shares. An A share carries ten (10) votes and a B share carries one (1) vote at the BUILDING AND GROCERY TRADE CAR TRADE General Meeting. When votes are taken, the proposal for which more than half of the votes were TECHNICAL TRADE given will usually be the resolution of the General Meeting, as prescribed by the Limited Liability Companies Act. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 302 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Shareholders are invited to attend the General Meeting by a Notice of the General Meeting The Board members are elected by majority votes at the General Meeting based on shareholdpublished on the Company’s website. The notice of the meeting and other General Meeting ers’ proposals. The Board elects the Chair and the Deputy Chair from among its members for the ­documents, including the Board of Directors’ proposals to the General Meeting, are made whole term of office of the Board. In the preparation of a proposal for the Board composition, available to shareholders no later than three weeks prior to the General Meeting at the CompaKesko applies the practice in which significant shareholders prepare the proposals concerning ny's headquarters and on its website at http://www.kesko.fi/. The notice of the meeting is also the Board of Directors, including the proposal for the number of Board members, their remunerpublished in a stock exchange release. ation and, as necessary, for the Board members to the General Meeting. The Company aims for all members of Kesko's Board of Directors, the President and CEO, and Board’s composition and shareholdings the Auditor to be present at the Annual General Meeting. The minutes of the General Meeting The Annual General Meetings of 13 April 2015 and 4 April 2016 resolved that the Board of Direcare made available to shareholders at http://www.kesko.fi within two weeks of the General tors is composed of seven (7) members. Meeting. The resolutions of the General Meeting are also published in a stock exchange release without delay after the meeting. The General Meeting of 13 April 2015 elected Esa Kiiskinen, Mikael Aro, Matti Kyytsönen, Tomi Korpisaari, Anu Nissinen, Toni Pokela and Kaarina Ståhlberg as Board members. AccordBoard of Directors ing to the Articles of Association, the term of office of a Kesko Board member is three (3) years, starting at the close of the General Meeting electing the member and expiring at the close of the Term of Office third (3rd) Annual General Meeting after the election. According to the Articles of Association, the term of office of a Kesko Board member is three (3) years, starting at the close of the General Meeting electing the member and expiring at the close Tomi Korpisaari (b. 1968, retailer) and Kaarina Ståhlberg (b. 1966, Master of Laws) resigned of the third (3rd) Annual General Meeting after the election. from the Board as of 1 March 2016. The General Meeting of 4 April 2016 resolved to replace them by retailer, trade technician Matti Naumanen and Managing Director, Master of Science in According to the Articles of Association, Kesko's Board of Directors is composed of a minimum Economics Jannica Fagerholm until the close of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2018. of five (5) and a maximum of eight (8) members. All Board members are elected by the General Meeting. There are no special procedures concerning the nomination of Board member canIn accordance with the Articles of Association, the term of office of each member of the Board didates or their election at the General Meeting, as the number of Board members is resolved of Directors will expire at the close of the 2018 Annual General Meeting. and the members are elected by majority votes at the General Meeting based on shareholders’ proposals. The Board elects the Chair and the Deputy Chair from among its members for the whole term of office of the Board. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 303 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board’s composition and shareholdings as at 31 December 2016 are presented in the table below. Board of Directors' composition and shareholdings as at 31 Dec 2016 Kesko shares held Name Year of birth Education Principal occupation Board member since Committee membership as at 31 Dec 2016 Esa Kiiskinen (Ch.) 1963 Business College Graduate Food Retailer 2009 Remuneration Committee (Ch.) 1,350 A shares held by him and 106,000 A shares held by companies controlled by him Mikael Aro (Dep. Ch.) 1965 eMBA Senior Industry Advisor, Triton 2015 Audit Committee (Dep. Ch.) 1,000 B shares held by him Partners Remuneration Committee (Dep. Ch.) Jannica Fagerholm* 1961 Master of Science (Economics) Managing Director, Signe and 2016 Audit Committee (Ch.) None Ane Gyllenberg Foundation Matti Kyytsönen 1949 Master of Science (Economics) Chair of the Board, Silverback 2015 Audit Committee 995 B shares held by him Consulting Oy Matti Naumanen* 1957 Trade Technician Retailer 2016 2,400 A shares held by him and 17,664 A shares held by companies controlled by him Anu Nissinen 1963 Master of Science (Economics) CEO, Digma Design Oy 2015 Remuneration Committee None Toni Pokela 1973 eMBA Food Retailer 2012 179,400 A shares held by companies controlled by him * As of 4 April 2016 Independence All members of Kesko's Board of Directors are non-executive directors. The Board evaluates the independence of its members on a regular basis in accordance with Recommendation 10 of the ­Corporate Governance Code. In 2016, the Board of Directors carried out an independence evaluation in its organisational ­meeting held after the General Meeting of 4 April 2016, as well as on 26 April 2016. Based on that KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 304 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE i­ndependence evaluation, the Board of Directors considered Toni Pokela not to be independent Description of the operations of the Board of Directors and the main contents of the charof the Company's significant shareholder, the K-Retailers’ Association, of which Pokela is the ter of the Board of Directors Chair of the Board. In its independence evaluation, the Board considered the majority of the Kesko's Board of Directors is responsible for the proper organisation of the Company's corporate Board members to be independent of the Company. A Board member is obliged to provide the governance, operations, accounting and financial management controls. It is also responsible for Board with necessary information for the evaluation of independence. the supervision and control of the whole Kesko Group. The Board of Directors has confirmed a written charter for the Board of Directors’ duties, the matters it deals with, its meeting practice The Board members’ independence is presented in the table below. and decision-making procedure. In accordance with the charter, the Board deals with and makes decisions on matters that are financially, operationally or fundamentally significant to the Group. Board members’ independence in 2016 Independent of a According to the charter, the Board of Directors’ main duties include: Independent of the Company significant shareholder • deciding on the Group strategy and confirming the divisions’ strategies Esa Kiiskinen (Ch.) No*** Yes Mikael Aro (Dep. Ch.) Yes Yes • confirming the Group's budget and rolling forecast, which includes a capital expenditure plan Jannica Fagerholm* Yes Yes • adopting the Group's financial and investment policy Matti Kyytsönen Yes Yes • confirming the Group's risk management policy and considering the Group's most significant Matti Naumanen* No*** Yes risks and uncertainties Anu Nissinen Yes Yes • reviewing and adopting the consolidated financial statements, half year financial reports and Toni Pokela No*** No**** interim reports and related stock exchange releases and the Report by the Board of Directors Tomi Korpisaari** No No**** Kaarina Ståhlberg** Yes Yes • deciding on strategically or financially significant individual capital expenditures, acquisitions, divestments or arrangements, and commitments * As of 4 April 2016 • deciding on management authorisation rules ** Until 29 February 2016 *** Each of the companies controlled by Kiiskinen, Naumanen and Pokela has a chain agreement with a Kesko Group • deciding on the essential structure and organisation of the Group company. **** Pokela is the Chair of the Board of Kesko's significant shareholder, the K-Retailers’ Association. In its meeting on • appointing and dismissing the Company's President and CEO, approving his/her managing 11 January 2016, the Board of Directors considered Tomi Korpisaari not to be independent of a significant shareholder, director's service contract and deciding on his/her remuneration and other financial benefits because he was the Chair of the Board of Kesko's significant shareholder, the K-Retailers’ Association. The total voting interest of the K-Retailers' Association in the Company exceeded 10% on 23 December 2015. • deciding on the appointments of the Group Management Board members responsible for lines of business, on their remuneration and financial benefits • deciding on the principles of Kesko's remuneration schemes and monitoring the implementation of the remuneration schemes KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 305 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • making possible proposals to the General Meeting for share issue and acquisition authorisations, and making decisions on granting shares or share options under share-based commitprogress of Group-level projects and approved the interim reports, the half year financial report ment and incentive schemes, and on the terms and conditions for granting them and the financial statements before they are published. • establishing a dividend policy and being responsible for shareholder value performance The Board meetings regularly discuss the review by the President and CEO on key topical issues, • confirming the Company's values as well as the reports by the Chairs of the Board's Audit Committee and Remuneration Commit• reviewing the integrated Kesko’s Annual Report tee on Committee meetings preceding the Board meetings. The Auditor presents his findings to the Board once a year in connection with the review of the financial statements. • being responsible for the other statutory duties prescribed to the Board of Directors by the Limited Liability Companies' Act or some other, and for duties prescribed by the Finnish CorAttendance at meetings by members of the Board and its Committees in 2016 porate Governance Code for Listed Companies. Attendance The duty of Kesko's Board of Directors is to promote the interests of Kesko and all of its shareBoard Committee Audit Remuneration holders. The Board members do not represent the parties in the Company that have proposed member since membership Board Committee Committee their election as Board members. A Board member is disqualified from participating in the hanEsa Kiiskinen 2009 Remuneration 13/13 4/4 dling of any matter between him/her (including entities over which he/she exercises control) and (Ch.) Committee (Ch.) the Company. When a vote is taken, the Board's decision will be the opinion of the majority and Mikael Aro 2015 Audit Committee 13/13 6/6 if a vote results in a tie, the decision will be the opinion supported by the Chair. If the votes taken (Dep. Ch.) (Dep. Ch.) at an election of a person end in a tie, the result will be decided by drawing lots. Remuneration 4/4 Committee Board of Director’s operations in 2016 (Dep. Ch.) In 2016, the Board held 13 meetings. The Board members' attendance rate at the Board meetings Jannica 2016 Audit Committee 11/11 4/4 Fagerholm* was 98.9%. In 2016, the Board has, among other things, monitored the implementation of the Matti Kyytsönen 2015 Audit Committee 13/13 6/6 new strategy approved for Kesko Group in spring 2015, further clarified and concretised the chosen strategic policy definitions and made decisions on the mergers that realise the simplificaMatti 2016 11/11 Naumanen* tion of the Group’s legal structure. In order to improve profitability and ensure competitiveness, the Board has made sure that the approved cost saving targets are achieved. The Board has also Anu Nissinen 2015 Remuneration 13/13 4/4 Committee made decisions on significant business arrangement in accordance with the Group’s confirmed Toni Pokela 2012 13/13 strategy, such as the acquisitions of Onninen Oy and Ab AutoCarrera Oy and the disposal of the grocery trade in Russia and the boat business. The Board has also approved the Board’s diversity Tomi Korpisaari** 2012 1/2 policy and made a decision on the approval of the K Code of Conduct guidelines observed by Kaarina 2015 Audit Committee 2/2 2/2 Ståhlberg** (Ch.) the Group. As in previous years, the Board has reviewed the financial reports and monitored the Group's financial situation, approved the most significant capital expenditures, monitored the * As of 4 April 2016 ** Until 29 February 2016 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 306 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Principles concerning diversity The diversity policy approved by Kesko’s Board of Directors is available at http://kesko.fi/en/ Kesko aims to achieve a balanced gender distribution in the composition of its Board of Diinvestor/corporate-governance/board-and-its-committees/diversity-policy/. The diversity rectors. The composition of the Board shall reflect experience in both national and internapolicy has been approved and published on the website in the following form: tional business operations. The educational background of the Board members shall represent multiple disciplines and diversity. In addition, Kesko’s Board shall include members with “Diversity is an essential component of Kesko’s success, the achievement of Kesko’s strategic strong experience in the trading sector and in-depth knowledge of the retailer business. The objectives and good governance at Kesko. This diversity policy describes the objectives in achievement of objectives is monitored annually and reported in the corporate governance the achievement of diversity in the operations and composition of Kesko Corporation’s Board statement.” of Directors. Monitoring the implementation of diversity policy objectives in 2016 Board size and election of its members In 2016, two of the seven Board members were women, in other words, the proportion of the According to the Company’s Articles of Association, the term of office of a Board member gender with smaller representation in the Board was approximately 29%. The Board members is three (3) years, starting at the close of the General Meeting electing the member and exhave diverse and multi-sectoral experience backgrounds and several Board members also have piring at the close of the third (3rd) Annual General Meeting after the election. According to experience in international business. The Board members’ educational background is multi-secthe Articles of Association, Kesko's Board of Directors is composed of a minimum of five (5) toral and diverse (see Hallituksen jäsenten henkilötietojen kuvaus in section “Board’s composiand a maximum of eight (8) members. A sufficient number of Board members promotes the tion and shareholdings”). Several Board members have experience in the trading sector and the diversity of Board composition, as the areas of expertise and competence of the Board memprincipal occupation of three of the seven Board members is acting as a K-retailer. bers are mutually complementary and the Board’s independence requirements are satisfied. Board’s Committees The Board members are elected by majority votes at the General Meeting based on shareKesko has the Board’s Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, both of which are comholders’ proposals. The Board elects the Chair and the Deputy Chair from among its memposed of three (3) Board members. At the close of the Annual General meeting, the Board elects bers for the whole term of office of the Board. In the preparation of a proposal for the the Chairs, the Deputy Chairs and the members of the Committees from among its members for Board composition, Kesko applies the practice in which significant shareholders prepare the one year at a time. proposals concerning the Board of Directors, including the proposal for the number of Board members, their fees and, as necessary, for the Board members to the General Meeting. All members of the Audit Committee are independent of the Company and the Company’s significant shareholders. In the election of the Audit Committee members, the competence Planning the Board composition requirements for Audit Committee members have been taken into account. The composition of Kesko’s Board of Directors shall support Kesko’s current and future business operations. The Board members are appointed on their merits. One of the essenAll members of the Remuneration Committee are independent of the Company's significant tial features in the Board composition is that the Board members’ educational backgrounds, shareholder and its majority is also independent of the Company. In the election of the Remuexperience, professional competences and age and gender distribution support Kesko’s neration Committee members, the competence requirements for Remuneration Committee business objectives and enable efficient Board work from Kesko’s point of view. The Board members have been taken into account. members shall also be able to devote a sufficient amount of time to Board work. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 307 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • revision of the Company’s Corporate Governance Statement The Committees regularly assess their operations and working methods and carry out a related self-assessment once a year. The Board has confirmed written charters for the Committees, • approval of the operating instructions, annual audit plan, budget and resources for the Company's Internal Audit and reviewing the reports submitted to the Committee which contain the main duties and operating principles of the Committees. • monitoring of the statutory audit of the financial statements and the consolidated financial The Committees have no independent decision-making power. Instead, the Board makes decistatements sions on matters based on the Committees’ preparatory work. The Committee Chair reports on • evaluation of the independence of the Company's audit firm the Committee's work at the Board meeting following the Committee's meeting. Minutes of the Committee meetings are submitted for the information of the Board members. • evaluation of related (non-audit) services to Kesko by the audit firm and its network firms • preparation of a proposal to the General Meeting for a resolution on the election of the ComKesko's Board of Directors has not established any other committees in addition to the Audit and pany's Auditor and communicating with the Company's Auditor. Remuneration Committees. Nor has the General Meeting appointed any committees or boards. In 2016, the Audit Committee held six (6) meetings. Its members' attendance rate at the ComAudit Committee mittee meetings was 100%. At the Committee meetings, the Group's Chief Financial Officer, the The Board's organisational meeting, held after the Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016, Group Controller and the Chief Audit Executive regularly report on their areas of responsibility elected the following Board members as Audit Committee members: to the Committee. The Committee also receives reports on Kesko Group's funding situation, taxation, information management, risk management and insurances. The Auditor is present at • Jannica Fagerholm (Ch.) the Committee meetings and presents his audit plan and report to the Audit Committee. • Mikael Aro (Deputy Ch.) During the year, the Committee reviewed the reports on the Group's financial situation, includ• Matti Kyytsönen ing the financial statements release, the half year financial report and the interim reports, and made a recommendation to the Board on the review of the reports and the financial statements During the period 1 January 2016 to 29 February 2016, the Chair of the Audit Committee Chair release. In addition, the Committee reviewed the reports of the Group's external and internal was Kaarina Ståhlberg. audits, risk management and legal affairs and the reporting on non-financial information, the adoption of new IFRS standards and their impacts on the Group’s reporting, the allocation of the According to its charter, the duties of the Audit Committee include: prices of strategic business arrangements, their impacts and risks as well as treatment in the half year financial report and the interim reports. The Committee also discussed the external quality • monitoring of Kesko Group's financial situation and funding situation and the process of assurance of internal audit and its results, the situation of the Group’s real estate associates, the financial statements reporting cyber security development plan and the policy of purchasing ancillary services from audit firms. • supervision of the Company's financial reporting process The Committee also assessed the Auditor's independence and consultation services provided to the Group. The Audit Committee prepared and submitted a proposal to Kesko’s Annual General • evaluation of the efficiency of the Company's internal control, internal audit and risk management systems Meeting 2016 for the election of the Auditor based on the competitive bidding process for Auditors conducted towards the end of 2014. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 308 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • answering questions related to the Remuneration Statement at the General Meeting. QuesRemuneration Committee tions are primarily answered by the Committee Chair The Board's organisational meeting, held after the Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016, • preparation of the principles for the performance and result criteria of the remuneration elected the following Board members as Remuneration Committee members: schemes, and monitoring their implementation and evaluating their impacts on Kesko's longterm financial success. • Esa Kiiskinen (Ch.) • Mikael Aro (Deputy Ch.) In 2016, the Remuneration Committee held four (4) meetings. Its members' attendance rate at the meetings was 100%. The Committee prepared, among other things, the proposals to the • Anu Nissinen Board for the vesting criteria and the target group of share awards, for the principles of management's performance bonuses for 2016, as well as for the Group’s new performance bonus According to its charter, the duties of the Remuneration Committee include: principles for 2017. The Committee made preparations for the appointments of the Executive Vice President for the car trade and the Company’s Executive Vice Presidents, examined man• preparation of matters pertaining to the remuneration and other financial benefits of the agement’s remuneration practices more generally as well as made preparations for a reform of President and CEO and his/her managing director's service contract to the Board management’s total remuneration. In addition, the Committee discussed, among other things, • preparation of matters pertaining to the remuneration and other financial benefits of the Kesko’s Remuneration Statement. Group Management Board members responsible for lines of business; decisions on the remuneration and financial benefits of the Group Management Board members other than those Managing Director (President and CEO) and his duties responsible for lines of business are made by the President and CEO within the limits set by the Chair of the Remuneration Committee Kesko has a managing director who is the President and CEO. Kesko’s President and CEO is Master of Science in Technology Mikko Helander (b. 1960). He became Kesko’s President and • preparation of matters pertaining to the appointment of the President and CEO and the CEO on 1 January 2015. Helander has also been a member of the Group Management Board and Group Management Board members responsible for lines of business, and the identification of their potential successors Kesko’s Executive Vice President during the period 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014, and he has been the Chair of the Group Management Board since 1 January 2015. • development of remuneration schemes and preparing them to the Company's Board of Directors, including: The President and CEO's duty is to manage Kesko Group’s operations in accordance with the • evaluation of the remuneration of the President and CEO and the other executives, and instructions and orders issued by the Company’s Board of Directors and to report to the Board ensuring the appropriateness of the remunerations schemes about the developments in the Company's business operations and financial situation. He is also • preparation of possible share or share-based commitment and incentive schemes responsible for the Company's day-to-day governance and he oversees that the financial matters are organised in a reliable manner. The President and CEO also chairs the Group Management • preparation of the distribution of shares or share options under the share or share-based Board and the subsidiary Boards essential with regard to business operations. commitment and incentive schemes, and the preparation of their terms and conditions • revision of the Remuneration Statement in connection with the financial statements The President and CEO is elected by the Board of Directors. The Board has decided the terms and conditions of the President and CEO's service contract. A written managing director's serKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 309 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE vice contract, approved by the Board, has been made between the Company and the President and CEO. As at 31 December 2016, Helander owned a total of 20,005 Kesko B shares. Helander’s shareholdings as at 31 December 2016 is also presented in the table under “Group Management Board”. Group Management Board Kesko Group has a Group Management Board, the Chair of which is Kesko's President and CEO. The Group Management Board does not have any powers under law or the Articles of Association. The Group Management Board’s duty is to discuss Group-wide development projects and Group-level policies and procedures. In addition, the Group Management Board discusses, among other things, the Group's and the division parent companies' business plans, profit performances and matters dealt with by Kesko's Board of Directors, in whose preparation it also participates. The Group Management Board meets 10–15 times a year. Group Management Board members, areas of responsibility and shareholdings as at 31 Dec 2016 Group Management Board member since Area of responsibility Shares held as at 31 Dec 2016 Mikko Helander, Chair 1 Oct 2014 Kesko's President and CEO 20,005 B shares held by him Jorma Rauhala, Executive Vice President, grocery trade division 5 Feb 2013 Grocery trade 13,670 B shares held by him Terho Kalliokoski, Executive Vice President, building and technical trade division 17 Nov 2005 Building and technical trade 24,009 B shares held by him Pekka Lahti, Senior Vice President, car trade division* 1 Mar 2005 Car trade 15,401 B shares held by him Jukka Erlund, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 1 Nov 2011 Finance and accounting 11,478 B shares held by him Matti Mettälä, Executive Vice President 1 Oct 2012 Human resources 6,952 B shares held by him Anne Leppälä-Nilsson, Executive Vice President, Group General Counsel 1 Jan 2015 Legal affairs 8,183 B shares held by her Lauri Peltola, Executive Vice President 2 Mar 2015 Corporate responsibility, communications and 2,670 B shares held by him stakeholder relations Anni Ronkainen, Executive Vice President 20 Apr 2015 Chief Digital Officer 2,670 B shares held by her * Johan Friman (b. 1965, Master of Science in Economics) has been appointed Executive Vice President for the car trade division as of 1 Jan. 2017. Pekka Lahti will retire on a pension in accordance with his service contract on 1 April 2017. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 310 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Description of internal control procedures and the main features of risk management systems Kesko’s management model Group’s financial reporting R JANUA Kesko’s management model EMBE RY DEC Kesko’s financial reporting and planning are based on Kesko Group’s management model. The R Budget and FE BR Group units’ financial results are reported and analysed internally within the Group on a monthly BE risk assessment U M VE A basis and disclosed in quarterly interim reports, the half year financial report and the financial NO RY Q4 financial statements release. Financial forecasts are updated quarterly, in addition to which significant statements report changes are taken into account in the monthly performance forecasts. The Group’s and its units’ nthly reporting strategies and related long-term financial plans are updated annually. Mo BER MA RCH Annual Report OCTO N Q3 interim report IO Roles and responsibilities Rolling forecast and IMPLEME Value TEGY PROCE NT risk assessment Kesko Group’s financial reporting and its supervision is organised in three levels. Businesses AT RA Vision SS ST analyse and report their figures to the divisions, which then report the division-specific figures to Group Accounting. Analyses and controls for ensuring the accuracy of reporting are used at BER Rolling TE G IC Mission Q1 interim report forecast and RA Strategy updating APRI each reporting level. TEM risk assessment ST begins L SEP Mo g nthly The accuracy of reporting is ensured with automated and manual controls at every reporting re p ortin Strategy updating level. The implementation of the analyses and controls is supervised on a monthly basis at the continues company, business, division and Group level. T US M G Rolling A AU Q2 half year forecast and Y Planning and performance reporting financial report risk assessment The Group’s financial performance and the achievement of financial targets are monitored JULY E JUN through Group-wide financial reporting. Monthly performance reporting includes actual Group, division and business specific results, changes compared to the previous year, comparison with forecasts, and forecasts for the next 12 months. The Group’s short-term financial planning is based on annual budgeting and quarterly updated forecasts extending over the following 12 to 15 months. The key financial indicator for growth is sales performance, while those for profitaKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 311 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE bility are comparable operating profit and comparable return on capital employed, monitored by information systems and were connected to the Group’s centralised financial management. monthly internal reporting. Information on the Group’s financial situation is provided in interim reports, a half year financial report and the financial statements release. The Group’s sales During the year, Rautakesko Ltd and five other Finnish limited liability companies engaging in ­figures are published each month. business operations were merged into Kesko Corporation and six real estate companies into their parent companies. The centralisation of the Group companies’ financial management rouPerformance reporting to the Group’s top management tines to the Shared Service Centre continued in Finland, as VV-Auto Group Oy’s basic financial Performance reporting to the Group’s top management comprises monthly reports on the management processes were transferred to the Shared Service Centre. Group’s, divisions’, businesses’ and subsidiaries’ profits and capital employed, as well as the Group's balance sheet information. Each business is primarily responsible for the financial Key actions in 2017 reporting and the accuracy of figures. The controlling function of each division analyses the In 2017, the simplification of the Group’s legal structure in Finland will continue, as the pending whole division’s figures for which the division's financial management is responsible. The Group mergers are completed. In addition, improving the efficiency of the Group companies’ financial is responsible for the whole Group’s figures. The key items in the income statement, capital management and conversion to electronic format will be continued in Finland. employed and balance sheet are analysed monthly at the business, division and Group level, based on a documented division of duties and predefined reports. This makes real-time informaAccounting policies and financial management IT systems tion on the financial situation constantly available and enables real-time responses to possible Kesko Group complies with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) endorsed flaws. Performance reporting to management also includes Group-level monitoring of sales on a by the European Union. The accounting policies applied by the Group have been compiled in weekly, monthly and quarterly basis. the accounting manual, updated as the standards are amended. The manual contains guidelines for separate companies and the parent company, as well as guidelines for the preparation of the Public performance reporting consolidated financial statements. Public performance reporting comprises interim reports, a half year financial report, the financial statements release, the annual financial statements and monthly sales reports. The same prinKesko Group’s financial management information is generated from division-specific enterprise ciples and control methods are applied to public performance reporting as to monthly perforresource planning systems via a centralised and controlled shared interface into the Group’s mance reporting. The Audit Committee reviews the interim report, the half year financial report centralised consolidation system to produce the Group’s key financial reports. The key systems and the financial statements and gives a recommendation on their reviewing to the Board of used in the production of financial information have been certified and secured by back-up sysDirectors. The Board approves the interim report, the half year financial report and the financial tems, and they are controlled and checked regularly to ensure reliability and continuity. statements before they are published. Internal control Key actions in 2016 Internal control is an integral part of management and of ensuring the achievement of business In 2016, the simplification of the Group’s legal structure continued and the focus was on the objectives. Through efficient internal control, deviations from objectives can be prevented or deintegration of the businesses of the acquired Onninen Oy, Suomen Lähikauppa and Ab AutoCartected as early as possible, so that corrective measures can be taken. The tools of internal conrera Oy. By the end of the year, 223 Siwa and Valintalo stores of Suomen Lähikauppa had been trol include policies and principles, work instructions, manual controls and automatic controls converted into K-Markets. In connection with the conversion, the stores adopted Kesko Group’s built into information systems, follow-up reports, inspections and audits, among other things. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 312 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The objective of internal control in Kesko Group is to ensure the profitability, efficiency, continuRoles and responsibilities in Kesko Group's internal control ity and freedom from disruptions of operations, the reliability of financial and operational reporting both externally and internally, compliance with laws and agreements and Kesko’s values and operating principles, as well as safeguarding assets, expertise and information. Responsibility for the organisation of control BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND PRESIDENT AND CEO The planning of control measures begins with the definition of business objectives and the identification and assessment of the risks that threaten the objectives. The definition of objectives Principal responsibility Steering and support and the assessment of risks should take account of not only operational objectives, but also the responsibility DIVISIONS, Assurance responsibility requirements for compliance of operations with the law, and for the accuracy of the information CHAINS/COMPANIES COMMON FUNCTIONS used in decision-making and reporting. Control measures are targeted based on risks, and conGrocery trade Finance and Accounting trol measures are selected as appropriate so as to keep the risks under control. Building and Group Identity and MARKET technical trade Communications CUSTOMERS Car trade Legal Affairs Services The Board of Directors and the President and CEO are responsible for organising internal COMPETITORS Internal Audit Risk Management and control. The management of each division, company and unit is responsible for taking care that Strategy Process efficient and effective control procedures are in place. The next year’s focus areas in risk manK Digital agement and control are discussed in annual risk management and control discussions with the ICT Group and division managements. Every Kesko employee is obliged to comply with the K Code HR of Conduct and inform their supervisors of any grievances. Kesko's common functions guide and support the divisions and subsidiaries with policies, principles and guidelines pertaining to their respective areas of responsibility. Kesko Group's internal audit function assesses and verifies the effectiveness and efficiency of Kesko's internal control, reports on it to the President and CEO and the Audit Committee of Kesko Corporations’ Board of Directors and assists management and the Kesko companies in the development of the internal control system. The Audit Committee of Kesko’s Board of Directors has confirmed the principles of Kesko’s internal control, which are based on good control principles widely accepted internationally (COSO 2013). Risk management Kesko’s risk management is proactive and an integral part of management and day-to-day activities. The goal of risk management is to ensure the implementation of Kesko’s strategy. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 313 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Risk management in Kesko Group is guided by the risk management policy approved by Kesko's Risk management steering model Board of Directors. The policy defines the goals and principles, organisation, responsibilities and practices of risk management in Kesko Group. In the management of financial risks, the Group's finance policy, confirmed by Kesko's Board of Directors, is observed. BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT COMMITTEE The managements of the business operations and the common functions are responsible for the execution of risk management. The finance director is responsible for the execution of risk management in each division. The risk management unit coordinates the risk management process and is responsible for risk reporting and executes risk identification, the determination of risk PRESIDENT AND CEO management responses and their implementation jointly with the businesses and the common functions. Kesko’s Internal Audit annually evaluates the efficiency of Kesko’s risk management system. GOVERNANCE, RISK & COMPLIANCE STEERING GROUP Kesko Group applies a business-oriented and comprehensive approach to risk assessment and risk management. This means that key risks are systematically identified, assessed, managed, monitored and reported as part of business operations at the Group, division, company and RISK MANAGEMENT STEERING GROUP common function level in all operating countries. Kesko has a uniform risk assessment and reporting model. Risk identification is based on business objectives and opportunities and the defined risk appetite. Risks are prioritised on the basis Business risks (strategic, operational and financial risks) of their significance by assessing their impacts in euros and the probability of their realisation. When assessing the impact of realisation, the impacts on reputation, the wellbeing of people GROCERY TRADE BUILDING AND TECHNICAL TRADE CAR TRADE and the environment are assessed in addition to the impacts in euros. ICT • K DIGITAL • FINANCE AND ACCOUNTING • HR • GROUP IDENTITY AND COMMUNICATIONS LEGAL AFFAIRS SERVICES • RISK MANAGEMENT AND STRATEGY PROCESS • INTERNAL AUDIT In connection with the strategy process, the divisions assess the risks and opportunities concerning each strategy period. Near-future risks are identified and assessed on a quarterly basis. Risk assessment also covers the risks concerning the divisions’ subsidiaries and those related to significant projects. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 314 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The risk assessments of the divisions and the common functions, which include a risk map, especially the definition of actions related to risk reduction and determination, as well as the risk management responses, responsible persons and schedules, are reviewed regularly by the enhancement of monitoring. In addition, the preparatory work for a cyber risk management respective division’s or common function’s management. model was begun and preparations for a bidding process for insurance cover based on Kesko’s risk tolerance were started. Using centralised purchasing power in the acquisition of security Risks and risk management responses are reported in accordance with Kesko’s reporting responservices and technology was continued. The risk management function actively participated in sibilities. The divisions and the common functions report on risks and changes in risks to the the risk management process of the completed acquisitions, as well as in the takeover and inteGroup’s risk management function on a quarterly basis. Risks are discussed by the risk managegration of the acquired companies’ risk management, corporate security and insurance solutions ment steering group, which includes representatives of the divisions and the common functions. at the Group level. A positive trend continued in terms of damages and there were no major On that basis, the Group’s risk management function prepares the Group’s risk report, which is single damages. reviewed by the Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) steering group, after which the CFO presents the risk report in the Group Management Board. Focus areas of risk management in 2017 The most important focus area in risk management is to support Kesko’s strategy by implementThe Group's risk map, the most significant risks and uncertainties, as well as material changes in ing strategy based risk management. The development and assurance of the effectiveness of and responses to them are reported to the Kesko Board's Audit Committee in connection with actions related to risk reduction and determination will be continued. Other focus areas in risk reviewing the interim reports, the half year financial report and the financial statements. The Aumanagement include the implementation of the cyber risk management model, the renewal dit Committee also evaluates the efficiency of Kesko’s risk management system. The Audit Comand deployment of insurance cover on the basis of risk tolerance and risk appetite, as well as mittee Chair reports on risk management to the Board as part of the Audit Committee report. the development of the management model for Kesko’s crisis and exceptional situations and its updating to correspond to Kesko’s new organisation. In addition, the development of the Group’s Kesko's Board discusses Kesko Group’s most significant risks and uncertainties. The Board common functions’ risk management process will continue and the implementation of the risk reports on the most significant risks and uncertainties to the market in the financial statements management process in the new country organisations of the building and technical trade is and on material changes in them in the half year financial report and the interim reports. ensured. The improvement of cost efficiency will continue in terms of centralised purchasing. Risk management responses in 2016 In spring 2016, Kesko’s risk management was centralised and reorganised with the aim to better integrate it into the strategy process and to enhance the execution of risk management throughout the organisation. The most significant development targets in risk management in 2016 were the harmonisation of the divisions’ and the common functions’ risk management processes, KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 315 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other information to be provided in the CG statement Internal audit Related party transactions Kesko's internal audit function is responsible for the Group's independent evaluation and asAccording to the Corporate Governance Code, the company shall evaluate and monitor transsurance function required of a listed company, which systematically examines and verifies the actions concluded between the company and its related parties and ensure that any conflicts of efficiency of risk management, control, management and governance. The Audit Committee of interest are taken into account appropriately in the decision-making process of the Company. Kesko's Board of Directors has confirmed Kesko's internal audit function's operating instructions. The Company shall keep a list of parties that are related to the Company. The internal audit function is organised under Kesko's President and CEO and the Audit CommitThe Company shall report the decision-making procedure applied in connection with related tee, and it reports on its findings and recommendations to the Audit Committee, the President party transactions that are material to the company and that either deviate from the Company’s and CEO, the management of the audited operation, and the Auditor. The function covers all normal business operations or are not made on market or market equivalent terms. of Kesko's divisions, companies and functions. Auditing is based on risk analyses, as well as risk management and control discussions conducted with the Group's and divisions' managements. Kesko Group’s related party transactions are reported in note 33 to the consolidated financial Meetings with the Auditor are arranged on a regular basis in order to ensure sufficient audit statements. The related party transactions do not deviate from the Company’s normal business coverage and to eliminate overlapping operations. operations and they have been made on normal market terms. An internal audit plan, subject to approval by the President and CEO and the Audit Committee, is prepared annually. The audit plan is modified on a risk basis, if necessary. As necessary, the Main procedures relating to insider administration internal audit function purchases external services for added resources or for the purpose of The Market Abuse Regulation ((EU) N:o 596/2014, ”MAR”) entered into force on 3 July 2016. conducting audit operations which require special expertise. Audits can also make use of the In consequence of the MAR regulation, the main procedures relating to insider administration expertise and work contribution of Kesko Group's other specialists. changed in 2016. The main procedures relating to insider administration followed since 3 July 2016 are described below. Prior procedures relating to insider administration are described in the 2015 Internal audit operations in 2016 CG Statement available at http://kesko.fi/en/investor/corporate-governance/statements/. The key focus areas of internal audit operations in 2016 were the progress of the implementation of Kesko’s strategies, the completed acquisitions, quality programmes, the business operations Kesko’s insider guidelines in Russia with related risks, the efficiency of data security and data protection issues. Kesko complies with Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s guidelines for insiders in force at any given time. In addition, Kesko Corporation’s Board of Directors has confirmed specific insider guidelines for Focus areas of internal audit in 2017 the Company complementing Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd’s guidelines for insiders. The key focus areas of internal audit operations in 2017 will be the implementation of Kesko’s strategies, the significant projects in progress as well as data security and data protection matters. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 316 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • drawing up and maintaining insider lists and submitting them on request to the Financial Insiders at Kesko Supervisory Authority; As a result of the MAR regulation, the Company no longer has public insiders. The information • ensuring that any person on the insider list acknowledges the duties entailed according to on the Shareholdings of public insider register pages has not been updated since 3 July 2016. In Article 18(2) of the Market Abuse Regulation; the future, Kesko will not maintain a permanent company specific insider register either and will only maintain project specific and event specific insider lists. • maintaining a list of the managers and persons closely associated with them obligated to notify their transactions; Closed period • notifying managers of their obligations under Article 19(5) of the Market Abuse Regulation; As the MAR regulation entered into force, the closed period of 30 calendar days before the pub• controlling inside matters; and lication of the interim reports, half year financial report and the financial statements, provided by the MAR regulation, will be applied to managers defined by Kesko. During the closed period, the • keeping abreast of any changes in the regulation of inside matters. managers are prohibited from dealing in Kesko’s financial instruments. The Company has imposed a 30-day closed period preceding the quarterly financial performance disclosures also on persons Auditing involved in the preparation of Kesko’s interim reports, half year financial report and financial stateAccording to the Articles of Association, Kesko has one (1) Auditor, which shall be an audit firm ments. Information on the closed periods is provided annually in a stock exchange release. authorised by Finland's Chamber of Commerce. The Audit Committee submits a proposal to the Annual General Meeting for the Company’s Auditor. The Audit Committee also evaluates the Managers’ transactions auditor’s operations and services annually. The term of office of the Auditor is the Company’s As the public insider register was discontinued, the Company’s obligation to disclose the transfinancial year and the Auditor’s duties end at the close of the Annual General Meeting following actions of the Company’s managers and persons closely associated with them changed as of 3 the Auditor’s election. As a rule, an audit company belonging to the same chain as the audit July 2016. At Kesko, Kesko Corporation’s Board of Directors, the President and CEO, as well as firm represented by the Auditor elected by Kesko’s General Meeting acts as the Auditor of the the other Group Management Board members have been defined to be subject to the requireGroup’s foreign subsidiaries. ment to notify their transactions. The Auditor provides Kesko’s shareholders with the statutory Auditor’s Report in connection Control and training with the Company’s financial statements and regularly reports on its findings to the Audit ComKesko’s Legal Affairs Services Department controls the compliance with insider guidelines and mittee of Kesko’s Board of Directors. maintains the Company’s insider lists and a list of managers and persons closely associated with them. The duties of Kesko’s Legal Affairs Services Department in the area of insider management include the following among others • internal information on inside matters; • training in inside matters; KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 317 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Annual General Meeting 2016 elected PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, the firm of auditors, as the Company’s Auditor, with APA Mikko Nieminen as the Auditor with principal responsibility. He is currently the Managing Director of PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy and the auditor responsible for three Finnish listed companies: • Kesko • Finnair • CapMan APA Mikko Nieminen has been the Auditor with principal responsibility for the Company since 13 April 2015. The General Meeting resolved that the Auditor's fee is paid and expenses are reimbursed according to invoices approved by the Company. Auditors’ fees in 2015–2016 (€1,000) 2016 2015 Kesko Other Group Kesko Other Group Corporation companies Total Corporation companies Total Auditing 215 705 920 220 564 784 Tax 7 86 93 84 14 98 consultation IFRS 24 24 9 9 consultation Other services 183 137 320 450 135 585 Total 429 928 1,357 763 713 1,476 KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 318 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Esa Kiiskinen Mikael Aro Chair, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Deputy Chair, Deputy Chair of the Audit Committee and the b. 1963, Business College Graduate. ­Remuneration Committee b. 1965, eMBA. Independence: He is considered by the Board not to be independent of the Company (chain agreement) but to be independent of its signifiIndependence: He is considered by the Board to be independent of the cant shareholders. Company and of its significant shareholders. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Domicile: Tuusula, Finland. Principal occupation: Food retailer. Principal occupation: Senior industry adviser, Triton-Partners. Main employment history: VR-Group Ltd: President and CEO, Carlsberg Breweries AS: Senior Vice President, Northern Europe, Oy Main employment history: K-food retailer since 1990. Sinebrychoff Ab: CEO. Main positions of trust: Taaleri Plc: member of the Board 2014–, Confederation of Finnish Industries Main positions of trust: Suomen Kansallisteatterin Osakeyhtiö: member of the Board 2012–, Varma EK: Chair of the Delegation for Entrepreneurs 2012–2014, Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: Mutual Pension Insurance Company: member of the Board 2010–, Mehiläinen Oy: member of the Vice-Chair of the Board 2012–2014, Finnish Family Firms Association: member of the Board 2011– Board 2016–, Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK): member of the Board 2013–2016, Service 2012, The Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail Trade: Chair of the Board 2008–2012, Saija Sector Employers PALTA: member of the Board 2011–2016 and Deputy Chair 2011–2016, East Office ja Esa Kiiskinen Oy: Chair of the Board 1995–, Finnish Commerce Federation: member of the Board of Finnish Industries: member of the Board 2009–2016 and Deputy Chair 2015–2016, Nordic Cine2008–2012, K-Retailers' Association: Chair of the Board 2008–2012, Vähittäiskaupan Tilipalvelu VTP ma Group: Chair of the Board 2013–2015, Altia Plc: member of the Board 2010–2015, Federation of Oy: member of the Board 2008–2012. the Brewing and Soft Drinks Industry: Chair of the Board 2007–2008, The Finnish Food and Drink Industries’ Federation (ETL): First Deputy Chair of the Board 2007–2008, Registered Association Board member since: 30 March 2009. Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce (FRCC): member of the Board 2010–2014, Carlsberg Danmark AS: Chair of the Board 2007–2009, Finnkino Ltd: Chair of the Board 2012–2013, Oy Sinebrychoff Ab: Kesko shares held: member of the Board 2008–2009. As at 31 December 2015: a total of 107,350 A shares held by him and entities controlled by him. As at 31 December 2016: a total of 107,350 A shares held by him and entities controlled by him. Board member since: 13 April 2015. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: a total of 1,000 Kesko B shares held by him. As at 31 December 2016: a total of 1,000 Kesko B shares held by him. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 319 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Jannica Fagerholm Matti Kyytsönen Chair of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee b. 1961, Master of Science (Economics). b. 1949, Master of Science (Economics). Independence: She is considered by the Board to be independent of Independence: He is considered by the Board to be independent of the the Company and of its significant shareholders. Company and of its significant shareholders. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Principal occupation: Managing Director, Signe and Ane Gyllenberg Principal occupation: Silverback Consulting Oy: Chair of the Board. Foundation Main employment history: ISS Palvelut Oy: Managing Director 1992–2006, Esselte Oy: Managing Main employment history: Signe and Ane Gyllenberg Foundation: Managing Director 2010–, SEB Director 1984–1992, Oy Perkko: Managing Director 1983–1984, Tietoura-Yhtiöt Oy: Marketing DirecGyllenberg Private Bank: Managing Director 1999–2010, Handelsbanken Liv Finland: Country Director tor 1981–1983, Oy Foto-Nyblin Ab: Finance and Marketing Manager 1977–1981, Insinööritoimisto Oy 1998–1999. Vesto: Accounting Manager 1974–1976, Oy Mobil Oil Ab: Financial Analyst 1973–1974. Main positions of trust: Sampo plc: member of the Board 2013–, Teleste Corporation: member of Main positions of trust: Eltel AB: member of the Board 2007–, Lindström Invest Oy: member of the the Board 2013–, Kelonia Ab, member of the Board 2010–, Veritas Pension Insurance, member of the Board 2009–, KP Tekno Oy: member of the Board 2006–, Port of Helsinki Ltd: member of the Board Supervisory Board 2010–, The Society of Swedish Literature in Finland, member of the Board 2015–, 2015–, Esperi Care Oy: member of the Board 2008–2016, Oy Center-Inn Ab: member of the Board member of the Financial Board 2001–2015, Eira Hospital Ltd: member of the Board 2010–, Hanken 2007–2012, Kiinteistöpalvelut ry: Chair of the Board 1996–2001 and 2005–2006, Palvelutyönantajat School of Economics: member of the Board 2008–, Partiosäätiö foundation: member of the Board ry: member of the Board 1996–2001, Confederation of Finnish Industries (EK): member of the Board 1997–2013, Aktia Abp: member of the Board 2012–2013. 2005–2006, The Unemployment Insurance Fund: member and Chair of the Supervisory Board 1999– 2006, Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: member of the Supervisory Board 1998–2006. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2016: None. Board member since: 13 April 2015. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: a total of 185 Kesko B shares held by him. As at 31 December 2016: a total of 995 Kesko B shares held by him. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 320 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Matti Naumanen Anu Nissinen Member of the Board Member of the Remuneration Committee b. 1957, Trade Technician. b. 1963, Master of Science (Economics). Independence: He is considered by the Board not to be independent of the Company (entity controlled by him has a chain agreement with Independence: She is considered by the Board to be independent of a Kesko Group company) but to be independent of its significant the Company and of its significant shareholders. shareholders. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Domicile: Joensuu, Finland. Principal occupation: Managing Director, Digma Design Oy Principal occupation: Retailer. Main employment history: Sanoma Media Finland Oy: CEO 2011– Main employment history: K-retailer since 1982. 2013, Sanoma Entertainment Finland: President 2008–2011, Welho/ Helsinki Televisio Oy: Managing Director 2004–2008, Helsinki Televisio Oy: Marketing Director Main positions of trust: The K-Retailers’ Association’s Agricultural and Building and Home Improve2001–2004, Oy Sinebrychoff Ab: several marketing duties 1990–2000. ment Retailers’ Club: Chair of the Board 2009–2016. Former positions of trust: The K-Retailers’ Association: member of the Board 2009–2016, registered association Nurmeksen Yrittäjät: Chair of Main positions of trust: DNA Ltd:member of the Board 2010–2012 and 2014–, F-Secure Corporation: the Board, registered association Joensuun Yrittäjät: Chair of the Board. member of the Board 2010–, Siili Solutions Plc: member of the Board 2014–, Viestilehdet Oy: member of the Board 2015–, Era Content Oy: Managing Director 2014–2015 and Chair of the Board 2016. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2016: a total of 20,064 A shares held by him and entities controlled by him. Board member since: 13 April 2015. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: No shares. As at 31 December 2016: No shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 321 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Toni Pokela Member of the Board b. 1973, eMBA. Independence: He is considered by the Board not to be independent of the Company (chain agreement) and of significant shareholders (Chair of the Board of a significant Company shareholder, the K-Retailers’ Association). Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Principal occupation: Food retailer. Main employment history: K-food retailer since 1997. Main positions of trust: Pokela Oy Iso Omena: member of the Board and Managing Director 1998–, Iso Omenan Yrittäjäyhdistys ry: Chair of the Board 2003–, Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail Trade: Chair of the Board 2016–, Finnish Commerce Federation: member of the Board 2017–, Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: member of the Skilled Workforce Committee 2014–2016, member of the Delegation for Entrepreneurs 2017–, K-Retailers' Association: Chair of the Board 2016–, member of the Board 2008–2012, K-instituutti Oy: Deputy Chair of the Board 2010–2012, Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy: member of the Board 2010–2012, K-Food Retailers' Club: Chair of the Board 2010–2012, Deputy Chair 2008–2010, Finnish Grocery Trade Association: member of the Board 2010–2011. Member of the Board since: 16 April 2012. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: a total of 179,400 A shares held by the entities controlled by him. As at 31 December 2016: a total of 179,400 A shares held by the entities controlled by him. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 322 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group management board Mikko Helander Jorma Rauhala President and CEO Executive Vice President, President of the grocery trade division b. 1960, Master of Science (Technology). b. 1965, Master of Science (Economics). Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Domicile: Espoo, Finland Other major duties: Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: memOther major duties: The Finnish Grocery Trade Association: Chair of ber of the Board 2016– and Deputy Chair of the Board 2016, Finland the Board 2017– and 2013–2014, member of the Board 2013–2016, the Chamber of Commerce: member of the Board 2016–, Finnish ComAssociation of Finnish Advertisers: member of the Board 2014–. merce Federation: member of the Board 2015– and Deputy Chair of the Board 2015, Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance Company: member of the Board 2015– and Chair of the Board 2016–, Finnish Business and Policy Forum EVA: member 2015–, Finnish Fair Corporation: Board member 2015–, East Office of Finnish Industries Oy: member of the Board 2015–, Metsä Fibre Oy: member of the Board 2008–2014, German Pulp and Paper Association Employment history: employed by Kesko Ltd since 1992. Senior Vice President, grocery trade division (VDP): member of the Board 2013–2014, Myllykoski Paper Oy: Vice Chair of the Board 2007–2012, since 1 January 2015. President of Kesko Food Ltd since 2013. Vice President for the K-citymarket Finnish Forest Industries Federation: member of the Board 2007–2011. chain's food trade 2012–2013, Managing Director of Kespro Ltd 2007–2012, Purchasing Director of Kespro Ltd 2003–2007. Employment history: employed by Kesko Corporation since 2014. Kesko Corporation's Managing Director and Kesko Group's President and CEO since 1 January 2015. Kesko Corporation's Executive Member of the Group Management Board since: 5 February 2013. Vice President 2014. Metsä Board Corporation: Chief Executive Officer 2006–2014, Metsä Tissue Corporation: Chief Executive Officer 2003–2006, Valmet Corporation: Head of Converting MachinKesko shares held: ery Division (UK) and member of the Management Board 1999–2003 of Valmet Corporation, Vice As at 31 December 2015: 8,864 B shares. President for Calender Business Unit 1997–1999, Head of Operations of Valmet Rotomec S.p.a., Italy As at 31 December 2016: 13,670 B shares. 1994–1997, Head of Project Department, Valmet Järvenpää 1993–1994, Managing Director of Kasten Hövik 1990–1993, Valmet Paper Machinery Inc.: Production Manager of Valmet Järvenpää 1987–1990, Valmet Corporation: Project Engineer 1984–1987. Member of the Group Management Board since: 1 October 2014. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: 8,791 B shares. As at 31 December 2016: 20,005 B shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 323 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Terho Kalliokoski Johan Friman Executive Vice President, President of the building and technical trade Executive Vice President, President of the car trade division division b. 1965, Master of Science (Economics). b. 1961, Master of Science (Economics). Domicile: Espoo, Finland. Domicile: Kirkkonummi, Finland Other major duties: Other major duties: European DIY Retail Association (EDRA): member of the Board 2016–, Helsinki Region Chamber of Commerce: member of the Board 2009–, Deputy Chair of the Board 2012–, East Office of Finnish Indutries Oy: Deputy member of the Board 2011–, Eurobuy GmBh: member of the Board 2013–2014, Eurogroup Far East Ltd: member of the Board 2013–2014, Deputy Chair of the Board 2012–, the Association of Finnish Advertisers: member of the Board 2005–2013, The Finnish Grocery Trade Association: member of the Board 2006–2013, Deputy Chair of the Board Employment history: employed by Kesko Corporation since 2017. Senior Vice President, car trade 2006–2007, Chair of the Board 2008–2009 and 2013, the Finnish 4H Federation: member of the Sudivision since 1 January 2017. LeasePlan Deutschland GmbH: Managing Director 2006–2016, Leasepervisory Board 2009–2012, Association for the Finnish Work: Council member 2006–2009, member Plan Finland Oy: Managing Director 1997–2006, Inchcape Motors Finland Oy: Managing Director of of the Board 2010, Finnish Commerce Federation: member of the Board 2006, ECR Finland ry: memthe Retail business 1995–1997 and Marketing Director of the importer 1995, Bilia Oy: Sales Manager, ber of the Board 2006, the Finnish Association of Building Owners and Contruction Clients: member Dealer Manager and Fleet sales 1991–1994. of the Board 2002–2003, Oulu Chamber of Commerce: member of the Board 2000–2002, Delegation member 1997–2002. Member of the Group Management Board since: 1 January 2017. Employment history: employed by Kesko Ltd since 1985. Senior Vice President, home improvement Kesko shares held: and speciality goods trade division since 1 January 2015. President of Rautakesko Ltd since 2013. PresAs at 1 January 2017: No shares. ident of Kesko Food Ltd 2005–2013, Senior Vice President, Kesko Real Estate (Helsinki) 2002–2005. District Director, Northern Finland (Oulu) 1998–2002, Sales Director, Supermarket Chain Unit (Oulu) 1996–1997, Retail Services Manager, Groce ry Retail Services (Oulu) 1995–1996, Financial Manager, Northern Finland (Oulu) 1990–1995, Investment Manager, Real Estate Department (Helsinki) 1988– 1990, Project Planner, Store Site Office (Helsinki) 1985–1987. Member of the Group Management Board since: 17 March 2005. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: 19,203 B shares. As at 31 December 2016: 24,009 B shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 324 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Jukka Erlund Matti Mettälä Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Executive Vice President, Human Resources b. 1963, Master of Laws. b. 1974, Master of Science (Economics), eMBA. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Other major duties: Huoltoupseeriyhdistys ry: member of delegation Other major duties: Finnish Commerce Federation: Chair of the Tax 2013–, Finnish Commerce Federation: member of the Research Comand Economic Policy Committee 2011–, Confederation of Finnish Indusmittee 2013–, Foundation for Vocational Training in the Retail Trade: tries EK: member of the Economy and Tax Committee 2012–, Suomen member of the Board 2005–. Luotto-osuuskunta: member of the Board 2012–, Luottokunta: member of the Board 2012. Employment history: employed by Kesko Ltd 1990–2005 and since 2012. Senior Vice President, Employment history: employed by Kesko Ltd since 2004. Senior Vice President, CFO since 1 NovemHuman Resources since 1 January 2015 .Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Stakeholder ber 2011. Kesko Food Ltd's Vice President for Finance 2010–2011, Kesko Corporation's Vice President, Relations 2012–2014. K-retailers' Association: Managing Director 2005–2012, Kesko Hardware and Corporate Controller 2007–2010, Kesko Corporation's Corporate Business Controller 2004–2007. Builders’ Supplies: Vice President for Finance 2002–2005, Rautakesko Ltd: Development Director 2001–2002, Builders’ and Agricultural Supplies Division: Project Manager 1999–2000, Kesko HardMember of the Group Management Board since: 1 November 2011. ware and Builders’ Supplies: Vice President for the Rautia chain 1998–1999, Builders’ and Agricultural Supplies Division: Retail Services Manager 1996–1998, Vähittäiskaupan Takaus Oy: Retail Services Kesko shares held: Manager 1994–1996, Kesko Ltd's Credit Department: Credit Manager 1991–1992, Kesko Ltd's Credit As at 31 December 2015: 7,740 B shares. Department: Legal Counsel 1990–1991. As at 31 December 2016: 11,478 B shares. Member of the Group Management Board since: 1 October 2012. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: 4,282 B shares. As at 31 December 2016: 6,952 B shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 325 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Anne Leppälä-Nilsson Lauri Peltola Executive Vice President, Group General Counsel Executive Vice President, Marketing, Communications, Corporate b. 1953, Master of Laws, Master of Science (Economics and Business Responsibility and Corporate Relations Administration). b. 1963, CCJ. Domicile: Espoo, Finland. Domicile: Kirkkonummi, Finland. Other major duties: Nasdaq OMX Nordic Ltd: member of the Board Other major duties: Varma Mutual Pension Insurance Company: mem2008–, Independent Retail Europe: member of the Board 2007–, ber of the Supervisory Board 2013–. Deputy Chair of the Board 2017–, EuroCommerce: member of the Board 2012–2015, European Commission’s High Level Group on Retail Competitiveness: member 2013–2015, Finnish Commerce Federation: member of the Legal Committee 1992–, Chair 1992–2001 and 2006–, Confederation of Finnish Industries EK: member of the Legal Affairs Committee 2005–, Chair 2006–2007, Finland Chamber of Commerce, Delegation member 2011–, Employment history: employed by Kesko Corporation since 2015. Senior Vice President for corporate ICC Advisory Board: member 2017– , Registered Association Finnish-Russian Chamber of Commerce responsibility, communications and stakeholder relations as from 2 March 2015 and marketing and (FRCC): member of the Board 2005–, Deputy Chair 2009–, Helsinki Region Chamber of Commerce: brand steering and development as from 1 January 2016. Stora Enso: Country Senior Executive for Delegation member 2011–, Securities Market Association: member of the Corporate Governance Finland, 2013–2014 and Senior Vice President, Global Identity, 2009–2014, Nordea Plc: Executive Code working group 2014–2015, Chair 2007–2008, member of the remuneration working group Vice President, Group Identity and Communications, 2008–2009 and 2000–2005, Metsäliitto Group: 2009–2010, member of the Nordic Corporate Governance working group 2007–2010, Finland ChamCommunications Director 2005–2008. ber of Commerce: member of The Arbitration Institute of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (FAI) 1999–2008, member of the Redemption Committee 2003–2008. Member of the Group Management Board since: 2 March 2015. Employment history: Employed by Kesko Ltd since 2001. Senior Vice President, Group General Kesko shares held: Counsel as from 1 January 2015. Group General Counsel, Senior Vice President, Legal Affairs, Risk As at 31 December 2015: No shares. Management and Internal Audit 2005–2014, General Counsel 2001–2005, Aspo Plc: Vice President, As at 31 December 2016: 2,670 B shares. Legal Affairs 1985–2001, Credit Manager 1980–1985 Member of the Group Management Board since: 1 January 2015. Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: 5,513 B shares. As at 31 December 2016: 8,183 B shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 326 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Anni Ronkainen Pekka Lahti Executive Vice President, Chief Digital Officer Executive Vice President, President of the car trade division b. 1966, Master of Science (Economics). Member of the Group Management Board until 31 December 2016 b. 1955, Master of Science (Agriculture). Domicile: Helsinki, Finland. Domicile: Vantaa, Finland. Other major duties: Asiakastieto Group Plc: member of the board 2015–, Nordic Morning Plc: member of the board 2015–, Robit Plc: Other major duties: The Association of Automobile Importers in member of the board 2015–. Sunduka Ltd: member of the board 2015, Finland: member of the Board 2007–2012 and 2014–2016, Chair of the Institute of Marketing: member of the Board 2010–2015, the American Board 2010–2012, Finnish Car Recycling Ltd: member of the Board Chamber of Commerce in Finland (AmCham Finland): member of the 2007–2012, The Finnish Information Centre of Automobile Sector Board 2011–2015, Marketing Executives Group: member of the Board (AUT): member of the Board 2009–2012, Chair of the Board 2010– 2009–2011. 2012, Finnish Commerce Federation: member of the Board 2010–2012. Employment history: employed by Kesko since 2015. Chief Digital Officer as from 20 April 2015. Employment history: employed by Kesko Ltd since 1981. Senior Vice President, car trade division Google Finland Ltd: Country Manager Finland 2009–2015, Industry Head, Multi-sector 2008–2009, since 1 July 2015. President of VV-Auto Group Oy since 2006. Managing Director of Konekesko Ltd McCann Worldgroup Helsinki Oy: CEO 2006–2008, Satama Finland Oy: Business Group Director 2001–2005 and President of Kesko Agro Ltd 2005. Vice President, Kesko Machinery 2000. 2001–2006. Member of the Group Management Board since: 1 March 2005. Member of the Group Management Board since: 20 April 2015. Kesko shares held: Kesko shares held: As at 31 December 2015: 10,769 B shares. As at 31 December 2015: No shares. As at 31 December 2016: 15,041 B shares. As at 31 December 2016: 2,670 B shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 327 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration statement 2016 Introduction ment Board members responsible for lines of business. As for the other Group Management This Remuneration Statement has been reviewed at the meeting of the Remuneration CommitBoard members, Kesko's Board of Directors makes decisions on the performance bonus princitee of Kesko Corporation’s Board of Directors on 1 February 2017. ples. This is the Remuneration Statement in accordance with the Finnish Corporate Governance Code The President and CEO makes decisions on the remuneration and other financial benefits of the issued by the Securities Market Association effective on 1 January 2016. This statement and the Group Management Board members other than those responsible for lines of business within the other information to be disclosed in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code are availlimits set by the Chair of the Board's Remuneration Committee. able on Kesko’s website at http://kesko.fi/en/investor/corporate-governance/. The remuneration scheme of the President and CEO and the other members of the Group Management Board consists of a fixed monetary salary (monthly salary), fringe benefits (free Decision-making procedure concerning remuneration car and mobile phone benefit), a performance bonus based on criteria decided annually (shortThe Annual General Meeting decides on the remuneration and other financial benefits of the term compensation scheme), a share compensation plan (long-term compensation scheme) and members of Kesko Corporation's (“Kesko”) Board of Directors and its Committees’ members management's retirement benefits. annually. The remuneration of the members of the Board and its Committees is paid in cash. The Board members do not have share compensation or share-based compensation plans. Nor do The Board of Directors monitors the implementation of the remuneration schemes of the Presithey participate in the other compensation plans or pension plans of the Company. dent and CEO and the other Group Management Board members. Based on the Remuneration Committee's preparatory work, Kesko's Board of Directors makes decisions on the personal remuneration, other financial benefits, the performance bonus system criteria and the performance bonuses paid to the President and CEO and the Group ManageKESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 328 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Main principles of remuneration Commitment and incentive schemes At its discretion, the Board may decide not to pay a performance bonus, or decide to recover a bonus that has already been paid, if the bonus recipient has been found guilty of malpractice or Performance bonus scheme (short-term compensation scheme) in 2016 an action in breach of Kesko’s ethical or responsibility principles or guidance that, as a whole, The performance bonuses determined annually are paid after the completion of the annual cannot be considered insignificant, or if there are weighty grounds for assuming that he/she is financial statements by the end of April following the year of determination. Kesko's Board of guilty of such acts. Directors makes decisions on management's performance bonus criteria annually. Share-based compensation plan 2014–2016 (long-term compensation scheme) The criteria have been the Group’s operating profit excluding non-recurring items and the In addition to the performance bonus scheme, Kesko operates the 2014–2016 share-based comGroup’s sales performance. The indicators applied to executives responsible for lines of business pensation plan decided by the Company’s Board and intended for the Group's management and are the operating profit of the executive’s area of responsibility excluding non-recurring items, as certain other key persons. well as indicators of sales and market shares. In addition, a performance bonus criterion applied to all Group Management Board members is the achievement of personal targets. The perforThe purpose of the share-based compensation plan is to promote Kesko's business and increase mance bonus criteria and their weights vary depending on the duties. the Company's value by aligning the objectives of the shareholders and executives. The plan also aims to commit the grantees to Kesko Group and give them the opportunity to receive Company The fulfilment of the performance and profit criteria and their impact on long-term financial shares upon fulfilling the objectives set in the share-based compensation plan. success are monitored and evaluated by Kesko's Board and Remuneration Committee. The share-based compensation plan has three vesting periods: the calendar years 2014, 2015 The maximum performance bonus of Kesko's President and CEO corresponds to his eight and 2016. Kesko's Board decides the vesting criteria, the target group and the maximum months' monetary salary excluding fringe benefits, and that of the other Group Management amounts of the share award separately for each vesting period based on the Remuneration Board members, the monetary salary of four to five months, depending on the profit impact Committee's proposal. The final amounts of Kesko B shares to be granted based on the fulfilof their duties. The performance bonus of a Group Management Board member is determined ment of the vesting criteria are decided by the Board at the beginning of the year following the based on the monetary salary of the last month of the calendar year, the performance of which is vesting period. The criteria for the 2016 vesting period were, with equal weightings, the growth the basis of the bonus. percentage of Kesko Group's sales exclusive of tax, Kesko's basic earnings per share (EPS) excluding non-recurring items and the percentage by which the total shareholder return of a Kesko If exceptional events and events with significant impacts on operations take place during the B share exceeds the OMX Helsinki Benchmark Cap index. Under the share-based compensation financial year, or if the market situation or the Company’s productivity trend requires, the appliplan, a total maximum of 600,000 own B shares held by the Company as treasury shares can be cation, target setting and payment rules of the performance bonus scheme can be changed by a granted. decision of Kesko Corporation’s Board also in individual cases. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 329 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The award possibly paid for a vesting period is paid in Kesko B shares. In addition, a cash Share-based compensation plan 2014–2016 component at maximum equal to the value of the shares is paid to cover the taxes and tax-like charges incurred under the award. A commitment period of three calendar years following each vesting period is attached to the shares granted, during which the shares must not be pledged or Free transferability transferred, but the other rights attached to the shares remain in force. The commitment period Vesting period Commitment period of shares of the 2016 vesting period will end on 31 December 2019. If a person's employment or service Free transferability relationship terminates prior to the expiry of a commitment period, he/she must, as a rule, return Vesting period Commitment period of shares the shares under transfer restriction to Kesko or its designate for no consideration. In individual Free transferability Vesting period Commitment period cases, the Board may decide that the grantee can keep the shares under return obligation, or of shares some of them. If the grantee retires during the commitment period, he/she is entitled to keep 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 the shares and other securities already received. The fulfilment of the performance and profit criteria and their impact on long-term financial success are monitored and evaluated by Kesko's Board and Remuneration Committee. Even if the criteria are met, the Board always has discretion over whether to pay a share award to any given recipient in full, in part or not at all. At its discretion, the Board may decide not to pay a performance bonus, or decide to recover a bonus that has already been paid, if the bonus recipient has been found guilty of malpractice or an action in breach of Kesko’s ethical or responsibility principles or guidance that, as a whole, cannot be considered insignificant, or if there are weighty grounds for assuming that he/she is guilty of such acts. The plan does not contain terms or conditions that would limit the grantees' income from the shares. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 330 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Remuneration report Board of Directors and its Committees Annual remuneration and meeting fees paid to Board members for The Annual General Meeting decides on the remuneration and other financial benefits of the Board and Committee work in 2016 (€)* members of Kesko’s Board of Directors and its Committees’ members annually. The remunerMeeting fees ation of the members of the Board and its Committees is paid in cash. The Board members do Annual Audit Remuneration not have share compensation or share-based compensation plans. Nor do they participate in the remuneration Board Committee Committee Total other compensation plans or pension plans of the Company. Significant shareholders prepare Annual remuneration 80,000 5,500 2,000 87,500 the proposals concerning the Board of Directors, including the proposal for the number of Board Mikael Aro 50,000 5,500 3,000 2,000 60,500 members, their remuneration and, as necessary, for the Board members to the General Meeting. (Dep. Ch.) Jannica Fagerholm** 27,603 3,500 3,000 34,103 The Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016 resolved to leave the Kesko Board members' remuMatti Kyytsönen 37,000 5,500 3,000 45,500 neration unchanged and in 2016, it was as follows: Matti Naumanen** 27,603 3,500 31,103 Anu Nissinen 37,000 5,500 2,000 44,500 Annual remuneration: Toni Pokela 37,000 5,500 42,500 • Chair of the Board €80,000 • Deputy Chair of the Board €50,000 Tomi Korpisaari*** 6,167 1,000 7,167 Kaarina Ståhlberg*** 6,167 1,500 3,000 10,667 • member of the Board €37,000. Total 308,540 37,000 12,000 6,000 363,540 In addition, a meeting fee of €500 per meeting is paid for a Board meeting and its Committee's * Reported on a cash basis. ** Board member since 4 April 2016. meeting, with the exception that the Chair of a Committee who is not the Chair or the Deputy *** Board member until 29 February 2016. Chair of the Board is paid €1,000 per Committee meeting. Daily allowances are paid and the reimbursements of travel expenses are paid to the Board and Valid authorisations of the Board of Directors concerning remuneration and their use Committee members in accordance with the general travel rules of Kesko. Kesko’s Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016 authorised the Board to decide on the transfer of own B shares held by the Company in treasury (share issue authorisation 2016). The authorisation cancelled an earlier share issue authorisation with similar content. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 331 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Based on the authorisation, the own B shares held by the Company in treasury can be issued On 3 February 2016, the Board of Directors decided to grant own B shares held by the company for subscription by shareholders in a directed issue in proportion to their existing holdings of as treasury shares, to the persons included in the target group of the 2015 vesting period based the Company shares, regardless of whether they own A or B shares. The shares can also be on the fulfilment of the vesting criteria of the 2015 vesting period of the Kesko’s three-year issued in a directed issue, departing from the shareholder's pre-emptive right, if the Company share-based compensation plan. This granting of a total of 137,054 own B shares was announced has a weighty financial reason for it, such as using the shares to develop the Company's capital in a stock exchange release on 17 March 2016 and the transfer of 2,670 own B shares was structure, to finance possible acquisitions, capital expenditure or other arrangements within the announced in a stock exchange release on 27 April 2016. Under the 2014–2016 share-based scope of the Company's business operations, and to implement the Company's commitment compensation plan decided by the Board, a total maximum of 600,000 own B shares held by the and incentive scheme. Own B shares held by the Company in treasury can be transferred either company as treasury shares can be granted within a period of three years based on the fulfilment against or without payment. A share issue can only be without payment, if the Company, taking of the vesting criteria. The vesting criteria and the target group are decided by the Board sepinto account the best interests of all of its shareholders, has a particularly weighty financial reaarately for each vesting period. The share-based compensation plan was announced in a stock son for it. The authorisation also includes the Board’s authorisation to make decisions concernexchange release on 4 February 2014. A total of 8,256 shares granted based on the fulfilment ing any other matters related to share issues. The amount possibly paid for the Company’s own of the vesting criteria of share-based compensation plans (share-based compensation plans for shares is recorded in the reserve of unrestricted equity. The authorisation is valid until 30 June years 2011–2013 and 2014–2016) had been returned to the Company during the period Janu2020. ary-December an accordance with the terms and conditions of the share-based compensation plans. The share returns in 2016 were announced in a stock exchange release on 17 March 2016, The Annual General Meeting of 4 April 2016 also approved the Board's proposal for its author31 March 2016, 27 April 2016, 30 May 2016 and 15 November 2016. isation to decide on the acquisition of a maximum of 1,000,000 own B shares of the Company (authorisation to acquire own shares). B shares are acquired otherwise than in proportion to President and CEO the shareholdings of shareholders with the Company's distributable unrestricted equity at the B President and CEO Mikko Helander’s personal remuneration, other financial benefits, perforshare market price quoted in public trading organised by Nasdaq Helsinki Ltd ( the exchange ) mance bonus scheme criteria and performance bonuses paid are decided by Kesko's Board at the date of acquisition. The shares are acquired and paid in accordance with the rules of the of Directors based on the Remuneration Committee's preparatory work. A written managing exchange. The acquisition of own shares reduces the amount of the Company's distributable director's service contract, approved by the Board, is in force between the Company and the unrestricted equity. B shares are acquired for use in the development of the Company's capital President and CEO. Helander has been the Company’s President and CEO and the Chair of the structure, to finance possible acquisitions, capital expenditure and/or other arrangements within Group Management Board since 1 January 2015. the scope of the Company's business operations, and to implement the Company's commitment and incentive scheme. The Board of Directors makes decisions concerning any other issues related to the acquisition of own B shares. The authorisation is valid until 30 September 2017. In addition to the above authorisations, the Board of Directors has the share issue authorisation decided by the General Meeting of 13 April 2015, which cannot, however, be used for remuneration purposes. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 332 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Salaries, fringe benefits, performance bonus Health and life insurance The salaries, fringe benefits and performance bonuses paid to Helander and his other financial A health insurance and a life insurance have been taken out for Helander. benefits in 2015–2016 are presented in the following tables. Period of notice and termination benefit Salaries, performance bonuses and fringe benefits in 2015–2016 (€) Helander’s period of notice is twelve (12) months if the managing director’s service contract is 2016 2015 terminated by the Company and six (6) months if Helander resigns. If the Company terminates Fixed monetary salary 873,600 856,800 the contract for a reason other than a material breach of contract by the managing director, and the managing director does not retire on an old-age pension or some other pension, the manPerformance bonuses* 420,000 140,000** aging director is paid, in addition to the salary for the period of notice, a compensation correFringe benefits 23,160 21,725 sponding to the combined amount of 12 months' monetary salary and fringe benefits. Total 1,316,760 1,018,525 * Performance bonus paid based on the profit for the previous year. Group Management Board ** Service contract since 1 October 2014. Group Management Board members’ salaries, performance bonuses and fringe benefits in Share-based compensation plan 2015–2016 2015–2016 (€)* Share award (pcs) 2016 2015 Fixed monetary Performance Maximum 21,000 21,000 salary bonuses Fringe benefits Total Granted 16,086* 11,214 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Commitment period (expiry date) 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Mikko Helander, 873,600 856,800 420,000 140,000 23,160 21,725 1,316,760 1,018,525 Ch. * The Board’s decision in February 2017. Shares for the vesting period 2016 will be granted in March April 2017 in Group 2,012,999 1,777,640 369,250 371,750 151,977 126,478 2,534,226 2,275,868 accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. Management Board** Retirement benefits Total 2,886,599 2,634,440 789,250 511,750 175,137 148,203 3,850,986 3,294,393 President and CEO Mikko Helander's old-age pension age is 63 and the amount of his old-age * Salaries, performance bonuses and fringe benefits are reported on a cash basis. The 2015 earnings on accrual basis are pension is 60% of his pensionable earnings in accordance with the Employees' Pensions Act calculated by adding the amount of performance bonus paid in 2015 to the salaries and fringe benefits for 2016. (TyEL). The pensionable salary is determined based on his fixed monetary salary, performance ** Excluding President and CEO Helander. bonuses and fringe benefits for the last ten (10) years. The supplementary pension is based on a defined benefit plan. The cost of the supplementary pension for the period, calculated on an accrual basis, was €1.0 million and the related pension asset was €0.6 million as at 31 December 2016. The pension cost of the President and CEO's statutory pension provision was €0.2 million. KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 333 STRATEGY REPORT GRI REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Share-based payments to Group Management Board members in 2014–2016 (pcs) determined based on the general provisions applicable to employees’ pensions in Finland (TyEL, 2016 2015 2014 the Employees’ Pensions Act). The retirement benefits of President and CEO Helander are reTo be ported in more detail in the section on him. Kesko has not paid pension insurance contributions Maximum granted** Maximum Granted Maximum Granted incurred on executives’ memberships of Kesko Pension Fund for several years, nor in 2016, as Mikko Helander, Ch. 21,000 16,086 21,000 11,214 -*** -*** the Fund’s investment earnings covered the payable supplementary pensions and changes in the Group Management 53,000 40,598 53,000 28,302 48,000 16,812 pension liability. Board* Group Management Board members' retirement benefits, periods of notice and Total 74,000 56,684 74,000 39,516 48,000 16,812 ­termination benefits in 2016* * Excluding President and CEO Helander. Pension as percent** The Board’s decision in February 2017. The shares for the 2016 vesting period will be granted in March–April 2017 in Old-age pension age of pensionable Termination accordance with the terms and conditions of the plan. age (years) salary (%) Period of notice ­benefit** *** Service contract since 1 October 2014. Mikko Helander 63 60 6/12 mo*** 12-mo salary Jorma Rauhala 62 66 6 mo 6-mo salary Vesting period 2016 2015 2014 Terho Kalliokoski 62 66 6 mo 12-mo salary End of commitment period 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 31 Dec 2017 Pekka Lahti 62 66 6 mo 18-mo salary Jukka Erlund in accordance with in accordance with 6 mo 6-mo salary TyEL**** TyEL**** On 16 December 2014, Kesko Corporation's Board of Directors decided to transfer 8,791 own Matti Mettälä 62 66 6 mo 12-mo salary B shares held by the Company as treasury shares to Mikko Helander, the Company's President Anne Leppälä-Nilsson in accordance with in accordance with 6 mo 18-mo salary and CEO as of 1 January 2015. The share transfer was based on the managing director's service TyEL**** TyEL**** contract signed with Mikko Helander and the transferred shares are part of the agreed total Lauri Peltola in accordance with in accordance with 6 mo 6-mo salary compensation. The shares transferred to Helander carried a restriction period until 1 October TyEL**** TyEL**** 2016, during which the shares were not allowed to be assigned. Anni Ronkainen in accordance with in accordance with 6 mo 6-mo salary TyEL**** TyEL**** Retirement benefits in 2016 * As at 31 December 2016. The statutory pension provision of the members of the Group Management Board is provided ** If given notice by the employer. Termination benefit includes monetary salary and fringe benefits. through a pension insurance company. In 2016, four Group Management Board members were *** The period of notice is twelve (12) months if the managing director’s service contract is terminated by the Company members of Kesko Pension Fund and their supplementary pensions are determined based on its and six (6) months if the President and CEO resigns. rules and their personal service contracts. Their supplementary pensions are based on a defined **** TyEL = the Employees' Pensions Act. benefit plan. The retirement benefits of the other Group Management Board members are KESKO'S ANNUAL REPORT 2016 334
