Annual Communication on Progress (COP) Prepared by: Thomas Frisenberg, CEO Prepared for: United Nations Global Compact Period of coverage: 15 July 2016 to 1 October 2017 Submitted on: 28 September 2017 1.0 Statement of continued support Esoftflow continues to be committed to adhere to the principles promoted by the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Over the past year, our company has taken further initiatives in the areas addressed by UNGC. We launched a major organizational change project to further strengthen the organization and our culture. The project is expected to complete by early 2018, and aims to prepare the company for the future. We continue to be at the forefront when it comes to implementing corporate social responsibility in our organization, and are pleased with the benefits we derive from it. This year’s report cover the period from July 2016 to September 2017, in order to fit with the deadline for annual update. Thomas Frisenberg Managing Director 2.0 HUMAN RIGHTS Our commitment Esoftflow commit to fully support and respect the human rights related regulations set by the ILO as well as the Labour Law in Vietnam. Action Actions implemented in the last year Measurable results and outcomes Targets for the coming year Labour contracts and We continue to ensure that our labour Our labour contracts guarantee that every The company plans to maintain the same level regulations contracts and internal labour regulations stay staff member has a proper contract with social of compliance to the changing regulatory up to date, and that updates are informed to and health insurance contribution as stipulated labour framework in Vietnam. staff and relevant Government authorities. by law. Staff get equal pay for equal work through a performance based measurement An ongoing organizational change project will We continue to promote a democratic working system. see an upgrade of our functional matrix along environment where staff are free to raise their with clearer job descriptions, which again is voice. Staff are protected from violence and We have started a process of upgrading our linked to KPIs and a performance management harassment at the work place. We conduct a performance management system to further system which aims to promote quality over company meeting every 6 months to ensure encourage quality and team work. quantity, and team work over individual that we maintain a dialogue with employees performance. Furthermore clear career paths and keep employees informed about the Maintain dialogue with each indvidual staff via for all staff will be implemented. company’s development. The latest meeting monthly catch-ups and annual reviews. was conducted in June 2016. The process is expected to be completed by end of 2017 / early 2018. Work environment We continue to work with our selected meal There are fewer complaints about meal We have an additional 250 square meter of suppliers to improve quality and service. services, and most complaints come from our office space that has not been fitted yet. This night shift where the building management is now expected to happen in 2018. restricts services from meal suppliers. We are in dialogue with the building In the past year, we have introduced a new management about the serving of meals health service for staff. A group of doctors during night shift as the building regulations from a nearby hospital has been visiting prevent us from serving fresh food, as food esoftflow every two weeks where staff could has to be delivered to the building before 10 come during working hours and consult pm while the serving is taking place at 1 am. regarding their health. However, so far we have not been able to come to an agreement that can solve the core of the problem. We will continue to work with the building management. Based on feedback from staff, we will continue to have the on-site doctor visit us on a regular basis. However, we are likely to make it a monthly routine to better fit the demand. 3.0 LABOUR Our commitment Esoftflow upholds the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining of its staff members. Esoftflow support and fully complies with the international standards when it comes to elimination of forced labour, discrimination at the work place and child labour. Action Actions implemented in the last year Measurable results and outcomes Targets for the coming year Collective agreement The Company Trade Union is functioning well Trade Union and company management meets In the year to come, we will target to continue and all employees are members. In the past on a regular basis to discuss collaboration as to have all employees taking part in our trade year the Trade Union has actively involved into well as the implementation and financing of union to ensure a united staff force, and that relevant labour issues and also been a driver activities. the company at all times, are in compliance when it comes to the organization of social with international practices and local activities including summer trip, sport The Company and the Trade Union regulations. activities and other social occassions. collaborated closely together to arrange our 10 year anniversary summer trip (nearly 600 Solve any potential conflicts, challenges A new chairperson for the Trade Union was participants) and an official celebration on the before they possibly could escalate. Particular elected in 2017. actual anniversary (1st of August). focus is on organizational change project that also will revise our existing compensation and As part of our effort to promote corporate It has been agreed to involve Trade Union benefit structure – obviously a very sensitive culture, we implemented an internal company further into a number of areas that are causing area to deal with. However, the aim is to have blog that staff can not only access but also concern for employees such as meal services, a win-win outcome, and prepare the Company contribute to actively. health services. for future scaling and ensure its competitiveness. Furthermore, we have a new HR Manager in place since June 2017, and she is also We will dedicate more resources towards our advocating for the Trade Union to play a company blog to ensure that the blog develops and also stays relevant and bigger role in the Company’s operations. interesting to staff. The company blog has been a success but needs further development to be able to sustain interest from staff. Equal opportunity We continue to promote our equal In addition, we encourage people with We will furthermore strive to fulfill or even employer opportunity policy, and promote the disabilities and disadvantaged people to apply surpass the committed percentages for employment of disabled, disadvantaged and for positions in Esoftflow. Recently, we have employment of disabled and female staff. female staff. Aside from pro-actively seeking recruited quite a few people with disabilities t0 to reach out to the aforementioned groups in our growing customer service team. our recruitment process, we continue to engage in various CSR activities that are linked to recruitment of disabled and disadvantaged people. We have Joined job fairs for people with disabilities at the Hanoi Job Service Center and recruited qualified candidates from here. We have had disabled and poor students from vocational training centers visiting the company for job orientation, and then gone on to people who are qualified. Social contribution We held a number of fundraising activities Our commitment to have disabled staff We target to have at least one large ongoing such as charity Halloween party to get making up at least 12% of our staff force and CSR project with an IT vocational training contribution from not only our staff but also female staff 35%. Until end of September 2017, center, as well as job orientation and job our partners. The proceeds were used to the actual numbers were 11.7% and 31.5% creation for disadvantaged people at all times. organize a charity day. respectively. We will continue our activities to raise End of 2016, a charity today was organized to a awareness and get involvement of our staff remote commune, where proceeds funded a and others in helping disabled/disadvantaged new sports ground in one school. people. Furthermore, staff donated books, toys, clothes to the school and its students. Our charity halloween event will also go ahead this year. Proceeds will again go to a charity day organized by staff. 3.0 ENVIRONMENT Our commitment Esoftflow remain aware of its responsibility towards protecting the environment and although we work exclusively in a digital environment, we are committed to do our part to promote environmental responsibility and sustainability. Action Actions implemented in the last year Measurable results and outcomes Targets for the coming year Energy We continue to push for minimizing our We continue to see our electricity costs to be Our target for future years is to continue to electricity consumption by raising awareness below budget. take a pro-active approach to reducing among our staff as well as having clear electricity consumption, in particular as the procedures for when to have light and air company expands. conditioning running as opposed to natural lights and fans. Equipment We purchase high quality IT hardware to By investing in quality equipment, the life span For the coming year, we aim to further reduce the effect of noise and energy of purchased equipment is also longer. optimize and stabilize our IT/hardware set up. consumption. We also work pro-actively with suppliers to Our IT team has been working pro-actively to ensure that equipment is maintained at least find solutions for improving performance of once a year including cleaning of all our workstations, and several solutions have workstations. Damaged equipment is repaired been identified, and some are now under whenever possible. implementation. We can see that the life span of our workstations can be prolonged when upgrading certain parts, so instead of discarding a whole workstation, we only need to discard/change certain parts. Most of our data is now stored in the cloud reducing the need for servers installed in our office. Waste At the moment, we are sorting the normal We reduce the amount of waste that is being Continue our recycling policy, and raise trash – mainly plastic, paper and metal. collected. awareness among staff. For hardware that needs to be liquidated, we We decided to create hoods for all our have a professional buyers who recycle/reuse monitors. Normally these are made of plastic the components. but we decided to make them ourselves using cardboard. The result is that we not worked We continue to advocate that staff use front with a more environmental friendly material and back on printing paper, and that they in but also saved a huge amount of money (we general reduce the usage of paper whenever have +400 monitors). possible. 4.0 ANTI-CORRUPTION Our commitment Esoftflow is embracing a zero tolerance approach to corruption and copyright infringement. Action Actions implemented in the last year Measurable results and outcomes Targets for the coming year Corruption Relevant staff are informed about the zero No incidents relating to corruption have been No incidents relating to corruption will be tolerance approach, namely our accounting recorded in the past year. recorded. and purchasing staff as well as management staff. We are subject to an annual audit by We expect to be able to stay in full compliance KPMG Vietnam. with the relevant laws affecting to our business operations. Our finance set up has been merged with the rest of the esoft systems group, and are now subject to more structured requirements in line with the rest of the group. Copyright infringement Software license updates are being monitored All licenses used in Esoftflow are official Continue to ensure that all software licenses through our new inventory management licenses that have been paid for. Meaning we used are fully licensed. system. are in full compliance with applicable copyright laws. We will try to further promote the use of legal software by working together with relevant We continue to be in close dialogue with software companies. Adobe, being one of their biggest clients in Vietnam. Furthermore, we have been subject to a license review from AutoDesk. PwC performed the review, and no issues were recorded.
