2016 CSR REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT A new start – Ecovadis has experienced a rapid growth within a relatively short period of time. Consequently, we outgrew our way of managing our social responsibility practices. With more than 400 employees, we have now reviewed and started to gradually adapt our CSR system to better suit our current needs. This report marks the start of a new CSR strategy and at the same time fulfils our requirement of being an adherent to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative by submitting our Communication on Progress report. The reporting period is for the year 2016 unless specified otherwise. The report provides an overview of the policies, measures implemented and reporting in relation to our CSR strategy for all our offices. The first section covers our labour practices and human rights issues. We show the importance of our employees and how we value them by continuously trying to improve the working atmosphere and providing all opportunities possible to promote employee growth. In the second section, we describe our ethical commitments. Integrity is of paramount importance for us. We show how we make sure that all our employees become committed to our ethical program through regular awareness sessions. Moreover, we show that information security is so material for us that we undertook certification at our headquarters entity in Paris to the international standard ISO 27001. Next, we demonstrate how we support the surrounding community by giving and receiving. Engaging our employees in such initiatives has proved so far to be a really enriching experience. The fourth section is on our impact on the environment. We are aware that our impact on the environment is not big but we strive in every possible way to minimize this. Lastly, we describe our own procurement practices and how we are gradually integrating sustainability factors in our purchasing decisions. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 Contents About this report 2 Message from the CEO 6 Our employees 8 Ethics and Ecovadis 14 Corporate Citizenship 17 Protecting the Environment 21 Our own Supply Chain 26 Our Responsibility 28 as a CSR Rating Agency Appendix 30 Way Forward 32 Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 ECOVADIS AT A GLANCE 6 worldwide 400+ employees 20 languages 41 nationalities offices 150 25, 000 SUBSCRIBERS multinational based in 110 different countries and companies 150 different industry sector Our purpose EcoVadis helps organizations improve their environmental and social practices by leveraging the influence of their global supply chains. Our firm operates the first collaborative network enabling companies to manage the sustainability performance of their suppliers, across 150 sectors and 110 countries. EcoVadis’ reliable ratings and easy-to-use monitoring tools allow companies to manage risks and drive eco-innovations in their global supply chains. EcoVadis has experienced strong growth across multiple industries, including the chemical, information and communications technology, rail and transportation, beauty, food and beverage, packaging, financial, and pharmaceutical sectors. Over the past year, companies around the world, including Amcor, DuPont, Subway, Clarins, Eastman Chemical, PSA/Peugeot-Citroen, and Bombardier have turned to EcoVadis’ supplier sustainability ratings service and scorecards to enable more confident procurement decisions, reduce risk, and drive improvements in the CSR performance of their suppliers. EcoVadis' Role in Sustainable Procurement EcoVadis has a positive impact on sustainable procurement through its core operations of supplier assessments. In 2016, the number of suppliers assessed via EcoVadis’ CSR risk monitoring and management tool has continued to grow, increasing by 33% compared to 2015. This large increase was driven in part by the launch and continuation of EcoVadis-led industry initiatives, in particular through Together for Sustainability for the chemical industry, and Railsponsible for the railway sector. Additional procurement and sourcing partnerships with Tradeshift, Pool4Tool, and State-of-Flux have integrated EcoVadis’ sustainability rating service into these platforms, expanding our impact across global supply chains. On the supplier side, EcoVadis helps suppliers to identify improvement areas and devises corrective action plans monitored by a team of experts. This approach allows the assessed suppliers to follow a continuous improvement cycle through a two-way feedback and capacity building process. Driving improvements is one of our critical objectives. In 2016, 65% of suppliers were able to improve their overall EcoVadis score compared with their previous assessment. On the buyer side, we provide a sustainable decision-making tool that helps purchasing organizations better integrate CSR criteria into supplier selection, raise procurement teams’ awareness on key sustainable development issues, and manage CSR risk. Additional 2016 milestones for EcoVadis include:  Expansion of EcoVadis’ internal team to 302 full time employees, a 23% increase from 2015  A newly established office in Hong Kong at end of 2015/beginning of 2016, bringing our offices to a total of 5 locations globally  24 new customers joined the EcoVadis network to assess their suppliers in 2016  Driving impact on supply chain CSR practices with 65% of suppliers improving their sustainability score with each assessment Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 5 Message from the CEOs Momentum is gaining in the sustainable procurement movement, with many successes being attributed to partnerships among an assortment of global stakeholders. One of the most critical and historic of these achievements in the past year was the ratification of the COP21 agreement in November. Global supply chains make up around 86% of total carbon emissions, representing major improvement opportunities for businesses. Furthermore, there is growing pressure for companies to increase transparency throughout their value chains and adhere to increasingly demanding reporting standards. Faced with these challenges, we have seen successes resulting from partnerships and growing sector collaborations including Together for Sustainability and Railsponsible. Even as many businesses continue to seek opportunities to protect against risks in their supply chains, we were reminded in 2016 that environmental, social and ethical issues continue to pervade throughout global supply chains. Technology companies continue to struggle with the responsible sourcing of Cobalt and other minerals and water scarcity continues to increase in many regions, to name two examples. Moreover, in 2016, for a third consecutive year, the record for hottest year was broken. In light of these continuing issues, private sector action is more important than ever. EcoVadis is pleased to announce that we have made considerable progress in 2016 in expanding our operations and continuing to leverage our expertise in finding solutions to the supply chain challenges facing our clients. 24 new global enterprise customers joined the EcoVadis network in 2016 on its sustainable procurement platform. Furthermore, we saw that 65% of assessed suppliers were able to increase their score. Looking forward to 2017 and beyond, we aim to make further tangible contributions to supply chain responsibility and to the Sustainable Development Goals both through our service offerings and through the way we operate as a company with our own CSR management system. EcoVadis has been a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact since 2008, and we are pleased to pledge our continued participation in UNGC and its ten principles. Frederic Trinel, Co-CEO Pierre-François Thaler, Co-CEO Paris, July 2017 Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 6 Major CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Throughout Four Sponsored Webinars on CSR issues 2016 throughout the year, with a total of 787 attendees. May 2016 EcoVadis’ annual SustaIn Conference on supply chain sustainability (312 attendees) May 2016 EcoVadis received the SPLC Market Transformation Award May 2016 EcoVadis was listed on the Spend Matters 50 Providers to Watch list Sept 2016 EcoVadis attained the ISO 27001:2013 certification on Information Security Nov 2016 EcoVadis received a GP Bullhound Connect award Dec 2016 The company accepted $30 million in funding to dramatically expand its operations in supply chain sustainability Dec 2016 EcoVadis received a Green Supply Chain Award from Supply & Demand Chain Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 7 Our Employees Looking after our greatest asset: Our employees One of our top priorities at EcoVadis is the well-being of employees. EcoVadis strives to maintain a safe working environment and prevent any work-related health issues. EcoVadis is committed to hiring, training, promoting and compensating employees based on merit. At the same time, we are equally committed to providing a work environment free of discrimination and harassment while ensuring that all fundamental human rights of our employees are being respected. Our Health and Safety agenda We also organized fire drill simulations in the We continue addressing health and safety risk Paris and Mauritius offices to fully rehearse the factors relevant to our business activity. evacuation process in case of fire or any other Ergonomic risk is on top of our concerns, and emergency. we have been working on understanding the factors causing work-related illnesses or health The Employee Handbook Our smart way problems. In 2016, we focused our efforts on of communicating training our employees in ergonomics hazards To better communicate our mission and vision at the workplace. on employee-related topics affecting our We partnered up with different associations in employment relationships, we updated our each country to conduct theoretical and Employee Handbooks in the New York and practical trainings for our employees, covering Paris offices. The Employee handbook plays a topics such as: ergonomic risk, posture at key role on the establishment and work, skeletal system, postural assessments, strengthening of our “work smart, have fun and and basic first aid courses. make a difference” motto. We achieved high participation from our Our Handbook documents are shared to all employees in every initiative we developed our employees and serve as guidelines for during 2016. As such, 10 first aiders were ensuring a comfortable working environment trained, 110 employees participated in general and our employees’ professional development. health checks, and 58 people received training With our open-door policy, employees are on Ergonomics in our Paris and Mauritius. We encouraged to report their concerns directly to continue to provide the appropriate tools to their managers. mitigate health and safety risks among our employees. Footrests, laptop stands, standing desks are available to our employees. Connecting our worldwide community We emphasised our efforts in the Mauritius The EcoVadis team is a rich and diverse, and Paris offices, delivering the following including at least 20 languages and more than results: 40 nationalities, scattered all over the world. The exponential team growth has made need No. of H&S meetings 4 for internal communication framework a must conducted over the last 3 years. To success in this need, No. of H&S awareness EcoVadis recruited a Communication Lead to brochure sent on our 4 coordinate internal communication and internal platform facilitate interaction between our global offices. No. of laptop stand As 2016, through the newly introduced internal 50 provided communication platform, named EVGlobal, our employees connect, share and collaborate No. of foot rest provided 94 from all over the world. This new internal No. of standing desk 5 communication tool bridged the geographical and cultural diversity to strengthen team bonding. We have reached nearly 2000 posts Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 9 since EVGlobal was introduced. A clear sign and location to work. We continue to that EcoVadians are all the way very much encourage our employees to take advantage engaged to sharing of information, ranging of this initiative, and also to openly discuss from projects updates, management and other alternative agreements with their announcements to informal team-building managers. parties and CSR-related initiatives. Work-life balance at the heart of our corporate philosophy Ecovadis is aware of the vital importance of work life balance in the work environment. For this reason, several initiatives have been implemented and more are to come as we go along. We provide our employees with a flexible “Working from home has given me the working time schedule. This means employees possibility to provide some elderly family can start earlier and finish earlier or the members who require medical attention, opposite depending on their personal with my care and support while coping preference. The aim is ultimately to with my work life.” accomplish the same number of working hours but it allows our employees a lot of flexibility to Chetan Peryagh, CSR Analyst, manage their work life balance. Mauritius A healthy social dialogue We are always looking for ways to take our social performance to a higher level, and our employee representatives are becoming fundamental spokespersons for the internal social dialogue with our employees and management. In July 2016, employee representatives launched the annual employee satisfaction survey across all offices. With a “Through Flexitime, I was able to modify total participation rate of 81.9%, our my work hours, helping me to achieve a employees were able to share their opinion on better balance in caring for my young topics such as direct remuneration, working children and my career at EcoVadis. It conditions, work culture and career has been a great change in my daily life” management opportunities. The results of the study were shared with our management team Elizabeth de La Mette, Client Success and all our employees. Manager, Paris … and team up for collective advancement! After communicating the results of our annual Additionally, we provide telecommuting satisfaction survey with our employees, the opportunities, also known as work-from-home, Human Resource Team carried out a series of where employees can work at home while interactive discussions within focus groups to being able to attend to any personal collectively work towards the improvement of commitments. This initiative is highly employee satisfaction and welfare. 230 employees from all EcoVadis offices worldwide appreciated by our employees as it allows participated in the 16 sessions organized by them to balance their professional and our Human Resources team. personal life by choosing the preferred time Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 10 communication and team spirit. Our employees and their families are encouraged Office Sessions to take advantage of such initiatives. New York 1 Paris 4 Mauritius 7 Tunisia 1 Poland 1 Hong Kong 1 Remote employees 1 The sessions laid emphasis on key topics such as compensation, communication, working environment, career development and employee engagement. Over 300 suggestions Ecovadis visiting Le Morne – World Heritage Site were collected overall, demonstrating a high (UNESCO) in Mauritius commitment of employees towards continuous improvement while management is working closely with the relevant departments to make sure the most priority suggestions are tackled first. Specific actions Information sessions in the Paris Office As EcoVadis recruits employees from different nationalities, our Paris team regularly welcomes employees who are new to the French system. The Paris administrative team organized a presentation on understanding the French remuneration system, a key topic for foreign employees. During this presentation, detailed explanations on how the French payslip is established were provided and the session answered specific questions related to essential topics such sickness leaves coverage and mandatory state welfare Ecovadis celebrating its end of year party last year contributions. The aim of this process is to in 2016 increase transparency on the remuneration system while allowing an interactive communication session. Managing Career @EcoVadis Welfare events in Mauritius Building a future at Ecovadis Our Welfare Committee in Mauritius is Career is the main concern for most continuously helping us to improve our working employees nowadays and Ecovadis is no environment and work-life balance, increase exception. We are aware of this and we staff morale, and promote harmonious working implemented a robust performance relationships. In 2016, this committee worked management system (PMS) which ensures on organizing employee birthday celebrations, growth of all our employees. historical national & cultural days, as well as Going the extra mile through open dialogue other outdoor activities to foster Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 11 Every quarter, employees and team leaders Promoting career development through job have appraisal meetings to discuss their discovery objectives, performance, expectations and Depending on business needs, EcoVadis feedback from managers and colleagues. We offers the possibility to employees to discover believe this dialogue is primordial to lead our other departments by integrating temporarily employees towards a professional growth and another business unit to carry out specific to achieve the company’s goals. tasks. For some employees, this has led to a change in career path, as the move to the Building a united team through skills other business unit transformed into taking on development a new job function permanently. EcoVadis has been developing an online and an in-person training programme to make sure that all employees are able to perform at their best. The training programme covers not only all newcomers but also interns and long-term employees. Each department has one person in charge of identifying training needs and organizing training sessions. Fostering team spirit through cultural exchange “EcoVadis is a place where you feel After one year of employment at EcoVadis, really good to be and work. I changed employees have the opportunity to visit the job position from CSR Analyst to other offices and work temporarily at those Marketing which are two poles apart abroad locations. By experiencing a different and yet it’s a reality, thanks to the environment, our employees can connect to recognition of my prior background. This other teams, learn about different cultures and is what drives your motivation everyday develop important soft skills such as to be given the space to grow in what communication and adaptability. you are good at!” Umilla (Yovana) Duchesne, Marketing Officer, Mauritius RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS Preventing discrimination & harassment Since the very start, Ecovadis has committed “Having the possibility to visit the HQ in itself to eliminate all sorts of discrimination and Paris was a great opportunity for me to harassment in our work place. Our Code of get to know my colleagues with whom I Conduct clearly illustrates this commitment. only exchanged emails. At the same time, I learned so much about new To achieve our objectives, we have several cultures and the food was so good!” measures, including periodic awareness training and a formal whistleblowing process Mirza Mahamodally, CSR Analyst, Mauritius which covers all employees of Ecovadis. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 12 Valuing Diversity We want to show the world that through a diversified workforce, a company is more successful. Proof: Ecovadis is made up of 40 different nationalities, ranging from America, Belarus to China. And to go even further, we have signed the French Diversity Charter. Click here to know more. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 13 Ethics and Ecovadis Our commitment At EcoVadis, integrity is of paramount importance. We have a Code of Ethics which is revised every two years through a dedicated Ethics Team. All employees are asked to sign an acknowledgement form for having received and read the Code of Ethics upon each of its revision. As at end 2016, 317 employees already signed the acknowledgement, while 23 signatures are in progress for newcomers. Our Human Resources department, together with the Ethics Officer, ensures the administrative side of the process. Maintaining ethical values in our company confidential information received from third To make our Code of Ethics actionable, all parties, we have an obligation to protect this new employees are invited to join internal information handed over to us. We manage training sessions on ethics, run on a quarterly user accounts for over 10,000 basis. Around 86% of employees recruited in buyers/purchasers, and over 50,000 users 2016 have already been trained on the from our supplier subscribers, including company’s Code of Ethics, and the remaining personal data and company data such as CSR scorecards. This makes information security a are to be trained by the end of March 2017. highly material topic for us. Due to the rolling basis of the training, the 100% mark is generally not achievable, Reason why we have developed and although our commitment to ensuring ethical implemented a robust Information Security behavior results in having vast majority of our Management System (ISMS). employees trained. For instance, to protect information from unauthorized access, we have a Mobile As explained in our Code of Ethics, EcoVadis Device / Bring-your-own-Device (BYOD) policy has a whistleblowing procedure in place to and procedure which requires employees to report any malpractice or policy violations. register the personal devices they will use to Confidentiality of the reporter is guaranteed access company information. We are also and any victimisation against the latter is not equipped with policies such as Password tolerated. During 2016, the Ethics Officer Policy and Information Classification and received 5 clarification requests and 1 alleged Transfer Policy. violation report was filed. The case was Moreover, EcoVadis has set up a training investigated in accordance with the EcoVadis program that is deployed on a frequent basis. whistleblowing procedure, no violation of the In October 2016, ISMS training sessions were Code of Ethics was found and the case was held for all employees. The training covered closed. phishing awareness, security incident reporting and included a series of reminders for Additionally, to ensure employee engagement employees to ensure data confidentiality and in maintaining high ethical standards, the security. A series of phishing tests were also EcoVadis Ethics Cup has been designed and launched to test employees’ awareness, and implemented by the Ethics Team and involves additional refresher sessions were organized the participation of employees across all for the employees who failed at least one of business units and all EcoVadis global the phishing tests. locations. In 2016, all employees were Furthermore, EcoVadis has developed an challenged on ethics-related questions during incident response procedure in case of any 4 rounds of the competition. A total of 368 potential information security related incidents. entries have been received as part of the Each business unit has a dedicated Ethics Cup throughout the year. information security referent to ensure effective escalation of any information security incident. Securing our access to data In September 2016, our headquarter location Information security is amongst our top in Paris obtained the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 priorities. As a company dealing with (ISO 27001) certification for information Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 15 security management systems (ISMS). This However, our Ethics Team has set up strict certification is the most widely recognized and procedures on how to handle such cases and prestigious standard for information security thus avoid potential transgressions. management. The ISO 27000 certification obtained by EcoVadis follows successful In 2016 we expanded our Supplier Training completion of an ISAE 3000 type 2 audit. partner program (DFGE Germany, BRownflynn US) one intent of which is to Click here to know more about our information avoid conflict of interest exposure, for security commitments. example, advising our customers whom we rate by engaging independent third party Avoiding all sorts of conflict of interests partners. and corruption As a rating company, it happens that customers try to contact us to “negotiate” their score. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 16 Corporate Citizenship Let them talk “Engaging in community service has a lasting, positive impact on society at large. Community service, through volunteering, teaches people of all ages and backgrounds compassion and understanding. The EcoVadis Community Involvement Committee is a way to provide you with opportunities to improve and leave your mark on your global and local community. It is also an avenue to cultivate leadership skills. It is something that is not time bounded, there is no small or big community service. Each little step you take is a difference you are making in the lives of others and also helps to develop civic and social responsibility skills and become more aware of what the community around you needs.” Bandish Augnoo, Previous Community Involvement Lead (Mauritius) Going Beyond Funding and Employees are given time off to prepare and Engaging our Employees participate in community projects. Our employees recognise and value the Our Commitment community involvement projects which are having a sustained impact on our immediate As a global advocate of Corporate Social community. As such, they also dedicate their Responsibility and Sustainability, EcoVadis is personal time after working hours and on directly in touch with the environmental and weekends in those company-led community social challenges that our community faces. involvement initiatives. Beyond this, our We believe that giving back to the community employees are given the possibility to choose is not limited to financial donations. Instead, which NGO should be supported by EcoVadis we go beyond funding: we engage our through a company-wide vote carried out. employees in substantial projects that will make a positive difference to our communities. EcoVadis aims to work with NGOs and local Specific actions implemented in associations to help vulnerable groups in the 2016 society, support charity and fund-raising activities geared towards social relief and environmental protection, and promote social Drawing Competition (Mauritius) and environmental awareness through A drawing competition took place on the education. occasion of World Environment Day at a Our Guiding Principles and Focus Areas secondary school. The purpose of this contest was to raise environmental  Employee Engagement: Encourage awareness of our future generation and EcoVadis employees to volunteer expressing their thoughts and ideas  Walk the talk: Lead by example through drawings. Prizes were given to  Built strong relationships with local winners after EcoVadis’ employees community partners voted internally for the best drawings. What we are doing as a Good Corporate Citizen Our Paris and Mauritius offices have formal Community Involvement Teams which have been established to look after all volunteering and community involvement activities. Donations and sponsoring are also taking place in our other office locations without dedicated committees. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 18 Blood Donation Event Link to Life: Cancer Awareness Our employees and the general public Link to Life is a non-profit organisation were invited to donate blood during a providing support and counselling to campaign done in collaboration with the cancer patients and their families. The Blood Donors Association (Mauritius). NGO organised a 3km human chain to 47 pints of blood were collected. create awareness about cancer and to raise funds for their activities. Employees of EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd participated in the human chain that was formed around Ebene cybercity (where the office is located) to greet and support cancer patients. A sum of €65 was also raised for donation to Link to Life. Children Foundation Since 2014, Ecovadis has been supporting this NGO consisting of children with special needs. Last year, EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd helped Children Foundation in their Christmas Day celebration. Early morning, the community involvement members were No Finish Line already present and decorated the For the second time, EcoVadis venue for the event. Christmas employees participated in the charitable celebrations were animated with the running event ‘No Finish Line’ organized help of the community involvement in the center of Paris in Champs de members and the teaching staff of the Mars. The challenge consists in running NGO. The children prepared a cultural or walking as many kilometers as one and musical show for the audience. can in a circuit open 24/24 during 5 days. Each kilometer covered brings 1€ to the association “Children & Future Paris” or other charitable organizations. SIReC: Rehabilitation program to spinal cord injury cases EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd collaborated with the NGO SIReC in order to help in their project of providing medical treatment via physiotherapy to underprivileged and vulnerable people with spinal cord injuries. A presentation on physiotherapy was also held at the office for our employees to understand the issues of spinal cord injuries. More €2,000 was donated to this NGO. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 19 Let them talk: Christmas Party Let them talk: Pandathlon Bringing a smile on children’s faces “The objective was to complete a 17km “Our aim was to bring a little joy to the mountain trail with other teams in order kids of Children Foundation for to raise consciousness on the fragility of Christmas. Together with the NGO, we a threatened ecosystem and its glaciers hosted a Christmas party and the entire as well as fund various conservation community involvement committee has projects to restore its natural beauty worked whole-heartedly together to which is being destroyed. It was also a make this event a memorable one for fun, invigorating opportunity to get the kids by giving Christmas gifts, goody together with other businesses to bags, food and refreshments. The promote solidarity, wellbeing, fitness, children were also involved in the and, above all, the protection of the organisation and performed songs, environment. dances and poetry reading. The parents were really proud to watch their kids’ As previous years, the weekend was performance. I love working with the marked by rain storms and fog, but we community involvement team and being successfully finished the 7th edition of able to help others, the feeling of Pandathlon in the French Alps, loaded accomplishment is great.” with smiles and good memories, despite some sore and aching muscles.” Parveen Dulloo (CSR Analyst and Community Involvement Member Richard Bourne (Supplier Engagement Mauritius) Director and Community Involvement Member Paris) Care for Calais Employees from the Paris office donated clothes, accommodation, hygiene, Pandathlon communication items and food to Care for Calais, an organisation based in UK In June 2016, EcoVadis participated for that supports refugees. the second time in ‘Pandathlon’, ecofriendly sporting and charity event organized by WWF. A team of 8 EcoVadians completed a 17 km Fruit Basket mountain train in the French Alps. To take part in this 2-day event, participants EcoVadis is contracting the services of with the help of all EcoVadis employees LES VERGERS DE GALLY to place a and the company management raised fruit basket at EcoVadis’ Paris office to €2400. This money will help finance an promote healthy eating habits, and at innovative and ambitious ecological the same time, to collect funds for project in Mont Lachat to restore the supporting the FONDATION DE ecological balance of this threatened FRANCE. Throughout 2016 we have area. collected €591,97 to this cause. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 20 Protecting the Environment Our commitment With our activities mostly centered in offices, our impact on the environment is limited. Yet, we strive to bring our contribution to environmental preservation through actions to reduce energy consumption and limit waste emissions. EcoVadis is committed to reducing its environmental footprint. Our company counts, among its established procedures and permanent measures, initiatives for employees to work from home to avoid commuting to work, video conferencing tools available to reduce business travel, composting of fermentable waste and recycling of plastic waste. During the past two years, the environmental actions of EcoVadis have expanded and developed to increase employee engagement throughout the company’s major locations. Concrete actions in our biggest office: Mauritius We love our planet! Bringing “Trees for the Earth” Together with millions of people and For EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd, taking action on businesses around the world, EcoVadis joined Earth Day 2016 meant raising consciousness in the 2016 Earth Hour movement for climate on the issues of deforestation and preservation change action, by engaging employees to of endemic plants. The celebration of this switch off non-essential lights and electrical special day was marked by the symbolic appliances for one hour. This initiative was planting of a shrub of the Trochetia followed by EcoVadis employees at all Boutoniana, the national flower of Mauritius, locations. within the office premises. Dr.Vikash Tataya, Protecting our wildlife Conservation Director of the Mauritius Wildlife Foundation, and guest of honor for the event, The 2016 Environment Day theme called for rose awareness on the importance of forests every citizen to “Go Wild for Life”, with a and the need for fauna conservation in campaign having for aim to raise attention on Mauritius. To further employee engagement the threats of illegal trade in wildlife. On this beyond professional boundaries, all staff were occasion, a team of analysts located in given a plant to take home. The 120 plants Mauritius conducted an awareness session distributed to employees were offered to with the office staff on the impacts of illegal EcoVadis (Mauritius) Ltd by the Ministry of trade on animals, particularly regarding Environment. protected species in Mauritius. The Paris office goes Green! The EcoVadis office in Paris recycles all its used paper, cans, bottles and printer cartridges through the waste collecting company Les Joyeux Recycleurs. Coffee grounds from office consumption is also set aside for employees to collect and use as compost at home. Ecovadis planting the plant “Trochetia” with the Director of Mauritius Wildlife Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 22 Let them talk: When our employees initiate actions! Recycling of PET bottles Our carbon footprint goes down “The idea of recycling plastic bottles came up as “Our team was eager to come forward with part of a team initiative regarding environmental proposals on how to help the Mauritius office sustainability in the Mauritius office. While become more sustainable. We noticed that the observing the possibilities of recycling in the office, use of bottled water fountains, which were at we found that the consumption of PET bottles in that time in service in our office, was indirectly our office was quite significant. contributing to environmental pollution. Implementing this project was a challenge. Most Having those water bottles regularly delivered employees were not accustomed with the concept in large quantities to feed our fountains not of PET labels. Our team invested time in carrying only meant that we were favoring the out thorough awareness sessions and sending consumption of plastic but also contributed to various reminders on the proper items to be CO2 emissions due to the delivery of bottles recycled. We were pleased to note a progressive through road transport, not to mention the change in employees’ attitude towards the high costs associated with the process. recycling of plastic bottles over time. We have We studied the alternatives of installing a tap collected more than 600 PET bottles in 2016. This water filter and using water fountains that shows the interest of employees in participating to would be directly connected to the water the initiative. Our colleagues are now 100% distribution system of the office building. The engaged, and some of them have even adopted supplier was selected according to reliability of this recycling measure at home. equipment, quality of service for maintenance The EcoVadis Management was enthusiast with and cost. Our proposal was readily approved the project from the start and gave us full support, by the Management. be it for the logistics part which included Employees initially expressed some concerns purchasing bins, designing posters and signing the about the quality of filtered water. Awareness agreement with Mission Verte, the waste sessions were therefore carried out to explain collecting entity, and for the awareness part, the environmental benefits of the project and which involved sparing working hours to create address questions regarding the safe use of awareness tools and provide training to employees water filters. All our colleagues now use on the topic. filtered water daily in the office, and some of Today, our team is proud of having implemented them use hot water from the new water this project as we are among the very few fountains instead of boiling water through companies in Mauritius that are engaged in such kettles. As initiators of this project, we are recycling initiatives. In addition, we value the satisfied that our office has taken action to positive impact that our office now has on the reduce its environmental footprint.” environment. Every small action counts!” Vijyeta Ramdeen-Bundhoo & Reshma Maneesha Saint-Martin & Bavish Juddoo, CSR Ramgoolam Analysts CSR Analysts Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 23 Pictures of the bins we collect all plastic waste and the lorry from “Mission Verte” which collects the waste plastic bottles. Amount recycled Items in 2016 (kg) Paper 222.9 Metal cans 25.8 Plastic bottles 63.6 Printer cartridge 27.7 *Figures for Paris office only OUR INDIRECT IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Providing sustainable services Every year we assess thousands of suppliers from all over the world. We evaluate the CSR performance of companies by generating scorecards. This scorecard highlights the strong points and the improvement areas of a company's CSR practices. We cover 4 main themes namely: environment, labour practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. Our services enable companies to better know what is lacking in their CSR system, on which themes they need to focus and also undergo re-evaluations to know by how much they have improved since the previous assessment. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 24 Some environmental indicators Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 25 Our own Supply Chain Sustainable Procurement at EcoVadis EcoVadis understands the important connection between our purchases and our support of a sustainable economy. We utilize sustainable products as far as possible, to minimise impact on environment and human health. Whenever possible we ensure procurement of environmentally friendly office supplies that not only meet quality and price requirements Together For A Greener Office LED lighting is more energy-efficient compared to other standard lighting, lasts much longer Although not yet formalized, sustainable and contains no mercury, thereby limiting procurement practices are applied in many of environmental impact. our purchasing processes. Some examples of initiative we have implemented and adopted to Coffee, Tea and Other Commodities promote green office at EcoVadis have been EcoVadis has a stated preference for organic illustrated below. products with a Fair-Trade Label. Energy efficient IT equipment EcoVadis prioritizes the purchase of Energy Buy Local Star rated IT equipment across all its offices. EcoVadis encourages purchases from local EnergyStar products have been designed to vendors. This enables us to reduce be energy efficient and hence limiting greenhouse gas effects by extensive greenhouse gas emissions. transportation networks as well as promoting local vendors in the community. Paper Usage In addition, in line with our procurement EcoVadis strives to be a paperless office. We process, we prioritise to do business with other endeavour to minimise paper consumption by companies having similar commitments to limiting printing access to authorised users and environment and fair business practices. we encourage double sided printing options. We encourage the use of PEFC paper in the Mauritius office. We have reduced consumption of paper in 2016, from 2097.5 kg (incl 1910kg plain white paper) in 2015 to 832.5 kg of PEFC paper in 2016. Eco-friendly cleaning products EcoVadis encourages the use of green cleaning products. We do our best to use alcohol-free hygiene products in our offices whenever possible. Reusables EcoVadis encourages the use of reusable dishware: mugs, plates and silverware for all employees and guests. Electricity Since May 2015, the EcoVadis office in Paris purchases electricity from the grid with the cooperative Enercoop, thus enabling small producers of renewable energy to have access to funding. Lighting EcoVadis encourages the use of LED lighting (Light Emitting Diode) across all its offices. Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 27 Our Responsibility as a CSR Rating Agency Our Responsibility As a CSR rating agency with an increasingly important role, we have a responsibility towards the clients of EcoVadis who use our ratings on a daily basis and towards the companies that we rate. We are fully aware that our ratings can directly impact a procurement decision being made at the other end of the world. Reason why we have developed a unique and robust methodology taking into consideration several critical principles. OUR METHODOLOGY 7 Principles for a World-Class CSR Rating Methodology 1. Evidence based Supporting documents are a Must. We collect data and documentation directly from evaluated companies and validate it. 2. Industry sector, country and size taken into account Ensuring relevance and materiality of the assessment, as well as comparability. 3. Diversification of sources Ensuring a rich and reliable evaluation, with input from the evaluated company, the professional 3rd parties and the stakeholders. 4. Leverage technology is a Must Applied to ensure the process is secure, confidential, and to accelerate the cycle time as well as provide in-depth content. 5. Assessment by international CSR experts From around the globe, rigorously trained and keeping track of the latest best practices. 6. Traceability and transparency of documentation Our proprietary back-end platform ensures a high-quality process is followed. Documentation is provided on the website library describing the overall process and scoring calculation. 7. Excellence through continuous improvements Internal governance committee as well as an external Scientific Committee of international experts continuously review and improve the methodology to stay current. Supply chains are only as strong as their weakest link. Procurement executives face the daunting task of ensuring their company’s supply network is sound, reliable and competitive. Sustainable Procurement is now a strategic priority for procurement directors, and hence the need for Simple, Reliable and Global supplier CSR ratings. Sylvain Guyoton Senior Vice-President Research APPENDIX Global compact 10 Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Human Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery corruption Key Performance Indicators Scope Units 2016 Health and Safety Training First Aid Paris # of employees 10 Training Ergonomics Mauritius, # of employees 124 Paris General health checks Mauritius # of employees 110 Health and Safety meetings conducted Mauritius, # of employees 4 Paris Fire drill simulations Mauritius # 1 New York # 2 Working Conditions Employee satisfaction survey participation Global % 81.9 Interactive communication session on working conditions Global # of sessions 16 Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 30 Scope Units 2016 Ethics Signature acknowledgement of Code of Ethics Global # of employees 317 Training on Code of Ethics Global % of new recruits 86 Reports via whistleblowing procedure on violations of Code of Ethics Global # of reports filed 1 Information Security Management System (ISMS) training Global % attendance 100 Resources Paper (PEFC certified) Mauritius kg 24 Electricity Mauritius kWh 105,430 Paris kWh 55,102 Carbon Footprint (Climate Care) CO2 offset through GHG reduction Global tonnes 204.5 projects (FY2015) Awareness on energy consumption by energy service provider (Enercoop) Paris # of employees 17 Waste Management (Recycling) PET bottles Paris # 3,185 Mauritius # 626 Metal cans Paris # 864 Printer cartridges Paris # 42 Paper Paris kg 222.9 Ecovadis CSR Report 2016 31 WAY FORWARD This year Ecovadis celebrates its tenth anniversary. This event marks our impressive growth and at the same time, it shows the remarkable impact we are making on the community by helping companies to improve their CSR performance all around the world. While CSR becomes more and more important as a key factor in determining the success of a business, Ecovadis has committed itself integrate Social Responsibility as a core factor in its own business strategy. Our aim is to continue formalizing our own CSR system and improve our performance by engaging all relevant stakeholders, starting internally first. 43 Avenue de la Grande Armée, 75116 Paris +33 1 82 83 86 37 EcoVadis is headquartered in Paris and has Follow us on social media offices in New York, London, Hong Kong, Mauritius, Warsaw and Tunisia. © 2017 Ecovadis. All rights reserved.
