MA MA K-water Publication Number 2016 Sustainability Report 2016-MA-GP-21-915 K-water 2016 Sustainability Report Global Hub of Water Management that Makes the World Go Round with Water Opening the Future and Providing Happiness by Sharing Water About This Report Contents Approach to Sustainability K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management COVER STORY About This Report CEO’s Message 2 Pledge 1: “Intelligent Water Management Membership Activities & Awards 4 and Satisfied Customers” K-water Sustainability Highlights 2015 5 Supplying Healthy Tap Water 29 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for K-water’s GWP 6 Producing High Quality Tap Water 30 Water Cycle  7 ICT-Based Smart Water City 31 Water Value 8 Coping with Climate Change and Prolonged Drought 32 Water Platform 9 'Opening the Future and Environmental Management for Healthy National Territory 35 Providing Happiness by Sharing Water' Protecting People from Water Disasters 39 K-water, Global Hub of K-water, as a Global Water Professional, signifies its dynamic determination to enhance its water values, along with building a Water Management strong platform for the future. Pledge 2: “New Water Values for All” Corporate Overview 12 K-water's Respect of the Natural Order 45 Vision & Strategy 14 Securing Future Water Management Competitiveness 48 Governance & Responsible Management 16 Achieve Happiness through Water Competitiveness 50 Purpose of Publication K-water's Communication with Stakeholders 19 Creation of a Eco-Friendly Waterfront Complex Cities 51 K-water has published its sustainability report annually since 2005. This report, the 2016 K-water Sustainability Interviews with Stakeholders 21 report, is the 12th publication and aims to provide our stakeholders with information on sustainability management Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) 22 which is focused on our mission, “Opening the Future and Providing Happiness by Sharing Water” and business Result of Communication with Stakeholders 23 Pledge 3: “L  eading Global Water performances. Furthermore, this sustainability report highlights our endeavors to develop into a global top Core Values of K-water's Sustainable Management 24 Management Company” integrated water enterprise. Of note, the 2016 report contains “our five promises” to the people as a public Smart Water Management, a Scientific Solution to enterprise. Address Global Water Problems 53 Leadership and Capability Development to Solve Global Water Issues 54 Reporting Standard Expansion of Advancement into the Global Water Market This report has been drafted in line with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and Bolstering its Global Capabilities 55 (Core option) and ISO 26000. This report features key issues derived from materiality tests and DMA (Disclosure on Diversification of Investments and Operations 56 Management Approach) on key issues. Building Global Networks via Sophisticated Business Management 57 Reporting Period and Boundaries This report provides a general overview of the sustainability activities of the Head Office (3 divisions, 2 business Pledge 4: “Global Sharing of divisions and 29 departments) and field offices (3 regional head offices, 2 institutes and 74 offices) from January Water-related Welfare” 2015 to November 2016. Business performances of 13 overseas projects in 11 countries as of November 2016 were Water Love Sharing Corps 59 included as they are managed on a project by project basis. It does not cover subsidiaries and affiliates. For Water for a Happier World, K-water's Water-related Welfare Projects 60 partnering companies in our corporate supply chain, their performances were partially included in relation with Key Results of K-water's Social Contributions in 2015 63 educational services or subsidies for mutual growth over the corporate supply chain. Financial performances have been filed based on consolidated data (K-IFRS) since 2011. Pledge 5: “Enterprise for and of Public Users” Report Assurance The Autonomous, Positive, and Dynamic Corporate Data and statements featured in this report were verified by Korea Productivity Center based on G4 Guidelines (Core Culture of K-water 65 option). K-water's Declaration of Human Rights Management 67 Ethical Management 68 Talent-Based Management 72 Amendments Shared Growth 74 There were not any significant changes such as corporate structure and ownership during the reporting period Risk Management 78 when compared to the previous year. However, some figures were amended to reflect changes in calculation and application standards. K-water publicizes its sustainability management and annual report through the disclosure of management on its website. The sustainability report is issued both in Korean and English. It can be downloaded in PDF format via our website. For more information, please contact the following. Appendix Sustainability Highlights 84 Third Party Assurance 96 GRI G4 INDEX/ISO 26000 99 Contact Information Code of Ethics, Green Management Policy, Customer Charter Statement, and Innovation Vision Statement 102 Management Services Innovation Team, K-water Sintanjin-Ro 200, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon 34350, Republic of Korea UN Global Compact's 10 Principles Support 104 TEL. 82-42-629-2356~8 / Fax. 82-42-629-2399 Questionnaire to Collect Readers' Opinions 105 E-mail: sustainability＠kwater.or.kr Web-site: www.kwater.or.kr Approach to Sustainability CEO’s Message K-water, Global Hub of Water Membership Activities & Awards Management K-water Sustainability Highlights 2015 CEO’s Message K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for K-water’s GWP Appendix Water Cycle New Value System to Usher in the Next 50 Years Water Value Water Platform K-water, as Korea's premier state-invested water service Mission enterprise, has endeavored to realize its mission of supplying safe water for the nation and securing water welfare for the past I would like to express my deepest half century. Of note, impacted by the worsening climate change gratitude for your support in and regional water problems, the global water management K-water, and I am pleased to environment is deteriorating. We have formulated a new mission, Opening the Future and introduce to you about K-water's together with a vision and strategy, to address the current Providing Happiness by Sharing Water 12th Sustainability Report. problems and secure sustainable growth for the future. K-water's management and staff are committing all available resources to fulfilling its corporate vision and strategy. Moreover, we are working to be Korea's Global Water Professional by taking advantage of its ongoing structural innovations and sound management. The 12th Sustainability Report of K-water provides details of its recent endeavors and performance outcomes related to its “Five Pledges for Sustainable Management” on important management issues which our customers are interested in. Pledge 1: “Intelligent Water Management and Satisfied Customers” Based on a comprehensive water management system that takes 2 into account the characteristics of major waterways, like the Han 3 Pledge 2: “New Water Values for All” Pledge 5: “Enterprise for and of Public Users” River and Nakdong River, K-water seeks to maintain integrated K-water strives to create new value for the public through the K-water is wholly committed to creating a workplace in which water management for the entire water cycle from water sources creation of eco-friendly waterfront spaces and full utilization of individuals and the company can grow together, under an to sewage disposal. K-water has implemented the Smart water resources in order to expand the development of clean autonomous, positive, and dynamic corporate culture. We Water Management Initiative (SWMI), which utilizes the latest energy (new & renewable sources). We are working to create new practice proactive ethical management that reflects the needs of information and communication technology (ICT), to ensure that water values to serve the interests of future generations. customers, respect for individual rights, and shared growth of the users never have to worry about water safety, from the water entire supply chain, including users, local communities, and small sources to their faucets. We are also working to upgrade service Pledge 3: “Leading Global Water Management Company” businesses. quality from the prospective of end-users and secure water K-water is pushing ahead with overseas water projects by taking welfare so that consumers will have no concerns about a lack of advantage of its valuable experiences and expertise related Above all, we solicit the support and encouragement from Vision water service. all relevant parties for K-water's efforts to realize our vision, to the entire water cycle, from water sources to tap water and sewage disposal. Moreover, K-water seeks to boost its leadership Opening the Future and Providing Happiness by Sharing Water , Global Water Professional in regards to resolving water problems based on in-depth based on our continuous innovation and spirit of challenge to exchanges with global water specialists. overcome any adversities. Pledge 4: “Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare” Sincerely yours, Core Values K-water carries out differentiated CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities in line with its distinctive interests and Hak Su Lee corporate capabilities. For example, “Watering Your Dream” is a K-water CEO Sound mentoring program for the children of disadvantaged families, Management Creation of while “Water Full of Happiness” provides maintenance work for New Growth water facilities located in low-income neighborhoods, along with Innovation Values installing tap-water facilities in foreign countries where lack of water is a problem. We conduct social contribution programs that Brand Slogan Stakeholders' address the specific needs of local communities and households, Trust through the active volunteer works of the management and staff. The power to make the world Actualization of Water Cycle go round Unlimited K-water System Practical Innovative Management Management Policy Approach to Sustainability CEO’s Message K-water, Global Hub of Water Membership Activities & Awards Management K-water Sustainability Highlights 2015 Membership Activities & Awards K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for K-water’s GWP K-water Sustainability Highlights 2015 Appendix Water Circle Water Value Water Platform Membership Activities 1971 Association of Great Dams 2005 Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Ethical Management Forum, River Association, 1974 Korean Society of Civil Engineers 2006 Dec. Jan. Korea Society for Environmental Analysis 1976 Korea Electric Association, International Contractors Association of Korea Korea Society of Environmental Restoration Technology, American Water 2007 Works Association, International Water Association, UN Global Compact Nov. Feb. 1993 Korea Water Resources Association Korean Society of Environmental Engineers, Membrane Society of Korea, 2008 1995 Environmental Impact Assessment Association Korean Society of Environment and Ecology Korean National Committee on Irrigation and Drainage, Korean Association of Academic Societies, 2010 1996 Korean Society for Fluid Machinery Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture 2011 Society of Air-conditioning Refrigerating Engineers of Korea Oct. Mar. 1997 Korea Electric Engineers Association 2012 Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society 1999 Korea Disaster Prevention Association 2013 Architectural Institute of Korea 2001 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association Korea Society of Mechanical Engineers, Korean Society of Climate Change 2014 Research, Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association, Korea Society of Quality 2002 Korea Water and Wastewater Works Association Management, International Hydropower Association Sep. Apr. Korean Society of Ecology and Infrastructure, Korea Society of Hazard 2003 Korean Society on Water Environment 2015 Mitigation Awards Aug. May Apr. 2008 Korea Management Innovation `Grand Prize' (Awarded by Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Maeil Business Newspaper) Korea Social Contribution `Grand Award' (Korea Journalist Forum), Sustainable Management `Award of Highest Excellence' (Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Oct. 2008 Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry) Korea Eco-Friendly Company `Grand Award' (Ministry of Environment), Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) July June 4 Jan. 2009 Continuity & Creation Management Award in Environmental Management (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and UN Global Compact) 5 Low Carbon Green Growth Commendation 0(Green Growth Association and Korean Ministry of Environment), New Regeneration Energy Awards Oct. 2009 `Prime Minister Commendation' (Ministry of Knowledge Economy), Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Dec. 2010 National Green Technology `Grand Award' (Korean Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korean Ministry of Education) Global/Asian MAKE (Most Admired Knowledge Enterprises) K-water CEO conferred Environmental Management CEO June 2011 Korea Green Management Award (Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Korean Ministry of Environment), Eco-Star Eco-technology Award (Korean Ministry of Environment) Jan. Winner (UK Teleos) Award (Korea Environmental Management Society) Jan. 2012 The first public company to be awarded the `Smart Work Superior Institute Award' (Korean Ministry of Public Administration and Security) MOU signed on technical exchanges involving water Feb. 2012 The Most Admired Company In Korea (KMAC) management with China's Ministry of Water Resources Feb. MOU concluded with Russia's Ministry of Development of Far Environmental Impact Management `Grand Prize' (Korean Ministry of Environment), Global Social Contribution Institute of Excellence Commendation (Ministry of Health and June 2012 East on technical cooperation on water management Welfare), Selected as an excellent company with an outstanding performance in `Labor and Management Relations' (Korean Ministry of Employment and Labor) July 2012 Korea Digital Innovation Award `Public Sector Grand Prize' (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Selected as entity to implement ecosystem conservation fund MOU concluded with Korea Rural Community Corp. Mar. return projects for three consecutive years on water management cooperation Sep. 2012 Excellent enterprise with an outstanding performance in purchasing goods from SMEs (Small and Medium Business Administration of Korea) (Ministry of Environment) Family-Friendly Enterprise (Korean Ministry of Gender Equality and Family), Top 100 Enterprise selected as `Great Workplace' (GWP Korea), MOU signed with Peru on integrated water resources A final report on 7th World Water Forum and WGG Oct. 2012 Apr. Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) management of Peru's Rio Rimac River (Water and Green Growth) issued Nov. 2012 Sustainability Grand Award, Innovation Management Award (Ministry of Knowledge Economy) MOU signed with Vietnam on public-private partnership for municipal sewage treatment Awarded National Sustainability Management Award for Dec. 2012 State-owned Company Award `Grand Prize' (Sisa Journal) June Implementation of Corporate Social Responsibility MOU signed with Philippine San Miguel Corp. for investment cooperation on Hwaseong international (Ministry of Health and Welfare) July 2013 Korean Digital Green Management Award (Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning) theme park project Korea Green Architecture Competition ‘Award of Excellence’ (Presidential Commissions on Architecture Policy), Oct. 2013 MOUs concluded on development and supply expansion of ‘Commendation for Service’ in Renewable Energy Supply Obligation System (Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Attained the status of excellence in 2014 performance July new and renewable energy with Korea Institute of Energy Nov. 2013 The Natural Environment Grand Award (Korean Ministry of Environment), Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) assessment of public institutions Research and Korea Energy Economics Institute Dec. 2013 Global Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) MOU concluded on strengthening bilateral cooperation on Aug. water treatment for successful implementation of Feb. 2014 The Most Admired Company in Korea (KMAC) the Saemangeum Project June 2014 Gained the top prize in water business assessment (Ministry of Environment) CSR Award conferred for support of Korean firms based in MOU signed with Sejong Metropolitan Autonomous City on the Philippines (Korean Embassy in Manila, Philippines) Sep. Aug. 2014 Korean Digital Award (Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning), Achieved Carbon Trust Standard (UK Carbon Trust) water resources management K-water CEO conferred KAPS Award (Korea Association for Policy Studies) Sep. 2014 IWA Project Innovation Award (IWA) A ground-breaking ceremony held for Completed construction of Seongdeok Multipurpose Dam Oct. Oct. 2014 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) Georgia Nenskra water resources development project which was previously an agricultural reservoir Conferred the “Most Admired Enterprise” Award (Ministry of GWP Grand Prize (GWP Korea), Korea Quality Management Enterprise Presidential Citation (Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy), Outstanding Agency in Anti-Disaster Drilling Nov. Nov. 2014 Trade, Industry and Energy) Assessment (National Emergency Management Agency), Advanced Public Enterprise in Shared Growth Prime Minister Award(Ministry of Public Administration and Security) Gender Equality and Family Minister Award Korea Social Outreach Award (Environment & Society of Sustainability Service), Korea Volunteer Work Grand Prize(Ministry of Public Administration and Security), Global Most Dec. 2014 for after-school program Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Telelos) Conferred Asia's best knowledge enterprise award, Educational Donation Grand Prize June 2015 National Sustainability Management Award (Ministry of Health and Welfare) Dec. “Asian MAKE,” for eight consecutive years (UK Teleos) for Public Enterprise (Ministry of Education) Nov. 2015 The Most Admired Company in Korea (Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy) MOU concluded with Jeju Metropolitan Autonomous City for mutual growth on water resources development Gender Equality and Family Minister Award for after-school programs, Educational Donation Grand Prize for Public Enterprise (Ministry of Education) Dec. 2015 Asian Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise (UK Teleos) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for K-water’s GWP Water Cycle * K-water's GWP, which stands for “Global Water Professional, Great Work Place,” signifies K-water's development goal of becoming a people-oriented enterprise. Developing an optimal water cycle system that benefits the whole world (Securing Integrated Water Management and Supplying Healthy Water) Since its foundation, K-water has developed into an integrated water service enterprise over a period of 50 years and has played a leading The environment for water supply and water management is changing fundamentally primarily due to abnormal weather conditions such as role in national development. K-water, in observance of its 50th anniversary in 2017, presents its vision for the next 100 years. In addition, we torrential rains and droughts. We will work to establish a sustainable water cycle system what integrates the management of water volume and laid out a strategy to sincerely implement nationwide the UN SDGs (United Nations Sustainable Development Goals). quality in order to forecast future weather conditions and prevent damages from disasters like floods and droughts. Of the 17 UN SDGs (United Nations Sustainable Opening the Future and Enhancing the value of water by developing new Mission Rain seed Providing Happiness by Sharing Water energy generation sources and waterfront spaces Development Goals), 11 goals involve water Drone New Management Strategy · Waterfront leisure and living spaces in resources management services. As such, Water resource satellite (real-time disaster which living creatures and culture thrive. monitoring) & UN SDGs (Basin and river water resources management is emerging as · Water-related clear energy without monitoring) ① ② Steam a key issue in the required preparation for the environmental pollution Goal 2 Goal 3 Goal 6 Goal 12 ② Creating the healthy water cycle Safeguard End hunger Improve Ensure water Responsible Rain water future. K-water will analyze future social trends Create Value public health supply and consumption collection ·A society free from water-related Lives Water Value and welfare hygiene and (megatrends) and requests of stakeholders. casualties and property losses Water Cycle production We redefined our value system, which will take ·Provision of cheap and healthy Network among Tap water drinking rate Goal 3 Goal 7 Goal 11 Goal 13 water resources water services anytime and 90% Ensure Sustainable Sustainable Respond K-water in a new direction as it approaches anywhere health energy cities & to climate infrastructures Multipurpose dams Nourish the and wellliving change its 50th anniversary, and prepares the next 50 being Regional Integrated Estuary dam Economy Water Management years, along our management strategy. We Water Platform Center Multipurpose dams will sincerely implement the United Nations Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 Goal 2 Goal 3 Goal 6 Goal 12 (UN) SDGs, while spreading our expertise Respond Conserve Preserve End hunger Ensure Clean water Responsible health and consumption Goal 14 Goal 15 to climate the marine eco-diversity Mega compact building globally on various fields, including integrated and wellsanitation and Conserve Preserve change ecosystem ③ being production the marine ecoSmart factory Sea water water resources management, water energy ecosystem diversity Wind power AI desalination The nation's annual rainfall, which averages 1,227 6 development and creation of waterfront spaces. Laying the foundation for the innovation of the global water industry mm, is 1.6 times higher than the global average generation ④ ③ Drinking water 7 IoT-based intelligent ⑤ Moreover, we will seek to globalize water-related ·Expand and share the development and solutions of Korean-style SDGs (807mm). But due to Korea's high population ③ net management Dispersal tap & values, and promote and share them for future Goal 13 Goal 14 Goal 15 ·Creation of quality jobs and national wealth density, rainfall per person (2,629m3) stands at only sewage disposal ⑦ Respond Conserve Preserve Healthy water to climate the marine eco17% of the global average (16,427m3). Management generations. Our ultimate goal is to become a change ecosystem diversity Ultrapure water of water resources is especially critical in Korea treatment global water professional, and a global hub of Groundwater Water for because rainfall levels vary by season and region, ⑥ dams Tunnel in a great depth beauty business water management. and surface water quickly runs off due to its fastWastewater Goal 1 Goal 4 Goal 6 Goal 8 Goal 9 Goal 13 Goal 17 reuse End poverty Quality Clean water Economic Infrastructure Respond Active global flowing rivers and waterways. In light of these Water for therapy and growth and building and to climate partnerships education challenges, K-water practices integrated water sanitation quality jobs sustainable change among * Water Cycle: The entire hydrologic cycle in which water vapor from the land and seas enters the atmosphere and later returns industrializacountries management and accumulates the most advanced to the earth's surface, infiltrating the ground and eventually flowing into streams and rivers. tion information and knowledge that highlight the fact (①Water vapor ②River water ③Water sources diversification (river water, groundwater, seawater desalination) that basin-based conditions are changing due to ④Purified water supply ⑤Sewage disposal ⑥Recycled water supply ⑦Release of water) What are the UN SDGs (United Nations Sustainability Development Goals)? the impact of climate change. Goals On September 25, 2015, which marked the 15th anniversary of the Millenium Development Goals (MDGs) adopted by 189 countries, UN Secretary General Ki Moon Ban Future Changes Targets 2016 2045 2067 and 193 country leaders agreed on the SDGs (Sustainability Development Goals), which are the joint global development goals for the next 15 years after the MDGs. K-water will move ahead with integrated water Population prone to Population prone to Increasing Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere services that highlight the water cycle, while Vulnerability due Population prone to droughts : 1% droughts : 0% Secure the safe supply of moving beyond its existing services in which droughts: 12% River 70% River 60% Goal 2 End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture to Severe Droughts water resources (utilize River 89% Rainwater & recycled Rainwater & recycled factors such as the management of water supply (Water demand diverse water resources) Others 11% water 16% water 24% Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages and water quality were unduly divided. K-water slumps/stay flat) Sea & groundwater 14% Sea & groundwater 16% Goal 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all will promote the entire process of water cycle Upgrade technology levels Strengthen the platform Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls from water sources to faucets and from sewage for forecasting floods & for forecasts, including Forecast accuracy: 95% Forecast accuracy: 99% disposal to water sources. We will operate realIncrease in Floods droughts technology development Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Risk (Use of drones and satellites) time integrated facilities with ICT (Information Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all (Growing Victims and Communication Technologies) aligned with importance of flood Goal 8  Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Minimize flood victims & 7,691(2014) 12,300 zero water management, in light of rivers and basincontrol) full and productive employment, and decent work for all property damage Property damage based characteristics. Going further, we will push Goal 9 Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization, and foster innovation ahead with sustainable water services that call KRW 147.5 billion(2014) KRW 236 billion zero Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries for integrated management of water quantity Technological Tap water drinking rate quality and ecosystem with active participation of Advancement Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Fusion of operating 5% 80% 90% (Industry 4.0) Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns various stakeholders. Of note, K-water will seek management Increasing Water leakage rate in large cities & local areas* to actualize water welfare for everyone through with high tech Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Complexity (IoT, drones, satellites) effective water services that minimize the use of of Operation/ 11% (700 million ton) 4% zero Goal 14 Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development national territory, energy and resources in response Management Goal 15 Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, to climate change. No one will remain cut off from Deterioration of Number of Medium Influence Areas achieving Good Water Grade (II)** or higher combat desertification and halt and reverse land degradation, and halt biodiversity loss Secure optimum quality of our water services Our ultimate goal is to develop Water Quality of river water 95 (2015) Over 105 Over 105 Goal 16 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and a new paradigm for sustainable growth through Rivers build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels expansion of high-tech water industries including * Leakage rate: Rate of tap water leaked from tap water distributed by pipelines Goal 17 Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development seawater desalination, industrial water and ** Good Water Grade (II): This refers to the second grade of water quality, defined in the Basic Environmental Policy Law. This water has plenty of oxygen, dispersal sewage disposal. while almost devoid of pollutants. It can be utilized by domestic water after conventional water purification (no need of advanced water purification) Water Value Water Platform Creating new value through the creative use of water Providing water services to ensure water security and prosperity for the earth (Develop creative waterfront spaces and secure global capability of water related power generation (alternative energy sources)) (Advance into Overseas Markets, Realize Korean Peninsula Integrated Water Resources Management) Adversely impacted by global warming, the availability of waterfront space is rising, while global demands for clean energy are also going While global population and water demand are rising rapidly, the total amount of global water resources remain virtually unchanged. As up. K-water endeavors to recreate waterfront spaces as new living spaces for residential, waterfront and cultural activities. K-water is also a result, the importance of technology for effective water usage and infrastructure is increasing day by day. K-water provides total water actively involved in the development of clean energy including floating photovoltaic power, water-thermal power and tidal energy. K-water solutions on the entire global water cycle, based on its water-related expertise reliability and global network which have been built over the is contributing to society by adding value based on its creative use of water. past half century. Integrated traffic management Carbon Overseas Projects New technology Venture firm Unification projects Smart Water City Korean Smart City dioxide Oxygen Creation of Solution water industry Goal 1 Goal 4 Goal 6 Goal 8 Goal 3 Goal 7 Goal 11 Goal 13 Intelligent Heat recovery ecosystem Apnok River Area Duman River Area Ensure Sustainable Sustainable Respond to pipeline net End poverty Quality Clean water Economic window K-water health energy cities & living climate change education and sanitation growth and having natural Integrated water Job creation and well-being quality jobs Global water Daedong River Area Floating photovoltaic power ventilative service market totals generation effect KRW800 trillion Mega compact Imjin River Area Outer wall capturing in 2016 building water Provide test bed & Outer wall Han River Area Hospital School Shopping data, performance Yeongsan River Area capturing Flexible verification water house solar energy Goal 9 Goal 13 Goal 17 Nakdong River Area Goal 14 Goal 15 generation Infrastructure Respond to Active global Conserve Preserve ecobuilding and climate change partnerships K-water the marine diversity sustainable among Seomjin River Area ecosystem industrialization countries Tidal power generation In 2050, the average temperatures of the earth are With water stability becoming a global concern, Smart Water Management (using the information and forecast to rise by 3.2% because of climate change, countries across the globe are seeking to expand Water thermal communication technologies) while sweltering heat and tropical nights will likely Hydroelectric investments in projects to improve the efficiencies of 8 increase 3-fold and 6-fold, respectively. As a power energy (cooling & water-related infrastructure. K-water is ready to play Water treatment (tap & sewage) Water resources 9 generation consequence, demands for living and activities in heating) a leading role in the future water oriented businesses Industrial water waterfront spaces are all but certain to rise. Wind power with focus placed on an innovation platform, a Water cycle big data generation cooperative platform and a unification platform. Water industry trend R&D Customers' needs K-water intends to employ its distinctive waterrelated technology to the development of Sancheona (a kind Chinese minnow First, we will seek be a leader in technology innovation waterfront spaces near dams, rivers, lakes and seas of fish inhabiting in the global water industry by establishing an open in clean river in Water cleanup plant robots innovation-based water industry platform. We will across the nation. By doing so, K-water will help to Korea) (monitoring & water cleanup) create eco-friendly waterfront cities in which water, endeavor to expand and standardize joint R&D which nature and culture are fused together, and build * Heat recovery window having natural ventilative effect: Fresh air is circulated within buildings without opening windows, is focused on technology fusion and applications * Test bed: K-water opens up and provides its facilities for testing of new technologies developed by SMEs (Small or Medium size Enterprises). space in which humans blend well with nature. so as to minimize energy losses in partnerships with Korean and foreign businesses While providing safe water, K-water is striving to * Flexible solar photovoltaic power generation: Power generating device with solar thermal collector that can be folded or opened up and academia. Moreover, we will put a technology Goals build safe cities to flexibly respond to floods and knowledge system in place and enhance value added, Future Changes Targets Goals while establishing cooperative ties with global water 2016 2045 2067 droughts. Moreover, K-water remains committed Future Changes Targets business organizations. to creating eco-friendly cities in which nature 2016 2045 2067 Number of global ventures promoted and humans live in harmony with each other By taking advantage of Korea's experience in water Promotion of 0 120 220 New Technology and building beautiful and unique water cities Demand for Waterfront space management, K-water will play a role in resolving high-tech-based Cultivate waterfrontMarket Formation Creation of high-tech jobs that utilize waterfront assets, along with securing Waterfront global water problems. Toward this end, Korea will take water industry oriented lives 89,100,000 m2 151,800,000m2 198,000,000m2 tourism-leisure multipurpose cities in waterfront Development Rises the initiative to develop a platform that cooperatively 736 20,000 50,000 spaces. K-water is seeking to improve the living Develop spaces for Number of waterfront space visitors addresses global water problems We intend to Number of countries that K-water advances to Global Infrastructure Global market standards of people by providing waterfront Increase Leisure Time establish our own total solution for integrated water 193 leisure and culture 4.2 million 9.9 million 19 million Market Expansion expansion 26 110 recreation and living quarter spaces. resources management, desalination of sea waters ·UN member countries Biological indicator species and floating photovoltaic power generation. This Building of Infrastructure K-water also endeavors to develop various types Catfish, Carp, etc. Chinese Minnows, Sancheona, etc. will enable K-water to expand into the global water of new and renewable energy like hydraulic River Water Quality Recovery of river <Reconciliation stage> <Comprehensive (bad) Sweetfish, etc. (good) (very good) market. power, solar power, wind power and tidal Deterioration ecosystem Establish Korean development> Dispersal sewage disposal rate Inter-Korea Set up DB power and water-thermal power in response Finally, we will work to build a platform that will peninsula integrated Establish long-term Exchange Expansion Strengthen Maintaining 1% 40% 100% contribute to promoting national unification by water, water management plans for development to the government policy that seeks to reduce business base greenhouse gases emission and develop remove Water-thermal power development expand inter-Korean cooperation and establish a panof N. Korean water Reinforce network resources (more) new and renewable energy. As the Paris 100% use of available 4,000RT 393,000RT Maintenance Korean water management system after unification. Expansion of New & Climate Change Agreement dealing with the water related energy We will construct a database for water resources in Renewable Energy Floating photovoltaic power development mitigation of greenhouse gases emission was sources North Korea, establish a long-term strategic plan for signed, the Korean government adopted the 5MW Maintaining Maintaining water resources management of North Korea, and policy to expand energy business as a core task. compose a plan for mitigation of floods and droughts * RT (Refrigerating Ton): Signifies the cooling & heating volume using water thermal energy K-water is leading the greenhouse gases emission in North Korea by connecting the waterways of the mitigation effort, along with development of new South and the North. We thereby will be well prepared clean energy businesses. K-water is emerging for national unification, while speeding up efforts to as an enterprise that plays a leading role in the expand the cooperative platform for resolving water creation of clean energy based on its professional issues in the Northeast Asia. water management capabilities. K-water, Global Hub of Water Management Corporate Overview 12 Vision & Strategy 14 Governance & Responsible Management 16 K-water's Communication with Stakeholders 19 Interviews with Stakeholders 21 Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) 22 Result of Communication with Stakeholders 23 Core Values of K-water's Sustainable Management 24 Creating Clear Values K-water creates new water-originated-values with the adoption of ideas that are based on unconventional thinking and innovation. Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management Corporate Overview K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index K-water, Korea’s only public water service agency, seeks to ensure efficient In 1994, K-water entered into the overseas market with a survey project on the Fenhe River management of water resources, thereby protecting Koreans from disasters like in China's Shanxi Province. Since then, K-water has performed a total of 67 projects in 24 countries as of November, 2016, by taking advantage of its bolstered business competencies and floods and supplying clean water for all. K-water will endeavor to enable all areas diversification efforts. Presently, K-water is performing or developing 13 projects in 11 countries, of the country to access the benefits of water under the mission of Opening the including investment projects such as Pakistan's Patrind hydraulic power plant. Future and Providing Happiness by Sharing Water . Regional Offices and Overseas Projects (As of Oct. 31, 2016) General Status (As of March 31, 2016) Regional Headquarters Korea Water Resources Corporation, K-water Corporate Name Construction Team November 16, 1967 Establishment Date Management Team/ Water Management K-water seeks to ensure stable supply of water for living through integrated development and Center Purpose of Water Supply management of water resources. We are committed to improving the living standards of people and Establishment public welfare. Management Team Semi-market type state-owned enterprise Institution Type Investment Projects (4) Sintanjin-Ro 200, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon 34350, Republic of Korea Head office Official Development 12 Assistance and others (6) 13 4,380 Total Number of Employees  Technical Service Projects (3) [Head Office] 4 divisions, 26 Business departments, [Onsite] 9 divisions, 60 regional offices Organization KRW 3.78 trillion Sales KRW 13.27 trillion Total Liabilities Domestic: AAA Overseas: Moody's Aa3(stable), Fitch AA-(stable) Credit Rating Korean Government 91.5%, KDB Bank 8.4%, local governments 0.1% Composition of Shareholders Pakistan Cambodia (2 projects) Subsidiaries & Affiliates (As of November 30, 2016) Bangladesh Thailand Georgia The Philippines (2 projects) Domestic Overseas Equatorial Guinea Morocco, Solomon Islands Mozambique · Angat Hydropower Co. (Ownership 40.0%) · Waterway Plus Co., Ltd. (Ownership 100%) · JSC Nenskra Hydro Co. (Ownership 100%) Indonesia · P-Waters Co., Ltd. (Ownership 2.0%) · KDS Hydro PTE. Ltd. (Ownership 80.0%) · Korea Construction Management Co., Ltd. STAR HYDRO POWER LIMITED (Ownership 80.0%) (Ownership 18.9%) · K-water Thailand Co. Ltd. (Ownership 99.9%) Chile · KWPP Holdings Co. (Ownership 37.5%) Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management Vision & Strategy K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index K-water has redefined its value system and management strategy to prepare for Innovation Direction & Goals for Achieving K-water's New Vision the next 50 years and its 100th anniversary. Furthermore, K-water has striven to New Direction Goals bolster its integrated water management competencies by ramping up its water Healthy cooperative culture with customers to security and water cycle mechanisms in response to challenges of climate change. increase happiness(satisfaction) Increase in In this way, K-water is preparing to emerge as a global water professional. We will Together 1. Customers' participation in management customer endeavor to transform management challenges into growth opportunities and 2. Creation of jobs satisfaction 3. Fulfill social responsibility achieve sustainable growth through innovative management. Becoming a water industry leader through proactive changes Autonomous 4. Practice global-level transparency/ethic management Induce change New Value System to Usher in the Next 50 Years 5. Secure an autonomous & dynamitic organization K-water has reestablished its value system and strategy in response to changes of the future (mega 6. Proactive risk management trends) and requests of stakeholders. Based on this new system, K-water’s management and staff will Upgrading productivity & trust in management move forward to effectively fulfill its mission for the next 50 years. 7. Foster talent who will lead the future Performance Create value 8. Secure self-reliant financial structure New Value System and Strategic Direction 9. Innovate business processes Purpose of Development of Supply of industrial Improvement of Improve public Establishment water resources water water quality welfare Establishing New Business Units for Achieving K-water's New 50 Year Vision 14 Mission Opening the Future and Providing Happiness by Sharing Water 15 Present business units New business unit Vision Global Water Professional Insufficient synergy creation due to lack of connecting Strategy for attaining K-water's New 50 Year Vision New Value System to Usher in among businesses Shared Values Core Values the Next 50 Years Integrated water management business Build an optimal Create new Actualization Practical and Water Water Sound Stakeholders' Creation of new Healthy water water cycle water-originated Innovation of water cycle innovative Cycle Value management Trust growth value supply business system that value through system management benefits people creative water Clean energy business utilization Water Strategic Direction Strategic Objectives 2017 2026 Waterfront space creation Platform Secure water resources Developing an Optimal 15.83 billion ton 18.66 billion ton Overseas, (reservoir capacity) North Korean projects Water Cycle System Providing water services to all (Water Cycle) Tap water drinking rate 5% 30% for a more prosperous world Waterfront space 89,100,000 m2 99,000,000m2 Creating a New Water-originated Value (Water Value) Water-related energy Floating photovoltaic power 5MW Floating photovoltaic power 2,758MW, Strategy for Enhancing the Business Units sources development Water thermal energy 4,000RT* Water thermal energy 196,000RT* Water Cycle Water Value Water Platform Leading Global Water thermal energy KRW 205.7billion KRW 302.8 billion Water Industry Develop world-class waterfront space Support to SMEs'** advancing Establish a platform for integrated water management Upgrade risk management capabilites for (Water Platform) Service Innovation 13 (accumulative) 61 (accumulative) Secure technological competencies for into overseas market Secure reliability of water quality & Safe supply overseas projects water-using energy Public Enterprise of Trust Total Sales KRW 3.7 trillion KRW 7.1 trillion Level up response capacity to climate change Lay the basis for pioneering into North Korea (Customer services, Lay the foundation for continuing Expand consignation & consignment contracts Create a roadmap for future growth of Future Growth waterfront space creation self-regulation, of regional tap water projects overseas businesses performance) Debt Ratio 204.3% 98.6% Playing a pivotal role in smart water information *RT (Refrigerating Ton) signifies the cooling & heating volume using water thermal energy Create new waterfront spaces Develop core technology for water management management **SMEs: Small and Medium size Enterprises Develop water-related energy sources Develop a water platform water platform Explore high-tech market of water industry Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management Governance & Responsible K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Management Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index K-water’s Board of Directors (BOD), its highest decision-making body, deliberates In 2015, K-water realigned its organization to place a greater focus on applying innovation to and passes resolutions on K-water’s major issues for achieving its management Shared Growth and business processes and more scientific water management in response to the abnormal weather Cooperation Committee conditions. In 2016, we upgraded the Organizational Culture Innovation Department and placed it goals by taking into account economic, social, and environmental issues. The BOD under the umbrella of the CEO in an effort to create a more autonomous, positive, and dynamic also checks and supports the executives concurrently. K-water has developed workplace. Moreover, K-water intends to revamp its business units, which are responsible for and manages 22 key sustainability management performance indicators. As water resources and water supply, into integrated water management operational units, based on a result, K-water has ranked at the top of KOBEX SM, Korea Business Indexthe entire water cycle in order to fulfill its corporate vision over the next 50 years. Sustainability Management for four consecutive years. 8 Meetings Convened in 2015 K-water holds regular advisory council and committee meetings, which include the participation of 8 Meetings NGO, academia, and government representatives, to gather feedback from various stakeholders, and Convened in 2016 communicate with them. Of note, the Shared Growth and Cooperation Committee, established in Corporate Governance Composition of Investors (As of March 31, 2016) 2014, discusses management issues with civic environment organizations including Korea Federation The Korea Water Resources Corporation Act limits the corporation’s investors to the national of Environmental Movements, water experts and conflict management specialists. The committee government, local governments, and the Korea Development Bank (KDB). The law also stipulates has conducted 18 meetings, as of November 2016. The committee held 8 meetings each in 2015 and that the national government must invest more than 50% of the total capital. As of March 31, 2016, 2016. Opinions gathered in the committee meetings are reflected in management's decision-making K-water’s shareholders are comprised of the national government (91.5%), KDB (8.4%), and local process, along with the outcomes being reported to stakeholders at subsequent meetings. governments (0.1%). Sustainable Management Promotion Organization (As of Dec. 1, 2016) 91.5% Composition and Role of the Board of Directors Government Board of Directors CEO Auditor K-water's Board of Directors is comprised of 15 directors: 7 executive directors and 8 non16 executive directors. Various specialists are appointed as non-executive directors to improve the 8.4% Advisory Council 17 governance structure of K-water and check management. They also work for the improvement KDB Bank K-water Management Tap Water Quality Council Advisory Council of the corporation's financial soundness and waterfront business. More than half the members of Regional Dam the Board, Executive Recommendation Committee, and the Audit Committee are outside directors 0.1% Shared Growth and Cooperation Committee Construction Council Senior Executive Management (Management Services Innovation Vice President Services Dept. Team) Sustainability Management to ensure independence and the role of checks and balances. In 2015, the Board of Directors Local Governments Customer Service Committee Planning & (Former Future Strategy Department convened for/on 19 sessions with a recorded attendance rate of 93%. The Board deliberated 48 & Financial Structure Improvement Coordination Dept. items and presented 65 management proposals. The management proposals were reflected into Board of Directors Status Organizational-culture Team) Future Strategy & Financial Innovation Dept. Management K-water's management innovations. (As of Nov. 30, 2016) Responsible for Innovating Technology & Safety (Former Disaster & Safety Position Name Title Organizational Culture Management Dept. Management Department) Disaster President & Prevention & Safety Management Lee, Board of Directors' Remuneration Policy CEO (Chief Hak Su Executive Officer) Business Business Water and Human Overseas Business Regional Head Offices of Choi, Administrative Division Auditor General Management Division Development Division Settlements Division Division Han, Geum-YeongsanThe executive directors receive performance-based payments according to the results of Ho Sang Kim, Senior Executive (Conflict Management (Corporate Partnership & Seomjin, and Nakdong government evaluations, which consider quantified and non-quantified outcomes and Seon Yeong Vice President Team/Innovation Diagnosis Team/National River & Sihwa Business implementation efforts. Based on this remuneration policy, K-water’s CEO was paid about KRW Chief Promotion Team) Drought Information Analysis Division Kwak, Responsible for Conflict Center) Responsible for Administration 214 million in 2015. The auditor was paid KRW 166 million and the executive directors were paid Executive Soo Dong Officer Management, Business Support Programs for Shared an average of KRW 158 million each. K-water’s employees were paid KRW 73 million on average, Directors Process Innovation Growth, National Drought Chief Business Kim, Information Management Management with new recruits receiving KRW 32 million. Non-executive directors were paid based on their Bong Jae Officer attendance rates with payment ceilings of KRW 30 million each. Park, Chief Business Development Byeong Don Officer Innovative Organizations for Sustainable Management Chief Management Lim, Sustainable Management System Officer of Han Seong Ho River region 2012 2013 2014 2015-6 Chairman / Senior ㆍCreate Autonomous, Positive & Park, K-water is pushing ahead with sustainable management with active participation of its entire Seung Ki Non-executive Dynamic Organizational Culture Director •Advancement of organization. The Management Services Department, under the Office of the Senior Executive Kim, Non-executive Sustainable Management •Shared Growth with •Sustainable Growth with ㆍInnovate Business Process Management for Partnering Companies Smart Management the Entire Water Cycle Vice Presidents, and each regional office implement business activities with economic, social and Won Tae Director Needs •Strengthening of •Sustainable Growth through •Strengthen Disaster & ㆍLay the Basis for Scientific Water Management in Lee, Non-executive Pre-adjustment environmental perspectives in an organic manner. Won Suk Director Financial Restructuring Safety Management Response to Abnormal Weather Conditions Conflict Capacity NonKim, Non-executive ㆍEstablish Water Management Implementation executive Keun Sik Director Units Linking Businesses Directors Choi, Non-executive Yun Ho Director ㆍOrganizational-culture Innovation Dept. •Corporate Partnership & Cho, Non-executive •Management Services •Future Strategy Department ㆍInnovation Promotion Team Organizational Diagnosis Team Young Jae Director Innovation Team •Disaster & ㆍNational Drought Information Analysis Center Park, Non-executive Innovation •Conflict Management Team •Financial Structure Safety Management Department ㆍRealign Business Units (Management, Woo Ho Director Improvement Team Business Management & Development, etc.) Cho, Non-executive Won Sik Director Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management Governance and Responsible xK-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Management Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index Key Performance Indicators K-water operates communication channels and programs which aim to meet the Dam Water Supply [unit: 100 million ㎥] special needs of stakeholders for effective open communication with its various 2014 2015 Indicators Achievement stakeholders. K-water seeks to identify stakeholder groups which affect and are Performed Goals Performed Rate affected at each stage of its supply chain and to understand stakeholders' needs Dam Water Supply (100 million ㎥) in the corporate supply chain context. With this, K-water significantly enhances ※Amount of only domestic and industrial water 55.2 57.3 56.9 99.4% supply from K-water's operating dams 63.7 the stakeholders' understanding of its corporate vision and management Flood Control Capacity 49.5 50.3 50.3 100.0% 55.2 56.9 strategies. (100 million ㎥) Overseas Projects Implementation Rate*(%) [Value of Overseas Orders [10.1] 500 462 92.4% (USD 100 million)] 2014 2015 2025 Waterfront Plot Sales 10,407 8,768 10,201 116.3% (Goal) K-water's Stakeholders (KRW 100 million) K-water's stakeholders include customers that directly receive services from K-water, Clean Energy Supply(GWh) 2,854 2,733 1,753 64.1% Water Supply [unit: million ㎥] the Korean government which is a major shareholder of K-water, local governments, Industrial Water Sales (KRW 100 million) 249 210 227 108.1% local communities that undertake businesses, academia & NGOs which influence 4,339 K-water's businesses, partnering companies involved in K-water's whole business Key Technology Project Completion (cases) 4 11 11 100% process and its employees. Water Informatization Project** 40 40이상 100% 3,806 3,772 K-water Major Stakeholders Water Supply(million ㎥) 3,722 3,873 3,806 98.3% Description Stakeholders Field of Interest Communication Strategy ※Amount of raw and treated water suppled by K-water 18 Internal Supportive Type Employees, Labor Union Sustained company growth, Welfare working Transparent decision-making, Information sharing, Trust 19 conditions building Replacing of Aged Pipelines(km) 27.6 42 28.9 69% Policy-making organs(government, National Offer basis for policymaking, participate in and consult Cooperative Type Policy coherence Policy & technical validity Assembly) Expert groups over decision-makings Global Water Quality Standard 99.61 99.67 99.73 100.1% 2014 2015 2025 External Relational Type Customers (local governments, etc.), Local Service quality, Regional benefits Value sharing, Conflict prevention, Expand management Achievement Rate***(%) communities participation opportunities (Goal) Flowrate in Pipelines of Local Persuasion Type Media, General public News value, Management transparency, Fairness Offer news material, Water crisis, Share water information 82.1 80.8 82.7 102.4% Waterworks(%) Direct Supply of Multi-regional Trust Management Index 9 12 133.3% Waterworks**(cases) [unit: point] Major Stakeholders in the Context of K-water's Supply Chain Level of Risk Management(point) 95.2 95.2 95.3 100.1% 84 Business Government Rate of Accident Prevention Efforts(%) 0.69 0.375 0.356 105.3% Planning 68 Employees Social Contribution Activity Index(point) 92.2 92.5 92.7 100.3% 56 Construction Environmental Performance Evaluation 153 150 148 98.7% Partnering Index(point) Companies Level of Corporate Integrity(grade) Outstanding Outstanding Average K-water Supply Production Chain & Operation Stakeholders 2014 2015 2025 Trust Management Index(point) 56 72 68 94.4% (Goal) Customers Level of Creativity and Innovation(%) 91.8 95.4 95.6 100.2% Use Local Talent Fostering Rate(point) 41.3 41 42.5 103.7% Community Profit Rate(%) Discard & NGO, 11.8 7.4 9.3 125.7% Reuse Academia ※Excluding the profit of privately financed construction business * A dotted line connects to each stage of the supply chain with a stakeholder group Sales Increase Rate(%) that affects and is affected most significantly at the stage of the supply chain 16.6 6.4 2.1 32.8% ※Excluding the profit of privately financed construction business (Domestic) Local governments (clients of multi-regional waterworks, local waterworks and sewage consignments), clients of tap water, Korea Electric Power Corp, owners of * Performance results were based on Value of Overseas Orders (accumulated) Until 2014. Since 2015, the performance evaluation was Government Related government agencies Customers lands near waterfront areas changed to Overseas Projects Implementation Rate (Overseas) Local governments, residents, development banks ** (Water Informatization Project) Newly established Index in 2015 Local Employees Management and staff in Korea &overseas, labor union Construction areas, business areas, other areas, residents, etc. *** K-water applied more rigorous standards for the operation of its waterworks, compared to water quality standards of developed Community countries (Korea, WHO, the United standards Japan and Australia), which was named as Global Water Quality Standard . In 2015, Partnering Companies related to production, facilities and management K-water enhanced its Global Water Quality Standard with the consideration of Israel's standard NGO, Academia Societies, associations, civic organizations, etc. Companies of raw materials & construction firms Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management K-water's Communication with K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Stakeholders Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index Open Channel & Programs Based on the Characteristics of Stakeholders Results of Open K-water has conducted a series of interviews with various stakeholders, including Communication with government officials, customers, employees, partnering companies, local Online (Government, (Employees, Online Stakeholders K-water website, public organization ALIO National Assembly, Labor union) Communication (CEO Portal), communities and academia, to share values with them and ensure sustainable Smart phone app., SNS, newsletter Experts) in-house broadcasts Focus View(Video New), Measurement Index 2014 2015 growth. K-water will actively reflect their opinions into its future development video conferencing strategy so as to lay the foundation for creating sustainable future values. Offline Understanding 95.5 97.1 National Assembly Smart Water Forum, Offline of vision & point point Cooperative Supportive strategy Shared Growth & Cooperation Committee, K-PUB, Junior Board, Change Leader Type Type Internal etc. Water Management Council, Future Development Promotion Group, Trust-based 56 68 Government/ Economy Customers/ Customer Satisfaction National Policy Coordination Conference Open Debate on Management management point point index Global warming continues to devastate the environment With the rapid spread of globalization, corporate business due to the worsening impact of climate change. Taking ethics warrant added attention. K-water, as the nation's Online Online Extenal 97.9 98.3 action in response to this phenomenon is an urgent only public agency that provides integrated water K-water website Smart phone app., Relational Persuasion K-water website Smart phone app., communicapoint point issue that cannot be delayed. Appropriate measures also management services, needs to gain the public's full SNS including Facebook Type Type SNS including Facebook tion index External should be taken in accordance with the Climate Change confidence through its ethical business practices and Convention. As for K-water, which plays a central role transparent management. K-water needs to step up Positive 3,039 3,994 Offline Offline case case in Korea's water management, it needs to bolster the efforts to preserve our environment and limited water reports Customer Services Committee, College students, housewife supporters, competency of its water resources management through resources, promote CSR activities to support people in CSR activities (Local Governments, water education for people the development of environment-friendly technology, need, and provide the highest levels of products and Dam Construction Evaluation Council Customers, Local (Media, Print ads, PR leaflets, broadcast, special reports in step with the latest advancements in global water services so that the public can be assured of the supply of Communities) Public) management. Furthermore, K-water needs to upgrade clean water, a fundamental need of all people. Above all, Ministry of Land, its management system so as to realize sustainable Water Supply Office, K-water needs to make strenuous efforts to improve the Infrastructure & management, respond to the various needs of its Changwon City public's quality of life through the provision of exceptional Transportation stakeholders, including the central government, NGOs, water management services. and general public, and fulfill its role as a responsible Kwak, Gyeong Rok Ahn, Jin Hae public enterprise. (Officer in Charge) Results of Communication Based on the Characteristics of Stakeholders (Secretary Official) 20 21 K-water strives to prevent conflicts that could happen during the business processes through effective communication that is focused on characteristics of stakeholders. By doing so, K-water Management & Staff/ Value Creation Partnering Company/ Shared Growth works to minimize the inconveniences of people, enabling its stakeholders to get involved in the For any organization to become sustainable, much time K-water is a special-purpose organization that is and effort is required. This process must be based on clear dedicated to pursuing shared growth together with small entire business management process directly and indirectly. directions and a sustainable-minded management. It will and medium-size enterprises (SMEs), in accordance with not be possible for an enterprise to implement sustainable its long-term master plan for shared and sustainable values if it only addresses pending issues and pursues growth. Moreover, K-water seeks to develop the advanced Mission Based on the Characteristics of short gains in response to changes in the government's technologies of its partner businesses. The first step Communication Efforts Results policy directions. For K-water as well, it cannot realize toward shared growth is to broaden its understanding Stakeholders sustainable management if its long-term strategy is being of the production sites and operations of the partner Launched campaigns to overcome Launched water-saving campaigns in communities and distributed water-saving adjusted frequently due to changes in top management enterprises. Partner businesses need to make concerted droughts in the Chungcheongnamdevices for toilet stools (9,560), Saved 33,000㎥/day, 14.7% of daily water supply Accelerating and its business activities are unduly influenced by efforts to accelerate the cooperative development of do region, along with voluntary Offered money to encourage residents to take part in spontaneous water saving of western Chungnam-do (8 cities & counties) Participation water saving efforts (KRW3.4 billion) external factors. As such, it is necessary for K-water's new technologies. Meanwhile, K-water should place of Customers K-water Labor Union management to establish sound corporate governance in Techwin Co., Ltd. an emphasis on win-win outcomes with its partner & Local Secured residents' understanding Local residents participated in decision-making through Dam Construction Evaluation order to withstand pressure from the central government enterprises, rather than pursuing short-term gains. Plans to construct dam were finalized through of new dam construction through Council(Wonju Dam), Respected requests of local communities through explanations Noh, Eun Shik and to maintain its pursuit of sustainable growth. Kim, Jeong Shik K-water's shared growth, which is designed to strengthen Communities communication with local residents (Wonju & the Dam Construction Evaluation and consultative meetings with local residents (Bonghwa Dam), Commenced with a the technological competency of partner businesses, will Bonghwa Dams) (Senior Union Vice (Senior Executive Council feasibility study after eliminating conflicts on the size of dam (Daedeok Dam) Chairman) Managing Director) be vital to overcome the challenges of fierce competition Integrated water information through collaboration with the Ministry of Land, and serve as a foundation for the sustainable growth of all Creation of `My Water,” a water Infrastructure and Transport, Ministry of Environment, Korea Rural Community parties. information portal for combing Corporation and Korea Meteorological Administration. Developed 163 customized Initiated service for people with the creation of water information and customized contents based on surveys on the needs of water users the water portal (www.water,or.kr) Government services * One-click service that provides various types of information such as water quality, Academia/ Environmental Management Local Community/ Social Responsibility and Local water usage, supply process and charge The global water market continues to expand as demand K-water needs to nurture a flexible organizational culture Governments for water rises sharply worldwide as a result of emerging in order to proactively respond to various water issues Cooperate with K-water made quick decisions on major policies including the construction Overcame severe droughts countries' economic development, global population that emerge in Korea and across the world and to come of waterways through the National Policy Coordination Conference and Water Related Agencies in Chungnam region through growth, and accelerated urbanization. The importance of up with workable alternatives. Climate change and Management Council. Implemented emergency projects to reduce tap water leaks in K-water secured the stable supply of industrial cooperation between agencies, Chungcheongnam-do Province and five cities and counties. Initiated joint operations water after overcoming five months of droughts integrated water management is now being highlighted global warming tend to regularly beget new issues that without the suspension of industrial of multipurpose and power-generating dams in partnership with Korea Hydro & by the serious impact of global warming. K-water enjoys invariably pose a threat to water resources. In this regard, water supply Nuclear Power a comparative advantage in terms of its integrated water it is necessary to establish a citizens' alliance, along with management experience and impressive performance in conducting a publicity campaign. It is also important In August 2015, K-water introduced a salary K-water designed a salary peak system that exceeded the youth recruitment goal water management, construction, and production. K-water for stakeholders to streamline and effectively manage peak system for all employees ahead of other K-water played a leading role in with active participation of management and unionists. Established the personnel thus needs to map out longand mid-term strategies the procedures through which they can get involved public agencies, without conflicts between normalizing the operations of management system for aged employees through efforts of a joint task force of management and the labor union. Selected for water management, promote SMEs with strong and express their opinions. Of note, K-water will have to public agencies through labor and management (job competence improvement, personnel management Communication cooperative labor relations as an outstanding corporation in terms of Kunkuk University growth potential, and advance into overseas markets. Korea Climate & create a mechanism so that stakeholders can reflect their and education). Expanded the application of the performance-based salary system performance-based salary system by the Ministry K-water continuously needs to implement sustainable Environmental Network viewpoints in detail whenever K-water's public projects Among through realignment of the overall salary system of Strategy and Finance in February 2016 Management, Kim, Jin Wook management through its partnership cooperation with affect the interests of individuals and local stakeholders. (Professor) SMEs. Lee, Jung Su It is hoped that K-water will develop into a sustainable Labor Union Established K-water's original “5 Smart Model,” a customized communication channel (General Executive and well-respected enterprise, as well as being a water and Employees K-water upgraded business and *Communication between Junior Board(deputy section chiefs), Change Leader Awarded the Prime Minister Award as a family Director) organizational efficiencies through (deputy department heads and heads of departments and K-PUB (communication management leader, by taking advantage of its notable friendly enterprise. Selected as one of the 100 company-wide organizational between the CEO and employees)) record of maintaining close communications with its Great Workplaces in Korea culture improvements. Employees shared views on how to improve the work processes and other issues stakeholders. through the in-house communication system Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management Analysis of Future Social Trends K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Result of Communication with (Megatrends) Stakeholders Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index Important Values over the Next 50 Years Climate Change Current carbon dioxide emissions exceed the 2020 target by 14% ranking 1+2+3 ranking 1 Technology Innovation/ Innovations and fusion, such as artificial intelligence, blockchain, virtual reality, robots and IoT Fusion Trends 32.4% 50.2% Changing Population Structure & 29.1% 40.5% By 2050, people living in urban areas are projected to rise to 66% of the total global population 28.9% 27.5% Urban Concentration 24.5% 29.1% 28.5% Global demands for resources like water and energy are expected to rise sharply, 26.0% 25.1% Scarcity of Resources & Energy Mix 17.2% alongside price hikes, due to population growth 13.0% 7.6% 12.5% Economic Globalization & Due to the integration of global economies as a result of growth of world trade and capital movement, 7.5% 10.1% 10.0% 4.5% Multiple International Order world trade is projected to rise by 5% annually 3.7% EcoSocial Stable Reliability Public Public Global Water-relate Social Water-related Transforming Government Activities Rising public debts will limit the execution of government policies friendliness responsibility supply interests interests company welfare responsibility expertise Public Employees The risk of terrorism will likely rise mainly due to multiple international orders, Safety/Security while dangers of disasters will increase as a result of climate change Key Targets for the Next 50 Years ranking 1+2+3 Growing Importance of Fusing Water and IT 20.7% 6.5% 22 5.0% 23 12.9% 3.6% 3.5% 3.4% 7.2% 4.6% 3.8% Innovations Energy EcoResponse Clean Welfare Reliability WaterReliability Public Response Global in the Water friendliness to climate water & related interests to climate standards Development & change & Hygiene welfare change Industry & scarcity of Global Approach water Technology Public Employees Requests by Experts & Other Stakeholders Lead the water industry in Push for the development of the Fourth Industrial Revolution new & renewable energy to Strengthen Water Management Business Innovation Innovations in the Water Industry & such as IoT, big data and AI achieve reductions in carbon Technology emissions Strengthening Water Global population growth and Innovative Prepare for the Fourth infrastructure market expansion Imagination Management Overcome Industrial Revolution Climate Change Achieve Explore New Harmony Between Business Lead the Environment Open Models Advancement of and Ecology Communication the Water & Participation Industry OrientedEnhance toward Intensification of water crises and water management complexities are expected due to climate change Public Prepare a Reform People & Interests proactive Organizational Fuse New Consumers Future Culture Technology Public values of water are expected to rise thanks to the growing role of water (Construction-> Strategy Management) water in resolving global problems like poverty, agriculture, energy and health Approach to Sustainability Corporate Overview K-water, Global Hub of Water Vision & Strategy Management Governance & Responsible Management Core Values of K-water’s Sustainable K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management K-water's Communication with Stakeholders Interviews with Stakeholders Management Appendix Analysis of Future Social Trends (Megatrends) Result of Communication with Stakeholders K-water's Core Sustainability Index K-water is pursuing sustainable growth by comprehensively applying economic, Results of Materiality Test social and environmental issues. The company identified the core issues of K-water drew up a list of top 20 sustainability management issues that all internal sustainability management by selecting issues deemed more important to and external stakeholders considered important out of a total of 62 through company K-water and stakeholders in accordance with a sustainability assessment method status analysis, media analysis, benchmarking of advanced companies and stakeholder recommended by the GRI G4 and ISO 26000. participation. Issue Materiality Test Stakeholders' materiality Increase in demand for 5.00 Materiality Assessment Process 1 more transparent and ethical management [Step 1] Identifying Sustainability Management Issues 2 Climate change 4.80 1 Increase in demand for safety of Company Status Analysis 3 products and services (water quality) 4.60 8 7 4 2 3 Mid & long-term management strategies, the status of major projects, sustainability management Prevention of pollution (air, water 12 10 9 5 4 11 and soil) 6 plans and achievements were analyzed and applied to draw up a list of key issues. 4.40 20 14 Reinforcement of importance of HR 18 16 13 5 15 development 19 17 Media Analysis 6 4.20 Use of water We analyzed articles from January to December 2015 in order to grasp the external perception of 7 Acceleration of technological development 4.00 major issues of sustainability management objectively and drew up a list of related issues. 8 Anti-corruption 3.80 9 Increase in demand for fair trading Benchmarking Leading Companies Depletion of natural resources Based on sustainability reports of companies that carried out excellent and sustainable 3.60 [Step 1] 10 (water resources, mineral resources and fossil fuels) 3.60 3.80 4.00 4.20 4.40 4.60 4.80 5.00 24 management among domestic and foreign companies, we analyzed sustainability management Identifying Sustainability Strengthened environmental laws Materiality from K-water's viewpoint 25 11 performances based on the GRI reporting principles. Through this, K-water identified additional Management Issues and regulations issues that K-water should address. 12 Intensified competition (technology development, patents, advancement K-water's Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Company Status Analysis into overseas markets, etc.) K-water selected “Five Pledges for Sustainable Management” based on 20 issues from a Interviews with/of Experts Media Analysis 13 Increase in the variability and strength of customer demands materiality test and reported related activities, achievements and future plans in detail. Interviews with/of experts were conducted with key stakeholder groups. Interviewees consisted Benchmarking Leading Saving energy of internal and external experts who represent their groups. The opinions and requests of Companies 14 (new and renewable power K-water's Key Sustainability Global Sustainability Management Index (Global Reporting Initiative G4) generation including hydropower) Report Contents Aspect Boundary Management Issues Classification Aspect stakeholders were closely monitored and applied to draw up a list of key issues. Expert Interviews Increase in demand for customers Internal External Increase in demand for safety of products and Biodiversity, Emissions, 15 valuing health, environment and services (water quality) Wastewater and waste, Environment, society Compliance with environmental Domestic Customers [Step 2] Prioritization Compliance with environmental laws Increase in demand for customers valuing health, environment and society Society regulations, Customer health 16 and Safety and regulations Stakeholder Survey [Step 2] Customer satisfaction about products and Society Product and service labeling Domestic Customers Increase in importance of shared services 17 We conducted a survey of key stakeholder groups including employees, the government, Prioritization growth with partners Increase in the variability and strength of Pledge 1: Intelligent Society Product and service labeling Domestic Customers customer demands customers (local governments and general customers), and partner companies, taking into 18 Customer satisfaction about Climate change Water Management Economy, Economic performance, Domestic Community, NGO, products and services and Satisfied Environment Emissions Academia consideration the responsibilities and impacts of K-water's management. Through this, K-water's Stakeholder Survey Increase in interest in corporate Use of water Customers Depletion of natural resources (water resources, sustainability management issues, which each stakeholder considers important, were identified 19 governance mineral resources and fossil fuels) Energy, Water, Emissions, (responsible management) Prevention of pollution and prioritized. Social contribution in local (air, water and soil) Environment Effluents and waste, Compliance with Domestic Community, NGO, Academia 20 Strengthened environmental laws and communities regulations environmental regulations Compliance with environmental laws and [Step 3] Selecting Core Issues regulations Saving energy (new and renewable power Community, NGO, Environment Energy, Biodiversity Domestic Internal Stakeholder Review generation including hydropower) Increase in interest in corporate governance Academia Government, Partners, Pledge 2: New Water K-water released its analysis process and results to identify the key aspects of [Step 3] (responsible management) Values for All Economy Indirect economic impacts Domestic Customers Acceleration of technological development Government, Selecting Core Issues (development of core technology for water Society Product and service labeling Domestic Customers, Partners, sustainability management and held a report session to discuss key sustainability management) Competitors Intensified competition (technology Pledge 3: Leading Domestic, management issues. We reviewed scopes, boundaries and period suitability by Internal Stakeholder Review development, patents, advancement into Global Water Economy Economic performance Overseas Competitors overseas markets, etc.) Management generalizing the results of not only an official reporting meeting but internal Results of Materiality Test Increase in interest in corporate governance (responsible management) Company Economy Indirect economic impacts Domestic, Overseas Government, Partners, Customers Pledge 4: Global deliberation. Social contribution in local communities Sharing of WaterSociety Local Communities Domestic Community, NGO, (social contribution) Academia related Welfare Diversity and equal opportunity, Labor practices Increase in demand for more transparent and Customers, Partners, Society grievance mechanism, NonDomestic ethical management Competitors discrimination, Anti-corruption, Pledge 5: Enterprise Customer Privacy Anti-corruption for and of Public Society Anti-corruption Domestic Customers, Partners Users Employment, Domestic, Reinforcement of importance of HR development Society Training and education Overseas Increase in importance of shared growth with Society Anti-competitive behavior Domestic Partners partners Increase in demand for fair trading Economy Procurement practices Domestic Partners, Competitors K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 1 Intelligent Water Management and Satisfied Customers 28 Pledge 2 New Water Values for All 44 Pledge 3 Leading Global Water Management Company 52 Pledge 4 Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare 58 Pledge 5 Enterprise for and of Public Users 64 Sharing Happiness through Water K-water will become a public enterprise trusted by the people via internal and external communications and collaboration Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water Pledge 1 K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All of Us K-water’s Five Pledges for Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Supplying Healthy Tap Water Intelligent Water Management and Satisfied Customers Sustainable Management Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users *Healthy Tap Water: High quality tap water produced by K-water, including a proper balance of minerals while reducing chlorine smell. K-water is concentrating on advancing a paradigm of tap water supply with healthy with balanced minerals and to ensure the safety and stability of the tap water supply system for customers. In addition, the Only 5% of people directly drink tap water in Korea. Korea's low direct drinking company is carrying out various activities such as environmental management with the goal of protecting rate is blamed on distrust of water pipes and tanks and smell of disinfectants, people from climate change and pollution such as localized torrential downpours, severe droughts, the causing high costs to society. But demand for tasty and healthy tap water has occurrence of green algae and water quality-lowering accidents that threaten the safety of K-water's been on a steady rise. People are putting top priority on taste and the health water services. benefits of water when choosing drinking water. •Built a smart water management •Realize customer oriented Delivering Healthy Water from Water Sources to Faucets system that is enhancing consumer trust smart water management K-water is putting in place a water management system which remotely supervises and controls •Published a report entitled 250 •Raise the direct drinking rate water by collecting operation data of the entire process from water sources to faucets on the basis of Water Quality Items of Healthy Tap to 30%, the level of developed ICT(Information and Communication Technologies). Moreover, by analyzing the collected data the Water” countries by 2024 by promoting company is stably supplying water via an intelligent pipe network operation system that can control healthy water supply water quantity and quality on real-time and optimize energy usage. Furthermore, we developed and •Laid the foundation for scientific introduced advanced diagnosis technology and methods that can detect the deterioration of and water management to protect •Integration of water managechange and defects in pipe conduits with a view to building a stable tap water supply system. At the people from water-related disasters Key activities for Future plans for ment for both quantity and quality same time, we are exerting ourselves to earn more trust from people by providing healthy tap water through various initiatives such K-water's sustainable K-water's sustainable in rivers and basins to cope with which includes a proper balance of minerals while reducing chlorine smell. We will raise the direct water as the establishment of National management management climate change drinking rate to 30%, as high as the level of developed countries by 2024 by supplying healthy water. Drought Information Analysis •Establish a flood and drought Water Management System Center management system based on Operation of the/an Intelligent Water Pipe Network System CPS* in order to •Implemented environmental 28 prepare for water disasters 29 management such as saving Distributing reservoir resources and improving the environment over the whole business process * CPS (Cyber Physical System): Real-time control of physical systems such as robots, software and surrounding environments in cyberspace Automatic Community Apartment School Water purification plant drain Improvement of 804kms of old water pipelines by 2030 Performance 26.5% of water pipes across the nation are superannuated water pipes 20 years or older. If neglected, they will deteriorate rapidly and result in water leakage and water quality problems. K-water is replacing [Water Safety Index (WSI*)] [Reduction of CO2 Emissions] [Rectifying Upstream Pollution Sources] or repairing them in an effort to improve customer confidence, reduce economic loses and ensure a Multi-regional waterworks Emission target achievement rate(%) Pollution sources Rectified pollution sources stable water supply. According to the plan, we will improve 804kms of aging pipelines by 2030. Local waterworks Reduction(ton CO2-eq) Rectification rate (%) 100 100 100 Highly Advanced Water Purification that Filters Even Minute Pollutants 99.5 0.851 98.7 98.4 Most water purification plants are carrying out standard water purification. But in some places which 79,702 are experiencing high levels of pollution, advanced water purification systems are being introduced. 0.828 Retrofitting old water pipes Once water is processed using a standard purification system, the advanced system uses ozonization 0.805 0.778 462 for disinfection, and uses active carbon to absorb by-products. At the moment, K-water has 0.730 60,551 460 397 introduced advanced treatment systems in Banwol, Goyang and Seongnam Water Purification Plants 0.618 361 along the Han River, Goryeong and Bansong Water Purification Plants along the Nakdong River, 238 235 Gongju Water Purification Plant near Daecheong Dam and Geumsan Mjuj Water Purification Plant 29,133 close to Yongdam Dam. We will steadily introduce more of such systems to water purification facilities along the Han River and the Nakdong River. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 * Water Safety Index (WSI) which measures the safety level of drinking water depending on the risk assessment. The closer to 1 the index is, the safer water is. Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Water Management Management and Satisfied Customer Pledge 2. New Water Values for All ICT-Based Smart Water City Producing High Quality Tap Water K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare *ICT: Information and Communication Technologies Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users With the goal of addressing public mistrust in tap water and realizing water welfare, K-water changed the tap water supply paradigm from “clean and safe water” to “healthy water” containing a proper balance of minerals, and is developing “Smart Water City” projects including an improved tap water supply system and individually customized services for customers. Smart Water Quality Grading System Based on Global Standards K-water tests 250 Water Water Cities developed by K-water manage water quantity and quality by applying ICT to the entire water supply process from Quality Items water sources to hydrants connected to homes and provides tap water information in real-time. By doing so, cities and K-water With an eye toward enhancing its water purification plant operation capabilities by completely are realizing a healthy water supply system. meeting global water quality standards, K-water is implementing a water quality grading system which compares and evaluates 41 water-purification plants across the nation. The system aims at satisfying the most stringent global quality standards of WHO and OECD member countries ( Global Water Quality Standard ). Its water-purification plants including consigned ones secured a Global 59 Water Faucet and Water Quality Water Quality Standard achievement rate of 99.73% in both metropolitan and provincial areas in 2015. Standard items on Inspection Services drinking water K-water will secure global-level water management capabilities based on decades of waterworks In a Smart Water City, one can check information operation and construction know how and advanced ICT(Information and Communication 26 about the quality of tap water in his or her town Standard items on Technologies) that integrates waterworks facilities across the nation. and home via electronic water quality bulletin drinking water boards and a smartphone application. The city offers a home service to check water quality Stringent Tap Water Quality Standards through the Testing of 250 Items 165 (water coordinator) and a water pipe inspection Water Quality Items service (Water Doctor). Description K-water(2015) Korea(2015) Seoul(2015) US(2015) Japan(2015) Uniquely analyzed by K-water Supplying Healthy Tap Water via Water quality standards 59 59 59 89 51 ICT-Based Smart Water Management Legal Monitoring and 26 26 26 22 20 Achievement of Global management K-water conducts tests of water quality on 300 items Water Quality Standard by monitoring the entire tap water supply process and Internal Others 165 79 47 [Unit: %] building a constant water quality management system 30 Smart 31 for re-chlorination, automatic drain and pipe cleaning Total 250 85 164 111 118 99.73 99.61 among others, and then supplies purified water to each Water household. 99.43 Publication of a booklet on the Water Quality Analysis Results of 250 Items tested by K-water City Since 2002, K-water has been conducting stringent tests of 250 water items which is more Increase in the Direct demanding than those of advanced countries such as the United States and Japan. The Tap Water Drinking Rate diversification of water-pollution sources and an increase in social interest in water quality has led 2013 2014 2015 the company to build a data base in an effort to help not only those working in the water industry K-water has been implementing a pilot smart water city project with Paju since 2014. By improving the water supply process, but also ordinary people to better understand the contents of water quality test items such as water quality in the pilot project improved and the direct tap water drinking rate went from 1% up to 36.3%. In addition, material characteristics, emission sources, management status and health risks. At the same time, thanks to an increase in people's responses to Smart Water City, the company is pushing forward to expand the project to we have published a booklet entitled “250 Water Quality Items for Healthy Tap Water Selected by cover the entire area of Paju. We are planning to expand Smart Water Cities across the nation in K-water.” The booklet is also available our homepage (www.kwater.or.kr). order to provide healthy tap water services to more people with the pilot project in Paju as a springboard. Gyoha・ Geumchon・ Munsan· Jeokseong Unjeong Tanhyeon 40.5%p 30.0%p Expanding Smart Water Cities All over Country 41.5% 29.5%p 35% K-water's Smart Water City Project aims to safely supply tap 32.5% water to homes and enhance public trust on tap water and raise the direct drinking rate via a variety of customer-oriented services to improve water quality. 3.0% 5% No More Mistrust of Tap Water! 1% K-water is diversifying its efforts through a tap water drinking Cover of the Booklet on 250 items of 2014 2016 2015 2016 2016 2016 campaign, the expansion of the installation of tap water drinking water quality test fountains among others along with the Smart Water City Project and Before After Before After Before After civic groups in order to improve the public's opinion of tap water. project project project project project project Direct tap water drinking rate Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Coping with Climate Change and K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Prolonged Drought Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Korea suffered from a severe drought in 2014 that last into 2015. As a result of K-water’s Efforts to Reduce Damages Caused by Droughts the prolonged drought, K-water laid the foundation for overcoming the drought K-water is already preparing for droughts by dividing drought phases into four stages (attention, by organizing a companywide Drought Prevention Task-forces which prepared caution, vigilance, and seriousness) according to the severity of droughts and overhauling the water drought prevention and mitigation manuals. In preparation for abnormal climates supply plan according to the phases to ensure water supply stability/security in case of droughts. in the future, we already have in place mid-to long-term plans to optimize the For example, the company supplied water to the western area of South Chungcheong Province operation of weirs in Korea's four major rivers, expand the number of desalination which suffered the most from the prolonged drought in 2015 via Yongdam and Daecheong Dams plants and groundwater dams, and establish waterway connections between dams. beginning in September. Starting in October, we induced voluntary 20% savings of domestic and industrial water supplies. K-water implemented a water-saving subsidy system in self-controlled water supply areas. The subsidy is KRW 1,240 per 1m3 which is three times the water charge of multi-regional waterworks a year ago. For the prevention of water shortage caused by drought in National Center for Drought Information Analysis the western area of South Chungcheong Province, the company built Boryeong Dam Waterway Supplying emergency water to Tunnel to send water from the Geum River to Boryeong Dam. Through these efforts, Boryeong K-water went ahead with the establishment of an organization specialized in the collection and analysis drought-stricken areas Dam, which suffered its worst ever drought in 2015, accumulated a total of 10.5 million m3 (45 of drought information to prevent and tackle prolonged droughts. At a national policy coordination days) of water. In case of the Han River, which supplies water to the Seoul metropolitan area, we meeting held in September 2015, it was decided that the National Drought Information Analysis Center were able to overcome an extreme drought by stockpiling 1.91 billion m3 of water (equivalent to should be established at K-water as a way to give the government supports such as drought forecasts 220 days of average water supply) and warnings and to manage droughts. The center will provide decision makers with vital information through drought monitoring and analysis. At the same time, the center will suggest and develop efficient Furthermore, K-water is actively conducting projects to increase water flow rates* of entrusted Opening ceremony for the policies on water resource management based on the rich experience of its expert staff. waterworks of municipalities. The company signed an agreement on emergency water supply National Drought Information Analysis Center projects with Dangjin, Boryeong, Seocheon, Hongseong and Taean in South Chungcheong Province and dispatched experts to the sites. Therefore, we raised accounted water rates by 32 Establishment of the National Drought Information Analysis Raceway of Boryeong Dam 16.6% on average through the construction of a flow-monitoring system, old pipe replacement, 33 Center for Integrated Management of Drought Information, systematic water leak repair, pipe network maintenance and hydraulic management which Monitoring and Prediction of Droughts enabled the municipalities to overcome the severe drought. Background * Flow rate: The ratio of flowing water to the amount of water supplied to water pipes. A flow rate decreases if there is a large · Increase in the frequency and intensity of droughts called for measures to preemptively mitigate the effects of amount of water leaking from water pipes droughts rather than recovering damage from drought · lacks constant drought monitoring and forecast systems, dissemination of information, and coordination On top of that, K-water strived to address water shortages. That is, the company provided bottled amongst ministries in the nation water and water supply vehicles to areas devoid of direct benefits from multi-regional and local Implementation Efforts Main Screen of the Drought waterworks such as islands and mountainous regions in order to improve water-related welfare. We Information Analysis System · Carried forward with the establishment of a specialized organization responsible for the integration and also connected the pipes of multi-regional waterworks to agricultural irrigation canals and supplied analyze of drought information to preemptively respond to droughts. water using the weirs of Korea's four major rivers. · Formed common bond amongst relevant government agencies and suggested policy to establish the National Drought Information Analysis Center at K-water * Steadily deliberated with the Ministry of Public Safety and Security, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Diversified Measures to Cope with Water Shortages Transport and the Meteorological Administration among others and held expert workshops Implementation Results Offering bottled water Providing water Utilizing current waterworks ㆍEstablishment of the National Drought Information Analysis Center supply vehicles (national policy coordination meeting in September 2015) Water supply vehicle Drain values of waterworks Central and Local National Drought Information Citizens/Residents/ Eliminating Causes of Governments Analysis Center(K-water) General Public 575,000 bottles 980 loads of and raceways Water Leakage · Drought forecasts Sharing · Construction and operation of an · Sharing information on (2004 2015) 426 tons 15 ton truck 545,000 tons and warnings information integrated drought information Offering the status of droughts · Quick decision-making database, drought monitoring (regions with limited Detecting and Control of dam storage to cope with droughts and forecasting systems and water supply) and discharge Analysis ParticiRecovering Water 63,714 cases & support support for drought forecast and pating · Voluntary Leakage warnings participation in Extension of Groundwater from wells Utilizing the weirs of · Drought Assessment of the devising measures Replacing Old Tap Gunnam Dam's water1,374㎞ the four major rivers potential impacts and support Water Pipes impounding period for policy making and etc. Sokcho, Ipo, Gongju, Replacing Aged 291,464 May Hongcheon Chuksan and Gumi Weirs Buan and (originally planned) Water Meters and Taean Implementation plans meters Guncheon Dams →June 980 truckloads Lowering High 681,000 tons (changed) 4.3 tons (Step 1, Jan. 2016) (Step 2, Mar. 2016) (Step 3, 2017) 488 sites Water Pressure Construction of the tentative Nationwide pilot Full operation of the drought drought monitoring system operation of the system warning and watch system Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Coping with Climate Change and K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Environmental Management for Appendix Prolonged Drought Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Healthy National Territory Mid & Long-term Drought Prevention Measures K-water's corporate activities are affected by climate change and pollution and vice K-water is actively devising measures to minimize damages caused by droughts due to abnormal versa. It is important for K-water to cope with climate change and the protection weather. The company will continue to supply water in the face of droughts by directly supplying of the environment as greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and waste, among others water from multi-region waterworks to unserved areas less than 2km away from the waterworks. At caused by corporate activities can have a negative impact on climate, nature and the same time, we will convert/upgrade superannuated or unstable local waterworks into multithe environment. We are making efforts for the systematic implementation of region waterworks or connect them to emergency systems. In addition, we are endeavoring to environmental management. Such efforts should be steadily managed in terms protect people from droughts through various activities such as promoting small dams, stepping of K-water's social responsibilities. Given that we are a government-owned water up the use of underground water resources, preparing integration convergence by basins, raising utilization rates of dams via regular dam evaluation and introducing retention ponds. management company, we view this as a common good. Summary of K-water's Activities to Protect People from Droughts Preemptive and Systematic Responses Supplied 31,000m3 of water a day to the western area of South Chungcheong Province which suffered from a severe K-water's Environmental Summary of K-water's Environment Management such as Emergency Water Supply and drought and made good use of surplus water from Korea's four major rivers by building a raceway between Baekje Performance Evaluation Raceway Construction Weir and Boryeong Dam Running Quality, Environment and Green Management Systems that Honor Index Global Standards 3 Implemented a water-saving subsidy system which gives KRW 1,240won per 1m which is three times the charge of [Unit: point] Implementing a Water Saving Subsidy multi-region waterworks to induce tap water savings of residents and firms in eight cities and counties in the western · Obtained ISO (International Organization for Standardization) certificates in quality, environment and Short-term System the First Time in Korea area of South Chungcheong Province green management (ISO 9001 (quality management), ISO 14001 (environmental management) and Measures KSI 7001 (green management)) Signing of an Agreement on the 151 153 · Every year, all departments are annually evaluated by specialized external institutions and internal 148 Execution System Implementation of Emergency Water Signed an agreement on the implementation of an emergency water leakage reduction project with five municipalities 145 specialists about quality, environment and green management (customer service quality, safety Leakage Reduction Project with Five with a flow rate of less than 70% in the western area of South Chungcheong Province for the purpose of tackling a and environmental management, etc.) and carry out improvement activities Municipalities in the Western Area of South severe drought of the region and raised the flow rates by 16.6% on average within six months Chungcheong Province Environmental Performance Evaluation Index (EPE) 34 · The index quantitatively measures corporate environmental management performances for all management areas 35 Special Technical Support to Lower the Conducted a program to provide technical support to lower the water leakage rate in six municipalities which were · Overall corporate environmental management performances improved from base year (2006) Water Leakage Rate in the Western Area in Dangjin, Boryeong, Seocheon, Taean, Hongseong and Cheongyang in the western area of South Chungcheong 2012 2013 2014 2015 · K-water has been measuring and managing key performance indicators since 2007 South Chungcheong Province Province among municipalities that receive water from Boryeong Dam · Scored 148 points in the 2015 Environmental Performance Evaluation, and, compared with the base year (2006), performance has improved 48% Mid & Opened the National Center for Drought Information Analysis which will support the introduction and implementation Performance Index Long-term of forecasts and warnings about droughts to preemptively deal with droughts and minimize damages caused by Measures Opening of the National Center for droughts in November 2015. The center provides support for policy-makers in relevant ministries, municipalities, and Drought Information Analysis water management organizations to ensure prompt decisions based on real-time drought information from all over Fostered Internal Experts in Quality Environmental and Green Management the country. By integrating and analyzing the data, policy-makers can make informed decisions on which measures to · The company has been selecting employees and providing them with ISO quality and environmental take to address specific drought issues. management certification auditor training opportunities since 2007 · By the end of 2015, 162 ISO certified auditors in corporate quality and environmental system have been fostered · Practical quality and environmental management is implemented that befits international standards Support Base at all K-water worksites through internal experts Spotlight on K-water's Efforts ISO Certification Auditors Environment Management Strategy Providing Special Technological Support to Raise Flow Rate for Western Area of South Chungcheong Province [Unit: employee] K-water provided a special technological support team to increase the flow rate for the western area of South Chungcheong Province which suffered from the worst-ever drought. The company took the lead by raising the efficiency of water use and overcoming the drought more 162 Opening the Future and Providing Happiness by Sharing Water wisely by reducing water leakage through water leakage detection and hydrologic pressure management. 149 Expanding environmental management to the entire supply chain The environment is considered for not only in construction and production but also in the Subsidies for Water Savings supply of raw materials, use and disposal of products and services In order to induce people’s voluntary water savings, K-water is implementing the Water Saving Subsidy System. A total of 54,762 households received subsidies for water savings (KRW 1.1 billion) through water bills for December 2015 in eight cities and counties in the western area Preserving local of South Chungcheong Province which receive water from Boryeong Dam. environment and 2014 2015 Safeguard Create Response to Lives Value creating value climate change Water Cycle Water Value Providing local ecoSaving 37,928 Tons of Water per Day on Average Reducing GHG emissions cultural spaces and through clean energy creating new business Since the start of self-controlled water supplies on October in 2015, the western area of South Chungcheong Province has saved 2,728,500 tons (accumulative) of water which equal nearly 10% the current amount of water in Boryeong Dam. In order to achieve such results, production Nourish the demand through K-water carried out a wide array of activities such as a water saving campaign on the streets in eight cities and counties, attaching water Economy business environment saving stickers and putting messages on public buildings that called for residents to reduce water consumption. Water Platform improvement Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Environmental Management for K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Healthy National Territory Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users K-water’s Supply Chain & Environmental Management Green Purchase ➊ Energy Consumption and Reduction ➋ Total purchases (KRW 100 million) Usage (TJ) Energy-saving in hydropower facilities (TJ) Green purchases (KRW 100 million) Energy-saving in waterworks (TJ) 13,292 469 12,843 Environment Management Environment Performance 385 · Environmental-friendly produced · Resource recycling 229 products purchasing 212 79 71 · Promoting product production 47 (i.e. Green Purchasing) 56 (Refer to Graph ➊) · Support for constructing its partnering 9 8 · Leading its partnering companies' companies' environmental management eco-friendly mannered production 2014 2015 2014 2015 system · Environment improvement of · Proactive water quality management of Raw Material drinking water sources drinking water sources (water source management) GHG Emissions [Unit: ton CO2-eq] ➌ Waste Production and Recycle in 2015 ➍ Indirect emission Direct emission Recycling rate(%) Production(ton) 641,559 99.1 100 620,499 4,230,643 59 · Eco-friendly planning 646,559 107,388 · Eco-friendly construction 624,660 Business Development · Supply of Healthy Tap Water , 42,083 · Reduction and recycle of solid wastes & Planning 5,000 for human health 36 generated by construction business 4,161 37 * Healthy Tap Water is a brand of K-water's high quality tap · Trainings on the environmental water containing a proper balance of minerals 2014 2015 Waterworks Sewage Construction management to partnering companies · Light weight package use sludge sludge waste · Increasing the efficiency of energy, · Water rate discount for customers who resource, and labor through facility induce recycled water (i.e. grey water) Discharged Water Quality [Unit: %] ➎ improvement, process improvement Construction use system (Refer to Graph ➏) Ratio of discharged water BOD(mg/L) compared to strictest legal discharge standard by facility (mg/L) · Minimizing and recycle waterworks · Floating garbage removal in dams Ratio of discharged water SS(mg/L) compared to strictest legal discharge standard by facility (mg/L) and sewage waste Ratio of discharged water COD(mg/L) compared to strictest legal discharge standard by facility (mg/L) and rivers (Refer to Graph ➐) · Discharging water to be filtered 68 62 and treated above legal requirement 38 38 Production & Operation 29 23 20 14 Water discharged from waterworks Water discharged from Water discharged from · Energy and resource cost reduction sewage treatment facilities small wastewater treatment facilities (Refer to Graph ➋) · Greenhouse gas emission reduction · Prevention of groundwater overuse or (Refer to Graph ➌) pollution through increasing public tap Water Rate Discount for Customers Using Floating Garbage Removal in Dams Use water use · Disposal cost of waterworks/sewage Grey Water ➏ and Rivers ➐ sludge and construction waste · Reduction of social cost for wastewater Grey water usage (1,000 m3) Dam reservoirs (1,000 m3) (Refer to Graph ➍) and solid waste disposal Water rate discount (KRW 1 million) River weirs (1,000 m3) · Discharge water outfall areas and local · Local environment protection 171,515 environment protection and 164,271 improvement (Refer to Graph ➎) 18.8 Discard & Reuse 25.8 3,955 9.2 3,842 14.5 7.0 5.3 2014 2015 2014 2015 Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Environmental Management for K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Protecting People from Water Disasters Appendix Healthy National Territory Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users K-water’s Efforts to Cope with Climate Change K-water is operating a water resources safety management system that utilizes K-water is subject to the Korean government's national greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction the latest information and communication technologies to cope with drought goal management program and has been fulfilling its commitments. In 2015, K-water's GHG and localized torrential downpours due to inclement weather conditions. We will emissions increased 3.5% to 646,559 ton CO2-eq year on year. Since K-water focused on slashing GHG emissions in 2012, the company has reached its reduction targets for four years in a row. Most improve the efficiency of water circulation and prepare for various disasters by of K-water's GHG emissions were indirect emissions from pump operation for tap water supply, while way of scientific water management. biogenic GHG emissions were not measured. GHG intensity was 17.1 (ton CO2-eq/ KRW 100 million), up by approximately 0.2 ton CO2 -eq from the previous year but down by 0.2 ton CO2 -eq from 2013. On top of that, K-water launched a Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) project for the first time as a government-invested institution in May 2005 and registered 12 projects with the United Nations (UNFCCC) and had a reduction of 530,000 tons of GHG emissions recognized. Operation of a Water Resources Safety Management System The Water Resources Safety Management System was built to efficiently support facility management GHG emission goal achievement rate GHG intensity based on sales by systematically integrating the real-time status of measurements, inspection plans and results and [Unit: %] [Unit: ton CO2-eq/KRW 100 million] maintenance histories of measuring equipment installed in multi-purpose dams, water supply dams, flood control dams and weirs and providing facility information quickly and accurately. This system provides a series of processes for users (staff members, the general public and the management) 100 100 100 100 17.3 17.1 to create, acquire, analyze and process water resources facility operation information in accordance 16.9 with process-by-process work flows in an easy and convenient manner. Through this, we are making efforts to ensure the safe operation of water resources facilities in preparation for various disasters caused by climate change by improving work efficiency and supporting prompt decision making. 38 Water Resources Safety Management System 39 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Management of buried gauges Inspection and management of facilities Maintenance and reinforcement management Facility inspection plan and result management, Past measurement information, Plan and results of on-site inspections based on Real-time measurement information maintenance and reinforcement advanced IT technology CDM Business GHG Reduction [Unit: ton CO2 ] Automated warning system provides facility malfunction issues promptly to operators Annual UN registration CO2 reduction Project name Facility composition generation Date (ton CO2-eq /year) Water resources safety (㎿h/year) Automatic site measurement system Data Sending Inspection of facilities transfer management system SMS Tidal Power Sihwa Tidal Power Plant June 2006 507,629 315,440 532,332 External displacement and Detecting facility abnormalities Checking water resources facilities and Andong, Jangheung, penetration quantity measurement system (exceeding management standards and etc.) taking measures Small Hydro Power 1 Oct. 2006 15,473 8,103 Seongnam 1st Plant Deacheong, Juam, Dalbang, Small Hydro Power 2 Feb. 2007 13,944 8,331 Seongnam 2nd Plant Wind Power Sihwa Wind Power Plant Nov. 2007 6,293 4,013 The Integrated Earthquake Watch System was built to conduct real-time seismic monitoring of national infrastructure (such as dams and weirs) under K-water's management and to quickly share Small Hydro Power 3 Kosan, Pankyo Plant Nov. 2009 5,557 2,987 information in the wake of an earthquake in concert with the National Emergency Management Seongdeok, Small Hydro power 4 Oct. 2010 4,963 2,759 Agency and the Korea Meteorological Administration. The system supports quick crisis responses by Gimcheon-Buhang Dam Plant automatically linking to the K-water risk management system (KRM). Small Hydro Power 5 Angye, Hoengseong Dam 2nd Plant Apr. 2012 4,603 3,100 Healthy Tap Water, Clean Energy Generation Waterworks Efficiency Paldang 3rd Intake Facility Aug. 2012 7,044 Improvement New and Renewable Earthquake measuring network Integrated Earthquake Watch System Hydro Power 6 Energy Facilities Ipo, Yeoju, Kangcheon Weir Oct. 2012 76,406 50,772 Floating Photovoltaic Power 1,345 MW Development hydropower, 1,815 MW developed the world tide power, first customized model of solar power, etc. Hydro Power 7 floating photovoltaic power Sejong, Kongju, Beakje, Sangju Weir Sep. 2012 57,541 38,237 ( SOLATUS , 500kW) Accelerometers Recorder Data collection Real-time monitoring Earthquake Integrated Nakdan, Gumi, Chilgok, measuring server Database Prompt warning of Hydro Power 8 Sep. 2012 58,170 38,654 earthquake occurrences Kangjeong Koryeong Weir network Dalseong, HapcheonChangnyeong, Korea Meteorological Hydro Power 9 ChangnyeongHaman, Seungchon, Sep. 2012 79,597 52,892 Administration (KMA) Internal network Juksan Weir Ministry of Public Safety and Security External network Total 830,176 532,332 Clean Energy Project Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Protecting People from Water Disasters K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Solving Green Algae Issues through River Management in Implementation of Developing and Advancing Green Algae Technology Tentative Pulsed Discharge Consideration of River Ecology To proactively respond to green algae issues, K-water tentatively carried out pulsed discharges Having broken away from ineffective post-algae responses in the past, K-water drew up an in the Gangjeong Goryeong Weir-Changryeong Haman Weir section in cooperation with relevant Section between action plan to resolve green algae issues in 2014 and since then, has been implementing it for the Tentative Gangjeong Goryeong organizations from June to September of 2015. Pulsed discharges is a method that was used to systematic and proactive management. In 2015, the company made three strategies for expanding operation Weir and Changnyeong suppress the growth of green algae in Australia. This method impedes the growth of blue-green Haman Weir algae by mixing upper and lower classes and destroying stratification via the acceleration of flow its roles and laid the foundation for actively responding to algae problems in accordance with revised relevant laws. In addition, we stepped up on-site monitoring by increasing the number of 33 items including speeds in rivers through artificial and iterative methods. This method can reduce green algae onsite monitoring personnel (1.9 fold) and are operating a situation room for immediate response water quality, tides, simply by changing reservoir discharge methods without additional cost or chemical material use. Monitoring sediment and flow A tentative discharge slashed the concentration of cyanobacteria 45~55% and Chlorophyll-a to green algae. rates, 36 to 50 spots (pigment materials composing algae) 9~38% on days in which the method was applied. K-water and 290 site inspectors K-water's 3 Strategies for Managing Green Algae will maximize water quality improvement effects via pulse discharges, step up close cooperation Drop of 45% to 55% Effects of in blue-green algae, with relevant organizations to prevent overall problems such as accidents from taking place Mapped out and Collected opinion and implementReduction of 9% to and establish optimized pulse-type weir management methods. Moreover, we will secure safe Developed a strategy to expand roles ('15) implemented an action plan ('14) supplemented the plan (’14 – ’15) ation 55% in Chl-a (based water quality and lay the groundwork for new technology development and achieve win-win on day of discharge) preparing response manuals of before and after green algae occurrence Collaborating with Central government agencies Expanding into green algae and aquatic ecosystem growth with partners by steadily pushing ahead with the development of green algae reduction Checking results by running K-water's own task force team Large-scale discussion among experts (850 people) Building strategy to expand roles in three sectors technology and an improvement in its performances. Development and Improvement of Green Algae Reduction Technology ① ② ③ Floating green algae removal device Water circulation facility New technology development Spatial Functional Creating new 40 expansion expansion business 41 · Developing high-efficiency green algae removal · Discovering excellent technology to technology and put it to practical use · Evaluating green algae removal performances at slash green algae by offering Test-beds* (Patent application in Jul. 2015) nine facilities per each of 6 fields Applying 22 technologies of small and · Removing 49 tons of accumulated algae · Establishing a plan to move facilities to increase mid-sized companies to dams and weirs (old) Focus on water surface management (old) Focus on government-led projects Increased 4.5 fold from previous year) *(old) Focus on management of dams and weirs circulation effects when operated in connection · Improving performances via support program for (improved) Expanding into water quality and (improved) Expanding local cooperation-type with weirs (improved) Expanding basin, dam and river areas · High-pressure spray to remove materials and small and mid-sized firms aquatic ecosystem projects facility improvements such as screen replacement (profit sharing program) Survey diversification and Advancement of technology and Developing new business and moving forward with reinforced response (8 detailed tasks) management (7 detailed tasks) cooperation opportunities (3 detailed tasks) Mitigating the effects of green algae by developing new-concept green algae technology (Drop of 45% to 55% in blue-green algae) * Test-Beds: Providing facilities to test and supplement new technologies developed by small and medium size enterprises etc. Revision of Relevant Laws to Reduce Green Algae Classification Old Improved Expected effects No ground for responses to Expanding responses into Expected to play an important Annual Average Chlorophyll-a of 29 Dam Reservoirs under K-water's Management Aquatic Ecosystem Law green algae lakes, marshes and rivers role in tackling green algae [Unit: ㎎/㎥] No ground for investigation Establishment of Expected to reduce pollution Livestock Excretion Law into livestock excretion a fact-finding committee sources in basins 4,985 Algae removal vessel 4,743 K-water Full-Time Green Algae Response System 4,415 Classification Overcoming efforts Monitoring and Inspecting Expanding the number of inspectors in areas which are affected by severe algae to include outbreak sites holidays, 2,144 man-days (1.9 times number of previous year) 3,996 Variation of used vessels in cooperation with local residents, Measures were taken for 2,907,000 On-site Measures 3,528 ㎡ (5.4 times number of previous year) Constantly responding via Green Algae Situation Room, Real-time monitoring and response Green Algae Situation Room system (HQ to sites) Recording and Reporting Daily monitoring of 39 sites, Daily responses and sharing information 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Results of Inspection (→ national green algae issue solving task force team) * The annual average chlorophyll-a concentration of 29 dam reservoirs was calculated as the sum of each dam reservoir's concentration at a ratio of each dam reservoir's capacity to a total of 29 dam reservoir capacity Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Protecting People from Water Disasters K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Real-Time and Integrated Floodgate Data Management Real-time Water Management System The volatility of Korea's climate patterns are increasing due to the effects of global warming and Flood Supporting efficient management of Control abnormal weather conditions. Combined with Korea's unique landscape of steep terrain and fast flow rates for normal and dry conditions River Water Use Center flow of rivers, floodgate management is growing increasingly complex. This makes it necessary Permission DB River Flow Rate of rivers Use of water for living, Management and for the government to quickly grasp and cope with hydrological phenomena such as floods and Construction period: '05 `09 Analysis Program industry, agriculture droughts and secure clear water for public use in response to drastic climate changes. K-water Scope: 12 river systems + Imjin River and others K-water runs the Hydrological Data Information Management System (HDIMS) through constant realUser: Operators in charge of flow rates time hydrological data monitoring in one-minute intervals from multipurpose dams, water supply at the Flood Control Center Making a plan to run dams and River Flow Rate multipurpose weirs and reviewing dams, multipurpose weirs and flood control sites. Management flowrates for river maintenance Real-time Reservoir Screenshot of the Real-Time Floodgate System Management System Information System Relevant OrganizaUsed to make reservoir-linked operation Completion of K-LPM (K-water Long-term Precipitation Model) plans in order to raise the efficiency of WINS DB Website to tions water use (Dams, agricultural monitor river flow With a view to enhance water management and taking into consideration long-term precipitation reservoirs, weirs, water rate management Construction period: '97 `09 forecasts, K-water has built and is operating K-LPM by developing and applying a long-term quality and etc.) Real-time in real-time Real-time Water Scope: Han, Nakdong, Geum and Reservoir precipitation downscaling method based on the GCM (general circulation model). The company Management Citizens Seomjin Rivers Operation System is utilizing data from K-LPM as basic materials for the establishment of a monthly reservoir User: Operators at the Water (Flood Control System Dam/multipurpose weir/reservoir data, operation plan for stably water supply. K-LPM has also enabled K-water to lay the foundation for Management Center at K-water Center) (K-water) water-intake/water discharge/flow rate data, addressing water-related disasters such as droughts, floods and water quality problems. weather and water quality data Screenshot of the Real-Time Floodgate Data Quality Management System River Flow Rate We applied the latest forecasting method (the Ensemble Forecasting Method, a method actively Management System 42 used for probability-based forecasts) which includes physical processes within the model in an 43 effort to boost the K-LPM's accuracy. For high-volume numeric calculation, we introduced and Used for integrated management of flow are utilizing a super computer exclusively for weather forecast. rates of facilities such as multipurpose Analyzing Floods and Monitoring Water Disasters weirs, agricultural reservoirs with higher banks, multipurpose dams With the aim of elevating the efficiency of flood control and securing the groundwork for a · Making operation plans by system to manage water by basins by integrating and managing current facilities, K-water built connecting dams, weirs and low-water-level periods and is running its own flood analysis system (FAS) for all basins. FAS can automatically collect Implementation of General Calculation and hydrological observation data and rainfall forecast data using a super computer that operates in Downscaling and Statistical Analysis · Reviewing maintenance flow rate for Circulation Model Application of Basin Rainfall Global Model results rivers at key points real-time. The system is designed to be easily used through simple education, not to mention Downscaling Circulation Model · Drought forecasts via real-time water compatibility with an office automation environment. use analysis by grasping flow rates, water intake and discharge Construction period: '10 `11 Scope: 12 river systems + Imjin River Servers exclusively for Statistical analysis User: Flood Control Center and K-water Analysis of weather forecasting Flood Forecast on Simulations of Deliberation Opening of Forecast on flood water discharges' rainfall in reservoir operation with relevant control volume impacts on floodgates dam river basins by flood scenarios organizations procedure downstream rivers ➜ Flood Analysis System(FAS) Flow Rate Management System for Efficient Water Resources Hydrologic flood analysis model Reservoir simulation Hydraulic flood analysis model Management Reservoir simulation Decision to In order to secure the necessary amount of water from rivers with limited water resources, it discharge water in connection with neighboring dams is necessary to be able to collect water demand and supply data in real-time for analytical purposes. By utilizing weather and discharge analysis models, data can be used to predict future During demand patterns. K-water has integrated the “Real-Time Water Management System” of the training Flood analysis simulator Decision-making Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and its “Real-Time Reservoir Operating System” support system and built the River Flow Rate Management System. Based on the system, we are contributing to Application Water discharge for and from floodgates rational and scientific water resources management such as mapping out a plan to run dams and Web service approval of multipurpose reservoirs in conjunction with multipurpose weirs and agricultural reservoirs with discharge raised banks. Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water Pledge 2 K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All K-water’s Five Pledges for Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company K-water's Respect of the Natural Order New Water Values for All Sustainable Management Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users K-water is the No. 1 new renewable energy company in Korea and is expanding into new water business areas such as the development floating solar power generation facilities. We will increase water's value and K-water is Korea's number one new and renewable energy firm that accounts secure competitiveness for future water management not only by developing clean energy, but also by for 18% of new and renewable energy generation capacity and 61% of creating future-oriented and water-friendly waterfront and leisure spaces. hydroelectric power generation capacity. The company is contributing to the government's new and renewable energy policies through the development of creative water-specialized business models. K-water's new and Energy Independence and Carbon Emissions Reduction via renewable energy facilities Hydroelectric, Tidal and Clean Energy Business • Took the lead in the capacities •Create value through the Water-based new and renewable energy is being optimized to take advantage of Korea's development of new and Classification Capacity(MW) development of energy by way of unique hydrological conditions. K-water is developing the economy and the environment in a renewable energy using water water resources Hydropower 1,074 harmonious way by lowering the cost of energy imports via the production of clean energy and • Built an integrated water reducing carbon emissions such as hydroelectric energy generated by dams and tidal energy management system for future Key activities for Future plans for •Reinforce governmental Tidal power 254 based on differences in ebbs and flows of the sea. water management K-water's sustainable K-water's sustainable organizations' roles for Wind power 8 management management sustainable water resources Status of K-water's new and renewable energy • Established a sustainable water •Expand eco-friendly Solar power 9 · Number-one new and renewable energy company in Korea (accounting for 18% of entire safety system waterfront cities domestic capacity) Total 1,345 • Developed a future-oriented via re-creation of complex city via a water-friendly waterfront spaces 45 space creation project K-water (18%) 1,345 MW K-water's annual power generation KEPCO and its affiliates (12%) Classification By the end of 2015 Others (70%) 906 MW 5,169 MW Capacity(MW) 1,345 Annual power generation 1,753 (GWh/year) Performance Crude oil replacement effects 300 • New and renewable energy facilities: 1,345MW (18% of the national total) Hydroelectric Power Generation (10,000 barrels/year) •Replacing imported oil amounting to about KRW 290 billion a year CO2 reduction K-water is actively utilizing the surplus energy of water resources infrastructures and waterworks 820 (1,000 tons/year) for the purpose of expanding the development of hydroelectric power. •Reducing about 1.35 million tons of CO2 emissions a year •Developing K-HIT* or K-water Hydro Intelligent Toolkit for Integrated Water Resources Management Decision Support Phase-by-phase implementation •Completion of one facility at Ilsan Water Purification Plant in 2016 (0.3MW) * K-HIT: Consisting of real-time hydrologic information system, through the development of 11 •Will complete three facilities including one at Daecheong Equalizing Reservoir Dam in 2017 (3.4MW) rainfall prediction system, reservoir water supply system and hydroelectric power generation •Will complete three facilities including one at Chungju Equalizing Reservoir Reservoir in 2018 (7.8MW) flood analysis system based on elements technologies for facilities (14MW) including Chungju [Visitors to Dams, Weirs and Cultural Centers] •Will complete two facilities including one at Wabu Water Purification Plant in 2019 (1.1MW) integrated water management including weather forecasting, Equalizing Reservoir Dam by 2020 •Will complete two facilities including one at Goyang Water Purification in 2020 (1.4MW) hydrological data management, water quality management and integrated power generation management Solar Power Generation on Land With the aim of responding to the government's policy to promote new and renewable energy, GUESTS GUESTS GUESTS K-water is developing solar power generation on land by making good use of idle spaces (roofs, water purification sites and clarifiers) 2.78 3.68 4.19 Implementing the plan step by step by developing 5.6MW at 13 •Completion of two facilities including one at Hwaseong Water Purification Plant in 2016 (1.0MW) •Will complete three facilities including one Hwangji Water Purification Plant in 2017 (0.5MW) million million million sites Including Hwaseong Water •Will complete four facilities including one at Seongnam Water Purification Plant in 2018 (2.1MW) Purification Plant by 2020 •Will complete two facilities including one at Wabu Water Purification Plant in 2019 (0.8MW) •Will complete two facilities including one at Paldang Intake Station in 2020 (1.2MW) 2013 2014 2015 Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All K-water's Respect of the Natural Order K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Floating Solar Power Generation Implementation Plan for Water-Energy Nexus Promotion K-water is a leader in the development of floating solar power generation systems. The company successfully installed a 500kW commercial model in the river that passes through Hapcheon Dam K-water drew up and is pushing forward with a a water-energy nexus promotion plan in order to after a floating 100kW test-bed solar power generation system was introduced in 2011. We moved re-create the value of water resources facilities and maximize its use via the development of clean into an era of floating solar power generation system development by building a 2MW floating energy based on dams and waterworks. The company responds to the government's policies on solar power generation system in the river that passes through Boryeong Dam in February 2015. the growth of the new energy businesses and the expansion of new and renewable energy and Floating solar power generation systems can address the problems of reckless abuses of land and make the energy business a future growth engine. botanical damage since they are floating on water. At the same time, they increase electric power Presenting a vision for Vision Representative company of water-energy nexus production by over 10% thanks to the cooling effect of water surfaces and hamper the creation of K-water's energy business algae. In addition to these, there are other positive effects. model that will lead the future Goal Securing profit base in a water-energy nexus and making more contribution to country Strengthening Preoccupying Focus on a water-energy • Laying the foundation for the development of floating solar power generation systems by completing Boryeong Dam Strategic direction policy's influence energy technology nexus business Floating Solar Power Generation System (Feb. 2016, 2MW) * The foundation was laid for large-scale floating solar power generation system projects by securing social and environmental 1. Expanding GHG 1. Internalizing Taking the lead 1. Construction of acceptance and cost cutting emissions reduction existing businesses in national water policy governance • Carrying forward the creation of eco-friendly e-Towns near dams by developing 206㎿ floating solar power 2. Strengthening energy 2. Strengthening connections energy policy 9 Strategic tasks 2. Making nation agenda goals systems in Hapcheon Dam (90㎿), Soyang River Dam (100㎿), Yongdam Dam (16㎿) by 2021 with a pilot project in technology capacity with local businesses Hapcheon Dam (10MW) commencing in 2017. 3. Taking lead to improve 3. Advancing Hydraulic 3. Creation of new coherence and regulations *P  reparing a variety of fund-raising models such as SPC(Special Purpose Company) by taking into account financial burdens that Equipment Technology energy business models arise from massive investment Image of Floating Solar Power •Establishment of · Participation on policies by promoting · Diversifying profit-making structure of Generation water energy policy governance activities of the Korea Water-Nexus the energy business from traditionally Hydrothermal Energy •Water energy oriented Association large scale hydro power facilities by direction of policy K-water is carrying forward a new business model to supply heat sauces and heating and cooling · Expanding water-nexus policy research developing new energy sources with focus on national research · Establishing energy development models sources for big buildings around water resources and waterworks and urban areas by using the 46 institutes in the energy industry linked to the development of waterfront 47 heat energy of water under K-water's management. · Leading national water-nexus policy by cities, dams and waterworks Next 50 years building governance of water-nexus · Proliferation of K-water's energy •Carried forward the supply of large-scale building heating sources to tall buildings in downtown areas such as Hyundai of K-water's policies of private, public and research development capacity by eliminating Motor's new building (10 thousand RT) following the second Lotte World (3,000 RT and the start of the service: Oct. 2010) sectors legal restrictions growth by utilizing K-water's potential volume (393,000 RT) Leading national energy Leading K-water's growth for * Developing and applying heating source supply models to community heating and cooling facilities specialized for K-water's policies in water-energy nexus sector the next 50 years water front cities such as Sihwa MTV, Songsan GC and Busan EDC •Establishment of a Expanding water-energy nexus Growing to be Taking initiative in new energy business model •Diversification of business by improving systems the National implementing national GHG emissions and strengthening R&D Water-nexus reduction policies K-water's New Energy Business Model energy business structure · Diffusing new business models such Company · Laying the foundation for enterpriseSihwa e-Cluster and eco-friendly wide greenhouse gas reduction including The global trend is pushing for the development of new and renewable energy sources. This e-Town at home and abroad ICT-based EMS is because now it is essential to develop clean energy for the reduction of CO2 emissions, the · Advancing into North Korean and · Maximizing efficiency of energy use via Taking initiative culprit behind global warming. K-water is taking the lead in national energy policies through the overseas markets by securing convergence of operating technologies in reducing GHG technological competitiveness on a · Making companywide efforts such as development of new and renewable energy sources such as small hydropower generation, wind emissions on global level in the hydropower sector expansion of electric car use and power generation and the discovery of the hydrothermal energy business. a national scale · Creating new value of water-energy construction of new energy-saving nexus by expanding supply of fuel cells buildings • Create eco-friendly towns that rely on clean energy near dams • Develop Sihwa Lake Energy Cluster and hydrothermal energy • Expand the development of hydrothermal energy externally •Utilizing Information and • K-water type prosumer system • Develop a Korean-type hydroelectric power generation facility model Communication Technologies and improving energy efficiency Status of Operation and Development of Clean Energy Generation Facilities (As of Dec. 31, 2015) *prosumer: electronic device that is in a level between the consumer and the professional model and contains some professional •Securing technology for Operation State Development State features; professional consumer, person who is knowledgeable enough to buy the prosumer device/equipment Category convergence operation of Contents Capacity(MW) Contents Capacity(MW) various energy sources Total 1,344.8 Total 14.4 Sihwa Lake Energy Cluster that creates synergy between Energy, Tourism and Culture Large Soyang River Dam and others 1,000.6 K-water will build a new and renewable energy experience center with land (7MW) and sea Hydro Scale (in total, 9 dams) Power Small Andong Small Hydro Power Plant Chungju, Daecheong, floating solar power (20MW) generation facilities and sea wind power (30MW) generation facilities Expanding water 73.0 8.6 Scale and others (42 plants) Ilsan and Dangyang energy business at Sihwa Tidal Power Plant with Sihwa Lake and its embankment as the center by 2021. The facilities will be integrated into Tidal Power (World's Biggest) 254 home and abroad current tidal and wind power generation facilities, thereby serving as a 315MW new and renewable Floating Solar Power 4 including one in Boryeong 2.7 Chungju 3.0 energy complex and a marine energy tourist attraction. Generation Sihwa Bangameori, Keongin Port, Wind Power 8.0 •Spreading Shihwa Eco City and Kampo Dam and others (3 plants) • Mapped out basic plan to build Sihwa Lake Energy Cluster in 2015 eco-friendly e-Town business Bonpo Solar Energy and others • Complete Sihwa Lake Bangameori solar power generation facility (1MW) on land Solar 6.5 Siheung, Gwangmyeong, Sihwa 2.8 models at home and abroad (23 plants) • Will complete solar power generation facilities (6㎿) on slopes of seawalls in 2018 Hydrothermal Hakya Water Treatment Hoingseong •Entering overseas hydropower 623RT* 50RT* • Will complete solar power generation facilities (20㎿) in sea in 2020 Energy Plant and others (12 plants) Water Purification Plant technology markets • Will complete wind power generation facilities (30㎿) in sea in 2021 * Refrigeration Ton (RT): Capacity of cooling and heating system using hydrothermal energy Image of Shihwa Lake Energy Cluster Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Securing Future Water Management K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Competitiveness Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users K-water’s integrated water resources management is a future-oriented water Goals of Integrated Water Management resources management model designed to let people in the present and future With an eye toward accurately preparing countermeasures needed to change the water K-water is forming a public consensus via an IWRM pilot project, realizing what people want by creating enjoy the benefits of rich and safe water. K-water is steadily endeavoring to a systematic foundation and tirelessly working to realize a healthy water environment and a create a new water resources management paradigm in Korea through the cooperative water culture. convergence of government agencies to improve governance. Realization of a healthy water environment and cooperative water culture Securing Global Water Competitiveness for Future Water Management Healthy water environment where water quantity, quality, ecology, energy and culture are in harmony A national policy coordination meeting in September 2015 and the Ceremony to Proclaim Cooperative water culture based on efficiency, fairness and sustainability Vision for the Integrated Management of Water of Seomjin Dam in November of the same year meant that integrated water management was introduced to Korea and the water resources management paradigm is changing. K-water, Korea Rural Community Corporation, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power, North Jeolla Provincial Government and the Metropolitan Government Council Evaporation vowed to seek the development of the Seomjin River by building close cooperative relationships. Sea River Furthermore, we will build our own standard water management model for the integrated Rain Return flow Weir management of water quantity and quality and secure future water management competitiveness Reservoir Sewage treatment plant by way of the gradual development of the model into an integrated national water management Seomjin River Dam Reuse facility standard model and the exportation of the model. Dam Home Integrated Water Resources Management (IWRM) Dam Groundwater Water 48 purification plant 49 Integrated water resources management (IWRM) is a new water management paradigm to Water manage water by basins in order to maximize synergies in terms of efficiency, fairness and purification plant Weir Sewage sustainability by integrating and managing an entire basin as one entity. The importance of treatment plant integrated water management is growing in order to deal with water-related disasters and disputes for water among regions affected by climate change. Underground water Comparison of Current and Integrated Water Management Operations/Systems Current Water Management Systems Integrate Water Resources Management Systems Efficiency • Quantity management-oriented • Encompassing water quantity, water quality & ecology ecology • Surface water-oriented management • Integrating surface water, ground water and Direction of Integrated Maximizing the efficiency of water use and establishing water management principles • Devoid of information-sharing and integrated alternative water resources Water Management management systems • Integrated management and information sharing systems • Absence of governance • Establishing an effective governance system • Boosting • Inefficient water management • Consideration of fairness, efficiency and sustainability Integration and expanding Advancement of a quick and Implementing core measures to Laying a foundation for establishing usefulness prior to water functions from the planning stage accurate decision-making system enhance the utilization of facilities and promoting water management development · Making integration plans by basins · Real-time monitoring of · Reevaluating water resources facilities · Establishing a Basic Water Management • Sharing Efficiency · Expanding and utilizing water circulation in basins and adjusting their functions Act (tentative name) technological data water functions · Expanding and utilizing characteristic · Normalization of flood control · Improving water rights and Efficiency factors of basins capabilities in connection with dams cost burdening system • Prevention rather than recovery · Advancement and utilization of water and rivers · Easing water-related regulations for management technology · Introducing flexible dam win-win growth • Sharing of operation standards · Establishing integrated governance by basins Efficiency Coping Sharing limited water of limited with climate • Considering rural water change Fairness Sustainability Win-win towns apart from Fairness water cities Addressing water problems in remote areas Climate change response, facility safety and healthy environment Fairness Sustainability culture • Considering branches apart · Providing basic services in areas suffering from droughts · Actively coping with climate change Fairness Sustainability Considering from rivers (islands and mountainous years) · Advancing and overhauling the facility safety management system environment • Preparing for · Developing an integrated river branch disaster management system (municipalities) · Strengthening the national land use-water integration management system and ecology · Improving the to water distribution systems in consideration of downstream areas · Strengthening pollution source management by integrating basins and providing the present and future generations · Diversifying measures to tackle water issues (local dams, utilization of forecast information. Sustainability • Separating Nature sea water and rainwater) from people • Preparing futureoriented strategies Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Achieving Happiness through Water K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Creation of a Eco-Friendly Appendix Competitiveness Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Waterfront Complex Cities Development of K-HIT K-water is devoting itself to building waterfront cities that harmonizes water, nature and ecosystems in addition to scientific water management. The K-HIT or K-water Hydro Intelligent Toolkit for Integrated Water Resources Management Decision Support was developed to empower K-water to achieve the technological level of advanced company is doing everything it can do build future-oriented complex cities with countries and lay the groundwork for new growth engine businesses by securing integrated basin tourism and leisure facilities in harmony by way of the development of ecowater management technology. friendly complex cities such as Sihwa Multi Techno Valley (MTV), Songsan Green City and Busan Eco Delta City and various water-friendly space creation projects K-HIT is made up of basic technologies for integrated water management such as floodgate data such as general river improvement projects, the Ara Waterway and Sihwa Lake. modeling (or software), water use modeling (analysis software), remote control operation of dams and power generation facilities. K-water took the initiative in developing integrated basin water management technology based on its 40-year of know how in practical water management. K-HIT is expected to contribute to spreading Korea's water management technologies at home Water-Specialized Eco-Friendly Waterfront Cities merging the Benefits and abroad by way of the completion and branding of new technologies. We will boost our of Nature and Urban Life competitiveness in the water industry at home and abroad by steadily advancing with the K-water is building eco-friendly complex cities via the re-creation of waterfront spaces. The development and advancement of a system based on differentiated and specialized technology. company is contributing to vitalizing local economies and seeking to develop specialized development by regions by building eco-friendly complex cities with multiple functions such as commercial, industrial, cultural, tourism and leisure facilities with water-friendly spaces near national rivers and streams Precipitation Forecasting System(PFS) Flood Analysis System(FAS) Buyeo Gyuam District 58 dam and weir basins, 4 times a day Predicting level and water flows in Patented • Designated as water-friendly zone Industrial and Ecological Cities with Waterways <Analysis based on super computer> reservoirs and rivers and GS• Waterfront village with water leisure 50 <Analysis of impacts on downstream areas certified facilities and history landmarks from National industrial complexes and new cities which laid the foundation for the growth of the national 51 and deciding discharges> * GS: Good Software the Baekje Kingdom • Eco-friendly tourist destination for economy are growing into eco-friendly ecological cities and multipurpose complex cities by realizing Generation Integrated travelers such as pension complexes industrialization and urbanization based on ICT where water, nature, tourism and leisure are mixed in harmony. Operation System(GIOS) and motels for bike riders connected 25 power plants and 78 power generators to waterfront parks <Real-time remote control and Status of Development of National Industrial Complexes monitoring> • Began to push ahead with the development of industrial complexes in 1974 in accordance with government's policy to promote heavy and chemical industries • Built 2nd to 4th Industrial Complexes of Onsan, Changwon and Gumi and Yeosu National Industrial complexes Real-time Floodgate Information Collection • Creating eco-friendly industrial complexes such as the Expanded Gumi Industrial Complex and Hi-Tech Valley Reservoir Water Supply System(RWSS) and Management System(PHDAPS) Status on the Development of Sihwa Area 446 observation sites and 232 CCTVs Predicting droughts, demand for water and water quality • Developed Ansan New City to secure urban industrial land in the Seoul metropolitan area <Formulating operation plan and enforcing • Created Ansan New City (1977 2009 / Population: 750,000) • Created Sihwa New City (1986 2010 / Population: 150,000) supply of water> Naju Noan District Creation of Creative Waterfront Cities • Designated as a water-friendly zone • Created Global Sihwa Waterfront City • Water-friendly rural village Sihwa Multi Techno Valley (MTV): Multi-purpose complex city with advanced industry and research capabilities connected to Yeongsan River Songsan Green City: Resources recycling ecological city with a focus on tourism, culture and environment • Created 3S(safe, stable, smart) waterfront cities • Southern cultural village with • Created smart waterfront city based on water-centric urban plan design method southern foods and styles • Created complex city for tourism, leisure, culture and living based on waterfront spaces •Picturesque old village in which tradition (marine resorts, theme parks and waterfront trails) and modernization are in harmony Developing a Water Safety System by Proactively Responding with Luxurious Cultural Spaces with Tourism and Leisure Infrastructure Focus on Prevention Beautiful waterfront spaces near dams, rivers and the Ara Waterway are happy spaces in which The establishment of integrated water management enables the integrated operation of water animals, plants and local residents live in harmony. We will enhance people's quality of life and resources facilities such as dams and the integrated management of rivers and basins and can vitalize local economies by developing waterfront spaces and producing cultural contents. maximize flood control capabilities, raising the efficiency of water management significantly. In addition, integrated water management can address drought and floods issues on droughts and Busan Eco Delta City floods on islands and in mountainous areas via the development of customized water resources • Joint project with Busan Government Creating future value through convergence of • Future-oriented eco-friendly Adding new value to waterfront spaces based on local agreement. At the same time, this method can provide benefits for water shortage waterways and culture waterfront city which harmonizes • Past Origin of civilization, trade spaces and center of living • Cultural event spaces areas from fair water environments through the elimination of streamflow depletion via the expansion nature of nature, people and life •Present Passively used spaces, spaces isolated from cities • Modern facilities for leisure, recreation, etc. of maintenance water and an improvement in water quality. We are exerting ourselves to build a •Developed as a base for international and spaces vulnerable to disasters • Spaces where nature and human beings co-exist logistics and advanced industries • Future Actively used spaces, exciting leisure spaces and • Spaces with various contents of local communities water safety system that can be sustained despite climate change among other issues by overhauling which will lead the way for new complex spaces which provide opportunities for life, work and rest and maintaining old reservoirs and dams through prevention-oriented preemptive responses. growth in Busan Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water Pledge 3 K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All K-water’s Five Pledges for Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Smart Water Management, a Scientific Leading Global Water Management Company Sustainable Management Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Solution to Address Global Water Problems The water resources business is a major growth engine for the expansion of a nation's economy. K-water is successfully carrying out overseas water resources projects through its rich experience and technological K-water began to expand into overseas markets by successfully hosting the power and is growing into a world-class water-specialized player through active exchanges with leading World Water Forum in April, 2015. The company strives to take the lead in global water-related organizations. the KRW 1,000trillion world water market based on half a century of water management experience that covers the entire water circulation process experience and smart water management technology which incorporates ICT (Information and Communication Technologies). Size and Outlook of the Smart Water Management Initiative (SWMI) World Water Market [Unit: KRW trillion] 1084 • Secured status as a 813 major Asian partner of WWC 771 Integrated management of the Intelligent water management (World Water Council) 736 entire water cycle from water source system that conducts water •Strengthening leadership as a Key activities for Future plans for management to sewage treatment management in real-time •Reinforced global capabilities world-class water company K-water's sustainable K-water's sustainable via operation of “Knowledge management management •Taking the lead in overseas Sharing” Program water resources projects 2016 2017 2018 2025 •Diversified the activities of the Include all stakeholders, not only government overseas business department or business leaders, but local residents, 53 academia and NGOs Taking the Lead in the World Water Market by Hosting 7th WWF and Launching SWMI in the World Water Forum, 2016 Performance Experts evaluated that the 7th World Water Forum which opened under the theme of “Water for • Launched the Smart Water Management Initiative (SWMI) at •Completed a waterworks operation project in Our Future” on April 12 accomplished the most remarkable outcomes with the participation of 7th World Water Forum (Apr. 2015) Shayang, Jiangsu, China 40,996 people from 168 countries. The hottest issue of the forum was to include the scientific and •Received the order a hydroelectric power plant project in Nenskra, Georgia •Completed waterworks project in Ebinayong, technological sector. In the science and technology session newly established at the suggestion •Received the order for a waterworks project in Bulacan, Philippines Equatorial Guinea of Korea, K-water hosted a special session on the SWMI (Smart Water Management Initiative), K-water's scientific solution initiative to address the world’s water problems. Hydroelectric Power Generation Waterworks Management 7th World Water Forum K-water which announced SWMI, an innovative water management method based on ICT, Project in Patrind, Pakistan Project in Equatorial Guinea received favorable reviews from people who evaluated that K-water created a new paradigm of future water management. After launching SWMI, K-water received positive responses such as · Capacity : 150MW · Capacity : 7,200㎡/day proposals from Suez, Veolia and Deltares who call themselves leaders in smart water management. · Total cost: USD 436 million · Total cost: USD 41.6 billion · Working drawing was completed(2014. 12) · Mongomo waterworks(2006-) · Scheduled to start commercial power generation(2017. 3~) · Ebinayong waterworks(2013-) · Ebebiyin waterworks(2013-) SWMI, an ICT-based Intelligent Water Management System Participants had discussions in about 400 sessions of the four sectors -theme, political, science and technology and regional sessions in an effort to address the world's deteriorating water Angat Dam Hydroelectric Nenskra Hydroelectric Power problems. In the science and technology session suggested by Korea, a total of 38 sessions Project in the Philippines Generation Project in Georgia were held to deal with efficient water management, smart water management and waste water recycling technology among others. We put our utmost efforts into promoting SWMI as a global · Capacity : 218MW · Capacity : 280MW agenda while preparing the 7th World Water Forum. With harnessing all of such results, we · Total cost: USD 469 million · Total cost: USD 950 million · Completion of acquisition and start of commercial · Signed implementation agreement(IA) and launched SWMI and are planning to strategically develop and expand SWMI. power generation(2014. 10) power purchase agreement(PPA)(2015. 8) · Financial closure(2017. 7~) · Financial closure and start of construction(2016. 12~) Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Leadership and Capability Development K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Expansion of Advancement into the Global Water Appendix to Solve Global Water Issues Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Market and Bolstering its Global Capabilities Smart Water Management (SWM) K-water is planning to secure competitiveness by turning integrated SWMbased water management and technology to supply healthy water into the the K-water Program (K-water's oversea business model that provides customized Competency in integrated management of Utilization of world-class ICT for total services covering the entire water cycle real-time remote facility management solutions for pending water-related issues of overseas countries). Expanding Advancement into Overseas Water Markets K-water paved the way to enter overseas water markets by organizing the K-Water Program Integration Council with the participation of the government, government-run and private companies and financial institutions. With the aim of enhancing business development capabilities, the company formulated a plan to expand from ten current overseas offices to thirty Water resources management by 2017. We have been exporting our technology on a full scale since 2015 and incorporated them into the designs and plans for the hydroelectric power generation project in Nenskra, Georgia and for the commencement of operation of power generation facilities at Angat Dam in the Total Philippines and exporting integrated water management technology to Algeria and Indonesia. Water Water Solution Sewage K-water in the treatment treatment World Water Market ICT-based intelligent water K-water was in Charge of Equatorial Guinea's First Water Purification Plant management technology K-water is enjoying booming waterworks business abroad. The company is in charge of the outsourcing operation of Equatorial Guinea's first water purification plant in Africa. We began to manage a water purification plant in the Mongomo area in 2006. At 54 Water supply Water use the moment, we are supplying water for a total of 45,000 people in three cities including Ebebiyin and Ebinayong. 55 Commencement of Repairs and Reinforcement of Angat Dam Angat Dam, a core part of the Philippines' infrastructure is 58km northeast of Manila. The dam has a power production * SWM is a solution of actualizing SWMI an ICT-based intelligent water management system which maximizes the efficiency of water capacity of 218MW which eclipses that of Soyanggang Dam (200MW) and supplies about 98% of the tap water to the capital of resources by applying ICT to the entire water management process from planning to management Manila. K-water was selected as a new operator in 2010 based on its excellent technology for dam operation and management and has been commercially generating power since November 2014. The company began to repair and supplement Angat Dam completed in 1967 to secure its stability after completion of its precise diagnosis. The repairing and supplementing work is to heighten the dam by 1.2m in order to protect it from recent abnormal weather and install measuring devices such as a seismometer, an underground water hydrograph and a penetrating water gauge. The work will cost about KRW 22 billion and will take 18 months to complete (Dec, 2016). This work is expected not only to prevent floods in the Manila area but also to contribute Global Leadership to Solve Water Problems to the operation and commercial power generation of the dam for the next 50 years. K-water, which has played a leading role in strengthening international cooperation in the water sector in Asia, co-hosted the 7th World Water Forum (Daegu, Korea in April, 2015) and demonstrated leadership in solving global water issues. K-water developed AWHoT, which is a Strengthening Global Capabilities high-level meeting to address Asian water issues and seek solutions, into the Asia Water Council After co-hosting the World Water Forum, K-water is operating a Knowledge-Sharing Program (AWC), an executing council and is serving as the chair of the AWC. Through this, we became a for the purpose of improving its global capabilities. The program began with a view to serve as regional partner in Asia of the World Water Council (WWC) and are playing a central role in the a bridgehead to overseas markets by systematically fostering water management specialists who Asia region in preparing the eighth World Water Forum to be held in Brazil in 2018. * AWC, The 3rd Board of will carry out the government's water industry promotion policies internally and diffusing its water Council Meeting management experience and technology to overseas countries through educational programs externally. K-water has been conducting presentations about water education and holding workshops. Emerging as a Global Water Company With the 7th World Water Forum as momentum, K-water carried out technology research and human resources exchange, discovered joint projects and is commercializing the projects. The company is also taking part in the AWC (Asia Water Council) in order to discuss pending waterIncreasing Global Capabilities by Disseminating Water Management Experience and Technology related issues in Asia. After the 7th World Water Forum, the company announced five strategic tasks After co-hosting the World Water Forum, K-water is operating the Knowledge-Sharing Program for the purpose of improving its and ten implementation tasks under the goal of becoming an SWMI-based global leading company global capabilities. The program aims to nurture human resources that will play the role of a bridgehead to overseas markets by and is making steady efforts to elevate its brand value and expand its advancement into overseas markets. disseminating K-water's water management experience and technology abroad. Solving Water Management Problems by Taking the Lead in Discussing River Disputes With respect to solving disputes of transnational rivers in Asia, K-water steadily discussed disputes such as the Mokong River and the Aral Sea via the AWHoT. We will devote our efforts to address water problems in the Asian region via the AWC. Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Diversification of Investments K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Building Global Networks via Sophisticated Appendix and Operations Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Business Management K-water is carrying forward the diversification of investments and operations K-water is beefing up its business capabilities by establishing the Risk through its overseas business department. The company is planning to increase the Management Committee with a view to coping with possible risk in overseas number of overseas offices to 30 by 2025. Based on its experience in the global projects. Moreover, the company is differentiating operation by regions and water market, K-water has ventured into new business opportunities such as the business sectors and building and maintaining cooperative relationships with hydroelectric power generation projects in Patrind, Pakistan and Nenskra, Georgia. relevant units. As well K-water is involved other types of projects such as the waterworks project in Bulacan, Philippines and North Korean reunification preparations. Global Business Management Overseas Business Strategy • Reinforce quantification of business selection standards and risk management by sectors and nations • Build close strategic bond with global organizations such as international organizations and MDB among others • Strengthen localization strategy for strategic overseas countries such as Thailand and Pakistan Expand establishment of Conduct business in the Actively advance into MDB's* overseas corporations by Southeast Area over the projects for technological regional bases to mitigate local short term and gradually cooperation with developing expand advancement into risks and discover promising business opportunities earlier newly emerging markets countries Expanding Markets • Laying foundation for related business such as ICT-based water management methods and alternative water resources * MDB; Multilateral Development Bank • Carrying forward business with focus on Southeast Asia and expand business into 56 newly emerging economies 57 Southeast Asian Belt: Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, Laos, Myanmar, Vietnam, Cambodia Proactively Preparing for Unification with North Korea European and Latin American markets: Georgia, Peru, Chile, Brazil and etc. • Preparing plans to connect in conjunction with government policies • Establishing a tentative water resources infrastructure plan in consideration of North Korean special district plan among others • Prepare a plan to jointly utilize water and electric power by turning superannuated hydroelectric power plants into multipurpose ones • Strengthen international cooperation with neighboring countries such as China and Russia Key Results of Overseas Projects in 2015 [China] Shayang, Jiangsu Province Water Supply Project (2010~2015) [Pakistan] Established a plan to complete Patrind Hydroelectric Power Plant in time and for its optimal operation • Providing tap water through the acquisition, construction and operation of local waterworks in Jiangsu Province's • Completed working drawings by applying changes to the grit chamber design, held briefing session for creditors Shayang in Yangtze River Delta region, China's largest economic development zone and mapped out preemptive operation and management plan(size of O&M human resources and test operation • Acquisition and operation of local waterworks plan for power generation facilities) Created SWM business opportunities by utilizing the 2015 World Water Forum [Pakistan] Patrind Hydroelectric Power Generation Project • Expanded business development opportunities such as signing two MOUs and having 14 discussions about [Equatorial Guinea] Ebebiyin City Waterworks Project (1st phase) (2013~2015) cooperation on water management • Increasing possibility of participating in future similar projects through technology transfer and management of *Suez of France (advancement into Asian water market) and Indonesian Public Project Department (project to build an integrated new waterworks facilities in Ebebiyin City area in Equatorial Guinea dam management system) • Technology support for operational management and education and training of local human resources among others [Philippines] Awarded the Bulacan Waterworks Project for submitting a comprehensive and competitive bid • Based on the combination of business experience, local company networks (e.g. San Miguel) and price competitiveness and the formation of strategic consortium with company with construction experience (Hanjin Heavy Industries) [Equatorial Guinea] Ebinayong City Waterworks Project (1st phase) (2013~2015) • Increasing possibility of participating in future similar projects through transfer of operation and management Taking the lead in World Water Market by co-hosting in 2015 [Georgia] Awarded the Nenskra Hydroelectric Generation Project(Total cost: KRW one trillion, 280Mw) technology of new waterworks facilities in Ebinayong City area of Equatorial Guinea • Technology support for operational management and education and training of • Reduced construction cost and optimized project budget via EPC international bids local human resources among others  Utilized past successful cases such as Patrind Hydroelectric Power Generation * EPC: a turn-key project including engineering, procurement, and construction Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water Pledge 4 K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All K-water’s Five Pledges for Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Water Love Sharing Corps Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Sustainable Management Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users According to its unique social contribution vision, K-water is implementing social contribution activities by setting three core values of social contribution and future directions to which its value system and strategy K-water's Water Love Sharing Corps is made up of employees that have were applied by concentrating resources and capabilities. By making the most of its expertise in water been steadily carrying out a wide array of voluntary service activities such management, K-water will become a company that realizes a society where people share love and happiness as environment preservation, disaster relief, helping the marginalized and with one another and contribute to the development of the nation and communities. contributing to local communities since its establishment in July 2004. K-water is systemically managing voluntary service activities by the establishment of internal volunteer social service clubs and the management of results. The company is giving support to the corps' activities by allocating matching grants as part of its budget commensurate with the Love Water Sharing Fund raised with monthly donations from employees. In 2015, 4,357 employees, 99% of all employees, carried out social contribution activities totaling 58,000 hours by joining 112 • Enhancing water-related voluntary service clubs under the Water Love Sharing Corps. welfare by utilizing utilizing the company's unique characteristics •Endeavoring to The Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Korea Social Welfare Council and business capabilities Key activities for Future plans for solve global water issues designated the Water Love Sharing Corps as as an internal volunteer social service •Carrying out customized K-water's sustainable K-water's sustainable club in 2009. Therefore, the corps issues certificates of participation in social programs for communities •Establishing a foundation for management management sharing healthy water globally Love Water Sharing Fund contribution activities to the general public. Through the organization, employees' •Promoting participation families and students are actively participating in local social contribution programs. via internal and external •Taking the lead in communications and diffusing addressing social issues sympathy 59 KRW Organizational Chart 1.15 billion 2013 KRW 1.17 billion 2014 Water Love Operation Secretariat 16 Branches 112 Clubs Sharing Corps Committee KRW 1.24 billion 2015 Performance Major Activities Financial Sources for Voluntary Activities •Grand Prize in the social contribution sector of national sustainability management •CSR Activity Prize among Korean companies which entered the Philippines market Helping people in need Love Water Sharing Fund •Recipient of a Prize from the Ministry of Gender Equality & Family for support for teenagers outside schools Various activities such as giving Sharing 1% of employee salaries Environment protection •Educational Donation Prize among Korean Public Organizations side dishes and becoming are donated for the first time as friends for marginalized people activities state-run company Matching grant such as home-alone senior (Collecting a certain amount of Activities to protect the environment Company donates the same Number of clubs [Unit: clubs] Activity hours [Unit: hours] citizens, disabled people, such as campaigns, river cleanups, money each month) amount as that of Love Water teenagers who are heads of planting trees and others Sharing Fund 112 58,721 58,427 families and others Expenses for 58,145 106 Supporting Dams 104 52,045 Contributing some of profits 100 Support for disaster relief from selling dam water and Coins of love power generation at dams Quick activities such as giving Donating coins left after business support to help people in Contribution to communities trips regions stricken by disasters Donating prize money such as floods and droughts Community-friendly activities such 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 as free technological services, from Knowledge drinking water quality tests and Suggestion Program Water Love Sharing Corps support for local events Employees participating in Social contribution expenses [Unit: KRW 100 million] Donating some of the prize money from the Knowledge corporate social contribution activities [Unit: persons] * It has counted the Suggestion Program number of employees 4,428 4,357 physically participating 794.6 into social contribution 4,348 activities since 2014 763.1 4,265 746.6 (excluding the employees Water for a dispatched to oversea 639.1 Happier World offices, who participates Raising social into fund-raising Water Love contribution funds programs, but not into Sharing Corps 2012 2013 2014 2015 actual activities). 2012 2013 2014 2015 Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Water for a Happier World, K-water’s K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Water-related Welfare Projects Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users K-water is putting forth efforts to improve water welfare conditions and supply Groundwater Management Plan to Improve Regions Devoid of Water-related Welfare healthy water through projects in places where water welfare is limited such as A groundwater dam refers to groundwater resources securing facility that makes groundwater farms, fishing towns, islands, military bases, marginalized superannuated houses flow low by building an artificial cut-off wall in an aquifer and extract the water via a tube well. At and welfare facilities. the moment, Korea has six groundwater dams capable of supplying about 150,000 m3 of water a day. First all, the company selected ten areas and applied a midto long-term plan to the Basic GroundWater Management Plan established in December 2012 to stably supply water to areas with Bringing Happiness to Areas Once Devoid of Water-related Welfare poor water welfare such as islands and coasts and prevent saline water from penetrating into such areas. We are planning to carry the plan forward step by step. The Happy Water Project aims to repair water-related facilities in remote areas and provide waterrelated welfare services. K-water made an improvement to water use environments including kitchen Concept map of groundwater dam sinks and water pipes at 279 sites including aging housing for vulnerable groups, welfare centers welfare centers and soup kitchens via this project from 2013 to 2015. The company addressed pumping station residents’ inconveniences by quickly mobilizing water supply trucks and emergency bottled water to water storage tank the South Chungcheong Provincial area that had trouble in using water such as the suspension of land surface water supply due to a severe drought. K-water is steadily developing and expanding water welfare projects by directly supplying water from multi-regional waterworks to three unserved farming and fishery areas in three regions of South Chungcheong Province and improving water supply facilities at 692 military bases so that all people can enjoy the benefits of healthy water. water level after installation trench wall variation of water level water level pump Stabilization of Aging Reservoirs Managed by Local Governments. before installation 60 As the steady deterioration of old reservoirs become a threat to people, K-water is taking part in foundation rock 61 preventing reservoir-related accidents, making the country safer. At the moment, the company is engaging in reservoir stabilization projects in seven cities and counties. Classification Target area Project year Yellow Sea (Island) Incheon Ongjin-gun Daeijak-do 2013~2016 Direct Supply of Water from Multi-Region Waterworks to Yellow Sea (Island) Jeonbuk Gunsan Gaya-do 2013~2016 Unserviced Areas Yellow Sea (Island) Chungnam Buyeong Sapsi-do 2017~2020 K-water is going forward with the direct supply of water from multi-region waterworks to Yellow Sea (Island) Jeongnam Yeonggwang-gun Anma-do 2013~2016 unserved areas less than 2km from multi-region waterworks. The project, which is underway in 27 Yellow Sea (Island) Jeongnam Shinan-gun Wooi-do 2015~2018 cities and counties, is improving welfare conditions by increasing the quantity and quality of water Yellow Sea (Island) Jeongnam Shinan-gun Daedun-do 2015~2018 to previously unserved area. South Sea (Island) Gyeongnam Tongyeong Yukji-do 2015~2018 South Sea (Island) Jeongnam Wando-gun Cheongsan-do 2016~2016 South Sea (Island) Jeongnam Yeosu Nang-do 2017~2020 Improving the Small-Scale Waterworks Management System East Sea (Island) Gyeongbuk Yeongdeok-gun Yeonghae-myeo 2017~2020 Small-scale waterworks in small towns are hard integrate with local waterworks systems due to geographical characteristics and are vulnerable in terms of the management of water quantity and <Source: 2016 World Water Day Data Book (page 172)> quality. Therefore, K-water is running and managing an ICT-based integrated operation system to monitor water quantity and quality in real-time and pushing forward with automated water services. Outsourcing Operation of Seawater Desalination Facilities on Islands Status of Groundwater Dam Development Classification Ssangcheon Ian Namsong Okseong Gocheon Uil K-water has been carrying out the outsourcing operation of 39 seawater desalination facilities Sokcho, Gangwon Sangju, Gyeongbuk Pohang, Gyeongbuk Gongju, Chungnam Jeongeup, Jeonbuk Jeongeup, Jeonbuk in eight municipalities since Seosan City in 2004. The company endeavors to relieve people on Location (river name) (Ssangcheon) (Iancheon) (Gokgangcheon) (Yugucheon) (Yonghocheon) (Hangyocheon) islands whom suffer from droughts by supplying 1,915m3 of drinking water. Basin area (㎢) 65.3 21.3 153.0 275.0 27.0 22.0 Supply capacity 33,000 24,000 23,600 27,900 25,110 16,200 (㎥/day) Usage water for living for agriculture for agriculture for agriculture for agriculture for agriculture Year of completion 1998 1983 1986 1986 1986 1986 Length of 800 230 89 482 192 778 trench wall(m) Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Water for a Happier World, K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Key Results of K-water's Appendix K-water’s Water-related Welfare Projects Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Social Contributions in 2015 K-water Reaches Every Corner of Korea K-water led a new water management paradigm based on the Smart Water Management (SWM) which applies Development of an Integrated Flood Control System For River Branches with cutting-edge ICT and existing water management technology, and it also played an important role in the water industry by helping small and medium-sized businesses, such as supporting technology development, K-water is active about preventing flood damages to municipalities by helping them providing financial support, and finding sales routes. Along with these efforts, K-water endeavored to expand with its ICT-based scientific flood management technology and related experience. Its integrated flood control system for river branches is spreading nationwide from Namwon, the water welfare benefits for the public through various activities, including desalinating seawater on islands, Muju and Gunsan. expanding water supply in metropolitan cities, and repairing water facilities used by the vulnerable. All of K-water's efforts have been duly recognized. Providing Drinking Water to Elementary and Middle Schools Receiving the Trade, Industry K-water is supplying safe and clean drinking water by building membrane filtration and Energy Minister Award at facilities at 37 elementary and middle schools in unserviced areas where people drink the “Third Beloved Korean unhealthy drinking water. Company Awards Devoting all corporate strength to Sharing Corporate Linking Tap Water Branch Outlets to Local Tap Water Pipes for mitigate local drought Love event for a Lunar Marginalized's Homes near Dams New Year day K-water contributed to mitigating K-water is paying the fees associated with linking the tap water branch outlets to local tap water pipes for homes with safety and hygiene problems due to old water supply facilities. local drought by securing dam water storage and sending water trucks and bottled water to drought areas through Upgrading Water Supply Facilities at Military Bases the expansion of its drought-relief headquarters. K-water designated two weeks around the Lunar New K-water prepares improvement measures for military bases that have a difficulty in Year as the Love Sharing Weeks for Lunar New Year and securing drinking water due to water scarcity issues and poor water quality. The company 62 supported them by testing and analyzing the water quality and provided them with exercised love and service through various programs, such 63 bottled water for safety reasons. as providing necessities to the vulnerable, sharing holiday Free Medical Services to Share food, offering opportunities for multi-cultural families to Love with local residents Improving the Operations and Management of Management of experience traditional Korean culture, and bathing senior K-water provided medical treatment citizens who live alone, with the help of 112 voluntary groups Small-Scale Waterworks and prescription drugs free of charge known as Water Love Sharers. Small-scale waterworks in small towns are hard integrate with local waterworks systems due to improve the health and welfare of to geographical characteristics and are vulnerable in terms of the management of water residents living in poor areas near dams. quantity and quality. Therefore, K-water is running and managing an ICT-based integrated operation system to monitor water quantity and quality in real-time and pushing forward K-water, cognizant of its corporate social with automated water services. responsibility, will continue to carry out resident support activities. Efforts to Address Global Water Problems As a water specialist, K-water is fulfilling its responsibilities as a global leader while making efforts to develop waterworks, provide educational support, repair public buildings and enhance people's quality of life through its technology and experience in nations with water shortages. The company has steadily implemented drinking water resources development and life support projects for locals in nations that have trouble using safe drinking water such as Tajikistan, East Overseas Social Contribution Generous Volunteer Volunteer K-water's Social Service Brand Acivities in the Philippines Activities during Chuseok Happy Water Project Timor, Cambodia, Mongolia, Vietnam and the Philippines under the theme of creating a happier world with K-water. In 2015, about 59 employees and college student supporters shared love K-water is engaged in vigorous volunteer For Korean thanksgiving day, Chuseok, K-water has implemented the Happy Water locals by building waterworks facilities (water tanks, pipelines, wells and water purification facilities activities overseas. A volunteer team K-water provided groceries and provided Project to increase the quality of lives in Bulacan of the Philippines and in Salinji of Myanmar), providing medical, educational and composed of 24 people, including the lunch to the disabled and local residents. through healthy water by improving the financial support to people there. c h i l d re n o f K w a te r e m p l oye e s a n d K-water employees were engaged in water use environment of the needy. This university student supporters, visited a volunteer activities such as donating year, 131 K-water branches are endeavoring Status of Overseas Social Contribution Activities [Unit: person] village near Angat dam in the Philippines money to buy washing machines for the to make a happier world with water. together with the international nonarmy troops located in Jinan-eup. Participants Country governmental organization (NGO) Korea Food for the Hungry International, and 2013 76 Nepal, Laos shared joys and sorrows with Filipino men, 2014 73 Philippines, Laos women and kids. 2015 59 Philippines, Myanmar Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water Pledge 5 K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All K-water’s Five Pledges for Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company The Autonomous, Positive, and Enterprise for and of Public Users Sustainable Management Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Dynamic Corporate Culture of K-water As a representative public water management institution in Korea that is directly connected to citizens’ lives, K-water seeks to provide the best water services to the public. K-water will become a company for the The general public is calling for a new corporate culture where people realize people and of the people through mutual respect with various stakeholders, including its executives and staff work-life balance due to an increase in desire for self-realization and personal members. activities outside their workplaces. K-water is putting forth efforts to establish a self-regulatory, positive and dynamic corporate culture and earn more trust from its members. • Established a new Corporate Five Activities for Smart Organizational Culture Innovation Culture office that will focus on •Will enhance work-life K-water fosters competent employees based on an autonomous, positive, and dynamic work culture. innovating organizational culture balance via expansion of In January 2015, the company set up an organizational culture secretariat dedicated to organizational •Practiced preventive ethical family-oriented management culture innovation and established five smart innovation models for an autonomous, positive, and management to which dynamic workplace culture. Labor and management are working together to create a happy and stakeholders' needs •Will realize HR enriching workplace such as reducing overtime work by focusing on work and improving the familywere addressed Key activities for Future plans for development with a focus on friendly system. K-water's sustainable K-water's sustainable work and achievements • Spread work capability-oriented management management employment culture •Will reinforce shared growth Work Smart Life Smart People Smart Team Smart Brand Smart via a nurturing system for small · Reduction of demand · Reduction of unnecessary · Selection of excellent · Team trust diagnosis · Participating in public• Fulfilled social responsibility and mid-sized companies for unnecessary data overtime such as turning organizational culture (for all teams within the private corporate culture via the dissemination of ethical (Construction and operation PCs off (department) leaders company) improvement campaigns management •Will promulgate safety patrol of data submission system) (power off after work · Campaign to promote · Providing customized for first time as public 65 activities · Streamlining meetings hours) culture of praise and organizational culture corporation • Reinforced the preemptive crisis (Establishment and · Expansion of a flexible encouragement consulting · Reported by HR Insight operation of a schedule working system based on (banners, pop-ups) (for departments at the (Human Resources management system management system) demand survey head office) management magazine) as public enterprise best practice * K-water is implementing systematic monitoring by developing a new data Spread of Communications and Trust submission system and a schedule management system since 2015 · R unning K-PuB*, a communication platform for CEOs and employees in all aspects of * K  -PuB: K-water's communication management issues and organizational culture Performance events between management and · Operating BOD with participation of employees for promotion of various members' participation staff which CEO take the lead in in management and communications • Received the Prime Minister Award for Promoting Gender Equality •Received the Prime Minister Award for Family Friendly Company Classification Participants •Awarded the grand prize at the 100 Good Work Place(GWP) Awards In K-water's ranking system, employees who have a Grade 4 or lower ranking and worked for 12 years or less for Junior Board K-water and creative thinking and strong enthusiasm to make improvement to work • Recognized by the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Energy's Prize at the Korea's Reliable Company Awards Middle Board Team leader and managerial-level employees with passion for organizational innovation • Awarded the Minister of Commerce, Industry and Energy's Prize as an excellent company in shared growth Employees who are heads of departments of higher and have worked for 25 years or longer and can take lead Senior board in organizational culture and make suggestions and give advice using the accumulated experience · Collecting various opinions through online communication channels such as a CEO 1:1 Online Dialogue and an anonymous bulletin board · Disseminating activities by using everyday spaces such as toilets, outdoor signs, and computer screen savers among others Results (as of November 2016) Number of data requests Meeting satisfaction Approval time reduced by Flexible work system Members' trust of decreased 81% compared to (efficiency): * 96% 50% compared to 2014 (27% utilization rate: 14.6% organizations *: 37.5% 2014 of all departments) increase compared to 2014 increase compared to 2014 * Survey results of meeting participants * Trust management index: 56 points in 2014, 68 points in 2015 and 77 points in 2016 Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All The Autonomous, Positive, and K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Dynamic Corporate Culture of K-water Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Maternity Protection and Family-Friendly Management In order to improve the working condition of employees through maternity protection and familyoriented management. K-water is also boosting the morale of employees through the improvement and operation of various systems such as the expansion of periods and the division of the childcare K-water's Declaration of Human Rights Management leave system, the implementation of short-term paid work during female employees' pregnancy, posting those who want parental leaves where they want to work. Therefore, in 2015, the company was awarded of the Prime Minister's Prize for the Promotion of Gender Equality and the Prime Minister's Prize for a Family-Friendly Company and was selected as the best company in gender equality practice, and was recognized as one of the top 100 Great Work Places. In order to realize a better future based on water and share happiness via water, we will actively implement human rights management that respects and protects human dignity and value in all management activities, and pursue sustainable development. Parental Leave Status Classification 2013 2014 2015 To this end, we support human rights management as a standard of value judgments Personnel applied for leave 37 33 43 and actions that all employees should observe and pledge to put it into practice. (person) Personnel on leave (person) 37 33 43 Total Reinstatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 Status of Flexible Working Maintenance Rate (%) 97.3 100 100 Hour System We respect and support international standards and norms for the protection and [Unit: person] promotion of human rights, including the UN's Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Personnel applied for leave 6 1 8 1,033 (person) 901 We institutionalize human rights management and actively eradicate human rights violations. 66 Male Personnel on leave (person) 6 1 8 67 Reinstatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 We do not discriminate on the basis of races, Maintenance Rate (%) 100 100 100 religions, disability, gender, places of birth, or political opinions among others. Personnel applied for leave 31 32 35 667 (person) We guarantee the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Personnel on leave (person) 31 32 35 Female We do not use any form of forced labor in employment and do not allow child labor. Reinstatement Rate (%) 100 100 100 Maintenance Rate (%) 96.8 100 100 We provide a safe and hygienic working environment. 2013 2014 2015 * Those subject to parent leaves: Employees who applied for parental leaves We support all our partners' implementation of human rights management. * Maintenance rate: Proportion of those who worked for 12 months or longer after returning to work We respect and protect the human rights of local residents in areas in which we do business. We establish and maintain an environmental management system to prevent environmental problems. Business and Human Rights We provide safe and transparent water services to consumers and As the nation's leading public institution responsible for water resources, K-water has accepted Labor Union Joining Rate protect customer value ​​such as personal information collected during our business activities. human rights management as its legal obligation and has been actively working to prevent human [Unit: %] rights abuses for sustainable management. K-water hires employees without any discriminatory views on matters such as race, religion, disability, gender, place of birth, and political opinions in order to respect employee rights. To guarantee freedom of association and collective bargaining, 83 83 84 We will take a responsible attitude to protect and respect the human rights of all K-water allowed employees to freely organize a labor union and is scrupulous in creating no stakeholders involved in our management activities and pledge to do our best to disadvantages to employees due to their participation and activity in the labor union. establish and spread human rights management. As well, K-water continues to make constant efforts to create a safe and hygienic work environment and makes every effort not to violate the rights of residents living in areas where K-water conducts business management activities. K-water is engaged in numerous activities to protect consumer All employees of K-water rights and fully respects consumer privacy by solidifying personal information protection systems. 2013 2014 2015 * All employees became labor union members due to the union shop system Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Ethical Management K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users As the globalization process has deepened, business ethics, such as human rights, Vitalization of Whistle-blowing and internal audits for Clean K-water labor, environment, and anti-corruption, are being emphasized as a focal point for K-water focuses on the spread of its unique ethical culture through constant training and mailing business management. As a result, social expectations have increased for public for employees in order to establish an ethical corporate culture. In 2015, K-water conducted enterprises, and K-water is also required to implement and adhere to high ethical corporate-wide ethical activities in which management showed leadership in ethical activities management practices. To live up to the expectations, K-water has been selecting and employees voluntarily participated in those activities, and it established ethical rules for nonand implementing ethical tasks appropriate to the demand of stakeholders since 2014 executive directors for the first time among public enterprises. While promoting the spread of internal ethical culture through various activities, such as revising personnel policies, establishing in order to strengthen the implementation of social responsibilities through advanced guidelines for an integrity code of conduct by positions and duties, making ethics-oriented posters, ethical management and work. K-water has established the ethical management and operating data request systems, K-water strengthened its confidentiality and integrity culture system and entered the advanced stage wherein value is shared with stakeholders. so that corrupt acts could be precluded or avoided through an internal corruption reporting hotline and informant protection efforts. Besides these efforts, K-water constantly endeavors to curb corrupt acts and solidify its internal ethical culture by annually improving, developing and Ethical Management Promotion Organization measuring the K-water ethics index (KEX) to which its management environment was applied. Board of Directors CEO Auditor Management Advisory Council (External Experts/ Executive Directors) 01 Internal reporting for misconduct in regards to corruption and violation of Ethical Management Executive Audit & Inspection public interests (i.e. whistle blowing) Management Services Department (Senior Executive Vice President) Department When employees notice a corrupt act or an act of violating public interest, anyone can anonymously report the act through report channels in order to correct the misconduct. Ethical Management and Ethical Management Anti-corruption and Corporate 68 69 Public Announcement of Committee Integrity Supervisory Management Information Supervisory 02 What can be reported? Feedback [Corrupt act] Integrity-Ethics Self-regulating System Headquarter Department Countermeasure Team Improvement Team ① An act of an employee abusing his position or authority in relation to his duties or violating the Regular laws in order to promote personal or third party's interests Previous Report ② An act of using the budget of K-water or making a contract that allows the acquisition, Task and · Customers Employees Environment Society Performanagement, and liquidation of assets or has K-water as a contracting party, or an act that inflicts Agenda Each Regional Each Department mance 8 Departments 3 Departments 3 Departments 5 Departments IntroducManageDivision (Integrity Leader) property damage on K-water through the violation of laws and company policy tion including the including the including the including the ment (Activity Manager) ③ An act that solicits, recommends, proposes, or induces the aforementioned acts or hides such acts Management Administrative Space and Public Relations Reflected Services Services Environment Department Department Department Department [Act of violating public interest] An act of violating the interest of the whole society by infringing provisions specified in 180 laws Ethical Practice Task on Each Stakeholder Group: The Anti-Corruption Leader Program Operation regarding the five public interest areas (Public Health, Public safety, Environment, Consumer Departmental Responsibility Implementation interest, and Fair competition) Ethical Management Performance Index Quantified 8~15 points Weight in the Departmental (Level of Corporate Integrity) Evaluation Performance Evaluation Reflected 03 How to report? Category Reporting channels Oasis (K-water's interanet portal): Click the link to the internal reporting center ( Help-Line ) NonInternal Team Evaluation and Individual Corporate Integrity section Department Task for Ethical Management quantified channel MBO Evaluation Reflected Homepage: Click the link to the internal reporting center ( Help Line ) in Voice of Customer section Evaluation External Portal site: Type in Korea Business Ethic Institute or K-Whistle in the search engine channel · Create a report at Help-Line Mail (to the Audit & Inspection Dept.) · Violation of public interest Fill the annex #1 template in the Operating Standards for Public Pledges of ethical practice by all employees Other Interest Report Processing and Reporter Protection, etc. · (Corruption) Clearly specify the personal information of the details of misconduct Email (clean@kwater.or.kr) ※ If you report through the internal corruption reporting center (Help-Line), the report will be processed by being transmitted to an external site and an external responsible person will take care of the case. 2015 91.1% A total of 4,179 (It is impossible for the company to track the personal information of the reporter, IP, etc.) participated people pledged Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Ethical Management K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Achievement of the Highest Grade (AAA) in KoBEX-SM Index for Five * KEX(K-water Ethics Index) Results of Ethical Management Index (composed of 11 areas, 39 items) Consecutive Years developed to measure comprehensive Performance index Cycle Evaluator 2013 2014 2015 ethical management results by KEX* Annual K-water 87.2 points 87.1 points 85.6 points In regard to the Korean ethical management diagnosis indicator KoBEX-SM Index developed applying unique work characteristics that cannot be measured by external Customer satisfaction by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy in 2003, K-water has maintained the highest grade for indices with government-run Annual Ministry of 97.2 points 96.2 points 94.7 points Strategy and Finance five straight years. In 2008, the KoBEX-SM index evolved into an investigation of the overall firms sustainable management areas by expanding its diagnostic scope. Pleasing though this may be, ** Trust Management Index Anti-Corruption & Integrity of public Index to measure the level of the Annual Civil Rights IV Grade III Grade II Grade K-water is not resting on its laurels but is making corporate-wide efforts to maintain an excellent management for Great Workplace organization Commission of Korea grade in the overall evaluation areas. which made up of five areas (trust, Trust Management External Professional respect, fairness, pride, and fun) and 59 Annual 66 points 56 points 68 points Index** Organization(GWP Korea) items Results of Ethical Management in 2015 Expansion of advanced Annual K-water 229 cases 260 cases 296 cases information disclosure *** KoBEX-SM(Korean Business Ethics Index – Sustainability) Institute for Industrial Policy Highest grade Highest grade Highest grade Sustainability CEO's will for sustainability Trading system and mutual growth KoBEX-SM Index*** Annual Studies(IPS) (AAA) (AAA) (AAA) Management Points in 2015 100.0 Points in 2015 88.2 Partners A sustainability management survey (composed of 8 areas, 19 items) jointly Vision conducted by the Ministry of BOD's independence and transparency Consumer protection system and fair trade Ethical Management Tasks Points in 2015 94.2 Customers Commerce, Industry and Energy and Governance Points in 2015 94.8 the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies Respect for human rights, prohibition of · Providing customized services to customers Work Activities for communities discrimination and labor relations Communities Customer · Conducting customer-oriented system innovation, such as increasing water rate payment convenience places Points in 2015 89.2 Points in 2015 96.1 (3) · Providing high-quality tap water ( Healthy Tap Water ) for customers EnvironEthical mental Ethical management system Environmental investment and impact Management Manage· Improving the management announcement system and increasing pre-release information Points in 2015 94.9 Points in 2015 98.0 ment · Increasing homepage use to communicate with the public 70 People (2) 71 Received a Superb Grade (S) in Shared Growth Evaluation · Establishing a human right impact evaluation and implementation plan · Establishing a preemptive risk prevention system (the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy) for Two Consecutive Years · Increasing public purchase rate by improving customer-centered system, etc. Government K-water has achieved 163% against its plan by making 54 agreements to transfer intellectual (3) property rights (IPR) technology, such as water pipe automatic flushing equipment, to realize · Budget execution standard redefinition and frequent redistribution · Establishing company culture to work effectively and jointly develop individuals ethical management with partnering companies, and its achievement on the performance test has and the organization exceeded the previous year. Furthermore, K-water has been involved in the transparent society · Increasing work efficiency through fair and clear work instructions implementation network in order to better perform as a morally upright public enterprise by taking · Protecting whistleblowers and increasing corruption control system efficiency · Enhancing transparent HR system and decreasing unfair HR practices part in anti-corruption promotion activities. K-water is expanding networks with civil society and Employees · Making rewards and welfare reasonable through communication public institutions for sustainable integrity activities and is fulfilling its social responsibilities as a (8) · Enhancing training to increase integrity and ethical awareness public enterprise and spreading anti-corruption and integrity culture by collaborating with both · Operating system to issue safety and integrity watch call for corruption prevention the public and private spheres. · Increasing public water welfare by performing social responsibilities Implementation of Proactive Ethical Management by · Expanding local community flood and disaster management projects · Creating new water projects (local dams) through communication and agreement Applying the Needs of Stakeholders · Conducting projects to improve water service for military bases · Making water-welfare expansion project agreements K-water aims to establish advanced ethical management through communication with outside Local · Timely implementation of water-related infrastructure development and retrofitting stakeholders and the internalization of an ethical culture. K-water increased the number of ethical Community · Increasing SWI* on islands (9) · Cooperation with local government for water-related welfare of local communities implementation tasks from 28 in 2014 to 33 in 2015 by expanding the scope of direct and indirect (e.g. Implementation Agreement with the Kyeonbuk Province) stakeholders and strengthening these tasks. · Stabilizing facilities and enhancing disaster response capabilities  *SWI (Smart Water Island): K-water's solution for smart water management optimizing for islands Implementation of Proactive Ethical Management Target Achievement Result · Boosting shared growth by developing small and medium businesses Increase of 39% in visitors per day from in the water industry People Promotion of homepage to communicate with people Partners previous year · Supporting small and medium businesses through the creation of patent technology Operation of safety and integrity watch call system to (3) Existing Employee Made ten times (no annual violation) and activation of technology transfer prevent corruption · Creating a shared growth environment by sharing R&D infrastructure Improvement in customer contact work and service Excellent customer satisfaction rating for Customer quality 9 consecutive years Promotion of overseas expansion with small and Selected as an excellent project for · Contributing to improving dam water quality by responding to green algae Partners mid-sized firms collaboration with public organizations Future · Increasing K-water brand value through the creation of eco-friendly spaces Grand Prize at Korea Sustainability Generation · Developing clean energy from water-related energy sources Expansion of specialized social contribution based on Expanded Community Management Awards (5) · Enhancing environmental management in Sihwa District characteristics of K-water (in social contribution category) · Water quality management in Ara Waterway Expanding clean energy development to Future Generation Achieving goal of development in 2015 combat climate change Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Talent-Based Management K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users The productivity of an organization is directly related with the involvement Global Talent Development of its employees. For sustainable management and successful business In line with its efforts to expand the oversea businesses, K-water is making efforts to strengthen implementation, K-water endeavors to create an optimum work environment global expertises of its employees. The company is creating opportunities for talent-exchange for its members. As a public enterprise, K-water is implementing social programs with international institutions including MDBs (Multilateral Development Banks) through responsibility and productivity improvement activities in an effort to create the development of a network with international professional institutions in water industry. jobs for young people and operate a salary and welfare system that satisfies K-water conducts education and training customized for each role (new -> working-level -> management staff) and actively supports the improvement of global working capabilities for its government policy and citizens’ expectations for a public enterprise. employees (e.g. providing a variety of foreign language classes). By assigning trained workers to relevant jobs by considering their accumulated job expertise and work performance, the company is realizing talentand performance-based human resource development and management, Reinforcement of the Performance-Based Pay System linking the tailed training with duty assignment. K-water has been enhancing its performance-based pay system to improve management performance and help increase productivity through fair and systematic performance management and differential rates of pay. While Status of overseas secondments connecting a salary with evaluation results in terms of personnel capability, duty difficulty, and work performance, and enhancing the credibility of the evaluation results through the operation of the corporate performance Year Institution Country Relevant Areas management system (K-BEST), the adjustment of evaluation indicators in advance, and the post-evaluation OECD France Analysis of global water and green growth policy procedure of filing an appeal, K-water operates a leading evaluation and feedback system which encourages the 2013 improvement of personal and organizational performance by providing performance-improvement consulting CEH River basin management and water quality improvement The U.K. and refresher training courses. The excellence of K-water's performance-based compensation system has been (Centre for Ecology and Hydrology) model development recognized as a good example of a public institution at workshop in 2015 and 2016. World Bank The U.S. Climate change response and integrated water resource management Talent Development Index 72 Capacity CA DWR The U.S. Analysis, etc. of economic feasibility of water resource 73 Job evaluation management strategy evaluation (personal Personal (relative value of Capacity Capacity 42% 2014 Research, etc. on urban water management in UNESCO France achievement, capacity job performed) evaluation evaluation 2015 Target preparation for climate change leadership, etc.) -Creation 42.5% DifferenDuty Differenof business ADB Philippines Case study regarding water policy, etc. tiating Fair Total salary tiating job-based performance 2015 evaluation base salary (wage) link USACE The U.S. Research on international water resource projects payment -Increased Performance Productivity Performance evaluation Performance evaluation 101% 2015 ADB Philippines Operation and management of water resource projects Performance Differentiating performanceTarget (department, team, personal Analysis of green growth and hydroelectric power based bonus Achievement IHA The U.K. performance) business feasibility Level PerforExpansion of Open Employment mance Not all K-water employees have college and as such, it endeavors to continuously create customized Analysis opportunities to meet the job qualifications of employees with a high school diploma and women Enhancing the Link of Human Resources Development and Management whose career experience has lapsed. K-water changed the existing recruiting system, which gives development Full-Time New Employees of talent with Competency Reinforcement Plan (CRP*) additional points and preferential treatment by personal advantages, to a recruitment goal system. The [Unit: persons] Job training expertise *self-directed learning -> evaluation of capability -> training tailed to a need of individual company improves the diversity of social members and tries to contribute to social integration through 261 by securing measures such as hiring people based on social equity by increasing employment opportunities. These 252 220.5 customized ✚ Establishment of a plan for the development of the employee expertise exceed the government's recommended standards. K-water employed 19 women as its regular workers talent, etc. by providing a variety of short-term and long-term training opportunities optimized for a need for the first time among public enterprises by creating short-time jobs customized for women with discontinued career experience. With this achievement, K-water was selected as a good example of Talent development Long-term Providing opportunities of study and practicing time-flexibility gender equality in 2015. index training work training abroad in order to enhance global work forces 2013 2014 2015 = New Recruitments (Unit: persons) Rate of female employees(%) (top expertsx1.5)+(expertsx1.2)+ ✚ Management of individual training performance and profile (semi expertsx1) RecoRecoRate of disabled employees(%) Achievement Achievement Classification mmendaResults(B) Classification mmendaResults(B) 20 Number of targeted persons rate(B/A) rate(B/A) 18.7 HR(Human Resources) assignment management by assigning hightion(A) tion(A) 20 16.9 HR operation considering (expert-level) experience, performing employees in each job area to appropriate positions Work 15 High school academic degree, education history, etc. graduates 44.1 54.75 124% protection 476 477 100% 10 subject 3.1 5 1.6 2.3 Youth 131.4 187 142% Disabled 3 3.40 113% Women 0 Flextime reentering Job None 7 700% workers 6.75 7.5 111% 2013 2014 2015 Market Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Shared Growth K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users K-water is performing various activities to present itself as a global company Official Emblem of Shared Growth Promotion Organization through mutual cooperation and social responsibility implementation. K-water Accredited Activities inside of the Corporate Excellent Products Partnership & Diagnosis Team: Activities out of the Corporate Partnership Senior Executive & Diagnosis Team: K-water's Shared Growth Implementation System Vice President Every year, K-water reviews its shared growth plan and selects major tasks through SWOT* analysis Director of Business for strategic management, analysis of the environment at home and abroad, feedback, and Management Division possessed capabilities. Under the goal of systematically implementing shared growth, K-water established a control center and organized a shared growth team by utilizing the shared growth Advisory Commitee Office of Waterwork Evaluation Committee Evaluation Team taskforce team under the leadership of the vice president. By going beyond shared growth efforts (16 representatives of Engineering Review Committee (10 team leaders of (4 managers of small, mid-sized and (13 members of Shared (10 internal experts) in the domestic market, K-water played an important role in 2015 to help small and medium-sized large firms) departments dedicated) departments dedicated) Growth Team) businesses in the water industry enter the overseas market by expanding its overseas business division's taskforce team, which is responsible for such duties. *SWOT: A tool for a corporate to analyze its strength, weakness, opportunity, and threat External Commendations Technology All Worksite Business and Safety K-water Management HR Financial HR Waterworks Technology Overseas Manageement Master plan for a water industry SMEs* growth system developed by K-water Planing & Coordination Services Office (6) Management Management Development Management and Safety Business Convergence Research Group Department Office Office Center Office Office Office (257) Department Center (3) (3) (6) (3) (6) (3) (3) (3) Win-Win (3) Internal cooperation Performance Purchase of Public Educational Support for Technology Advancing professional Vision Support for evaluation for Construcgoods purchase support test-beds* transfer overseas Infrastructure in Public budget tion Support Purchase** 74 Shared growth with SMEs by leading water industry 75 technology development Commended by Commended Ministry of Health by Minister of * Test-Beds: Providing facilities to help small and mid-sized companies test and supplement their new technologies and Welfare Commerce, ** Internal professional in Public Purchase: 257 experts at regional headquarters and worksites. They promote active public Goal for promoting Industry and purchase from design stages at each department purchases of Energy for Establishing a water industry growth system with products made commercialization by the disabled of new technology SMEs developed by K-water (August) (November) Implementation of Benefit-Sharing Product Certification to Help Small and Medium-Sized Businesses Expand their Market at Home and Abroad Main tasks K-water evaluated SME products, which were developed and verified through the benefit-sharing system, in 11 categories, such as corporate credit rating, A/S infrastructure, and user The purpose of Expanding implementing this system is to mitigate the the difficulties SMEs experience in having sales channels Expanding Strengthening markets in the domestic market and in entering the overseas market due to their low brand awareness. By technology foundation for SME accrediting benefit-sharing products with an official certification emblem based on a thorough development products Commended Commended evaluation, K-water is enabling small and medium-sized businesses to use its brand recognition and by Minister of by director is actively supporting these businesses to increase sales channels in Korea and overseas. In 2015, Commerce, of Small and Industry and Medium Business K-water shared growth with small and medium-sized enterprises by approving the certification of 12 ① Expanding discovery ① Expansion of facilities to be ① Increasing sales routes for Energy for Administration companies, including Techwin (high concentration sodium hypochlorite generator). shared growth (December) of good technology and open for test-beds** of SMEs successful technology and (November) K-water Accredited Excellent SME Products in 2015 products ② Expanding networks and developed products No. SME Name Technology Name ② Increasing projects to cooperation with external ② Increasing purchase of 1 YoungNam Metal Clamp for coping with water leakage support SMEs' R&D activities institutions equipment and materials of 2 Baek Kwang IST Chlorine dispenser/vacuum regulator/ejector/intelligent controller ③ Supporting technology ③ Enhancing the partnering SMEs 3 RPM Tech Sludge discharge equipment for settling rreservoir in waterworks development by using technological competence of ③ Strengthening promotion 4 TechWin High concentration sodium hypochlorite generator Waterpedia** SMEs of SME products 5 Shin Jin Precision Industrial Equipment for supplying water at pipelines into water supply trucks 6 Hyclor Open cell (electrolysis) type on-site sodium hypoclorite generator Commended by 7 Gentro Waterproof technology for concrete structure by using PE sheet administrator 8 Mireotack Mobile VPN Modem of Public Procurement 9 Dongyang Electro-Systems Mechanical seal float-type horizontal paddle flocculator * SME: Small and Medium size Enterprises ** Waterpedia: Water-related information portal operated by K-water Service 10 Ilsan Electricity Incoming and distributing electrical panal board *** Test-Beds: Providing facilities to test and supplement new technologies developed by SMEs, etc. (December) 11 Jain Technology Wall-attaching type ultrasonic flow meter 12 Dae Han Industry Freeze prevention water meter Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Shared Growth K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Project to Become First Customer Nurturing Small but Competitive Global Companies via K-water's “SME Development Ladder” Program K-water opened the New Technology Counseling Center to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which have difficulty in securing initial sales routes due to on-site workers' lack of STEP A confidence in construction-related new technology. To increase the interest and awareness of Strengthening Capabilities of SMEs by Jointly Entering Overseas Markets registered new technology, K-water conducted 67 new technology exhibits and four presentations. By selecting 25 new technologies with high possibilities to be applied to K-water's business, the Mid-term overseas export Development of capability diagnosis competitive global SMEs company provided 1:1 matching opportunities for small and medium-sized businesses to meet with K-water employees who are responsible for placing orders. •(Background) Difficult to secure overseas information •(Support model) Development of competitive SMEs in and capability status due to a shortage of human the water industry through K-water's “SME Development resources and poor financial status of small and Ladder” Program by providing technology notice and medium businesses (SMEs) financial support Gratuitous Transfer of Unused Intellectual Property Rights •(Implementation) Export support for SMEs in •(Cooperation) Creation of SME development foundation collaboration with KOTRA, such as capability diagnosis through collaboration with the Ministry of Environment Small and medium-sized businesses in the water industry have difficulty in securing customers customized to K-water's cooperation SMEs and metropolitan city governments (common verification and developing new technology due to a shortage of researcher infrastructure. K-water enhances and purchase support) (50 tasks discovered, KRW 3.1 billion provided for R&D) the technical competitiveness of small and medium-sized businesses and facilitates their growth through the gratuitous transfer of its unused intellectual property rights in order to support the development and growth of small and medium businesses by fulfilling its responsibility as a STEP B public enterprise. In 2015, K-water selected 31 intellectual property rights for gratuitous transfer Increasing Brand Value of Products Entering Overseas Markets for the first time among public enterprises and transferred three intellectual property rights to two Development and provision of Joint participation in Export product performance companies. K-water will continue to promote the foundation for intellectual property in the water K-water type certification brand international exhibition verification support industry and the vitalization of technology transfer. •(Background) Difficult to enter •Awareness increased through 2015 •(Performance inspection) Providing 76 overseas due to low awareness of World Water Forum exhibition an access to 101 facilities for test77 SMEs joined by 170 countries → Joint beds* to SMEs (Provided 33 Continued Efforts to Address Unfair Trade Practices Toward •(Branding) Development and participation in overseas exhibitions, accesses for test-beds to 26 SMEs) provision of certification brand including 2016 Singapore exhibition •(Performance test) Increasing Subcontractors (emblem) to excellent SMEs  (Participation of six cooperation overseas export competitiveness which allows them to utilize SMEs in exhibitions, including water by guaranteeing performance K-water endeavors to promote a fair trade culture by strengthening the effectiveness of mutual K-water's certification emblem for technology) of industrial valves, hydropower growth by considering site conditions to address fundamental unfair trade practices between promotional materials on agreed equipment, etc. based on K-water's items. global-level performance test project owners and subcontractors at construction sites. For this, K-water designated 93 tasks to * Beneficiaries: To be selected infrastructure improve unfair trade practices in 2015, and 84 of those tasks have been completed. K-water is through evaluations of product making consistent efforts to address the remaining nine tasks. quality verified through K-water benefit-sharing system (Emblem use approval certification issued to 12 companies, including *Test-Beds: Providing facilities to help Techwin (high concentration sodium small and mid-sized companies test hypochlorite generator)) Unfair Practice Construction Work Construction and supplement their new technologies Improvement TF Consultative Group Site Meeting K-water and 53 construction K-water and 67 construction STEP C K-water department (6 person), Organizasite project owners and site project owners and construction-site officials Increasing Overseas Sales Routes tion subcontractors (projects valued subcontractors (projects valued (425 person) at over KRW 3 billion) at over KRW 1 billion) Overseas customer-specific Joint participation in K-water Overseas market entrance marketing support overseas business Regular meeting and •Hosted an investment promotion •Provided technology capabilities •Entering overseas markets and permanent two-way Regular meetings seminar (in China) with K-water training to potential customers creating growth foundation by Operation communication system Meetings twice a year once a month technology transfer companies in (e.g. water related Government jointly entering K-water overseas establishment (cyber collaboration with institutions officers from the Philippines), business (Equatorial Guinea and the consultative body) promoting qualified SME products Philippines) with good collaboration *Collaboration institutions: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, and technologies SMEs Establishment of annual shared Korean Industrial Property Office, (capability training twice, 24 (Five cooperation SMEs, KRW 1 Unfair practice improvement Sharing construction system participants, three SMEs) billion in sales) growth plans for each site KOTRA, K-water (four institutions) Role task preparation, system improvement issues and department, implementation of improvement, feedback gathering site opinions *Participating companies: 11 mutual growth activities companies (Five in the land and transport sector, six in the water industry sector) (Dongyang Valve and six companies (12 cases), signing export contracts worth KRW 34.6 billion) Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Risk Management K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users As K-water's role in providing safe and healthy water expands in Korea, the Companywide Risk Management Strategy risk of disaster is also increasing. As such, K-water is reinforcing its capabilities With a view to protecting people from water-related disasters, K-water is reinforcing and to cope with risk by introducing a companywide risk management system advancing the preemptive crisis management system. Under the goal of scoring 95 points or implemented by all departments with the Technology and Safety Office under higher in the Level of Risk Management, a corporate key performance index, we began to build a the direction of the Senior Executive Vice President. companywide crisis management system. The direction of the system is based on eight strategic tasks in order to secure prevention-oriented management, enhance practical risk resolution capabilities, and to reinforce conflict management capabilities. Level of Risk Management (unit: point) Safety from Water-Related Disasters through Preemptive Crisis Management System 95.3 95.2 1. Building ERM (Dec. 2007) Scoring 95 points or higher in 93.5 ·S trengthening discovery and Danger 2. Making “KRM” a brand (Aug. 2012) the Level of Risk Management · Supplementing action manual management of vulnerable and enhancing training Risk 3. Tentative introduction of BCM (Oct. 2013) elements Making companywide 4. Preparation of a manual entitled Initial Measures Expansion of the program to nurture mock drills regular facility safety experts (Aug. 2014) · Strengthening field-based ·C hecking and diagnosing PreventionStrengthening Crisis 5. Advancement of KRM system (Nov. 2015) oriented practical crisis response capabilities safety blind spots Connecting KRM and anti-disaster safety response Introducing Occupational Safety capabilities management system at Ministry of Public Safety 2013 2014 2015 & Health Management System to and Security * ERM: Enterprise Risk Management construction sites ** KRM: K-water Risk Management Strengthening · Strengthening new disaster · Establishment  and dissemination conflict response capabilities *** BCM: Business Continuity Management 78 of companywide safety culture management Detecting and 79 Designation and implementation of capacities eliminating cyber threats Safety Check Inspections Preventing personal Development of an Industrial Safety information leaks Management System Companywide Risk Management System · Conflict management through internal and external empathy *Risk management effort: Establishment of a conflict management database Rate of direct management of vulnerable With the aim of developing risk management strategies every year, K-water analyzes and revises facilities (20%) + Department proper Dispatch of conflict management experts to address on-site conflicts existing plans under the direction of the Senior Executive Vice President. risk management rate (20%) + Rate of · Strengthening the media crisis response system reporting and taking proper measures Establishing cooperation systems by departments to respond to media agains emergencies (30%) + Rate of Establishing companywide system for message delivery completion of proper measures (30%) Formulation Process of Risk Management Plans Disaster & safety Identification Selection Confirmation Advancing KRM (K-water Risk Management System) management department K-water has been building a prevention-oriented crisis management system by making a Governing Request of Enforcement of Implementation department companywide risk management plan which includes proper management of risk indicators, 1 risk indicator risk management of risk management Managing companywide drills to cope with crises and manual maintenance. The company is expanding its identification strategy (January) plan (March) department practical crisis response capabilities by establishing an emergency response system, routinizing  Sending official drills, strengthening a collaboration system among departments and improving the ICT-based documents 2 5 (to all KRM. In 2015, the results of drills were applied to the KRM system, which boosted the effectiveness departments) of crisis management and user convenience. Making risk Implementing Identification of management plan risk management risk indicators from and selecting activities (MarchClassification Main Contents Remarks the department in risk indicators Reviewing February of charge (February) indicators of following year) Adding function to send short messages to external organizations (local subordinate Measures to Improve Supplement governments and fire stations among others) departments Alerting System Supplement 3 Identifying short message senders and inquiring sending histories 4 Improving KRM statistical features and real-time EMC* Supplement Measures to Scale Up Selection and Risk manageSystemization of individual mission cards Newly Introduced System Utilization Identifying risk submission of ment planning Building history management system during whole process Newly Introduced indicators by risk indicators by and activities Opening of Opinion Collecting Room (i.e. messenger or bulletin board) departments departments (March-February Measures to Newly Introduced for information sharing and communication (February) of following year) Improve the System Newly Introduced Newly establishing functions to revise and delete contents registered as risk * EMC (Emergency Management Center): A system to provide real-time broadcasting and real-time information such as recovery materials, an emergency countermeasure team and siutuation reports in the event of a crisis Approach to Sustainability Pledge 1. Intelligent Water K-water, Global Hub of Management and Satisfied Customer Water Management Pledge 2. New Water Values for All Risk Management K-water’s Five Pledges for Sustainable Management Pledge 3. Leading Global Water Management Company Pledge 4. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Appendix Pledge 5. Enterprise for and of Public Users Risk Management Process Establishment and Diffusion of Companywide Safety Work Culture Risk K-water designated K-water Safety Check Day on the 4th day of every month, operating programs management to eradicate poor safety precautions of veering away from customary safety management. By doing Companywide Main Crisis Response (before crises break up) Management risks Manual so, the company is putting forth efforts to raise employees' awareness of safety and establish a safety culture. For pan-national communication on establishing establishment of a safe work work culture, we are carrying out activities such as a campaign to find out risk factors, participation in safety checks Risk Risk Monitoring/ and drills and contests of innovative ideas for safety, while holding “Safety Check Day with People” Identification Evaluation Management Response Reporting (Prevention activities) (Detecting potential risks) (Impact / probability) Departmental Activities of Safety Check Day Departmental Automatic risk indicator Management Detection Vulnerable Inspection & facilities Management Crisis management Risk Investigate Determination of Response to Post (after crises Management the Crisis the Crisis Level Crises treatment 80 break up) (Response activities) Inspection of facilities Safety prevention training Conduct safety 81 Companywide crisis management Crisis management at the vulnerable to disasters and PR activities campaigns Occurrence Serious Cautious department level of Crisis ·C ontrol center at HQ: Senior Executive Vice President · Field  control center: head of · Field control center: Head of regional HQ Management Group (Incidents, accidents) · Automatic organization of Emergency ·A utomatic organization of Detailed Response Headquarters Emergency Response · Convening Risk Management Committee Attention Headquarters Inspection · Crisis response at the department level ·H R Support for regional headquarters Implementation of Safety Patrol Activities With an eye towards discovering and eliminating hidden risk factors, K-water assembled Safety Major Outcomes of Risk Management in 2015 Patrols with employees in the Technology & Safety Management Department, departments K-water actively responded to the prevention of risk by discovering and managing 291 KPI cases in charge or on-site duties, who have expertises and experiences. K-water Safety Patrols are at worksites and 287 vulnerable facilities for advanced risk management. As a result, the company taking a role of discovering mismanagement in safety control, safety inspections, addressing confirmed the effectiveness of its crisis response system by responding to crises such as quick grievances, and investigating the causes of accidents. As well, the company is tentatively notification of 355 incidents in 2015, the most since the KRM system was introduced and obtained a operating the certified corporate Safety & Health Management System (KOSHA 18001) even at score of 89.58 points in reports within one hour and 90.99 in measure completion. small-scale construction sites. The company is removing risk factors in advance and inducing sound management for construction sites through on-site regular inspections and guidances by composing Safety Quality Supervisors with experienced employees and internal specialists. Key Outcomes of Risk Management in 2015 Management Conflict Disaster PR Total Establishing a Worksite-led Quality Management Risk KRI (Department risk 7 17 257 10 291 Implementing activities to determine the causes of deterioration and improve quality with the indicator) prevention participation of main parties (K-water, contractors, subcontractors, and laborers) Vulnerable facilities 0 0 287 0 287 Crisis management 1 5 345 4 355 Achievement rate Periodic Risk Assessment→Meeting→Training, Activities →Check, Evaluation Classification Evaluation standard (evaluated cases) Proper KRI management rate Properly managed cases/Total cases 97.25 (283/291) Risk Proper management rate of prevention Properly managed cases/Total cases 100 (287/287) vulnerable facilities Cases reported within 1 hour/Total cases Proper reporting rate 89.58 (318/355) Crises which occurred Management Cases completed by measures were/Total Complete rate of measures 90.99 (323/355) cases which occurred APPENDIX Sustainability Highlights Third Party Assurance 84 96 Future Created GRI G4 INDEX/ISO 26000 Code of Ethics, Green Management Policy, Customer Charter Statement, 99 with Water and Innovation Vision Statement 102 UN Global Compact's 10 Principles Support 104 Creating a future of hope for next 100 years Questionnaire to Collect Readers’ Opinions 105 Sustainability Highlights Economic Performance Financial Performance Statement of Financial Position [Unit: KRW in millions] Creation and Distribution of Management Performance [Unit: KRW in millions] Category 2012 2013 2014 2015 Half 2016 Category Distribution Target 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Current assets 5,213,014 5,785,518 5,631,464 6,006,540 7,129,944 Creation of economic value(1) 6,354,088 3,694,659 3,682,884 3,739,658 3,825,466 Asset Non-current assets 19,803,369 19,818,389 19,807,635 13,544,099 13,699,153 a) Net sales 6,325,786 3,668,445 3,645,388 3,698,372 3,777,345 Total 25,016,383 25,603,907 25,439,099 19,550,639 20,829,097 b) Interest income, rent, sale of assets, etc. 28,302 26,214 37,496 41,286 48,121 Current liabilities 2,722,666 3,358,548 2,161,443 2,795,626 4,195,000 Others (Government subsidy) 236,679 298,786 309,286 317,196 304,710 Liabilities Non-current liabilities 11,055,255 10,639,904 11,299,992 10,477,544 10,035,804 Distributed economic value(2) 6,139,990 3,492,452 3,259,297 3,429,512 3,357,400 Total 13,777,921 13,998,452 13,461,435 13,273,170 14,230,804 a) Operating cost: Partner 5,260,373 2,493,275 2,128,902 2,378,105 2,408,387 manufacturing cost, asset purchase cost Capital stock 6,815,621 6,898,731 7,016,965 7,196,145 7,547,082 others 4,411,461 4,697,176 4,945,222 -942,043 -975,013 b) Wages and welfare: Employees 357,221 360,591 377,361 359,206 402,373 Labor costs Equity attributable to Equity 11,227,082 11,595,907 11,962,187 6,254,102 6,572,069 owners of the Company c) Capital cost: Shareholders, 399,552 501,674 541,310 537,615 447,082 Interest paid, dividend Financial institutions, etc. Non-controlling interest 11,380 9,548 15,477 23,367 26,225 d) Taxes: Government, Local 68,159 73,677 138,349 79,636 18,239 Total 11,238,462 11,605,455 11,977,664 6,277,469 6,598,294 Income tax and local tax payments government e) Community investment: Customers, Local 84 * Consolidated statement as per application of Korea-International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) since 2011 donations, contributions communities 54,685 73,677 73,375 74,950 81,319 85 Condensed Income Statement [Unit: KRW in millions] Surplus economic value(1-2) 214,098 202,207 423,587 310,146 468,066 Category 2012 2013 2014 2015 (1st Half) 2015 (Total) 2016 (1at Half) Revenue (Sales) 3,668,445 3,645,387 3,698,372 1,682,380 3,777,345 1,647,891 Cost of sales 3,117,070 2,989,350 3,178,494 1,397,124 3,288,664 1,409,611 Selling, general and administrative expenses 117,048 123,920 129,419 71,111 139,064 63,508 Gross profit 434,327 532,117 390,459 214,145 349,617 174,772 Other income 296,308 315,516 323,280 176,025 349,076 8,150 Other expenses 3,856 43,087 6,826 6,743 7,437 4,736 Other gain -5,296 2,078 -13,221 -16,032 -6,295,565 -52,560 Financial income 195,182 97,870 91,264 37,904 85,503 34,732 Financial costs 515,371 449,185 400,656 186,296 370,962 180,316 Share of profit of equity accounted investees 395 1,565 33,248 -1,520 -8,058 102 Profit before income tax 401,689 456,874 417,548 217,482 -5,897,826 -19,856 Income tax expense 93,394 108,756 118,222 31,866 -102,186 -2 Net profit 308,295 348,118 299,326 185,617 -5,795,638 -19,854 Other comprehensive income 13,386 -9,901 18,874 -10,511 -8,023 -8,521 Total comprehensive income 321,681 338,217 318,200 175,106 -5,803,661 -28,375 Profit attributable to owner of the company 308,247 346,443 298,554 184,992 -5,799,067 -21,785 Profit attributable to non-controlling interest 48 1,675 772 625 3,429 1,931 * Consolidated statement as per application of Korea-International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS) since 2011 Sustainability Highlights Economic Performance Sustainable Growth through Innovation Business Revenues [Unit: KRW in millions] Employee Education Status Integrated Water Resource Management (IWRM) Healthy Tap Water Supply Business Educated employees (person) Average investment in education per person (KRW in thousands) Average time of education per person (hour) 75 71 69 69 907,729 1,175,910 64 891,207 1,122,180 789,374 1,071,776 1,756 983,458 1,736 1,630 1,660 27,283 714,644 1,569 15,662 15,261 14,623 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 12,593 Related Business Waterfront Urban Development Clean energy production Overseas business 997,314 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 86 87 763,387 Average Time of Education per Employee [Unit: hour] Gender Employment Status 543,560 Male Female Executives General officers Specialists 491,597 463,036 366,764 80 75 75 74 75 222,934 10,741 226,630 70 68 53 5,733 7,389 5,483 65 63 47 2012 2013 2014 2015 24 26 22 19 Patent and Research Projects Achievement Patents Research Projects 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Application for a patent (case) Registration (case) Research projects (case) Research development budget (KRW 100 millions) Number of research paper publication (case) 421 Secure R&D expertise 390 86 480 365 419 81 224 80 79 24% 70 27% 31% Bachelor 36% 58 32% Bachelor 35% 185 38% degree Research General 38% degree Research holder specialist General 49 52 49 155 PhD specialist officers PhD holder officers 218 218 221 221 37 143 144 Total Total Total Total 87 116 38% 32% 35% 34% 83 74 82 Master Appointed Master Appointed researcher researcher 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 Sustainability Highlights Environmental Performance Enhanced Environmental Management over the Entire Corporate Supply Chain Input Eco-friendly Product Purchasing Water Energy Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total purchased amount (KRW 100millions) Water usage (thousand ㎥) Consumption (TJ) Reduction (TJ) Generated amount (ton) 131,615 111,414 110,027 110,397 107,388 Eco-friendly product purchased amount(KRW 100millions) Recycled water (thousand ㎥) 204 Amount of sludge generated per 1 ㎥ water processed(g/㎥) 73.1 59.5 54.2 55.3 52.3 Sludges from Recycling rate (%) 100 100 100 100 100 91 multi-regional waterworks Cement raw materials 76.7 77.5 83.8 40 43 57,821 Cover soil, fill materials 2.5 3.6 12.4 57 50 79 Green soil, Pebble and etc. 20.8 18.9 3.8 3.0 7.0 49,179 469 48,038 Sludges from 66 Generated amount (ton) 44,288 42,876 39,565 42,083 37,894 56 sewage 40,995 39,275 treatment Recycling rate 40 46 49 59 65 385 13,292 plants 34,616 Generated amount (ton) 583,519 471,366 496,260 520,149 4,230,643 12,843 12,905 Waste concrete 312,996 272,580 255,578 258,881 4,143,304 234 233 12,005 Waste 229 Waste asphalt 187,295 114,453 121,827 218,061 17,376 10,605 199 212 Wood waste 20,315 50,649 69,669 1,646 145 189 180 177 Synthetic resin 10,166 2,709 1,314 183 525 Construction Mixed waste 52,747 30,975 47,873 41,377 69,292 waste Recycling rate 93.8 94.8 96.8 98.9 99.1 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Recycled concrete 100.0 97.7 98.9 99.5 99.2 88 * Energy reduction performances made over 2013~14 were counted in the performance of 2013 Recycled asphalt 100.0 99.0 99.2 99.7 100.0 89 Wood waste 98.4 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Synthetic resin 0.8 0.0 14.1 100.0 100.0 Output Mixed waste 51.6 53.1 76.7 91.5 96.4 Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Discharge standard BOD(㎎/ℓ) 2.1 2.1 2.0 1.7 1.4 10 below Multi-regional COD(㎎/ℓ) 4.1 4.1 3.3 3.4 4.5 20 below waterworks SS(㎎/ℓ) 3.2 3.2 2.4 1.6 2.0 10 below Effort to Improve & Protect Local Environment BOD(㎎/ℓ) 2.6 1.9 1.5 1.8 1.9 5 below Quality of Waste disposal in dam reservoirs and rivers discharged water Sewage treatment COD(㎎/ℓ) 7.7 6.9 6.8 6.6 7.6 20 below Water rate discount for customers plant River weir (㎥) Dam reservoir (㎥) Total (㎥) who induce grey water reuse system SS(㎎/ℓ) 2.8 2.6 3.0 2.5 2.9 10 below Grey water usage applied for discount (thousand ㎥) Waste water BOD(㎎/ℓ) 6.5 7.0 6.0 6.3 6.8 10 below Discounted amount for users of grey water (KRW in millions) processing facility 108,814 SS(㎎/ℓ) 6.5 6.8 5.4 6.0 6.2 10 below 5,744 84,654 3,955 3,842 * Applied highest requirement standard in Water Quality And Aquatic Ecosystem Conservation Act and Sewerage Act 3,373 108,814 41,171 2,685 Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 72,203 25,801 Emissions (ton CO2) 549,711 583,655 631,431 624,660 646,559 14,436 Greenhouse gas 171,515 Reduction (ton CO2)* 69,154 79,702 60,551 29,133 164,271 34,797 PM-10(㎏) 218 244 226 220 256 157,278 SOx(㎏) 1,495 1,678 1,628 1,443 1,671 Air pollutant 18,756 CO(㎏) 3,446 3,533 4,568 4,223 5,565 emission 138,819 135,356 HC(㎏) 883 896 1,197 1,106 1,470 12,451 NOx(㎏) 8,924 9,235 11,566 10,892 14,166 9,160 6,374 7,045 5,276 * K-water began GHG emissions reduction goal management in 2012. Data in 2014 includes an early reduction volume in addition to the reduction volume of the year and data in 2015, emissions allowed next year 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sustainability Highlights Environmental Performance Social Performance Post Environmental Impact Study on Construction Sites in 2015 Impressing customers beyond customer satisfaction Hantan River Gimcheon Buhang Seongdeok Youngju Boheonsan Environmental Category Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam standard* Customer Satisfaction [Unit: point] BOD (㎎/ℓ) 1.4 1.1 2.1 1.2 0.9 3 below Water quality K-water Evaluation group average COD (㎎/ℓ) 3.1 2.9 4.2 2.5 3.1 5 below PM-10 (㎍) 45 40 39 36 37 100 below Total customer Local waterworks customers Atmospheric environment NO2 (ppb) 9 13 7 16 11 60 below 97.2 96.6 96.2 80.7 Noise/ Noise (dBA) 45 45 48 47 48 65 94.4 94.7 80.3 80.4 80.4 93.9 Vibration Vibration (dBV) 18 26 24 23 24 65 93.0 92.4 73.0 72.0 73.0 71.0 * Highest standard among the standards required by the Environmental Impact Assessment of projects Hantan River Gimcheon Buhang Seongdeok Youngju Boheonsan Category Dam Dam Dam Dam Dam Total (species) 17 12 16 12 12 Mammal Legally protected species 2 2 2 2 2 2012 2013 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total (species) 36 14 20 21 14 Fish Legally protected species 5 0 0 0 0 Customer Communication Total (species) 26 10 12 10 13 Reptiles Written civil complaint(case) Electronic civil complaint(case) Civil complaint processed in a timely manner rate(%) Legally protected species 3 0 0 0 0 Customer service quality index(point) Information disclosure rate(%) Total (species) 63 47 42 61 63 Birds 90 Legally protected species 4 3 2 5 8 91 94.4 94.2 88.4 91.6 99.6 97.4 96.5 Creating local eco-cultural spaces (Ecological Restoration Measures Taken, 2014~2015) 96.0 Alternative habitat (site) Fish spawning ground (site) Wildlife passage (site) Artificial marsh (site) Fishway (site) 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 Total Gunwi Dam Gunnam Dam Hantan River Dam 4 4 17 1 1 1,372.0 17 1 1 1,167 6 6 1,011.0 937.0 922.0 898.0 795 6 6 116 116 6 6 786.0 5 5 11 8 8 2012 2013 2014 2015 11 7 7 52 54 6 6 Highest level of personal information security and management 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 GimcheonBuhang Dam Seongdeok Dam Youngju Dam Boheonsan Dam Reducing personal information under management: Minimizing Discovering items for improvement through 2 2 assessment of impacts on personal information 1,570,000 pieces of 30 kinds in 2014 3 3 leakage risks 4 4 in information systems to 1,510,000 pieces of 24 kinds in 2015 4 4 45 45 Enhanced Protecting personal information 46 46 Building system to monitor such as watching out for strange phenomena 5 5 monitoring personal information access histories including abnormal connections in real time 3 3 3 3 22 24 4 4 Selected as an excellent company in personal information management in an evaluation by the Ministry of Government Administration 12 12 and Home Affairs. Honored as the best organization in mock training to cope with crises by the National Intelligence Service 1 1 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Sustainability Highlights Social Performance Horizontal Cooperation, Vertical Growth Fair and Diversified Workplace Local Business, Contract Amount Ratio of SME Product Purchasing [Unit: %] Employee Composition [Unit: person] 4,635 Total contract amount (KRW in millions) Prescribed total number of employees Current total number of employees 55.2 4,615 Local business contract amount (KRW in millions) 53.2 53.5 4,451 Ratio (%, Local business contracted/Total contracts) 4,380 11.6 4,334 4,308 45.0 4,272 1,556,263 4,200 10.9 4,169 4,072 832,939 180,150 90,992 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Gender [Unit: %, ratio against current total number of employees] Age [Unit: %, ratio against current total number of employees] Socially Disadvantaged Scoring Program Operation Result Male Female Below 20s 30~40s Above 50s Total contracts (case) Reviewed contracts by the Socially Disadvantaged Scoring Program (case) Rate of reviewing contracts by the Socially Disadvantaged Scoring Program 69.5 68.1 89.3 88.8 88.3 88.0 87.2 65 66.1 62.7 61.0 92 3,281 60.1 58.7 93 2,710 2,591 30.6 2,280 26 26.9 28.0 24.2 1,654 1,713 11.9 10.7 12.8 10.4 11.2 11.7 12.0 7.7 9 10.7 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cooperation with Local Communities * Current total number of employees: Full-time employees including those in entrusted business, those spengind time wiht their childrean on parental leaves and serving in the military Social Contribution Social Contribution Participation Social Contribution Investment Employee Composition Ratio according to Employment Type in 2015 Participated employees (person) Ratio against total employees (%) Total amount (KRW 100 millions) Ratio against sales (%) Participated hours per employee Employment type Gender 14.2 14.6 Below 20s (person) 30~40s (person) Above 50s (person) Male (person) Female (person) 13.8 2.0 2.1 2.1 13.2 12.0 1.7 3,838 (89%) 2,609 0.9 98.4 97.7 (60.2%) 794.6 88.7 86.3 763.1 99.6 744.6 496 (11.4%) 4,348 498 1,231 4,265 639.1 (11%) (28.4%) 4,185 4,095 551.9 4,002 181 111 199 (62.0%) (38.0%) (68.2%) 93 7 7 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (31.8%) (100.0%) (100.0%) * K-water has calculated the number of employees who directly participated in social contribution activities since 2014 (Employees working overseas were excluded although they indirectly participated in raising social contribution funds among others) Executives General officers Specialist Executives General officers Specialist Sustainability Highlights Social Performance Vulnerable Class Employment Happy Workplace where Work and Family are Harmonized 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Category Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Creating Corporate Culture Where Work and Family are Harmonized Ratio(%) Ratio(%) Ratio(%) Ratio(%) Ratio(%) persons persons persons persons persons Total new recruits 173 222 252 261 220.5 Expand “Smart Work Centers” (work centers equipped with telework systems) and telecommuting working out of home on alternating workdays Flexible Working Hours Operate various types of flexible working hours and part-time works Female 32 18.5 40 18.0 47 18.7 42.25 16.2 41.75 16.2 Employment Disabled 19 11.0 2 0.9 4 1.6 7.5 2.9 4.75 2.9 Run Family Day (On every Wed., all employees are encouraged to leave work at the regular time and have time with family members) Type Work Practice Conduct shut-down and PCs-off program on weekdays after 9PM, PCs-off on weekend Regional talent 107 61.8 128 57.7 161 63.9 175.5 67.2 119.75 67.2 Improvement Increase task efficiency through improving work practices High school graduate 13 7.5 51 23.0 71 28.2 86 33.0 54.75 33.0 Meeting Practice Improvement * Ratio based on current total number of employees (%) Childbirth Parental leave notice system Response Policy Operate a daycare center in the work place (reintroduce empty office space to daycare center, increasing the capacity of children caring) Non-Regular Employment Balance of Couple coaching, Father School (Coaching program for fathers) and other family related education Work and Family Support for access to cultural performance and recreational facilities 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Category Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Ratio(%) Ratio(%) Ratio(%) Ratio(%) Ratio(%) persons persons persons persons persons Total non-regular employees 426 9.3 364 7.8 414 8.5 403 8.1 359 7.2 Workplace Safety [Unit: ratio based on current total number of employees, % ] Fixed-term employees 355 7.8 293 6.3 340 7.0 322 6.5 323 6.5 Employment Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Short-period employees 71 1.6 71 1.5 74 1.5 66 1.3 21 0.4 Type Other Non-regular employee 15 0.3 15 0.3 Injury 0.14 0.23 0.22 0.16 0.30 Occupational Disease 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 * Ratio(%) = Non-regular employee / (non-regular employee + non-fixed-term contracted employee + regular employee) 94 Industrial Accident 0.12 0.22 0.08 0.06 0.25 95 Prevalence 9.2 7.1 7.0 6.7 8.7 Turnover Male (person) Female (person) Total employee turnover (%) Male employee turnover (%) Female employee turnover (%) Total General Officers Specialists Flexible Working [Unit: person] 4.8 3.39 2.4 2.95 2.8 2.1 2.4 Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1.82 4.5 2.05 1.34 1.83 1.12 New (recruits) 0 0 0 12 10 0.72 0.7 1.10 Part-time Working 2.6 2.2 Changed from full-time 0 0 2 28 31 2.79 1.96 2.3 3.28 1.53 Staggered office hours 360 525 662 858 978 2.0 1.71 1.32 1.07 Flexible work schedule 0 0 0 0 0 0.85 0.67 Flexible Working 0.6 0.3 Compressed work schedule 0 3 3 3 5 0.29 0.2 0.17 0.12 Discretionary work schedule 0 0 0 0 0 13 0.1 0.1 Work from home 0 0 0 0 9 0.25 0.2 Telecommuting 220 0.12 0.1 0.05 0.04 Smart work center 0 0 0 0 0 0.09 0.02 Labor and Management Relationship Labor Practices Grievance Resolving Performance Labor dispute(case) Labor union joining rate(%) Category 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 207 5 10 3 Total cases 73 78 63 56 55 147 111 84 7 109 83 83 7 6 82 82 Resolved cases 52 56 53 50 50 128 124 142 97 4 106 Cases submitted 101 in the previous year 117 13 89 1 13 10 3 81 121 5 91 but resolved 77 85 58 11 2 in the following year 49 57 1 68 72 47 2 45 32 31 30 Resolving rate(%) 38 30 0 0 0 0 0 71.2 71.8 84.1 89.3 90.9 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Ratio based on current total number of employees (%) * All employees became labor union members due to union shop system Third Party Assurance To K-water's stakeholders Contents Material Aspect DMA & Indicators K-water commissioned the Korea Productivity Center (the Assurer ) to provide an independent assurance of its 2016 Sustainability ReEconomic Performance DMA, EC2 port (the Report ). Energy DMA, EN3, EN6, EN7 Water DMA, EN8, EN9, EN10 Pledge 1 Biodiversity DMA, EN13 Intelligent Water Management Emissions DMA, EN15, EN16, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21 Responsibility and Integrity and Satisfied Customers Effluents and Waste DMA, EN22, EN23, EN24, EN26 K-water is responsible for the reliability and accuracy of all information and opinions presented in this Report . The Assurer holds the Compliance DMA, EN29 responsibility that lies solely in providing third party verification of the content in the Report . As an independent assurance agency, the Customer Health and Safety DMA, PR1, PR2 Assurer was neither involved in the process of preparing this Report with K-water nor in any conflicts of interest that may undermine our Product and Service Labeling DMA, PR3, PR4, PR5 independence. Energy DMA, EN3, EN6, EN7 Pledge 2 Biodiversity DMA, EN13 New Water Values for All Indirect Economic Impacts DMA, EC7, EC8 Assurance Standards Product and Service Labeling DMA, PR3, PR4, PR5 The independent verification process was planned and performed in accordance with the AA1000AS (2008) Assurance Standard to Pledge 3 Economic Performance DMA, EC1 Leading Global Water Management Company Indirect Economic Impacts provide Type 2 moderate level of assurance. This is achieved through the evaluation of the organization’s adherence to the AA1000APS DMA, EC7, EC8 Accountability Principles (2008) of Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness. Additionally, the assurance was performed to ascertain Pledge 4 Local Communities DMA, SO1 the organization’s adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Procurement Practices DMA, EC9 Employment DMA, LA1, LA3 Assurance Limitations Training and Education DMA, LA9 Based on the aforementioned assurance standards, the Assurer performed verification of the organization’s sustainability performance Diversity and Equal Opportunity DMA, LA12 Pledge 5 and credibility from 2015 to November 2016. We verified financial data by way of financial statements audited by auditing institutions Labor Pracitces Grievance Mechanisms DMA, LA16 96 Enterprise for and of Public Users 97 and publicly disclosed data. In terms of environmental and social data, we conducted verification activities through a sampling-based Freedom of association and collective bargaining DMA, HR3 Anti-corruption DMA, SO4 checking process so that such activities honored the Type 2 verification standard (moderate level). As for some environmental data such Anti-competitive Behavior DMA, SO7 as greenhouse gas emissions and the amount of water usage, we finally confirmed the data approved by a third verifier. Site inspection Customer Privacy DMA, PR8 was performed at the head office in Daejeon. Therefore, the Assurer clearly states that any additional verification conducted in the future may issue varied results. 1. Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement Assurance Methodology The principle of inclusivity articulates that organizations should include stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. K-water defines employees, labor unions, policy-making organizations, expert groups, customers The assurance was undertaken by following the methodology specified below. (local governments, etc.) and local communities as six key stakeholder groups in accordance in accordance with degrees of under1. Verified compliance with the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. standing of and cooperation with stakeholders in water management. We confirmed that K-water was actively communicating through 2. Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. shared channels and programs that take into account the characteristics of stakeholders. In particular, we judge that it is a great 3. Verified the appropriateness of identifying key issues and the responsiveness to the content presented in the Report achievement in communications that K-water has comprehensively collected the opinions of stakeholders through the participation of by the various analysis methodology stakeholders such as the Korean Federation for Environmental Movement and their discussions of K-water's pending business issues 4. Verified the appropriateness of the report content with other sources and searched for incorrect information since the establishment of the Mutual Growth and Cooperation Committee in 2014. We recommend that K-water continue to report through comparative analysis. specific issues and response activities discussed in shared growth meetings. 5. Onsite verification at the head office and plant has been conducted to confirm evidence for key data and information as well as internal processes. 2. Materiality: Selecting and Reporting Major Issues Findings and Conclusions The principle of materiality articulates that organizations should focus on issues relevant and material to both the organization and its maIt is the Assurer’s opinion that the Report fairly and accurately presents the sustainability efforts and performance of K-water. It is jor stakeholders. In order to identify key issues related to its industry and organization, K-water drew key issues by analyzing internal and also verified that the Report complies with the requirements for Core Options in the GRI G4 Guidelines. In terms of General Standard external environmental issues through midto long-term management strategies, media research, benchmarking analysis among others. Disclosures, the Report is found to comply with the requirements for Core Options. For Specific Standard Disclosures, Disclosure on The company conducted a materiality test on drawn issues based on international standards such as the ISO26000 and the GRI, and major Management Approach (DMA) and indicators for material issues drawn by the decision process, the items for the Report are as follows. issues were identified in the order of the biggest to smallest differences between concerns and performances. This is a materiality test method steadily used by K-water. We confirmed that K-water spelled out its five promises for sustainability management in the report. Third Party Assurance GRI G4 INDEX/ISO 26000 3. Responsiveness: Responding to Issues by the Organization General Standard Disclosures The principle of responsiveness articulates that organizations should be responsive to issues that may have impacts on stakeholders' perExternal Reference Contents of Index ISO 26000 Page Note formance. K-water prepares its report through five different promises. We verified that K-water sincerely disclosed contents regarding the Verification five themes. In particular, the report intensively covers results that cut across the main business of K-water. We judge that it is excellent for Aspect: Strategy and Analysis K-water to disclose its future aspirations by releasing plans based on new management strategy in the report. We recommend K-water to Provide a stat ement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of G4-1 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 2-3 √ sustainability to the organization and the organization's strategy for addressing sustainability clearly report to stakeholders what it intends to do in the long term by disclosing the key results and goals of sustainability management. Aspect: Organizational Profile G4-3 The name of the organization 12 √ G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 6-9, 12-13 √ Recommendations G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 12 √ The Assurer commends K-water for carrying out a variety of efforts to improve sustainability and resulting performances, and presents The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has the following recommendations to enhance future sustainability reports and sustainable management. G4-6 12-13 √ significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 12 √ 1. K-water operates a customized communication channel which befits the characteristics of its stakeholders and actively promotes G4-8 The markets served including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries 12 √ response activities. We recommend K-water to build a process and reporting system that can manage major issues in an integrated G4-9 The scale of the organization 6.3.10/ 12 √ manner in order to manage major discussions initiated by stakeholders and issues raised by stakeholders more systematically. G4-10 Report on the total number of employees 6.4.1-6.4.2/ 12, 93-94 √ 6.4.3/6.4.4/ G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by the collective bargaining agreement 6.4.5/6.8.5/7.8 66, 95 √ 2. It is an encouraging achievement for K-water to disclose 2026 management goals connected with its newly established management G4-12 The organization's supply chain 36 √ strategy. We recommend that K-water continuously review results and goals under a more regularized management system. Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, G4-13 About This Report √ or its supply chain G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 78-81 √ List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which G4-15 99-105 √ the organization subscribes or which it endorses List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations G4-16 98 in which the organization 4 √ 99 Aspect: Identified Maternal Aspects and Boundaries November 2016 G4-17 List of all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents About This Report √ Chairman Korea Productivity Center Hong Sun-jik Explain the process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries, and how the organization has G4-18 24-25 √ implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 25 √ 5.2/7.3.2/ G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization 7.3.3/7.3.4 25 √ G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 25 √ G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements About This Report √ G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries About This Report √ Aspect: Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 A list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 19 √ G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 19 √ Kim Dong-su Park Tae-ho, Park Ju-mi Lee Hee-Woon Son Seon-Young Report the organization's approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type Director of Sustainability G4-26 5.3 20-21 √ Team Leader Expert advisor Researcher Researcher and by stakeholder group Management Center Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the 22-25 √ stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns Aspect: Report Profile The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by Accountability, which established AA1000, the international standards for Stakeholder engagement and verification, and has qualifications to perform G4-28 Reporting period for information provided About This Report √ independent assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is also comprised of competent experts who have in-depth experiG4-29 Date of most recent previous report 2015. 7 √ ence in sustainability management consulting and assurance and completed the relevant professional training. G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report √ 7.5.3/7.6.2 G4-31 The contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents About This Report √ * AA1000AS (2008): Enacted by Accountability, the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) is a global standard for verification and provides methods for G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen About This Report √ reporting issues on sustainable management by assessing the operation of organization for management performance, compliance with principles, G4-33 External assurance of the report 96-98 √ and credibility of information on performance Aspect: Governance * AA1000APS (2008): Enacted by Accountability, the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (2008) is a global standard for verification and provides The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body, the principles for the foundation of the AA1000 standard. G4-34 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 16-17 √ and any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Aspect: Ethics and Integrity The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-56 4.4/6.6.3 103-105 √ ethics GRI G4 INDEX/ISO 26000 Specific Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures External External Material Aspects Reference Contents of Index ISO 26000 Page Note Verification Material Aspects Reference Contents of Index ISO 26000 Page Note Verification Economy Society G4-DMA Generic DMA 28, 52 √ Labor Practices and Quality Jobs 6.8.1-6.8.2 G4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 84-86 √ /6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 Performance Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover Employment G4-LA1 6.4.3 72, 94 √ Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for by age group, gender and region G4-EC2 6.5.5 6-9, 32-34 √ the organization’s activities due to climate change G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender 6.4.4 66 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 44, 52 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 66 √ 6.3.9/ Training and Indirect Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 6.8.1-6.8.2/ 45-51, 53-57 √ Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by 6.4.7 73, 87 √ services supported employee category Economic 6.8.7/6.8.9 Impacts 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ G4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent 6.7.8/6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.5/ 45-51, 53-57 √ Diversity of impacts and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 6.8.7/6.8.9 G4-LA12 employee category according to gender, age, group, minority group 6.2.3/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 93-94 √ Opportunity G4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ membership, and other indicators of diversity Procurement Practices G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant 6.4.3/6.6.6/ 74-77, 92 √ Labor Practices G4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ locations of operation 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.7 Grievance Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and System G4-LA16 6.3.6 95 √ Environment resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Generic DMA 28, 44 √ Human Rights G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4 36-37, 88 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ Energy NonNo G4-EN6 Reduced energy consumption 6.5.4/6.5.5 36-37, 88 √ 66-67, 72, discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 6.3.5 discrimation √ Reductions in energy requirements of 92-94 case G4-EN7 6.5.4/6.5.5 36-37, 88 √ products and services Society 100 G4-DMA Generic DMA 28 √ 101 G4-DMA Generic DMA 58 √ G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4 88 √ Community Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 6.3.9/6.5.1-6.5.2/6.5.3/6.8 59-63, 92 √ Water None of the water sources engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4 were significantly affected √ by withdrawal of water AntiG4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 68-71 √ G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4 88 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 28, 44 √ AntiG4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ Biodiversity competitive G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6 40-41, 51, 90 √ Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, behavior G4-SO7 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.5/6.6.7 None √ and monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-DMA Generic DMA 28 √ Product Responsibility G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (Scope1) 6.5.5 37, 88 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 28 √ G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) emissions (scope 2) 6.5.5 37, 88 √ Customer Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health G4-PR1 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.8.8 29-43 √ G4-EN18 Intensification of greenhouse gas(GHG) emission 6.5.5 38 √ and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Health and Emissions G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) emission 6.5.5 28, 38, 88 √ Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 4.6/6.7.1-6.7.2/ G4-PR2 voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products None √ No process to emit ozone and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 6.7.4/6.7.5/6.8.8 G4-EN20 Emissions of Ozone-depleting substances 6.5.5 depleting substances such √ as freon gas G4-DMA Generic DMA 28 √ G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 6.5.3 88 √ Type of product and service information required by the organization’s Procedures for product and service information and labeling, and 6.7.1-6.7.2/ G4-DMA Generic DMA 28 √ G4-PR3 29-32, 42-43 √ Product percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such 6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.9 information requirements G4-EN22 Total wastewater discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3/6.5.4 37, 89 √ and Service Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3 37, 89 √ 4.6/6.7.1Effluents and G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and None √ labeling, by type of outcomes 6.7.2/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7.9 Waste G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5.3 None √ Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 94 √ G4-EN26 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 6.5.3/6.5.4/6.5.6 40-41, 90 √ G4-DMA Generic DMA 64 √ the organization's discharges of water and runoff Customer G4-DMA Generic DMA 28 √ Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.7 91 None √ customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number G4-EN29 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with 4.6 None √ environmental laws and regulations Code of Ethics, Green Management Policy, Customer Charter Statement, and Innovation Vision Statement K-water is a business of the people that contributes to the quality of life of all citizens and the K-water will make best efforts to practice customer-oriented management by approaching its development of the country by developing, managing, and preserving Korea's water resources to be customers based on the management philosophy `The values of customers are our values.' sustainable in environmental, economic, and social aspects and by providing the best products and services. Based on our experience, know how, and advanced technology, we promise the following to We will provide water and waterfront spaces of the best quality so as to ensure customer trust. become a global professional water business. We will provide information and services for the safety and ownership protection of customers even We accomplish our missions through creative thinking and challenges and make efforts to actualize before customers request them. transparent management by processing tasks with an honest and fair attitude. Code of Ethics We recognize that the Earth is a precious heritage for our offspring and is a healthy and clean shelter of and as such, we are obligated to practice eco-friendly management. Customer We will always be open to the advice and suggestions of customers, regularly accept opinions, and use them for the improvement of customer services. Charter We provide the best products and services to customers and actualize consumer-oriented policy through customer satisfaction and management of new value creation. Statement We will perform our tasks without any discrimination to any customers and will secure the profit of customers to the maximum by seeking the most efficient management. As a part of the local community, we respect the tradition and the culture of the community and enrich the lives of local residents by contributing to the development of the local community. We promise that we will set the best service performance standards that K-water can We comply with ethical/legal values, respect market order of free competition, and seek realization provide and practice them in order to realize ideal goals on the side of customers. of fair competition. We respect the unique personalities of all people without discrimination, and respect characters and creativity. We develop partnership of labor and management based on mutual trust and harmony, promoting our mutual prosperity. 102 * Please refer to Ethics Management section on K-water's official website (www.kwater.or.kr) for details about our principles of ethics and principles of employee behavior. 103 We deeply recognize that this is a time that needs the best effort to make sustainable We declare the following in order to provide clean and safe water to citizens, protect the lives development that harmonizes with environment in order to create a clean and livable and properties of citizens from water-related disasters, and to become the best water service environment. Our company, which handles water, the source of life, declares the policy of green organization through continuous changes and innovations. management with the participation of all employees in order to become an eco-friendly business that receives the trust and love of citizens by developing and managing water resource in ecoWe place customer-satisfaction management first in everything we do, we ensure customerfriendly ways. oriented values are embedded in our values, our code of conduct, and systems. In order to become a trusted public enterprise, we process tasks in an honest and fair manner We proactively involve ourselves in protecting water sources, air and the environment. without violating conscience, common sense, or the law, and actively participate in social contribution activities in order to be together with the local community. Green We take the responsibilities and duties of preventing natural pollution, promptly addressing natural Innovation Management pollution that occur from business activities, while always keeping in mind that these kinds of practices are the foundations of our business ethics. Vision With confidence and passion that do not fear change, we will secure global-level competency to accomplish the vision and establish a continuous and stable foundation for growth. Policy Statement We secure a healthy consumption culture of saving and reusing resources and energy, and seriously We recognize the importance of nature for health, life, and sustainable growth of future generations consider them at all times so that we will not destroy the environment through inattention. and make efforts in order to preserve them.. We reflect the opinions of the citizens as best we can in making plans that relate to the environment, and we disclose information and materials so that we will increase the trust on the By putting this declaration into action, we focus all of our capabilities to make K-water a organization as well as the transparency of the task. business that does its job well, a business that has competitiveness, and a business that is loved We fully take responsibility of our obligations to prevent environmental damages. If and when by the citizens. environmental damage occurs, we place utmost effort to resolve the damage. We provide continuous environmental education, so that our activities reflect our code of ethics and we make our best efforts for research development of conserving and improving the environment. All employees of K-water practice this declaration so that future generations will enjoy prosperity in a clean environment. Questionnaire to Collect Readers’ Opinions We welcome your valuable opinions. With a view to publishing a better sustainability report in the future, K-water wants to hear the opinions of various stakeholders including our readers about the 2016 sustainability report. Please complete the following and send it to the address listed on the bottom of this questionnaire by mail or fax. UN Global Compact's 10 Principles Support 1. What kind of groups do you belong to? □ Customers □ Employee □ Government □ Local residents □ Partners □ NGOs and Civic Groups □ Specialized organizations □ Others( ) The UN Global Compact's Ten Principles are derived from the following international agreements. 2. How did you find this sustainability report? □ K-water's home page □ Media such as newspapers □ Web surfing □ K-water's employees □ Seminars/lectures □ Others( ) • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 3. For what purpose do you use this report? (Multiple responses are possible) • The International Labor Organization's Declaration on □ To get information about K-water □ To understand K-water's sustainability management activities Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work □ To compare and analyze the characteristics of the industry to which K-water belongs • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development □ For research and education • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption □ Others( ) 4. Which section was most interesting to you in this report? (Multiple answers are possible) □ K-water, Global Hub of Water Management □ Pledge 1: Intelligent Water Management and Satisfied Customers □ Pledge 2: New Water Values for All 104 The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, □ Pledge 3: Leading Global Water Management Company 105 within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of □ Pledge 4: Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare □ Pledge 5: Enterprise for and of Public Users human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. 5. Which pledge requires more supplementing information? (Multiple answers are possible) □ K-water, Global Hub of Water Management □ Pledge 1: Intelligent Water Management and Satisfied Customers Human Rights □ Pledge 2: New Water Values for All Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. □ Pledge 3: Leading Global Water Management Company □ Pledge 4: Global Sharing of Water-related Welfare Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. □ Pledge 5: Enterprise for and of Public Users Labor 6. Was this report helpful for you to have a better picture of K-water's sustainable management activities? Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. □ Very □ A little □ Neutral □ Not □ Not at all Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor. 7. How satisfied are you with this report? • Understanding of information □ Very Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Normal □ Unsatisfied □ Very Dissatisfied Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Accuracy of information □ Very Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Normal □ Unsatisfied □ Very Dissatisfied • Quantity of information □ Very Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Normal □ Unsatisfied □ Very Dissatisfied Environment • Design □ Very Satisfied □ Satisfied □ Normal □ Unsatisfied □ Very Dissatisfied Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 8. Feel free to write your opinions about the overall configuration and contents of the report. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Send to K-water practices and complies to the ten principles of UN Global Compact. Management Services Innovation Team, K-water Sintanjin-Ro 200, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon 34350, Republic of Korea TEL. 82-42-629-2356~8 / Fax. 82-42-629-2399 Management Services Innovation Team, K-water Sintanjin-Ro 200, Daedeok-Gu, Daejeon 34350, Republic of Korea Opening the Future and Providing Happiness Opening the Future and by Sharing Water Providing Happiness by Sharing Water K-water 2016 Sustainability Report Contact Information Contact For more information, please contact •TEL: 042-629-2356~8 the following. •E-mail: sustainability@kwater.or.kr 2016 Sustainability Report Web-site: www.kwater.or.kr This report was printed with soybean oil on eco-friendly papers certified by FSC (Forest Stewardship Council).
