REGISTRATION DOCUMENT www.legrand.com 2016 [ CONTENTS ] 01 INTEGRATED REPORT 3 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 153 6.1 Administration and management of the company 154 02 GROUP OVERVIEW 15 6.2 Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers 179 2.1 Legrand and its business 16 2.2 A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development 2.3 A structure serving the Group’s strategy 22 07 SHARE OWNERSHIP 201 and customers 28 7.1 Breakdown of share capital 202 2.4 Other information 33 7.2 Stock option plans 205 7.3 Performance shares 207 03 RISK FACTORS 37 7.4 Regulated agreements and commitments 208 3.1 3.2 Strategic risks Operational risks 39 42 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 3.3 Reputational and compliance risks 45 INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S 3.4 Financial risks 48 ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION 3.5 Insurance policies and risks coverage 50 AND RESULTS 209 3.6 Report by the Chairman of the Board 8.1 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Directors on Corporate governance, in accordance with IFRS for the years risk management and internal control 51 ended December 31, 2016 3.7 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared and December 31, 2015 210 in accordance with article L. 225-235 8.2 Statutory auditors’ report on the of the French Commercial Code 58 consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 59 the year ended December 31, 2016 8.3 Statutory auditors’ fees 8.4 Dividend distribution policy 259 260 261 4.1 The Group’s CSR strategy 60 8.5 Legal proceedings and arbitration 261 4.2 Offering users sustainable solutions 67 8.6 Material changes in the company’s 4.3 Acting ethically towards Society 80 ﬁnancial or trading position 262 4.4 Commitment to our employees 92 8.7 Material agreements 262 4.5 Limiting our environmental impact 104 8.8 Investments 262 4.6 Overview of indicators and additional information 113 4.7 Statutory Auditors’ report 127 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 265 9.1 Information about the Company 266 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT 9.2 9.3 Share Capital Memorandum and articles of association 269 274 ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 9.4 Responsibility for the registration STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR document and statutory auditors 277 ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 131 5.1 5.2 Preliminary disclaimer 2016 highlights 132 132 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 281 5.3 Operating income 134 5.4 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 137 5.5 5.6 Cash ﬂows and borrowing Capital expenditure 143 144 A APPENDIX 293 5.7 Off balance sheet commitments 145 Appendix 1 294 5.8 Contractual obligations 145 Appendix 2 310 5.9 Variations in exchange rates 145 Appendix 3 325 5.10 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures Appendix 4 326 relating to ﬁnancial risks 146 5.11 Summary of critical accounting policies 147 5.12 New IFRS Pronouncements 147 5.13 Trends and prospects 147 5.14 Table of consolidated ﬁnancial results over the last ﬁve years 148 5.15 Selected ﬁnancial information 148 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT www.legrand.com 2016 This is a non binding free translation into English of the Registration Document ﬁled with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (French Financial Markets Authority) on March 31, 2017, pursuant to article 212-13 of its General Regulations. The French version of the Registration Document can be used in support of a ﬁnancial transaction if it is supplemented by an information memorandum duly approved by the French Financial Markets Authority. This Document was prepared by the issuer. The signatories assume responsibility for this document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 1 NOTE The terms “Group” and “Legrand” refer to the Company (as Furthermore, Legrand’s competitors may deﬁne its markets deﬁned in section 9.1 of this Registration Document), its differently. Because data relating to market shares and market consolidated subsidiaries and its minority shareholdings. sizes are Company estimates, they are not data extracted from the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, and Legrand cautions References to “Legrand France” relate speciﬁcally to the readers not to place undue reliance on such information. Company’s subsidiary Legrand France, which was previously named Legrand SA but was renamed by the General Meeting This Registration Document contains forward-looking statements. of Shareholders dated February 14, 2006, and not to its other These forward-looking statements include all matters that are subsidiaries. not historical facts. They are mentioned in various sections of this Registration Document and contain data relating to Legrand’s The Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements presented intentions, estimates and targets, concerning in particular its in this Registration Document for the ﬁnancial years ending market, strategy, growth, results, ﬁnancial position and cash December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 have been prepared position. in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”), as adopted by the European Union. The Company By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and prepares and presents its consolidated ﬁnancial statements in uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on accordance with IFRS as required by French law. IFRS may differ circumstances that may or may not occur in the future. Forwardin certain signiﬁcant respects from French GAAP. The separate looking statements are not guarantees of the Group’s future ﬁnancial statements are presented in accordance with French performance. Legrand’s actual ﬁnancial position, results and GAAP. cash ﬂows as well as the development of the industrial sector in which it operates may differ signiﬁcantly from the forwardThis Registration Document contains information about looking information mentioned in this Registration Document, Legrand’s markets and its competitive position therein, including and even where these elements are consistent with the forwardmarket size and market share. As far as Legrand is aware, no looking information mentioned in this Registration Document, exhaustive report exists with regard to the industry or the market they may not be representative of the results or developments in for electrical and digital building infrastructures. Consequently, later periods. Factors that could cause such differences include, Legrand obtains data on its markets from its subsidiaries which among other things, the risk factors described in chapter 3 of compile information on their relevant markets on an annual basis. this Registration Document. Accordingly, all forward-looking This information is derived from formal and informal contacts statements should be understood bearing in mind their inherent with professionals of the electricity sector (notably professional uncertainty. associations) and from building statistics and macroeconomic data. Legrand assesses its position in its markets based on the The forward-looking statements referred to in this Registration market data referred to above and on its actual sales in the Document are only made as of the date of this Registration relevant market. Document. The Group will update this information as necessary in its ﬁnancial communications. Legrand operates in a competitive Legrand believes that the information about market share environment subject to rapid change. Legrand may therefore contained in this Registration Document provides fair and not be able to anticipate all of the risks, uncertainties and other adequate estimates of the size of its markets and fairly reﬂects factors that could affect its activities, their potential impact on its competitive position within these markets. However, internal its activities or the extent to which the occurrence of a risk or surveys, estimates, market research and publicly available combination of risks could lead to signiﬁcantly different results information, while believed by Legrand to be reliable, have not from those set out in any forward-looking statements, noting that been independently veriﬁed and Legrand cannot guarantee such forward-looking statements do not constitute a guarantee that a third party using different methods to assemble, analyze of actual results. or compute market data would obtain the same results. 2 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND INTEGRATED REPORT 01 EDITORIAL/MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN 4 1. A SELF-FINANCED BUSINESS MODEL CREATING VALUE OVER THE LONG TERM 5 2. A CSR STRATEGY (CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY) THAT DRIVES THE GROUP’S LONG-TERM GROWTH 8 3. RISK MANAGEMENT FOR PERFORMANCE 9 4. GOVERNANCE AT THE CENTER OF EFFORTS TO STRIKE A BALANCE BETWEEN DIFFERENT CHALLENGES 10 5. A SOLID 2016 INTEGRATED PERFORMANCE, IN LINE WITH TARGETS 12 6. 2017 OUTLOOK 14 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 3 01 INTEGRATED REPORT Editorial/Message from the Chairman Legrand’s history is closely linked to the technological and social changes experienced by the building industry over the past several decades. Over the past years, each one of us has seen the formidable acceleration of these changes, which have made recent societal and technological megatrends — environmental protection, increased life expectancy, rapid increase in the ﬂow of data and more generally digitalization — major levers for the transformation of the relationship between people and their environment. These developments continue to change the relationship users have with our products. Thus, the new technologies, especially digital ones, signiﬁcantly increase the value-in-use of our products for users. This is why we are continuing to fast track our investments in this area: innovation, acquisitions, signing of strategic partnerships and numerous technological alliances. This positioning of Legrand, responsive to the major global developments, makes not only legitimate, but natural the Group’s social responsibility approach, initiated many years ago within our teams across the world. Given that Legrand’s development can only be sustainable if it respects all of our stakeholders and occurs within a broader deﬁnition of the business, we are convinced that the full value-creating ability of our operations results from a combination of ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance. In line with the ﬁrst edition, this second integrated report aims ﬁrst of all at presenting, in summary form, our strategy, our governance and our performance, as well as the environment in which we operate, with a view to creating value in the short, medium and long term. Prepared in a spirit of continual improvement, this integrated report draws on the template designed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Our wish is that this document, as a complement to our other publications, provides information on our Group’s ability to fully seize opportunities to create value, in a sustainable, responsible and proﬁtable manner. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND INTEGRATED REPORT 1. A self-ﬁnanced business model creating value over the long term 01 Legrand is the global specialist in electrical and digital building infrastructure and provides a range of several hundred thousand catalog items subdivided into 7 major product categories, each under the responsibility (product marketing, research and development, manufacturing) of one of 7 Strategic Business Units (SBUs): 86(5 (1(5*< %8,/',1* &$%/( ',*,7$/,1)5$ 836 ,167$//$7,21 ,17(5)$&( ',675,%87,21 6<67(06 0$1$*(0(17 6758&785(6 &20321(176 š6ZLWFKHV š'LVWULEXWLRQ š/LJKWLQJ š7UXQNLQJ š(QFORVXUHV š8QLQWHUUXSWLEOH š7XEHV š6RFNHWRXWOHWV  SDQHOV  PDQDJHPHQW š)ORRUER[HV š3DWFKLQJUDFNV  3RZHU6XSSO\ š'XFWV š6FHQDULRVZLWFKHV š&LUFXLWEUHDNHUV š6DIHW\ 6HFXULW\  HWF š5-FRQQHFWRUV š([WHQVLRQV  HWF  HWF  V\VWHPV  HWF  HWF  HWF The depth of this offer, tailored to the low voltage market for the Adjusted operating proﬁt* in € million commercial, industrial and residential segments makes Legrand a global standard among all actors in its economic chain: the 2016 979 distributors to whom Legrand sells its products; electrical contractors who install Legrand’s solutions in buildings; product 2011 857 speciﬁers (architects, engineering ﬁrms); and end-users (individuals, companies, building managers). * Operating proﬁt adjusted for amortization of revaluation of intangible assets In 2016 Legrand generated sales of more than €5 billion, 68% at the time of acquisitions and for expense/proﬁt relating to acquisitions, of which with products that rank number 1 or number 2 in their and, where applicable, to impairment of goodwill. respective markets. Close to its markets and focused on its entire economic chain, Legrand has nearly 36,000 employees, and 2016 net sales by geographic region commercial and industrial operations in more than 90 countries. 29.2% Sales in € million NORTH AND 26.2% CENTRAL AMERICA REST OF 2016 5,019 THE WORLD 2011 4,250 17.4% FRANCE 17.4% REST OF EUROPE 9.8% ITALY REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 5 01 INTEGRATED REPORT R ORGANIZATION AND GROWTH DRIVER The Group’s organizational structure is based on two distinct The Group beneﬁts from solid, long-term growth levers. roles: Geographically, more than 80% of its sales are generated outside France, of which 25% are in the United States, the Group’s leading W ﬁrst: sales and operational marketing (Front Office) organized country in terms of sales. by country to meet the speciﬁc needs of each market; and With regard to Legrand’s business, social megatrends (aging W second: activities linked to strategy, industrial operations population, increasing willingness to reduce energy consumption, (innovation, R&D, manufacturing, purchasing and logistics), and the development of new economies, etc.) and technological general administration (Back Office), organized globally. megatrends (in particular digital with the Internet of Things), offer the Group long-term growth prospects. SOCIAL TECHNOLOGICAL MEGATRENDS MEGATRENDS Exchange of data The Internet of Things Energy saving Fiber optics Low carbon energy Wireless connectivity (WiFi, etc.) Security Apps Aging populations Measurement Eco-design Sensors Urbanization Big data ... ... CONSEQUENCES FOR LEGRAND QOpportunity to boost value-in-use of products: launch of the Eliot program QEnrichment of building infrastructures: strong growth in the new business segments At the heart of these developments – in particular those linked followed by its rollout in numerous countries; acquisitions, with to the emergence of the Internet of Things – lies the electrical the purchase of Raritan, QMotion, Luxul and Solarfective; the and digital infrastructure of buildings, an area in which Legrand signing of various technological partnerships; and taking a stake specializes. More generally, Legrand is convinced that new, in Netatmo. It is within this framework that Legrand has set and particularly digital, technologies, signiﬁcantly increase the ambitious targets, such as achieving double-digit average total value-in-use of its products and systems for users. The Group annual growth in sales for connected products between 2014 has therefore decided to step up its investments in this area: and 2020. At year-end 2016, the Group’s achievements were well innovation with the launch of the Eliot program in July 2015, ahead of schedule with this development plan. Eliot is a program launched in 2015 by Legrand to speed up deployment of the Internet of Things in its offering. A result of the group’s innovation strategy, Eliot aims to develop connected and interoperable solutions that deliver lasting beneﬁts to private individual users and professionals. http://www.legrand.com/EN/eliot-program_13238.html 6 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND INTEGRATED REPORT R GROWTH DRIVERS AND DEVELOPMENT MODEL Legrand’s business model relies on two growth drivers to strengthen its leadership positions worldwide, year after year. 01 Innovation, particularly technological innovation, as described The second growth driver for the Group is external growth, with earlier, which is aimed at fueling organic growth with the regular self-ﬁnanced bolt-on(1) acquisitions of companies with leading launch of new offerings – including Eliot connected products positions in their markets or proven technological expertise. that enhance value-in-use – and numerous marketing and sales initiatives. Among its new technology-linked initiatives, Legrand is also initiating collaborative agreements and technological partnerships with leading players, including Samsung, La Poste and TCL. Innovation External growth R&D Over Nearly Of which 4.9% of 2016 sales 3,800 active patents 160 companies acquired 51 acquisitions announced in 2016 since 1954 since 2004 The other feature of Legrand’s business model is that it is selfresource optimization), Legrand intends to continue to strengthen ﬁnanced, thanks to the high level of free cash ﬂow generation. As its sustainable, proﬁtable and highly cash-generative growth initiatives linked to new technologies expand, Legrand is at the proﬁle in order to self-ﬁnance its development and thus create same time actively pursuing its initiatives targeting productivity – value for all of its stakeholders, while continuing to offer products notably those linked to the “digitalization” of certain processes – that help to protect the environment. and optimal use of capital employed, thanks to the new industrial The Group is listed on Euronext Paris. As of the date on which this organization implemented in 2014. Overall, the proﬁts from this Registration Document was ﬁled, it was included in the CAC 40, industrial transformation are used to ﬁnance growth initiatives in FTSE4Good, MSCI World, Corporate Oekom Rating, DJSI World, new technologies. Euronext Vigeo Eurozone 120, Europe 120, France 20 and World Thanks to the soundness of its business model and ongoing 120 indices, as well as the Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence. efforts to improve that model, and in keeping with the Group’s four values (customer focus, innovation, ethical behavior and FOR MORE INFORMATION 2016 Registration Document – Chapter 2 (1) Smallto mid-size acquisitions that complement Legrand’s activities. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 7 01 INTEGRATED REPORT 2. A CSR strategy (Corporate Social Responsibility) that drives the Group’s long-term growth CSR is an integral part of Legrand’s development strategy. In address as a priority as part of its CSR strategy. These issues particular, its aim is to enable sustainable use of electricity and notably place users and their needs at the center of Legrand’s access to new technologies for everyone, driving improvements concerns. for all stakeholders involved in Legrand’s activities. Legrand produces its CSR strategy in the form of a roadmap In 2013, Legrand deﬁned a matrix of its issues in the environmental, covering a period of several years. In 2014, Legrand published its social and societal areas (“materiality matrix”). The matrix was third roadmap for the period 2014-2018 expressed around four established based on ISO 26000 recommendations (determining priorities: user, society, employees and the environment. priority action areas) and helped identify the 10 priority issues facing Legrand and its stakeholders and which the Group must EMPLOYEES Respect Human Rights ENVIRONMENT Guarantee safety and health at work Reduce the group’s environmental Develop skills and promote diversity footprint CSR Innovate for a circular economy SOCIETY USER Act ethically Ensure responsible purshasing Enable access to electricity for all 21 PRIORITIES FOR 2014-2018 Provide sustainable solutions Play a driving role in the electrical sector The deployment and management of the roadmap are handled It is worth noting that the entire approach described above jointly by the CSR Department with the countries, the Strategic is reviewed annually by one of the two Statutory Auditors Business Units (SBUs) and the managers of the Group, and by (hereinafter referred to as the “Independent Third Party Entity”), the functional departments (Human Resources, Purchasing, in order to check its soundness and report as transparently as Health and Safety, Environment, etc.) with local representatives possible to all the Group’s stakeholders. concerned. The Group’s annual CSR performance is measured Short-term compensation, as well as the Long-Term Incentive by monitoring indicators relating to these 21 priorities. For each plan (LTI) for the Executive Officer and for the key managers of priority, the Group undertakes to publish an annual progress the Group are partly indexed to the achievement of the targets report based on the indicator(s) identiﬁed, which helps monitor established in the CSR roadmap and from Legrand’s presence in the Group’s integrated performance. the main CSR indexes. The evaluation of the progress of the roadmap’s 21 priorities is measured using indicators deployed at two levels: local (at each FOR MORE INFORMATION Group entity) and consolidated (Group-wide). 2016 Registration DocumentChapter 4. 8 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND INTEGRATED REPORT 3. Risk management for performance 01 Risk management is key to the management of the Group’s either actively through prevention or risk treatment or passively operations and contributes to the achievement of targets. in case of a natural or structural drop in the risk associated with the Group’s operations. It involves managing internal and external environments linked to the Group’s businesses in accordance with an acceptable risk The risk control mechanisms put in place notably include limit. Risks are by deﬁnition dynamic and can change depending organizational components (a manager appointed for each risk, on the Group’s context or operations. dedicated teams for certain topics), training, outsourcing or risk coverage solutions (sub-contracting, insurance), speciﬁc Risk management is therefore a permanent exercise under the governance (committees or dedicated bodies, reporting, responsibility of all Group managers. A dedicated governance indicators) and processes for managing risks in daily operations framework has been put in place, with a risk committee chaired by as well as regular monitoring (audits). the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and with operational risk committees in some departments. The Audit committee is charged with assessing the organization and effectiveness of the mechanism. FOR MORE INFORMATION The approach is based on identifying and ranking risks, then 2016 Registration Document Chapter 3 deﬁning and managing risk mitigation mechanisms. The probability or impact of the occurrence of risks can be reduced AUDIT COMMITTEE Group risk commitee Entity self-assessment Risk mapping Internal audit planning Internal control framework Group Compliance committee Group internal auditors Local internal controllers Operational risk management committees RISK MANAGEMENT INTERNAL CONTROL INTERNAL AUDIT R RISKS MAPPED FOR BETTER MONITORING Major risks identiﬁed through mapping are those that are likely All risks identiﬁed via the Group’s risk mapping have a “risk to signiﬁcantly impact strategy, operations, ﬁnancial position or owner” and are the subject of speciﬁc mitigating actions, the reputation and are analyzed around these four topics. progress of which is reviewed at the Group risk committee meeting among others. Risk factors are diverse and can be external (competition, technological developments, market turmoil, natural disaster) or A summary table with the main risks and the related management internal (equipment or human failure, fraud, bad decisions, nonpolicies is provided in the 2016 Registration Document. compliance with regulations and so on). FOR MORE INFORMATION 2016 Registration Document – Chapter 3 – Heading. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 9 01 INTEGRATED REPORT 4. Governance at the center of efforts to strike a balance between different challenges Share ownership structure at December 31, 2016 The Company refers to the principles of corporate governance for listed companies set out in the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance, which can be consulted on Medef’s website at: 96 % www.medef.com. FREE FLOAT R BOARD OF DIRECTORS: INDEPENDENCE, DIVERSE AND VARIED SKILLS The Board of Directors determines the directions of the Group’s 4% operations and ensures their implementation. Subject to powers MANAGERS, expressly assigned to shareholders’ meetings and in accordance FORMER MANAGERS with the corporate purpose, it handles all issues that relate to the AND EMPLOYEES proper operation of the Company and resolves by discussion the matters that concern it. The Board’s decisions are made within the context of the Group’s sustainable development approach. Varied and complementary proﬁles are thus present with strategic, FOR MORE INFORMATION ﬁnancial and speciﬁc skills such as ﬁnancial communication, CSR, talent management and marketing. 2016 Registration Document – Chapter 7 – Paragraph 7.1.1. The Board of Directors is constituted as follows: 30 % 50 % 30 % NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS OTHER WOMEN NATIONALITIES 50 % MEN 70 % 70 % INDEPENDENT FRENCH DIRECTORS NATIONALITY In 2016, the Board of Directors met six times. Over the past In order to facilitate the work of the Board of Directors and the 5 years, Directors’ attendance rate at Board meetings was 86%. preparation of deliberations, the Board can form specialized Committees that examine topics within their respective At least once a year, the Board of Directors debates its operation areas of competence and submit opinions, proposals and (this involves a corresponding review of the Board’s specialized recommendations to the Board of Directors. committees). This is relayed in the Company’s annual report so that shareholders can be informed each year of the assessment There are four permanent specialized committees: carried out and, if applicable, any steps taken as a result. The Lead W the Audit Committee; Director supervises the assessment of the Board’s operations and those of its specialized committees. W the Nominating and Governance Committee; W the Compensation Committee; and W the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee. 10 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND INTEGRATED REPORT Nominating and Strategy and Social Audit Committee W 3 members. Governance Committee W 3 members. Compensation Committee W 3 members. Responsibility Committee W 4 members. 01 W 100% independent members. W 66% of independent members. W 100% of independent members. W 50% of independent members. W 4 meetings during the year. W 3 meetings during the year. W 3 meetings during the year. W 5 meetings during the year. Main tasks: Main tasks: Main tasks: Main tasks: W Review and monitor the internal W Make proposals regarding W Make proposals regarding W Examine major projects control mechanism; the composition of the Board the compensation components concerning the Group’s W Review risk mapping; and its Committees; of executives and directors; development and strategic W Carry out a prior examination W Periodically assess the proper W Ensure that the Company positioning; of the statutory and consolidated operation of the Board; fulﬁlls its obligations W Examine the draft annual ﬁnancial statements; W Monitor changes in corporate regarding the transparency budgets submitted to the Board; W Ensure the examination governance and their of compensation. W Assess the balance between of ﬁnancial statements enforcement by the Company; the Group’s strategy by auditors. W Establish a succession plan and CSR principles; for executives. W Review the main ﬁndings of the independent third-party body. In 2016, the rate of Directors’ attendance at meetings of the specialized committees was 100%. R THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE: A MULTI-DISCIPLINARY AND EXPERIENCED TEAM The Executive Committee is made up of a select ten-member General Management but also operational departments support team with diverse and complementary expertise. All members of of these countries. Several nationalities are present in this the Committee understand the core business of the Group and its body (French, American and Italian), reﬂecting the history and development stakes. This Committee gathers together countries geographic distribution of Legrand’s business. As of the date of ﬁling of the 2016 Registration Document, the Executive Committee is made up of as following: Name Functions Date of joining the Group Mr. Gilles Schnepp Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 1989 Ms. Karine Alquier-Caro Executive VP Purchasing 2001 Ms. Bénédicte Bahier Executive VP Legal Affairs 2007 Mr. Antoine Burel Chief Financial Officer 1993 Mr. Benoît Coquart Executive VP France 1997 Mr. Xavier Couturier Executive VP Human Resources 1988 Mr. Paolo Perino Chairman of Bticino and Executive VP Strategy and Development 1989 Mr. John Selldorff President and Chief Executive Officer of Legrand North & Central America 2002 Mr. Patrice Soudan Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Executive VP Group Operations 1990 Mr. Frédéric Xerri Executive VP Export 1993 FOR MORE INFORMATION 2016 Registration Document – Chapter 6 Paragraph 6.1 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 11 01 INTEGRATED REPORT 5. A solid 2016 integrated performance, in line with targets Legrand recorded a solid integrated performance in 2016 and W organic growth of sales came to +1.8%, near the high end of the fully met its targets: annual target (+2%); W the development initiatives in the past few quarters succeeded W the adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at 2015 in accelerating the Group’s sustainable growth, spurred on scope of operations) stood at 19.7%, exceeded the high end of by its two growth drivers, namely organic growth and growth the raised target (19.6%); and through acquisitions. Thus, total growth, excluding foreign W CSR roadmap achievement rate reached 122%. currency effects, was +6.5% in 2016, compared with +2.1% in 2015; More generally, these positive achievements demonstrate again the Group’s ability to create value for all its stakeholders. R FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (in millions of euros except %) 2016 2015 2014 Sales 5,018.9 4,809.9 4,499.1 total sales growth +4.3% +6.9% +0.9% sales growth at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates +1.8% +0.5% +0.5% (1) EBITDA 1,109.0 1,056.4 1,013.0 (2) Maintainable EBITDA 1,134.1 1,084.4 1,034.7 Adjusted operating proﬁt(3) 978.5 930.4 880.4 as a percentage of sales 19.5% 19.3% 19.6% (2) Maintainable adjusted operating proﬁt 1,003.6 958.4 902.1 (4) (8) Net income 630.2 552.0 533.3 as a percentage of sales 12.6% 11.5% 11.9% Free cash ﬂow(5) 673.0 666.0 607.4 as a percentage of sales 13.4% 13.8% 13.5% Normalized free cash ﬂow(6) 623.9 617.2 607.5 as a percentage of sales 12.4% 12.8% 13.5% (7) Net ﬁnancial debt at December 31 957.0 802.7 855.6 (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6) and (7): Please refer to chapter 5.15 of the 2016 Registration Document for a full reminder of all deﬁnitions. (8) For full-year 2016, net income shall be read €569.0 million, once adjusted for the favorable non-recurring accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax income, that resulted from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. This tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. R 2016 CONSOLIDATED SALES Sales totaled slightly more than €5 billion in 2016, up +4.3% Changes in sales at constant scope of consolidation and exchange from 2015. The impact of the broader scope of consolidation rates are analyzed below by geographical region: that resulted from acquisitions was +4.7%. At constant scope of W France (17.4% of Group sales): the organic change in sales consolidation and exchange rates, sales were up +1.8%, near the in France was -2.7% in 2016, with the fourth quarter hit, as high end of the 2016 target, reﬂecting a +2.8% increase in mature announced, by an unfavorable calendar effect. Excluding countries and an -0.1% decline in new economies. The exchangethis calendar effect, the change in sales in the fourth quarter rate effect was -2.1%. alone would only be down very slightly. As observed in 2016, the improvement in leading indicators for new residential construction, which accounts for between 15% and 20% of sales in France, should be reﬂected in Legrand’s business over the next few quarters. 12 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND INTEGRATED REPORT W Italy (9.8% of Group sales): organic growth in sales for full-year This rise was driven by good performances in the United 2016 was a solid +3.4%, buoyed by the success of new Classe 300X connected door entry systems, and more particularly, in the ﬁrst half alone, by one-off projects in energy distribution. States, where organic growth reached +5.6%, buoyed notably by the success of the Digital Lighting Management offering and good showings in non-residential segment. In the second 01 Excluding these two one-offs, organic growth in sales in Italy half more particularly, one-off load-in in the retail business would come to around +2%, in line with the estimated market also contributed to strong growth. Excluding one-offs, full-year trend. organic growth in the United States was around +3%. W Rest of Europe (17.4% of Group sales): sales rose +5.2% from Other countries in the region, including Mexico, also reported a 2015 at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates. good rise in sales. Countries in Eastern Europe turned in good showings for the W Rest of the world (26.2% of Group sales): sales were down year as a whole. Sales also rose sharply in several mature -2.1% from 2015 at constant scope of consolidation and countries in the region, more particularly in Southern Europe(1), exchange rates. A number of countries including India, Chile as well as in the United Kingdom (around 2.4% of total Group and Colombia reported strong showings for the year as a whole. sales(2)), Germany, Austria and Belgium. Sales in North Africa(3) were also up in 2016. These good results Finally, sales in Turkey were down due to the political situation could not offset declines in activity in some other countries, in the country. including Brazil and certain countries in Asia and the Middle East. In China, full-year sales were steady compared with 2015, W North and Central America (29.2% of Group sales): sales rose sustained by one-off government measures in the ﬁrst quarter. +5.8% in 2016 at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates. R ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT AND MARGIN Adjusted operating proﬁt was up +5.2% in 2016 and stood at 2015 scope of consolidation) came to 19.7% of sales, 0.4 point €978.5m, reﬂecting the Group’s capacity to create value. higher than the 2015 ﬁgure of 19.3%. Thanks to a good operating performance against a backdrop of Taking acquisitions into account, the Group’s adjusted operating rising sales, adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at margin stood at 19.5% of sales in 2016. R NON-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE With a 122% global achievement rate for targets set for the 2016 objectives achievement rates end of 2016 (as a reminder, the 2014-2018 roadmap comprises 21 targets with annual milestones), the Group was ahead of planned schedule. This performance reﬂects Legrand’s capacity USER to push ahead on all fronts in meeting the 4 focus points of its CSR roadmap. SOCIETY EMPLOYEES ENVIRONMENT 0% 50% 100% 150% 200% (1) Southern Europe = Spain + Greece + Portugal. (2) Based on average exchange rates for 2016 and the annual sales of the last acquisitions. (3) North Africa = Algeria + Egypt + Morocco + Tunisia. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 13 01 INTEGRATED REPORT W User: Users of the Legrand Group’s products and their needs W Employees: Legrand pays particular attention to the working are the Group’s main focus and concern. It relies on innovation conditions of its employees and its responsibilities towards to offer users sustainable solutions and to drive progress in them. The Group seeks to ensure respect for Human Rights all the electrical sector. In 2016, for example, the Group continued over the world. It is also committed to health and safety for all. to develop its business in the assisted living market, while its It strives to develop the skills of each individual and to foster energy efficiency solutions resulted in the avoidance of the diversity. In 2016, an assessment of the risks of Human Rights equivalent of 835,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions. It continued violations was carried out on all of the Group’s workforce to deploy its communication policy on the environmental considered as being exposed to these risks. The occupational impacts of its products, with 60% of its sales achieved with risk management plan and the health and safety monitoring products with a Product Environmental Proﬁle (PEP). A total and improvement process covers 90% of the workforce, while of 715,000 counterfeit products were seized and destroyed the workplace accident frequency rate has dropped by 37% in 2016. In addition, seven major new partnerships and between 2016 and 2013. In all, 87% of employees attended collaborative research projects were initiated during the year. one or more training courses and 88% of managers had an More than 437,000 customers have received training since individual appraisal review. 2014, while 89% of Group sales are covered by a Customer W Environment: Legrand has long been committed to Relationship Management (CRM) system. safeguarding the environment. This responsibility applies not W Society: Social responsibility applies to all partners with which only to the Group’s sites but also the design of its products. the Legrand Group interacts. This interaction takes place with The challenge is to innovate in order to limit the environmental the utmost respect for ethical principles, particularly in terms impact of Legrand’s operations. This includes promoting the of business practices and purchasing policy. In 2016, more than development of a circular economy. In 2016, 91% of the main 500 additional people were trained in business ethics, taking industrial and logistics sites were ISO 14001 certiﬁed. The the number of people trained on these topics to almost 2,300 Group’s average energy intensity dropped by 15% between since 2014. The compliance program continued to be rolled 2013 and 2016 (at current scope). 88% of waste was sent to out to over 50 countries. 253 suppliers exposed to CSR risks recycling units, and 89% of the Group’s sales(2) comply with the have been detected, 166 action plans have been started in requirements of the RoHS regulation. 10 countries covering 66% of exposed suppliers. As a socially responsible organization, the Group is also committed to FOR MORE INFORMATION helping as many people as possible gain sustainable access to 2016 Registration Document Chapter 4 electricity. In 2016, joint action with Électriciens sans frontières led to 200,000(1) people beneﬁting directly or indirectly from access to power. The Legrand Foundation has supported 23 projects since it was created. 6. 2017 Outlook(3) Macroeconomic projections for 2017 call for a gradual W adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at 2016 scope improvement in the economic environment. Against this backdrop of consolidation) of between 19.3% and 20.1% of sales. but taking into account high bases for comparison for business Legrand will also pursue its strategy of value-creating in the United States and Italy, the Group intends to pursue its acquisitions. Furthermore, Legrand continues with its efforts to strategy of growth and sets 2017 targets for: achieve the 2017 targets set for the 21 priorities in the Group’s W organic growth in sales of between 0% and +3%; and CSR roadmap. (1) Figures provided by Électriciens sans frontières indicating the number of people potentially affected by projects supported by Legrand. (2) Including Group products outside the scope of RoHS regulation. (3) 2017 targets announced on February 9, 2017 when the 2016 full-year results were released. 14 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW 02 2.1 LEGRAND AND ITS BUSINESS 16 2.1.1 Overview 16 2.1.2 History 21 2.2 A PROFITABLE GROWTH STRATEGY BASED ON LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT 22 2.2.1 Legrand, a market leader with a unique positioning 22 2.2.2 A development driven by two growth drivers 24 2.2.3 A proﬁtable, self-ﬁnanced and value-creative business model 26 2.3 A STRUCTURE SERVING THE GROUP’S STRATEGY AND CUSTOMERS 28 2.3.1 Front Office 29 2.3.2 Back Office 31 2.4 OTHER INFORMATION 33 2.4.1 Suppliers and raw materials 33 2.4.2 Property, plant and equipment 34 2.4.3 Information by geographical area 36 2.4.4 Competitors 36 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 15 02 GROUP OVERVIEW Legrand and its business 2.1 LEGRAND AND ITS BUSINESS 2.1.1 Overview R 2.1.1.1 A SELF-FINANCED BUSINESS MODEL CREATING VALUE OVER THE LONG-TERM The second growth driver is external growth, with self-ﬁnanced bolt-on(1) acquisitions of companies that are front-runners in their market or have proven technological expertise. Legrand is the global specialist in electrical and digital building infrastructure, offering hundreds of thousands of products across The other feature of Legrand’s business model is that it is selfseven major categories: ﬁnanced through high free cash ﬂow generation. Indeed, as initiatives linked to new technologies expand, Legrand is at the W User interface: control functions (lighting, shutters, heating, same time actively pursuing its initiatives targeting productivity etc.) and connection functions (sockets for power, for voice, – mainly linked to the “digitalization” of certain processes and to data, image, for USB type charging, etc.); the optimal use of capital employed thanks to the new industrial W Cable management: trunking, ducting, cable support or routing organization implemented in 2014. In total, all proﬁts from this systems, wire-mesh cable management systems, ﬂoor boxes, industrial transformation are used to ﬁnance growth initiatives etc.; linked new technologies. W Energy distribution products: circuit breakers, surge protection, With its solid business model and ongoing efforts to improve busbars, transformers, etc.; it, and in keeping with the Group’s four values (customer focus, innovation, ethical behavior and resource optimization), Legrand W Digital infrastructure: data distribution (pre-wired copper intends to continue strengthening its sustainable, proﬁtable and or ﬁber-optic solutions for IT, telephone and video networks, highly cash-generative growth strategy in order to self-ﬁnance RJ45 sockets, etc.); its development and thus create value for all of its stakeholders, W Building systems: lighting and energy management, home while continuing to offerings that help to protect the environment. systems, assisted living systems, security lighting, architectural The Group is listed on Euronext Paris. As of the date on which this lighting, etc.; Registration Document was ﬁled, it was included in the following W UPS: Uninterruptible power supply; and indices: the CAC 40, FTSE4Good, MSCI World, Corporate Oekom Rating, W Installation components: connectors, tubes and ducts, plugs, DJSI World, Vigeo Euronext Eurozone 120-Europe 120-France 20 and multi-outlet units, cable ties, ﬂush-mounting boxes, etc. the World 120, as well as the Ethibel Sustainability Index Excellence. This comprehensive offering tailored to the low voltage market The Group markets its products under internationally recognized for the commercial, industrial and residential segments makes generalist brands, such as Legrand and Bticino, as well as under Legrand a global standard among all actors in its economic well-known local and specialist brands. Close to its markets chain: the distributors to whom Legrand sells its products, the and focused on its entire economic chain, Legrand has nearly electrical contractors who install Legrand’s solutions in buildings, 36,000 employees, and commercial and industrial operations in product speciﬁers (architects, engineering ﬁrms) and end-users more than 90 countries. (individuals, companies, building managers). The Group’s organizational structure is based on two distinct Legrand’s business model relies on two growth drivers to roles: strengthen its leadership positions worldwide year after year. W on the one hand, operational sales and operational marketing First, innovation – particularly technological innovation – aimed at (Front Office), organized by country in order to respond to the fueling organic growth with the regular launch of new offerings – speciﬁc requirements of each market in terms of relations with including connected products (as part of Legrand’s Eliot program) distributors, electrical installers, product speciﬁers and endthat enhance value-in-use for installers, facility managers and users; and end-users – and numerous marketing and sales initiatives. (1) Smallto mid-size acquisitions that complement Legrand’s activities. 16 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW Legrand and its business W on the other hand activities linked to strategy, industrial in this region in 2016, thereby strengthening its leadership operations (innovation, R&D, manufacturing, purchasing positions (particularly in cable management, highly energyand supply chain), and general administration (Back Office), efficient lighting control, audio/video enclosures, pre-terminated organized globally. solutions for voice-data-image networks, and structured cabling for residential buildings). More particularly the United States, The Group beneﬁts from solid, long-term growth levers. which represents around 25% of Legrand’s sales, has been the Geographically, more than 80% of its sales are generated Group’s number one country in terms of sales since 2015. internationally, of which about 25% in the United States, the Group’s top country in terms of sales. Apart from new business segments(1), social megatrends (such as aging populations, Balanced presence in the new economies 02 increasing willingness to reduce energy consumption and the The new economies (Latin America, Central America, Eastern development of new economies) and technological megatrends Europe, Turkey, Asia excluding South Korea, Oceania excluding (particularly digital, with the Internet of Things) offer long-term Australia, Africa and the Middle East) offer long-term growth growth prospects for the Group. Indeed, at the heart of these potential. Considering that around 20% of the world’s population developments – in particular those linked to the emergence of the does not yet have access to electricity, and that a middle class Internet of Things – lies the electrical and digital infrastructure of boom is expected in many countries (for instance, according to buildings, an area in which Legrand specializes. the United Nations, Asia will have 3 billion middle class citizens by 2030, ﬁve times more than in Europe), driving demand More generally, Legrand is convinced that new technologies, especially for high value-added products, Legrand believes that particularly digital ones, signiﬁcantly increase the value-in-use in the long term, its market offers attractive growth potential of its products and systems. The Group has therefore decided to as electricity generation and distribution infrastructures are step up its investments in this area: innovation, with the launch gradually developping. in July 2015 of the Eliot program in particular, followed by its rollout; acquisitions, with the purchase of Raritan, QMotion, Luxul The Group sells its products in nearly 130 new economies and Wireless and Solarfective; the signing of various technological has a commercial and/or industrial presence in over half of partnerships; and investment in Netatmo. Against this backdrop, them. This expansion is evenly spread, with new economies Legrand has set itself ambitious goals, such as achieving doublerepresenting nearly 33% of the Group’s sales at December 31, digit average total annual growth in sales for connected products 2016, the most signiﬁcant country being India, which accounts for between 2014 and 2020; by the end of 2016, achievements were close to 6% of total Group sales. well ahead of this schedule. 2.1.1.2.2 New technologies Legrand is convinced that new technologies, in particular digital R 2.1.1.2 NUMEROUS GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES Driven by social megatrends (such as environmental protection, ones, signiﬁcantly increase the value-in-use of electrical and digital building infrastructure products for both individual users the sharp rise in data traffic, aging populations and the and professionals. development of new economies) and technological megatrends The Group has therefore decided to step up its investments in (such as the emerging Internet of Things, Big Data, wireless new technologies, deploying a range of initiatives that include: and ﬁber-optic technology), the market for electrical and digital building infrastructure is changing, offering enriched features W the launch of the Eliot program in July 2015, aimed at speeding and scope for long-term growth. The Group’s development up deployment of the Internet of Things in the Group’s offering. geographically, and in terms of products and distribution As part of this initiative, Legrand has set itself ambitious targets channels, is at the heart of the global challenges raised by these that include achieving double-digit average annual growth megatrends. in sales for connected products between 2014 and 2020, and doubling the number of its connected product families, 2.1.1.2.1 International development from 20 in 2014 to 40 in 2020. At year-end 2016, the Group’s achievements were well ahead of schedule, with nearly 40% Strengthening the Group’s presence in North total growth in sales of connected products; and Central America W R&D investments that are increasingly focused on new As a result of ongoing innovation efforts accompanied by more technologies, with around 41% of R&D staff assigned to than 10 acquisitions in the North and Central America region in electronics, software and digital offerings in 2016; the last 10 years, the Group generated nearly 30% of its sales (1) Energy efficiency, home systems, digital infrastructure and assisted living. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 17 02 GROUP OVERVIEW Legrand and its business W the signing of collaborative agreements, strategic partnerships 2.1.1.2.3 New business segments and numerous technological alliances, with leading players Boosted by technological progress and the emergence of new such as La Poste (to make Legrand’s connected offerings needs, particularly linked to the development of new technologies compatible with the Digital Hub provided by La Poste), Samsung (see section 2.1.1.2.2 of this Registration Document for more (to develop offerings that improve hotel room management details), digital infrastructure, home systems, energy efficiency and comfort), and TCL, a global player in consumer goods, and assisted living are continuing to grow. Over the past 10 years, electronic equipment and internet solutions. Legrand thus the share of new market segments in the Group’s sales has intends to develop connected and interoperable solutions, almost doubled to represent one-third of Legrand’s total sales. bringing lasting beneﬁts to individual users and professionals alike; Digital infrastructure and home systems W the collaboration with Netatmo, a French specialist in connected Breakthroughs in digital technology have led to sweeping objects for the home. At CES in Las Vegas in January 2017, changes in the day-to-day use of electrical equipment. where the Group had a booth exclusively for its products, Smartphones, telephones, tablets, televisions, computers, Legrand announced the launch of its “Celiane with Netatmo” lighting, sound systems, household appliances and cars solution of smart switches and sockets, winner at the CES are becoming increasingly interactive, intuitive, mobile and Innovation Awards 2017 in the “Smart Home(1)” and “Home connected. As a result of these technological developments, data Appliances(2)” categories; and ﬂows in buildings are intensifying and becoming more complex W the participation in various technology alliances, such as Open and enriched, which requires buildings to have a stronger and Connectivity, ZigBee Alliance, BACnet International and LoRa enriched electrical and digital infrastructure. Alliance, to ensure the interoperability of its range with those In residential buildings, the electrical installation must not only of other companies. power and protect those appliances individually – increasing the Legrand also uses its external growth policy to raise its presence needs in terms of the building’s electrical infrastructure – but also in the most promising technological areas and thus, in the past allow interactive management of all internal functions within the three years, it has acquired: home, such as monitoring energy consumption, comfort, security, and audio and video distribution. W Raritan (leading player in North America in the smart PDU(3) and KVM(4) switches segment), as well as Fluxpower and Primetech Likewise, in commercial buildings, IT and telephone networks (UPS(5) specialists) in the datacenters sector; as well as building management systems (lighting, heating and security management), use protocols that are often different W Neat (Spanish market leader and a major European player in yet must still communicate with each other and even converge assisted living), as well as Tynetec and Jontek (frontrunners in towards a common protocol for easier management and assisted living in the United Kingdom); maintenance. W Luxul Wireless (specialist in audio/video infrastructure for In addition, thanks to its ﬂexibility, ease of installation and highly residential buildings and small and medium-sized commercial ventilated structure, which enables better cable cooling, wirebuildings); and mesh cable management is widely used in datacenters. The W IME, leading Italian contender and European specialist in Group offers a full range of cable management solutions via its measuring electrical installation parameters, in the highly Cabloﬁl brand, which can be installed in all commercial buildings promising energy efficiency segment. (datacenters, retail outlets) and industrial facilities throughout the world. Legrand offers its customers solutions that are simple to use and install, allowing smart management of the building through its digital infrastructure. In recent years, the Group has made its mark with numerous innovations, including for example: the My Home residential system and LCS2 voice-data-image solutions offering simpliﬁed installation and guaranteeing optimal network performance; the Digital Lighting Management range for optimized (1) Smart Home (2) Home Appliances (3) PDU: Power Distribution Unit. (4) KVM: a KVM switch makes it possible to control several computers from a single screen, keyboard, mouse console. (5) UPS: Uninterruptible Power Supply. 18 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW Legrand and its business lighting management through a digital network; and the new Legrand has thus become number two in Europe for assisted Classe 300X smart door entry system, which can be controlled living and is ranked ﬁrst or second in the major European markets, remotely and won an award for its design in the IF Design Awards particularly France, the United-Kingdom, Spain and Germany. 2016. See section 4.2.1.1 of this Registration Document for further details on the assisted living business. Energy efficiency Buildings currently account for around 40% of total worldwide energy consumption(1). As a result of the introduction of new regulations in France 2.1.1.2.4 Development of new distribution channels by the electrical sector 02 Due to changes in technology and ways of life, new opportunities and “energy codes” in the United States, such as Title 24 in are emerging in activities such as Voice-Data-Image (VDI), California, increasing demand for environmentally friendly audio/video or IT. Legrand is building healthy positions in these products reducing greenhouse gas emissions and the increasing new activities, while beneﬁting from the development of these scarcity of natural resources, Legrand is seeing growing demand distribution channels within the electrical sector. in all its markets for products and systems that reduce energy consumption and improve the quality of electricity. The development of Legrand’s sales in these specialized channels represents signiﬁcant growth opportunities for the Group and the Legrand is responding to this demand by offering a series of electrical sector as a whole, providing access to new markets products and solutions that can be integrated into systems for the such as network integrators, panel builders, specialists in audio/ measurement of energy consumption and energy quality, lighting video applications, maintenance, etc.. management, shutter control, home automation, standby mode control, water-heater and heating management, the improvement As for e-commerce, it is an excellent showcase for the Group’s and control of electricity quality (source inversion, reactive know-how, enabling in particular end-users or project owners energy compensation, highly energy-efficient transformation, (architects and engineering offices) to get a complete picture of the surge protection, and uninterrupted power supply), as well as wide variety of Legrand’s offerings, in terms of both functionality electric-vehicle charging. and ﬁnishes. Legrand believes that the bulk of its product sales made through e-commerce will be recorded by generalist Please refer to section 4.2.1.4 of this Registration Document for distributors, which remain the Group’s main distribution channel. further information on the energy efficiency business. Assisted living The aging of the population (according to the UN, the number of R 2.1.1.3 PRODUCTS Legrand believes that its activities are local and that access to its people in the world who are over 80 is expected to more than market requires new entrants to make a high initial investment, triple by 2050, from its 2015 level) poses a major challenge, in primarily due to: terms of economic as well as societal dependency. Faced with this challenge, and in view of growing demand from senior citizens W the importance of the relationship between Legrand and wishing to remain in their own homes while living independently, generalist distributors, who remain the Group’s main Legrand has accelerated its expansion into the assisted living distribution channel, and in general the need to establish market through the acquisition of four companies, most of them relationships with numerous players in the economic decisionfrontrunners in this ﬁeld, particularly in their own countries: making chain in each country, regardless of whether they are local distributors, electrical installers, product speciﬁers, or W Intervox Systems, France’s leader in remote assistance end-users; systems, which joined the Group in February 2011; W differences in installation practices and design preferences in W Tynetec, a frontrunner in assisted living in the United Kingdom, each country; and acquired in November 2013 and whose products include wireless nurse call systems; W the need to offer customers an extensive range of innovative, multifunctional products and systems. W Neat, the Spanish market leader and a major player in assisted living in Europe, with which the Group signed a joint venture Legrand’s customers can choose from hundreds of thousands of agreement in February 2014 and whose portfolio includes products in its catalogue. The Group’s products are characterized notably connected terminals for remote assistance; and by their unique technology and design. Legrand regularly updates its product range by adding innovative features based notably on W Jontek, specializing in management solutions for assisted new technologies. living platforms in the UK, which joined the Group in May 2016. (1) Source: International Energy Agency. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 19 02 GROUP OVERVIEW Legrand and its business These changes beneﬁt installers, who gain from faster product control, sound systems, etc.), increasingly include electronics, installation and set-up times; the end-customer and prescribers, and will become more and more connected. who are offered intuitive new features and designs; and lastly Legrand considers itself the world leader in interface for control facility managers, with simpliﬁed, reliable maintenance to allow and connection. It is one of the only manufacturers whose offering productivity gains. complies with most of the electrical standards in use around the Legrand’s product ranges are designed for both the residential world. and commercial sector, including offices, hotels, retail outlets and public buildings. 2.1.1.3.2 Energy distribution Its products are subject to quality and safety controls and Energy distribution products mainly include circuit protection regulations. They are mostly regulated by national standards, and panels and accessories: circuit breakers (modular circuit even international standards for some of them. breakers, molded cases, air circuit breakers, residual current Legrand’s products are divided up into seven main categories: protection devices, etc.), surge protection, electrical measurement components, busbars and transformers. These products protect W user interface; people and property from major electrical risks (e.g. electric W energy distribution; shocks, overheating, short circuits, power surges, etc.) and provide a reliable, high-quality power supply to residential, W building systems; commercial and industrial buildings. They also protect renewable W cable management; energy sources. W digital infrastructure; Legrand believes that it is one of the main manufacturers of W UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply); energy distribution products, and that it ranks among the top ﬁve players in the European and South American energy distribution W installation components. product markets. These categories of products are sold in most of Legrand’s major geographic markets and each country has its own technical 2.1.1.3.3 Building systems standards or speciﬁcations. In addition, the technical features and design of Legrand’s products may vary, depending on whether Building products and systems include: they are intended for commercial, residential or industrial W solutions for monitoring the electrical installation in residential, buildings. commercial and industrial buildings. These solutions cover in particular lighting management and more generally energy 2.1.1.3.1 User interface management, with notably automated or remote-controlled products that allow end-users to control electricity and data User interface(1) covers all the solutions designed to create a dayﬂows; to-day link between the user and the electrical installation of a building. W security systems, including emergency lighting, alarms and access control systems (such as audio and video door User interface comprises control functions (lighting, shutters, entry systems) for residential and commercial buildings. heating, etc.) and connection functions (sockets for power, for These security systems are designed to enable rapid set-up voice, data, image, for USB type charging, etc.). by electrical installers, and to offer maximum ﬂexibility, Thanks to new technologies and in particular the Internet of convenience and security to end-users; Things, user interface, mainly wall mounted, is changing, getting more ﬂexible and mobile and adapting to changes in ways of life W dedicated assisted-living systems. and needs of users. It is designed according to increasingly varied aesthetics and ergonomics, thus covering the economy, standard 2.1.1.3.4 Cable management and premium market segments. Cable management systems include trunking and ducting, cable User interface ranges can offer up to 200 functions (of course support or routing systems, wire-mesh cable management switches and sockets with various designs and features, as well systems, ﬂoor boxes, electrical cable junction boxes, and various as other user interfaces such as motion sensors, temperature systems that enable the secure distribution of electricity and data in buildings. These items are designed to prevent any accidental (1) This is a broader meaning than the concept of wiring devices previously used, which essentially covered switches and sockets. 20 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW Legrand and its business contact between electrical wires and cables and other electrical It has been very successful in this area, particularly with its or mechanical equipment, or any exposure of these wires and new LCS2 range, designed for simple and quick set-up of VDI cables that could be hazardous for end-users. Cable management connections while ensuring optimum network performance. systems include a variety of plastic or metal products that enable power and data cables to be laid either in the ground (beneath the 2.1.1.3.6 UPS ﬂoor), or in a room’s surrounds, or even in the ceiling. The UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply) segment is an activity Legrand considers itself the world leader in the cable management market. that is complementary to the Group’s energy distribution and energy efficiency offering, notably for buildings with intensive digital infrastructure, such as offices, hospitals and datacenters, 02 2.1.1.3.5 Digital infrastructure for which a continuous high-quality power supply is essential. The Group’s offering includes modular UPS as well as conventional Legrand offers a complete range of systems for the distribution UPS. of digital data, including pre-wired solutions for IT, telephone and video networks, such as copper or ﬁber-optic patch panels, RJ45 sockets, and copper and ﬁber-optic cables, enabling and 2.1.1.3.7 Installation components facilitating the organization of networks in residential and Installation components include power connectors (multi-pin commercial buildings and in datacenters. connectors, mobile sockets and site distribution cabinets), Legrand considers itself to be one of the ﬁve main manufacturers tubes and ducts, mobile products (plugs, multi-outlet units and of VDI applications (excluding cables, active products and Wi-Fi). extensions and cable reels) and installation products (cable ties, lamp holders, junction boxes or ﬂush-mounting boxes). 2.1.2 History The main stages in Legrand’s development are: W 1998: Legrand’s total sales exceed €2 billion; W 1926: foundation of the Legrand company, specializing in the W 1999: opening of Innoval, an 8,000 m2 showroom and training production and decoration of china; center for Group customers in Limoges; W 1946: acquisition of Legrand by the Verspieren and Decoster W 2000: acquisition of Wiremold, the leading manufacturer of families; cable management systems in the United States; W 1949: Legrand focuses exclusively on the manufacturing of W 2001: Schneider Electric launches a full friendly tender offer wiring devices; for Legrand; the European Commission opposes the planned merger in October 2001. As Legrand had planned prior to the W 1966: ﬁrst operations outside France, primarily in Belgium and merger with Schneider Electric, a new organizational structure Italy; is introduced with the aim of separating Front Office and Back W 1970: Legrand is listed on the Paris Stock Market; Office responsibilities (see section 2.3 of this Registration W 1977: ﬁrst operations outside Europe and in new economies, Document); via the acquisition of Pial, the leading Brazilian wiring device W 2002: ﬁnalization of the “demerger” from Schneider Electric. manufacturer; Legrand is acquired by a consortium consisting mainly of W 1984: ﬁrst operations in the United States with the acquisition Wendel and KKR; of Pass & Seymour, the second largest U.S. wiring device W 2003: delisting; manufacturer; W 2005: Legrand becomes the leader in the Chinese wiring device W 1987: inclusion of Legrand in the CAC 40 Index when the index market with the acquisition of TCL; the Group’s total sales was created; exceed €3 billion; W 1989: acquisition of Bticino, the leading Italian wiring device W 2006: Legrand is listed on Euronext Paris; Legrand joins the manufacturer; Legrand’s total sales exceed €1 billion; Global Compact; W 1995: issue of a US$400 million Yankee bond maturing in 2025; W 1996: ﬁrst operations in India with the acquisition of MDS; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 21 02 GROUP OVERVIEW A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development W 2007: the Group’s total sales exceed €4 billion; W 2013: total sales for the United States/Canada region exceed $1 billion; W 2010: ﬁrst issue of Eurobonds for €300 million, maturing in 2017; entry into the UPS segment with the acquisition of Inform W 2014: publication of the new sustainable development roadmap in Turkey; for 2014-2018; all industrial back-office functions under the single management of the Operations department, and creation W 2011: Legrand returns to the CAC 40 Index; of an Innovation and Systems department; W 2012: Legrand’s rating is upgraded to Aby Standard and Poor’s; W 2015: launch of the Eliot program, aimed at speeding up the deployment of the Internet of Things in Legrand’s offering; W 2016: the Group’s total sales exceed €5 billion. 2.2 A PROFITABLE GROWTH STRATEGY BASED ON LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT In the medium term, excluding the effects of economic cycles, strengthen its leadership positions worldwide year after year: Legrand’s strategy consists in accelerating its proﬁtable innovation to fuel its organic growth, and a strategy of targeted and sustainable growth in line with the Group’s four values acquisitions of leading players in its accessible market. Thanks (customer focus, innovation, ethical behavior and resource to the soundness of its business model and to ongoing efforts optimization). The Group is thus looking to expand its to improve it, Legrand intends to continue self-ﬁnancing its businesses internationally into new business segments, new expansion and strengthening its proﬁtable growth proﬁle, technologies and new distribution channels developed by thereby creating value for all of its stakeholders. the electrical sector. Legrand relies on two growth drivers to 2.2.1 Legrand, a market leader with a unique positioning R 2.2.1.1 A GLOBAL PLAYER, SPECIALIZING IN ELECTRICAL AND DIGITAL BUILDING its customers by developing powerful CRM tools, continuously offering them more services, particularly through digital tools INFRASTRUCTURE (online catalogs, product information, and software), technical and commercial support, and training. (See section 2.3.1.3 of this Legrand is the specialist for the development, manufacturing and Registration Document for further details). marketing of a comprehensive range of products and systems for electrical and digital building infrastructures. This approach, deployed worldwide and underpinned by the Group’s presence in more than 90 countries, through subsidiaries, branches and R 2.2.1.2 A MARKET LEADER WITH FRONTRUNNER MARKET SHARE representative offices, has enabled Legrand to acquire unique Legrand believes that it is the world leader in the user interface technical and commercial expertise across its entire business and cable management segments. sector. On a more global basis, Legrand also holds number 1 or By leveraging its strong local presence, Legrand has established number 2 positions for one or several product families in many longstanding commercial relationships with key local distributors key countries, such as: and electrical installers, as well as with product speciﬁers who provide Legrand with thorough understanding of market trends W user interfaces in Brazil, China, Chile, the United States, France, and demand. Legrand maintains this close relationship with Hungary, Italy, Mexico, Peru and Russia; 22 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development W cable management in Saudi Arabia, the United States, France, W in the United States and Canada, Legrand, C2G, Middle Atlantic Italy, Malaysia and Mexico; Products, Pinnacle, Raritan, Vantage and Wattstopper; W emergency lighting products in Australia, France, New Zealand W in the Rest of the World, Legrand, Bticino, Cabloﬁl, Lorenzetti, and Peru; HPM, HDL, SMS, Indo Asian, Numeric, Megapower, Daneva, TCL and Shidean. W digital infrastructures in Colombia, the United States, Italy and Singapore; Legrand’s brand and trademark portfolio is protected in most of W UPS, particularly in Brazil and Turkey; W modular protection in Algeria, Chile, Colombia and France. the markets where the Group operates. The protection granted to Legrand’s brands is based on their registration or use. Legrand’s brands are registered with domestic, European and international 02 Total sales generated by Legrand, with products that are agencies for variable periods, usually individual ten-year periods, number 1 or number 2 in their respective markets, represented subject to the laws making ongoing protection conditional on around 68% of Group sales in 2016. The Group believes that this continual use of the brands. ﬁrst-rate competitive positioning makes it the standard-setter As a general rule, Legrand only grants licenses on its brands to for distributors, electrical installers, product speciﬁers and endthird parties in exceptional circumstances and rarely licenses users, and boosts demand for its products. brands belonging to third parties. R 2.2.1.3 A PORTFOLIO OF RENOWNED BRANDS OFFERING A FULL RANGE OF PRODUCTS R 2.2.1.4 A BALANCED MARKET POSITIONING AND SYSTEMS Trends in the market for electrical and digital building infrastructure are naturally dependent on economic conditions. The Group believes that it offers a range of products that However, this market stands up well to the impact of economic distributors, electrical installers, product speciﬁers, and endcycles because of its diversity: users associate with a high-quality image and ease of installation, and to which they remain loyal. In particular, Legrand believes W the market covers the new-build and renovation sectors, the that electrical installers and product speciﬁers, who are the main latter sector being less sensitive to economic cycles than drivers of demand, have trusted the Group’s brands, products and the new-build sector, as it requires lower investments and systems for many years, given their safety, reliability and ease of beneﬁts from a recurring ﬂow of activity arising from regular installation and use. maintenance and modernization needs. Legrand estimates that approximately 46% of its sales were generated by the Moreover, Legrand believes that its offering, which features renovation market in 2016, while the new-build market several hundred thousands of different products, organized accounted for around 54% of its sales in the same year; into more than 90 product categories, is one of the most comprehensive on the market. W the market breaks down into three sectors, depending on the categories of buildings and end-users: the commercial sector Legrand markets its products: where Legrand estimates that it generated 51% of its 2016 W both to professional customers and end-users, under generalist sales, which is itself composed of many vertical segments in brands such as Legrand(1) and Bticino(2) that are world-renowned which business trends can differ and that includes buildings and among the most recognized on the market; and like hotels, offices and retail outlets, and also public buildings like schools or hospitals; the residential sector (42% of its 2016 W under an extensive portfolio of approximately 60 brands, either sales); and the industrial sector (7% of its 2016 sales), each of specialist, such as Cabloﬁl or Zucchini, or very well-known local which has its own growth momentum; brands. Legrand primarily markets its products under the following W the market is characterized by a business ﬂow fueled by a high level of relatively low-value orders, unlike industries that are brands for each geographic area: more dependent on large public or private projects. The market W in France, Legrand, Arnould, Cabloﬁl, Intervox, Planet Watthom, is therefore mostly fragmented and sustainable, and is less Bticino, Sarlam, S2S, Zucchini, URA and Alpes Technologies; sensitive to the impact of economic cycles than other markets, including the medium and high-voltage or infrastructure W in Italy, Bticino, Legrand, Zucchini, Cabloﬁl and IME; market; W in the Rest of Europe, Legrand, Bticino, Cabloﬁl, Zucchini, Kontaktor, Electrak, Estap, Inform, Neat, Tynetec, Minkels and CP Electronics; (1) According to an Ipsos poll conducted in 2016 in France, Legrand is by far the leading wiring device brand, with a spontaneous awareness rate of 61%. (2) According to an IPSOS poll conducted in Italy in 2016, Bticino is by far the leading wiring device brand, with a spontaneous awareness rate of 59%. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 23 02 GROUP OVERVIEW A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development W in addition, certain businesses, such as new business segments W ﬁnally, a highly diversiﬁed geographical presence limits the (digital infrastructure, energy efficiency, home systems and Group’s dependence on the speciﬁc economic performance of assisted living), are driven more by technological, social and one or several countries. In fact, Legrand has commercial and societal developments than by the construction market; industrial operations in more than 90 countries, and markets a wide range of products in close to 180 countries. 2.2.2 A development driven by two growth drivers Legrand is constantly seeking to develop its market share Know-how that is recognized for its innovation and sales on a proﬁtable basis by relying on two self-ﬁnanced Legrand has a long, recognized track record in terms of growth drivers: organic growth, which is driven in particular by innovation and the development of new products that create innovation and the regular launch of new products that enhance value for its economic chain. Legrand adds higher value-added value-in-use, and targeted acquisitions of companies that are products to its ranges on a regular basis, for example by using frontrunners in their business segment. materials such as leather, wood and steel, together with new high-technology solutions. Examples of these solutions include: the universal media socket; a circuit breaker with an automatic R 2.2.2.1 NUMEROUS INITIATIVES TO SUPPORT ORGANIC GROWTH reset function; My Home, its home automation range, which simultaneously manages lighting, security, heating and audio and Legrand’s strategy for growth and for increasing market share video in residential buildings in a simple, ergonomic way; the ecois based on various initiatives, particularly innovation, with meter for measuring and monitoring the main sources of energy the launch of new products that enhance value-in-use and consumption on mobile devices; controls incorporating several commercial initiatives such as opening new showrooms and communication technologies such as Zigbee, or the “Celiane with concept stores. Netatmo” range of smart switches and sockets, winner at the CES Innovation Awards 2017 in the “Smart Home(2)” and “Home 2.2.2.1.1 Innovation at the core of a proactive, Appliances(3)” categories. targeted research and development policy Legrand is also focusing its efforts on low-end product ranges, Over the long term, Legrand spends 4% to 5% of its revenue(1) on enabling it to meet all the requirements of its markets. research and development, depending on its business mix and In addition, the Group has developed special expertise in acquisitions. energy efficiency to reduce energy consumption and minimize Legrand develops its products by focusing primarily on the the environmental impact of buildings. This includes lighting following priorities: management, solutions for measuring and managing consumption, and a range of solar cell equipment protection W quality, reliability and overall safety; devices (see section 4.2.1.4 of this Registration Document for W simplicity, ease and speed of installation; further details). W enhanced product features, mainly through the use of new This continuous innovation enables Legrand to incorporate more technologies (communication, data capture and processing, added-value into its products and thus offer integrated systems remote control, etc.); and smart electrical solutions. W interoperability and integration of various new technologies in the product offering, enabling end-users to enjoy the widest Effective management of research possible choice of technology to suit their needs, at all times; and development activities Research and development is under the responsibility of the W the ability of Legrand’s product lines to work together in an seven Strategic Business Units, which decide on a global scale integrated system; and on the allocation of projects to the various teams spread around W new designs. the world. They are assisted in their task by the Innovation and Systems department, whose role is to promote and coordinate the innovation approach within the Group, to deﬁne the technology (1) Research and development expenses before purchase accounting charges relating to the acquisition of Legrand France and taking into account capitalized development costs. (2) Smart Home. (3) Home Appliances 24 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development roadmap, and to ensure consistency between the technologies W installation design and costing software for professionals; used by the different SBUs (see section 2.3.2 of this Registration W innovative marketing and sales tools that complement the Document for further details). A signiﬁcant portion of Legrand’s numerous showrooms which the Group has had for years all research and development work is carried out in France, Italy, over the world. Since 2011, Legrand has used concept stores the United States and China, as well as in other countries closer such as “Lab by Legrand” in Paris to showcase the Group’s to markets. As at December 31, 2016, close to 2,200 employees premium user interface ranges, “B Inspired” in Brussels, or in more than 20 countries were employed in research and development, some 30% of them in new economies. More generally, about 41% of R&D staff worked on the electronics, the “Experience Center” in West Hartford in the United States. Legrand is continuing to break new ground in terms of the services it offers its customers, for example by opening “Project 02 software and digital offerings in 2016. Stores” in France in recent years. This all-new concept gives This global organizational structure enables the Group to optimize customers an opportunity to explore the Group’s offerings in a its research and development by designing products that share connected and interactive showroom, and provides training in the same platform. It enables a rationalization of the number the installation of Legrand solutions. of components and a reduction in manufacturing costs, as well as the pooling of development costs and thus the dedication of more resources to high-growth businesses like digital systems. In addition, Legrand anticipates the international roll-out of its R 2.2.2.2 ACQUISITION-DRIVEN GROWTH IN A MARKET THAT OFFERS A LARGE NUMBER OF EXTERNAL GROWTH products as soon as it designs them. The Group has implemented OPPORTUNITIES some ﬁfty “technological bricks” covering the main electronic functions within the Group offering. For a given electronic In the long term, Legrand plans to continue its self-ﬁnanced function, such as presence detection or NFC(1) communication, bolt-on(2) acquisitions of leading companies, thereby continuing a technological brick gathers all engineering information, to grow market share and drive growth. Given the fragmented associated ﬁrmware and software, as well as protocols for nature of the market in which it operates, the Group focuses on testing and qualifying and processes for manufacturing. A acquiring smalland mid-size companies. technological brick is made available to the whole Group and can thus be used by several development teams. At the Group 2.2.2.2.1 A fragmented market scale, this standardization approach makes it possible to pool The Group’s accessible market, which Legrand estimates to be investments in engineering and to enhance product quality by worth more than €90 billion, compared with around €50 billion sharing experience. in 2005, remains highly fragmented. Around 50% of global sales are generated by smalland mid-size companies, which are A substantial patent portfolio often local and typically enjoy only a marginal share of the global Legrand holds over 3,800 active patents in close to 70 countries, market. With an accessible global market share of over 5% in 2016, some of which relate to the protection of the same or similar Legrand is one of the market benchmarks. Market fragmentation technologies in several markets. Legrand considers that its is due in part to differences in standards and applicable technical level of dependence on third-party patents is not material to the norms, to end-users’ habits in each country, as well as the wide assessment of its business development prospects. variety of product offerings required to provide a building with The Group’s patents cover more than 1,600 different systems and electrical and digital infrastructure. Attempts to harmonize technologies. The average life of the Group’s patent portfolio is standards to make products usable on a very large scale have around nine years, which also corresponds to the average life of failed, especially within the European Union, due primarily to the patents held by Legrand’s competitors. the size of the investment required to replace existing electrical networks for only limited added-value. As a result, a signiﬁcant 2.2.2.1.2 Innovative commercial initiatives portion of the electrical and digital building infrastructure product and system market has traditionally remained in the To stimulate demand among electrical installers, product hands of small local manufacturers, the potential acquisition of speciﬁers and end-users, Legrand offers: which may represent a growth opportunity for Legrand. Finally, W a variety of training courses for electrical installers to broaden Legrand aims to continue expanding its accessible market, which their know-how and knowledge of Legrand products and is expected to be worth over €100 billion in 2020. systems; (1) Near Field Communication. (2) Smallto mid-size acquisitions that complement Legrand’s activities. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 25 02 GROUP OVERVIEW A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development 2.2.2.2.2 Recognized experience of growth through 2.2.2.2.3 Financial discipline targeted, self-ﬁnanced acquisitions The pace of acquisitions takes account of the economic In the fragmented market in which Legrand operates, the environment. Group has demonstrated its ability to identify and make mostly In this context, Legrand maintains a disciplined ﬁnancial self-ﬁnanced bolt-on acquisitions, i.e. of small and mid-size approach, based on a multi-criteria assessment, and speciﬁcally businesses complementary to the Group’s activities, which are uses an assessment matrix, which enables it to ensure that small market leaders or have particular technological expertise. and mid-size acquisitions that complement the Group’s activities: In this respect, the ongoing role of Legrand’s teams, which are W increase its local market share; and/or very familiar with local market players, is to identify potential targets. A dedicated Corporate Development unit is responsible W expand its product range and technology portfolio; and/or for monitoring the entire acquisition process, and is speciﬁcally W boost its presence in markets with high growth potential; and responsible for coordinating the work performed by the various Group teams that may be involved in a takeover transaction. W are carried out on average, in compliance with its ﬁnancial criteria, which primarily include: Growth through targeted and self-ﬁnanced acquisitions is a W an acquisition price corresponding to the usual valuation full-ﬂedged part of the Group’s development model. Indeed, the multiples compared with those applied to companies in the Group has acquired and “docked” nearly 160 companies into its same sector or the same markets, scope of consolidation since 1954. In 2016, Legrand made eight acquisitions totalling annual sales of more than €170 million; W a positive impact on net income from the ﬁrst year of full of which, more than 80% are made with number 1 or number 2 consolidation, positions in their respective markets, and six are in new business W a value-creation target (a return on invested capital that is segments (see section 2.1.1.2.3). higher than the weighted average cost of capital) after three to ﬁve years. 2.2.3 A proﬁtable, self-ﬁnanced and value-creative business model R 2.2.3.1 A MODEL BASED ON PROFITABLE GROWTH While some structurally deﬂationary industries are seeing the price of their products steadily eroded, Legrand’s market is displaying a different overall trend. In particular, end-user sensitivity to product prices is speciﬁcally mitigated by the fact 2.2.3.1.1 A market characterized by solid economic that electrical installations (including cables and labor) usually fundamentals account for only a small portion of the total average cost of a newOn a global basis, Legrand’s accessible market is characterized build construction project (between 7 and 8% for a residential by a relative lack of range commoditization, and by a very diffuse project, for example). Similarly, because labor represents a ﬂow of business from hundreds of thousands of electricians. signiﬁcant cost component for installers, they are on the lookout These electrical installers, product speciﬁers, or end-users pay for the best value for money to enable them to work efficiently, considerable attention to products’ technical features. Electrical particularly by means of quick and easy installation. installers, for instance, tend thus to favor market-leading products In addition, Legrand has developed a certain expertise in that can be installed efficiently (safety, quality, reliability, and ease pricing, with pricing managers based all over the world who are and speed of installation), and that offer the qualities expected responsible for managing sales prices. Their role is to translate by the end-user (functionality, design and ease of use). This is into prices the innovation that Legrand’s products bring to the one of the reasons why, every year, Legrand makes long term market and to adjust the sales price for each product category, investments of 4 to 5% of its sales in research and development, or even individual products, by taking account of trends in raw ensuring a steady ﬂow of products with new features and designs material and component prices, the overall inﬂation suffered by responding to customer’s needs. By continually building more the Group, and market conditions. More generally, all the Group’s value added into its products and solutions, Legrand reinforces management and ﬁnance staff have been trained on, and made brand loyalty among electrical installers, product speciﬁers and aware of, price management. On a historical basis, Legrand’s end-users, enabling the Group to expand its numerous leadership average selling prices have increased every year over the last positions. 20 years. 26 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW A proﬁtable growth strategy based on leadership development 2.2.3.1.2 Proﬁtability driven by an ongoing The Group believes it is also able to maintain its ratio of working improvement in competitiveness capital requirement to sales at about 10%, excluding acquisitions. Legrand relies on its unique, efficient and responsive Back Office structure (see section 2.3.2 of this Registration Document) to constantly improve its competitiveness. Thus, by adopting R 2.2.3.3 CAREFUL MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ENABLING industry best practices in its production facilities and applying SIGNIFICANT VALUE CREATION the concepts of product platforms and technology platforms (see section 2.2.2.1.1), Legrand continually optimizes its cost base and capital employed. Some of these gains are reinvested, particularly To ensure a high level of proﬁtability and strong free cash ﬂow generation, Legrand manages its ﬁnancial performance based on 02 in research and development (in the various initiatives linked to three pillars: new technologies, for example) and in Front Office initiatives W synthetic key performance indicators; aimed at boosting organic growth, contributing to the concept of self-ﬁnanced development of Legrand’s business model. The W solid processes organized around a permanent management dialog between country managers and the Group; beneﬁts generated by the Group’s industrial transformation thus enable ﬁnancing of the new technology-linked initiatives W Senior Management team and management who are underway. This is reﬂected in the Group’s ratios for R&D, industrial accountable, experienced and motivated, particularly through capital expenditure and working capital requirement, which are compensation aligned with the challenges of creating value in under control. (see section 2.2.3.2 of this Registration Document). the short and long term. More generally, the ongoing improvement in competitiveness, combined with the operational leverage provided by sales growth Synthetic key performance indicators in a favorable economic environment, but also and mostly with Three key performance indicators are measured for each country strong commercial positions (about 68% of sales were generated manager. First, the local market shares of each product family from number one or number two positions in 2016) enables the that drive proﬁtability. Then, economic proﬁt (after or before Group to generate a high level of proﬁtability while absorbing, income tax depending on countries), deﬁned as adjusted operating year after year, new acquisitions where proﬁt margins are lower proﬁt less the cost of capital employed. Finally, CSR performance, than the Group’s. In less buoyant economic conditions, which measured by the level of achievement of the priorities set out in prevent the Group from exploiting growth-related operational the roadmap. leverage, Legrand uses active and differentiated management of its business to keep proﬁtability under control. Solid processes organized around a permanent The Group’s adjusted operating margin thus amounted to 16% on management dialog between country managers average between 2003 and 2009, and nearly 20% between 2010 and the Group and 2016. As part of the management of the Group’s ﬁnancial performance: W once a year, the Group signs a Financial Performance Contract R 2.2.3.2 HIGH FREE CASH FLOW GENERATION By combining a high level of proﬁtability and tight control on with each country manager and his/her team for the coming year. This outlines several scenarios depending on the change in revenue; one scenario is chosen and the country manager capital employed (working capital requirement and capital and his/her team are fully responsible for its implementation; expenditure), Legrand’s business model enables the Group to generate high levels of free cash ﬂow over the long term. Free W a quarterly performance review with managers from the cash ﬂow generation has thus been about 13% of sales over Group’s main countries. This is an opportunity during the the past ﬁve years. This gives the Group signiﬁcant ﬁnancial course of the year to assess the level of achievement of the and operational ﬂexibility, enabling it to self-ﬁnance 100% of its performance contract and if necessary choose a different business growth. scenario depending on whether business is better, not as good or in line with the scenario initially chosen; The continued development of product platforms, the systematic application of a “make or buy” approach to all investment W ﬁnally, comprehensive monthly reporting is used to conﬁrm projects, the transfer of some production to less capital-intensive that the performance of each country is in line with the latest countries and the reduction in capital requirements should enable approved scenario. the Group in the long run to maintain a ratio of capital expenditure to consolidated sales of between 3% and 3.5%. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 27 02 GROUP OVERVIEW A structure serving the Group’s strategy and customers Senior Management team and management who are schemes involving around 1,800 beneﬁciaries in 2016 to drive accountable, experienced and motivated, particularly value creation over the long term and increase the management through compensation aligned with the challenges team’s loyalty to the Group (see sections 4.4.3.1, 7.2 and 7.3 of of creating value on shortand long-term basis this Registration Document). On average, members of Legrand’s Senior Management For the Group’s key managers, this might take the form of team have around 20 years of experience in the electrical and performance shares (see section 6.2. of this Registration digital building infrastructure industry. Their experience and Document). This scheme, with a four-year vesting period, depends commitment have allowed Legrand to create and maintain a on future performance conditions and thus reinforces the interest unique corporate culture, which inspires and rewards talent of key managers in creating value over the long term. and initiative. The inﬂuence of its Senior Management team has In addition, the Group’s current and former senior and main enabled Legrand to continue growing while maintaining a strong managers, and employees held 4.03% of the Company’s share ﬁnancial performance. capital as at December 31, 2016. Countries are run by managers who are true entrepreneurs. Management and management dialog between countries and the Long-term “value creation” Group are based on the high accountability of local managers, During the period 2006-2016, the Group’s capital employed(1) only who are incentivized to create long-term value. The Group increased by about 4% per year, while basic earnings per share has also set up long-term performance-linked proﬁt-sharing rose by around 8% per year over the same period. 2.3 A STRUCTURE SERVING THE GROUP’S STRATEGY AND CUSTOMERS Legrand has manufacturing and marketing sites and subsidiaries W The Back Office, generally organized on a centralized basis, in more than 90 countries. Legrand’s organizational structure is includes an Operations Department, responsible for innovation based on two distinct roles: ﬁrstly, sales and operational marketing and research and development, manufacturing, purchasing activities (Front Office), and secondly, activities connected to and supply chain, and functional departments (Strategy and strategy, operations (innovation, R&D, manufacturing, purchasing, Development, Finance and Human Resources). and logistics) and general administration (Back Office). The speciﬁc aims of this organization, at Group level, are to W The Front Office is organized by country in order to respond to the deﬁne strategy, optimize industrial organization, accelerate the speciﬁc requirements of each market in terms of relations with development of new products, keep capital employed under distributors, electrical installers, product speciﬁers and endcontrol, adapt the Group’s resources to the business, appoint key users. The aims of this decentralized organizational structure, managers worldwide, establish all internal control rules, and run by local managers, are to develop sales in accordance coordinate risk management processes. with the strategy set out by the Strategy and Development Department and approved by Senior Management, to raise commercial proﬁtability, and to optimize the working capital requirements for each country. (1) Capital employed is deﬁned as the sum of net debt and equity, less investments in associates, adjusted for asset step-up linked to the acquisition of Legrand France in 2002 and net of the related deferred tax. 28 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW A structure serving the Group’s strategy and customers 2.3.1 Front Office Legrand’s relationship with generalist and specialist distributors W Other product speciﬁers are architects, decorators and (IT, VDI, web, etc.), electrical installers, product speciﬁers, and design ﬁrms, who fuel demand for Legrand’s products by end-users represents a strategic priority for the Group. Legrand recommending their installation to end-users or by specifying is extending the marketing coverage for its markets as a whole by prioritizing areas with high long-term growth potential, such as new economies and new business segments. them in the design of certain building projects. W End-users are the people who use Legrand’s products in the 02 environment where these products are installed or used. Legrand’s distribution chain is organized so that manufacturers R 2.3.1.1 THE FRONT OFFICE’S ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES like Legrand sell their products, primarily to distributors, who in turn sell the products to the electrical installers responsible for installing them in end-users’ buildings. This is a ﬂowThe Front Office acts as an interface with Legrand’s distributor driven business, as electricians may come to buy products customers, electrical installers, product speciﬁers, and endfrom the distributors several times a week, depending on their users. In each country, Front Office activities are run by a country requirements. Product speciﬁers play an active role in this chain manager who is responsible for: by advising electrical installers and end-users on product and W growing market share and sales; application choices. W increasing commercial proﬁtability; and W optimizing working capital requirements through efficient inventory and trade receivables management. R 2.3.1.3 A “PUSH-AND-PULL” STRATEGY Sales and marketing are the responsibility of the Front Office, The Group’s subsidiaries in each country are given signiﬁcant whose headcount accounted for about 20% of Legrand’s total latitude to manage their business and staff, and country headcount in 2016 (see section 4.6.2.2 of this Registration managers are real entrepreneurs. Document). Marketing efforts are focused on each level of the distribution chain (distributors, electrical installers, product speciﬁers and end-users), in accordance with the Group’s “pushR 2.3.1.2 AN ECONOMIC CHAIN SUITED TO MARKET FLOWS and-pull” strategy, the aim of which is outlined below. These efforts are primarily aimed at providing market players with As part of its business activity, Legrand has various means of information, training, and other services relating to the Group’s accessing a market consisting of a wide variety of users (distributors, entire range of products and systems, alongside sales. Legrand electrical installers, product speciﬁers and end-users). believes that making access to and use of its products easier for distributors, electrical installers and end-users enables the W Legrand’s distributors are electrical and digital device and equipment distributors. These can be generalist distributors, the Group to create signiﬁcant product and brand loyalty, and to reference distribution channel for Legrand products because it generate demand for its products and systems at each level of offers broad expertise and unique coverage of the market, or the distribution chain. distributors specialized in speciﬁc ﬁelds (IT, VDI, etc.), or even speciﬁc new distribution channels such as e-commerce. Sales Selling Legrand’s products to electrical equipment to generalist and specialist distributors represented the vast distributors (“push”) majority of the Group’s consolidated sales in 2016. Legrand’s As part of the “push” strategy, Legrand maintains close relations with its distributors are generally governed by terms relationships with electrical equipment distributors by focusing and conditions of sale speciﬁc to each local market. on product availability and just-in-time delivery, and by simplifying W Electrical installers are professionals and individuals who buy, and accelerating the ordering, stocking and dispatching of its install and use Legrand’s products. The professional category products. The “push” strategy is also based on providing a catalog includes electricians, business owners, panel builders, and that covers all of an electrician’s requirements, and includes new industrial and commercial companies with a business activity and innovative products. In addition, Legrand makes access to connected to the installation of electrical products and systems. and use of its catalog easier by making an electronic version They are also very often product speciﬁers for the Group. available, standardizing packaging sizes and appearance, and by introducing innovative services such as pre-sorted deliveries. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 29 02 GROUP OVERVIEW A structure serving the Group’s strategy and customers Legrand’s “push” strategy includes: distributors’ centralized distribution centers, and therefore beneﬁt from their market presence and retail outlet infrastructure. This W priority inventories. In France, many distributors have agreed organizational structure also limits the logistics costs and credit to maintain permanent inventories of certain Legrand priority risk that Legrand would incur if it had to deal with electrical products. In return, Legrand ensures not only that large amounts installers and end-users directly. of non-priority ﬁnished products are held in its inventory, but also that ﬂexible and reactive production enable it to ﬁll its distributors’ orders quickly. In an emergency, products that Stimulating demand among electrical installers, are not stocked by distributors can be delivered anywhere in product speciﬁers and end-users (“pull”) France within 24 to 48 hours via the “Dispo-Express” service; Where its “pull” strategy is concerned, Legrand believes that W inventory management. In the United States, Wiremold and demand for its products is mostly determined by the requirements Legrand Data Communications, US subsidiaries of the which electrical installers, product speciﬁers and end-users Group, can access the inventory levels of some of their main make known to distributors. As a result, Legrand focuses the distributors on a daily basis. If inventory levels drop below bulk of its marketing efforts on developing and sustaining a pre-deﬁned threshold, new inventories are prepared and demand for its products, by actively promoting them to electrical shipped immediately; installers, product speciﬁers, and end-users. Legrand focuses on providing training, technical handbooks, and business software W intelligent sorting. In order to optimize the logistics chain, applications, as well as ensuring reliable and rapid availability Legrand pre-sorts its products before dispatching them to of its products. electrical equipment distributors in France, thereby anticipating the steps these distributors will have to follow in order to Legrand offers training programs to local distributors and distribute the products to their agencies and clients. This valueelectrical installers, mainly at its Innoval international training added service, which is intended for the largest product ﬂows, centers in France, at Aix-en-Provence, Limoges, Lyon, Nancy, decreases the preparation work that the distributors have to Nantes and Paris, as well as in the Middle East and South perform themselves, reduces dispatch errors, and lowers America. In total, there are 17 training centers around the world handling costs, giving Legrand a competitive edge that is that welcome and provide training for players in the electrical appreciated by its customers; industry. These training programs are designed to expand electrical installers’ expertise and service offering by familiarizing W setting up international logistics platforms. Legrand manages them with the Group’s latest product innovations and installation its international distribution via logistics platforms from methods. The Innoval training centers in France offer more than which it dispatches its products. By reducing the distance 50 separate hands-on programs in different areas, ranging from between its products and customers, Legrand is improving home automation, the wiring of electrical cabinets, and ﬁber-optic the service provided, and signiﬁcantly reducing delivery lead cabling to installing emergency lighting systems, or providing times. Legrand has installed logistics platforms in Asia, the training on current regulations and technical standards. In 2016, Middle East and Eastern Europe. These platforms and various the Innoval centers received 7,500 visits from customers, while subsidiary-owned warehouses are connected by a single nearly 5,500 trainees attended courses. In addition, Legrand network that makes it possible to synchronize their inventories offers local training programs in many countries, including Italy, on a daily basis. Using logistics platforms also enables more Brazil and the United Kingdom, as well as in Chile and Dubai. products to be transported in fewer trips, thus reducing CO2 emissions to protect the environment. More generally, Legrand also uses new communications and training technologies, and has thus introduced various online Legrand enjoys strong, long-standing commercial relationships training tools, such as e-learning and virtual classrooms. with its electrical equipment distributors, and particularly with its two largest distributors, the Sonepar and Rexel electrical Legrand also offers various software applications speciﬁcally product distribution groups. In 2016, sales to Sonepar and Rexel designed to provide everyday support to professionals, depending accounted for approximately 21% of the Group’s consolidated on their role (from architects to electricians) or the type of sales, although this percentage varied from country to country. project. Among the main business software applications offered Legrand believes that no other single distributor accounted for by the Group, XLPro3 is aimed at designers and manufacturers of more than 5% of the Group’s global revenue in 2016. Legrand’s energy distribution panels, who can use it to plan the distribution other main customers include FinDea, Graybar, CED, Lowe’s, and siting of panels and to visualize and cost entire projects; SOCODA, Wesco, Anixter, Comet, Comoli Ferrari, Partelec, LCS Pro2 can be used to conﬁgure Voice-Data-Image cabinets; the Megawatt, Menards, Bunnings and Home Depot. entire electrical installation can be designed quickly using illiPro, intended for the residential and tertiary markets, which allows The electrical products and systems distribution structure in users to select products room by room. most countries enables Legrand to channel its products towards 30 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW A structure serving the Group’s strategy and customers Legrand also publishes e-catalogs on the websites of its various Legrand is also developing its relationship with end-users by brands, making it possible to search for technical, commercial continuously strengthening its presence on social networks and and logistics data, certiﬁcations and installation tools, for all more generally on the Internet, especially through its corporate product categories. Legrand also offers online conﬁgurators in website www.legrand.com and websites in local languages in France and the United States in particular. most countries where the Group operates. In 2016, the Group’s websites generated more than 104 million page views, while Lastly, Legrand offers applications for tablets and smartphones Legrand’s YouTube© videos have been viewed over 26 million (including, in particular, e-catalog for iPhone, Ma Maison Céliane, My Home Technical Guide and Drivia/XL3), facilitating searches for information on electrical installation products, conﬁguration times. Legrand’s call centers, which provide a full range of information 02 and costing. on new applications, also contribute to this promotional effort. In France, for instance, Legrand has organized its customer Legrand promotes its products via marketing initiatives, relations by setting up a three-level call center which provides particularly aimed at electrical installers. The Group also seeks general information about its products at the ﬁrst level, detailed to stimulate demand among end-users by actively promoting its information on the standards that apply to products at the second products through advertising campaigns and targeted marketing level, and information enabling access to customized solutions events promoting the design and functionalities of its products. drawn from Legrand’s product portfolio at the third level. In this respect, Legrand has implemented innovative marketing and sales initiatives in recent years: the “Lab by Legrand” in In order to support end-users’ interest for simple home DIY, Paris, where individuals, architects, decorators, distributors and Legrand markets part of its product range in specialist stores, electrical installers can experience the Group’s high-end user with a particular emphasis on high value-added ranges. This interfaces in a unique setting, the multi-brand (Legrand, Bticino system enables the Group not only to fulﬁll the demand from and Vantage) concept store, “B Inspired”, in Brussels, and the customers who want to renovate or improve their electrical Experience Center at West Hartford in the United States, where installation, but also to communicate with the general public by visitors enter a unique world of innovation and design. Finally, offering aesthetically or functionally innovative solutions. 2.3.2 Back Office The role of the Back Office, generally organized centrally at At the same time, an Innovation and Systems department was Group level, is to optimize the industrial organization, accelerate set up to enhance coordination of innovation using a shared the development of new products, keep capital employed under technology roadmap. control and adapt the Group’s Back Office resources to the business. Since the ﬁrst half of 2014, Legrand has created an Operations department to bring all of the group’s industrial Back-Office R STRATEGIC BUSINESS UNITS To take into account the close relationship between manufacturing functions together under a single management, with three and the technology used, Legrand’s manufacturing and priorities: development activities are organized into seven Strategic Business Units (SBUs). These pool speciﬁc industrial process and W focusing more on the Group’s strategic areas of activity by product manufacturing expertise and are aligned with the local creating seven Strategic Business Units (SBUs) in charge of structure of the Group’s markets: R&D and production; W user interface; W enhancing productivity management by setting up a Group Operations Performance department; and W energy distribution; W improving supply-chain and purchasing efficiency by bringing W building systems; them closer to operations. W cable management; W digital infrastructure; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 31 02 GROUP OVERVIEW A structure serving the Group’s strategy and customers W UPS: Uninterruptible power supply; W installation components. R INNOVATION AND SYSTEMS The role of the Innovation and Systems department is: The Strategic Business Units have the following objectives: W to promote and coordinate the innovation process within the W to ensure the best customer service rate and optimal product Group; quality; W to deﬁne the major technology roadmaps and ensure the W to market the Group’s offering and develop new products; consistency of the technologies used by the SBUs; W to deﬁne and implement industrial plans, in line with W to contribute to the compatibility and the organization into commercial development; consistent systems of all the Group’s offerings. W to improve cost prices on an ongoing basis; and W to control capital employed and, in particular, capital expenditure and inventories. R PURCHASING Since 2003, Legrand has implemented a centralized purchasing More speciﬁcally, the SBUs’ ongoing goal is to improve their policy to optimize its purchases and to reduce its consumption industrial performance and reduce capital employed by: costs. The organization of the Group’s purchases is characterized by: W incorporating these criteria into the product design phase, speciﬁcally through the deployment of product platforms W a structure that is adapted to its suppliers’ overall organizational and technology platforms (see section 2.2.2.1.1). Product structure, which enables Legrand to negotiate with them on platforms enable the Group to make signiﬁcant reductions in an equal footing (locally or by geographical area), thereby development time and the number of components used, and generating economies of scale; to increase the utilization rate of equipment. The platform W managing purchases, under the responsibility of user and concept, originally deployed for user interfaces, is being rolled buyer teams, to maximize the value of the Group’s purchases out to other product categories, such as security lighting, UPS by incorporating the price factor into procurement selection and even plastic cable management systems. Using technology criteria; and platforms makes it possible to pool investments in engineering and to enhance product quality by sharing experience; W involving buyers in the new product development process in order to make savings from the product-design stage onwards, W streamlining and optimizing industrial sites; and target our future suppliers. W introducing plant specialization by product line or technology This organizational structure has optimized purchasing by: so as to reach critical mass and prevent the dispersal of resources and skills; W consolidating purchases for the Group; W systematically applying a “make or buy” approach to all new W purchasing raw materials and components in countries where projects to determine whether to invest in new manufacturing costs are lower; and assets or to outsource and thus gain extra ﬂexibility and W optimizing raw material and component speciﬁcations on an adaptability, while at the same time reducing the amount of ongoing basis. capital employed; and W deploying industry best practices at production facilities, aimed at overall operational excellence (productivity, capital employed, quality, customer service, etc.). R LOGISTICS AND SUPPLY CHAIN Legrand’s objective in terms of logistics and supply chain is to deliver products on time while optimizing transport and storage As a result, Legrand is constantly on the lookout for new costs and inventory, and minimizing the environmental footprint technologies. The Group is already working on concepts related of the various ﬂows. to the “plant of the future”: collaborative robots, 3D printing, digitized design, data analytics, AGVs(1). To that end, cycle times (supply, production and distribution) are factored in and anticipated from the new product design phase, More generally, the Group permanently seeks to optimize its opting for solutions that optimize the quality of service for the cost structures and reduce its impact on the environment, in customer (product availability) as well as costs. particular by manufacturing products as near as possible to the areas where they are marketed (this local manufacturing close to markets is mainly reﬂected by the approximate balance between revenue base and cost base in the various currencies). (1) AGV: Automated Guided Vehicle. 32 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW Other information In addition, the Group’s logistics facilities form a network of local, W industrial facilities use powerful planning tools based on regional and central storage and distribution centers, enabling to the Manufacturing Resource Planning concept. This means appropriately serve the market according to the product ranges organizing workload schedules and procurement plans to and speciﬁc geographical requirements. better balance requirements and resources; This approach is based on dedicated tools and processes: W Kanban and just-in-time systems are being progressively rolled out across the value chain, covering procurement and W distribution sites are connected to a central Distribution Resource Planning (DRP) tool. Every night, this records the inventories and forecasts of each subsidiary, as well as local customer orders, in order to schedule procurement at the outsourcing, manufacturing and inter-site ﬂows. This system has enabled Legrand to reduce the ratio of inventory value to consolidated sales, from approximately 17% on average 02 global level and thus optimize ﬁnished product inventory levels; between 1990 and 2002, to around 14% on average between 2003 and 2016, and to guarantee a high-quality service for its distributors in terms of availability and ﬂexibility, speed and adaptability. 2.4 OTHER INFORMATION 2.4.1 Suppliers and raw materials Legrand does not depend on any single supplier for the to meet certain requirements such as durability, heat and purchase of the main raw materials or components used in the impact resistance, and ease of molding, injection, or welding manufacturing of its products. It considers that most of the raw with other components; materials and components required by its operations will remain W metals: in particular steel, which is used in mechanisms and available in all its major markets. structures, as well as brass and copper, which are used mainly In 2016, the main raw materials used to manufacture Legrand for their conductive properties; and products were: W packaging materials. W plastics: Legrand uses lots of different plastics of varying Legrand also buys a large number of ﬁnished and semi-ﬁnished grades and colors for the design of its products, which are electro-mechanical and electronic components intended for selected according to their physical properties and their ability incorporation in its products. The table below sets out the relative share of the Group’s raw material and component purchases as a percentage of Group sales for the 2015 and 2016 ﬁnancial years: (% of consolidated sales) 2016 2015 Raw materials 8.6% 9.7% Components 23.1% 23.1% TOTAL 31.7% 32.8% REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 33 02 GROUP OVERVIEW Other information 2.4.2 Property, plant and equipment Legrand intends to optimize its industrial processes, improve The following table sets out the location, size and principal use of its efficiency and reduce its production costs by increasing the Legrand’s major sites. All of them are fully owned, with the main level of industrial specialization at each site according to speciﬁc exception being: technologies or product categories; by optimizing its choice W the Ospedaletto site, which is held under a capital lease; and of production sites, by manufacturing close to its sales areas; by systematically implementing a “make or buy” approach on W the Boxtel, Fairﬁeld, Fort Mill, Huizhou, Madrid, Mumbai, Murthal, a Group-wide basis; and by applying industrial best practice in Pantin, Pau, Rancho Cucamonga, Santiago, Scarborough, order to optimize productivity and capital employed. Shenzhen, Sydney, Tijuana and Wuxi sites, which are rented. At the date that the current Registration Document was ﬁled, and to the best of the Company’s knowledge, there are no signiﬁcant charges on the property, plant and equipment described below. Size Site or subsidiary (in thousands m2) Principal use Location France Headquarters/Manufacturing/ Distribution/ Administrative services/ Legrand Limoges 185 Storage Limoges and its region Malaunay, Fontaine-le-Bourg, Sillé-le-Guillaume, Senlis, Saint-Marcellin, Antibes, Strasbourg, Manufacturing/Administrative services/ Bagnolet, Pantin, Montbard, Pau, Lagord, Other French sites 240 Distribution Pont-à-Mousson, Belhomert Verneuil 90 Storage Verneuil-en-Halatte Italy Varese, Erba, Naples, Bergamo, Tradate, Manufacturing/Distribution/ Ospedaletto, Alessandria and Reggio Bticino Italy, IME 235 Administrative services/Storage nell’Emilia, Corsico Portugal Manufacturing/Distribution/ Legrand Electrica 25 Administrative services/Storage Carcavelos United Kingdom Manufacturing/Distribution/ Scarborough, West Bromwich, Consett Legrand Electric 32 Administrative services/Storage and Blyth Spain Manufacturing/Distribution/ Legrand España 22 Administrative services/Storage Madrid, Barcelona Poland Manufacturing/Distribution/ Legrand Polska 34 Administrative services/Storage Zabkovice Hungary Manufacturing/Distribution/ Legrand Zrt 30 Administrative services/Storage Szentes Germany Manufacturing/Distribution/ Legrand-Bticino 15 Administrative services/Storage Soest 34 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND GROUP OVERVIEW Other information Size Site or subsidiary (in thousands m2) Principal use Location United States and Canada The Wiremold Company, Ortronics Inc., Pass West Hartford, Mascoutah, Rancho & Seymour Inc., Vantage, TWS, OnQ, Middle Cucamonga, Concord, Fort Mill, Fairﬁeld, Atlantic Products, Electrorack, Nuvo, Lastar, Manufacturing/Distribution/ Anaheim, Hickory, Dayton, Somerset, Pinnacle, Solarfective, Luxul Mexico 240 Administrative services/Storage Denver, Toronto 02 Manufacturing/Distribution/ Bticino de Mexico 46 Administrative services/Storage Queretaro and Tijuana Brazil Legrand Brazil, Cemar, HDL, Manufacturing/Distribution/ Caxias do Sul, Manaus, São Paulo, SMS and Daneva 80 Administrative services/Storage Aracaju and Vila Varela Colombia Manufacturing/ Legrand Colombia 15 Administrative services/Storage Bogota China Rocom, Legrand Beijing, TCL, Legrand, Manufacturing/Distribution/ Dongguan, Beijing, Huizhou, Shenzhen Shidean, Raritan 120 Administrative services/Storage and Wuxi Russia Manufacturing/Distribution/ Kontaktor and Firelec 100 Administrative services/Storage Ulyanovsk, Moscow Australia and New Zealand Manufacturing/Distribution/ HPM 36 Administrative services/Storage Sydney, Melbourne India Jalgaon, Nashik, Sinnar, Mumbai, Legrand India, Indo Asian Switchgear, Manufacturing/Distribution/ Noida, Murthal, Haridwar, Chennai, Numeric UPS and Adlec Power 121 Administrative services/Storage Pondicherry and Jhajjar Malaysia Manufacturing/ Megapower, SJ Manufacturing 19 Administrative services/Storage Seri Kembangan, Shah Alam Netherlands Manufacturing/ Legrand Nederland and Aegide 36 Administrative services/Storage Boxtel and Veghel Egypt Manufacturing/Distribution/ EMB Egypt 10 Administrative services Sadat City Turkey Manufacturing/ Legrand Elektrik, Estap and Inform 44 Administrative services/Storage Gebze, Istanbul Saudi Arabia Manufacturing/ Seico 15 Administrative services/Storage Jeddah REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 35 02 GROUP OVERVIEW Other information 2.4.3 Information by geographical area Since Legrand’s business is local, i.e. country-speciﬁc, its On January 1, 2016, the United States/Canada region became the ﬁnancial reporting is organized into ﬁve geographical areas. North and Central America region, comprising the United States, Canada, Mexico and the other countries in Central America. This Please refer to section 5.4.1.1. of this Registration Document for change reﬂects the new organization of Legrand’s operations more information on business trends by geographic area over in North America, with all of these countries now headed by the the past two years, and to section 4.6.2.2 of this Registration same management which is in keeping with the region’s market Document for a breakdown of the Group’s average headcount by structure. geographic area and by category (Front Office and Back Office). 2.4.4 Competitors Legrand enjoys established market positions in France, Italy, and W specialized companies which mainly offer one or two product many other European countries, as well as in North and South categories, like CommScope and Belden (VDI structured America and in Asia. Legrand’s main direct competitors include cabling), Aiphone and Urmet (door entry systems), Crestron the following: and Nortek (building systems), Lutron (lighting control), Obo Bettermann and Niedax (cable management), Panduit (VDI W divisions of large multinational companies that compete and cable management), and Vertiv (former Emerson Network with Legrand in various domestic markets, for some or all of Power UPS); and Legrand’s product ranges, such as ABB, Eaton, General Electric, Honeywell, Panasonic, Schneider Electric and Siemens; W multi-specialist companies like Hager in Germany and France, Gewiss and Vimar in Italy, Niko in Belgium, Gira in Germany, Simon in Spain, Leviton and Hubbell in the United States and Canada, and Chint in China. 36 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS 03 3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS 39 3.2 OPERATIONAL RISKS 42 3.3 REPUTATIONAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS 45 3.4 FINANCIAL RISKS 48 3.5 INSURANCE POLICIES AND RISKS COVERAGE 50 3.6 REPORT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL 51 3.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L. 225-235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE 58 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 37 03 RISK FACTORS At the date of this Registration Document, the risks described All of the risks and threats identiﬁed are analyzed on a regular below are those identiﬁed by the Group that could have a material basis as part of the risk management process outlined in the impact on its business, image, ﬁnancial position, results or report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate its ability to achieve its objectives. Other risks not identiﬁed or governance, risk management and internal control (see seeming likely, on this date, not to have a material impact, may section 3.6.2 of this Registration Document). also have an adverse effect on the Group. The table below summarizes the key risks and associated control systems. Risk factors Structural risk reduction criteria and key measures taken Strategic risk Economic W Global presence environment W Sector diversity of offering and growth in new businesses W Monitoring of business and proﬁtability by geographic region W Market intelligence W Investment in R&D and marketing Competitive W Cost control environment W Sales price management W Development of e-commerce W Chief Digital Officer (digital strategy) W Eliot program Disruptive technology W Innovation and Systems team and digital transformation W Cross-functional innovations program W Innovation and R&D W Strategic partnerships W M&A team Acquisitions W Rigorous due diligence process involving world-renowned ﬁrms W A proven integration process based on multidisciplinary expertise W Dedicated department and network of correspondents within the Group Intellectual Property W Occasional recourse to experts W Use of world-renowned consulting ﬁrms Operational risk W Systematic approach to supplier qualiﬁcation W Responsible purchasing policy – “Responsible Supplier Relations” accreditation Suppliers W Multi-sourcing strategy W Supplier risk analysis and mitigation (interdependence, ﬁnancial fragility, CSR-related risks) W Strategy of acquiring safety stocks or safeguarding supplies by means of speciﬁc contractual clauses Cost of raw materials W Market surveillance and components W Consolidated purchasing W Sensitivity analysis on the cost of raw materials W Limited concentration of industrial activities W Regular investments in modernization and maintenance of industrial facilities Business continuity W Business continuity and crisis management plans W External audits W Worldwide insurance scheme for risk of damage and operating loss W Talent management process W Incentives and retention mechanisms for key employees Talent and skills W Onboarding for new employees W Quantitative and qualitative indicators via dedicated reporting 38 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Strategic risks Risk factors Structural risk reduction criteria and key measures taken W IT security guidelines Security and continuity W Infrastructure and applications investment and maintenance of IT systems W Control system in place to guarantee continuity W IT system security audits Reputational and compliance risk W Quality policy Product quality W Customer dissatisfaction management process and safety W Satisfaction surveys W Product recall management procedure Compliance with local W Function responsible for monitoring regulations and standards or international regulations and standards W Group compliance program W Use of external experts 03 W Dedicated department and network of correspondents within the Group W “Limiting our environmental footprint”, a priority of the 2014-2018 CSR roadmap Environmental protection W ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certiﬁcation and environmental audits W Environmental reporting in line with Grenelle 2 and the Global Reporting Index W Absorption of new acquisitions within one to three years of their takeover W Group internal audit team Internal control and nonW Internal control framework and self-assessment system compliance W Group compliance program W Systematic fraud reporting Financial risks Financing and cash ﬂow risk Counterparty risk W Regular monitoring of the CDS (1) ﬁnancial rating of the main counterparties Liquidity risk W Regular monitoring of debt repayment schedule W Available headroom Market risk: interest rates and currency Interest rate risk W Fixed-rate borrowings Currency risk W Natural hedging of currency risk W Hedging of signiﬁcant intragroup foreign exchange positions Customer credit risk W Speciﬁc reporting on outstanding customer receivables W Credit risk insurance scheme Risks related to litigation W Review of material legal proceedings (1) CDS: Credit Default Swap. 3.1 STRATEGIC RISKS 3.1.1 Global and sectoral economic environment The Group’s business could be affected by changes in the general turn is primarily a function of the level of activity in the renovation or local economic climate and changes in the sectors in which and new construction sectors for residential, commercial and the Group operates. The sale of Legrand’s products is mainly industrial buildings. The sensitivity of activity in these sectors determined by the demand for such products from electrical and to changes in general and local economic conditions varies digital equipment professionals and building contractors. This in according to sector. The impact of these changes may vary REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 39 03 RISK FACTORS Strategic risks in time and signiﬁcance across the markets and geographic The overall balanced distribution of business between the zones in which Legrand operates. As is customary in its sector, commercial, residential and industrial construction sectors and Legrand does not have a customer order book which allows it between new construction and renovation limits these risks. to accurately predict future demand for the Group’s products. Furthermore, the Group’s new businesses, which are driven by Any decline in sales volumes or price pressure could affect the underlying social and technological trends, also limit this risk Group’s proﬁtability. (see paragraph 2.1.1.4). Consequently, generalized or localized economic downturns in Finally, to respond swiftly to these risks, the Group keeps a close the countries in which Legrand markets its products could have eye on its monthly sales performance and the proﬁtability of an adverse effect on its business, results or ﬁnancial position. all of its businesses, working closely with local managers (see Legrand’s operations are spread across the world’s major section 2.2.3.3 of this Registration Document). markets, which limits the impact of an economic downturn in speciﬁc regions. 3.1.2 Competitive environment The market for the Group’s products is competitive in terms of In addition, the development of the market for the Group’s pricing, product and service quality, development and timing of products towards integrated and connected systems could see new product launches. new entrants emerge and lead to increased competition, resulting in a fall in sales, a loss of market share or an increase in the Due to their size, some of Legrand’s local competitors, including Group’s costs, due to additional sales and marketing expenses or some of those mentioned in section 2.4.4 of this Registration research and development costs. Document, may have superior ﬁnancial and marketing resources. The Group’s competitors may have the capacity and the ability to Moreover, in markets where the end-user is particularly sensitive launch products with superior characteristics or at lower prices, to price rather than product appeal or features, imports of less to integrate products and systems more effectively than Legrand expensive products manufactured in low-cost countries and sold does, to secure long-term agreements with some of the Group’s at lower prices, including counterfeit products, could lead to a customers or to acquire companies targeted for acquisition by decrease in the Group’s market share, and/or a decrease in the Legrand. Legrand could lose market share if it is not able to offer average selling price of its products in the markets in question. a broad product range, prices, technologies or quality which are Lastly, the development of e-commerce could cause the Group at least comparable to those offered by its competitors or if it to lose market share to new entrants with online distribution does not take advantage of new business opportunities arising channels. (See section 2.1.1.2.4) from acquisitions. The Group’s net sales and proﬁtability could consequently be affected. Furthermore, in order to remain Legrand is aware of these risks and therefore engages in ongoing competitive, Legrand regularly launches new products that, if not efforts in terms of market intelligence, brand positioning, well received, could negatively affect Legrand’s business in the research and development, and marketing to develop new countries where these products are launched. distribution channels and thus increase the added value of its products while maintaining a tight rein on costs and preserving Some competitors could beneﬁt from better knowledge of or developing its market share. (See sections 2.2.2.1 and 2.3.3 of their national markets and long-established relationships with this Registration Document). electrical installers and, as a result, have a competitive advantage. 3.1.3 Disruptive technology and digital transformation The digitalization of the economy and rapid development of new high-growth markets or threaten its traditional markets connected devices could undermine the Group’s ability to enter should its products fail to meet users’ new needs. 40 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Strategic risks To address these new challenges, the Group, in 2015, appointed a Moreover, each SBU analyzes the Group’s products, technologies Chief Digital Officer and launched the Eliot program(1) to speed up and markets on an ongoing basis. Research and development the deployment of its connected devices offering. expenditure accounts for between 4% and 5% of the Group’s sales over the long term. The amount spent on electronic and In addition, an Innovation and Systems department, working digital technology has been increasing for many years. cross-functionally with the Group’s various Strategic Business Units (SBUs), monitors system architectures, interoperability, Lastly, Legrand has forged multiple partnerships with leaders in technology trends and standardization, enabling it to deﬁne the new technology to jointly develop connected and interoperable Group’s strategic objectives, particularly in terms of innovation. product offerings. The Group has also long been a member of An innovation program organized around four key themes (Energy several technological associations or alliances. Efficiency, the Internet of Systems and Artiﬁcial Intelligence; Installation Trends; New Technologies) underpins the projects managed by each SBU. 03 3.1.4 Acquisitions The Group’s growth strategy, in line with the guidance given by to conﬁrm its advantages and to set the terms and conditions the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee and the Board for its completion. The acquired company is then integrated into of Directors, mainly relies on bolt-on(2) acquisitions with strong the Group’s ﬁnancial reporting system, and, in broader terms, market positions or new technologies and offering synergy anchored in the Group in accordance with dedicated processes with Legrand’s existing operations. Legrand may not be able to overseen by a multidisciplinary steering committee chaired by conduct transactions or obtain ﬁnancing on satisfactory terms, senior management. An initial internal audit is conducted as part successfully integrate acquired businesses, technologies or of this integration process within approximately 12 months of products, effectively manage newly acquired operations or the acquisition to establish the action required to ensure that the realize anticipated cost savings. Legrand may also experience acquisition’s processes comply with Group standards. problems in integrating acquired businesses, including the When these acquisitions are ﬁrst consolidated in the ﬁnancial possible incompatibility of systems and business cultures and statements, they result in recognition of goodwill or trademarks inconsistencies in procedures (including accounting systems and that can be signiﬁcant. The value of these intangible assets is controls) and policies, the departure of key employees and the reviewed every year (see Note 3.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial assumption of liabilities, particularly environmental liabilities. All statements in chapter 8 of this Registration Document). these risks could have a material adverse impact on the Group’s A signiﬁcant decline in the income of these companies could business, results and ﬁnancial position. lead to recognition of impairment that could have a material A dedicated acquisitions team in the Sustainable Development adverse effect on Legrand’s ﬁnancial condition and results. and Strategic Processes Division works closely with country The calculation assumptions used in impairment tests of goodwill managers to identify appropriate targets and coordinates the take into account both known and anticipated trends in sales and acquisition process with the central departments – ﬁnance, results by CGU (Cash Generation Unit) at the time of calculation. legal, industrial, logistics and marketing (see section 2.2.2.2 Rates used can vary from one year to another depending on of this Registration Document). Audits and due diligence are market conditions (risk premium, interest rates). As described carried out prior to any planned acquisition, based where in Note 3.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in chapter 8 relevant on advice provided by outside consultants, in order to of this Registration Document, and as in previous years, Legrand ensure in-depth examination of the target company’s position. At did not record any goodwill impairment in 2016. The criteria for every important stage of the process and according to a formal goodwill impairment tests are described in the same note, which process, each planned acquisition is subject to validation reviews also contains a sensitivity analysis of the main criteria. (1) Eliot is a program launched by Legrand in 2015 to speed up deployment of the Internet of Things in its offering. A result of the group’s innovation strategy, Eliot aims to develop connected and interoperable solutions that deliver lasting beneﬁts to private individual users and professionals. (2) Smallto mid-size acquisitions that complement Legrand’s activities. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 41 03 RISK FACTORS Operational risks 3.1.5 Intellectual property The Group’s future success depends to an extent on the names and takes joint action with other major market players in development and protection of its intellectual property rights, professional organizations such as Gimélec, IGNES, and ASEC. particularly the Legrand and Bticino brands. Legrand could It draws on input from intellectual property correspondents in also incur signiﬁcant expenses for monitoring, protecting and each of the Group’s SBUs in France and in key foreign subsidiaries. enforcing its rights. If Legrand were to fail to adequately protect The primary role of these correspondents is to present the or enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position position of the SBUs to the Group in all strategic decisions relating could suffer, which could have an adverse effect on its business, to intellectual property, such as ﬁling and extending rights and results and ﬁnancial position. waiver of title. Furthermore, in spite of the precautions taken, the Group Lastly, Legrand also uses external consulting ﬁrms to assist it cannot guarantee that its activities will not infringe at all on the in drawing up its patents or to defend its rights, working in close proprietary rights of third parties. If this were to happen, Legrand collaboration with the Group’s own legal team. could be subject to claims for damages and could be prevented from using the contested intellectual property rights. A net total of €1,722.6 million in trademarks and patents was recognized in assets at December 31, 2016, compared with To minimize this risk, Legrand pays particular attention to €1,668.0 million at December 31, 2015. defending its intellectual property, and relies on a dedicated team at its Sustainable Development and Strategic Processes Division. The Group’s strategy for tackling counterfeiting is described in This team monitors patents, designs, trademarks and domain the section on the CSR roadmap (section 4.2.1.2). 3.2 OPERATIONAL RISKS 3.2.1 Suppliers The Group could face the failure of one or more of its suppliers, As explained in section 4.3.2 of this Registration Document, the without having an alternative solution, which would impact the Purchasing Department has introduced a systematic supplier continuity of the Group’s businesses. certiﬁcation and approval policy that includes operational risk and CSR (corporate social responsibility) risk. It also The geographical breakdown of supplies globally (by origin: carries out an annual supplier risk analysis covering, inter alia, France 14.7%, Italy 15.3%, Rest of Europe 14.1%, North and interdependence risk, suppliers’ ﬁnancial strength, and CSRCentral America 19.1%, Rest of the World 36.6%) is not seen as a related criteria. Suppliers presenting signiﬁcant risks for the major risk factor (country or geopolitical risk) for the Group. Group are identiﬁed, and are the subject of dedicated action An analysis of purchases shows that the risk of supplier plans (more stringent contracts, back-up inventories, alternative dependence is small; purchases from Legrand’s biggest ten suppliers, CSR improvement plan, etc.). suppliers accounted for about 6% of the total value of purchases Legrand has “Responsible Supplier Relations” accreditation, in 2016 (virtually changed from 2015), with no single supplier awarded to French companies demonstrating sustainable reaching the 3% threshold. and balanced relations with their suppliers. This accreditation Moreover, to ensure a secure source of supplies, Legrand policy is granted for a three-year period and is part of the calls for diversifying resources whenever a recognized risk of ongoing application of the Responsible Supplier Relations dependence is identiﬁed. Legrand thus makes the identiﬁcation of Charter. Legrand’s accreditation was renewed in 2015 following alternative suppliers an integral part of its supplier risk analysis. an audit by accreditation-approved ﬁrm, ASEA. The Group’s reputation could also be tarnished through a supplier’s poor practices in terms of environmental safeguarding, compliance with best business practices and respect for human rights. 42 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Operational risks 3.2.2 Raw material costs Legrand is exposed to the risk of an increase in the price of raw centralized purchasing performance. This performance is tracked materials, primarily metals, plastics and packaging materials. by special committees. Purchase price effects are reported Legrand may not immediately or in the long term be able to pass monthly by producing entities and shared with sales entities so on increases in costs of raw materials and components through that selling prices can be adjusted if necessary. price increases on its products. The Group’s costs could therefore Raw materials consumption (except components) amounted to increase without an equivalent growth in sales, directly impacting around €432.0 million in 2016. the Group’s operating margin. The sensitivity analysis on the price of raw materials, carried The price of components and raw materials are analyzed on an out regularly, is discussed in chapter 8, Note 5.1.2.3. No speciﬁc ongoing basis, with a job function dedicated to analyzing the ﬁnancial hedging instrument was used in 2016. 03 3.2.3 Talent and skills In general, Legrand’s key employees are long-standing employees To anticipate and control potential risks, the Group has introduced of the Group. They have built up excellent knowledge of Legrand monthly reporting which establishes quantitative and qualitative and its activities and of the entire sector in general. The loss of consolidated data for a wide reporting scope (almost 90% of the any one of these key employees could constitute a loss of knowworkforce). The results are presented to the Group’s Human how or product or market expertise and could result in Legrand’s Resources Department on a regular basis. It includes labor competitors potentially being able to obtain sensitive information. risks and the related trend analysis, as well as the results of the The loss of key employees could also adversely affect the employee retention strategy. The employee-related indicators Group’s ability to retain its most important distributors, continue summarized in section 4.6.2 of this Registration Document are the development of its products or implement its strategy. consolidated in an annual HR report. The Group’s internal and external development also depends in Warning systems are also in place to quickly inform the Group part on its ability to hire, train, motivate, promote and retain new about a particular type of event, such as a strike, resignation from talent in all regions in which it operates. a key position, or a work injury. Legrand has developed a Human Resources policy to attract, Internal communication, too, is important in motivating staff and retain and develop the expertise, talents and skills required for its creating a sense of belonging, by providing regular information business worldwide. There is a human resources department in on the Group’s strategy and objectives. A range of media are used, almost all countries where the Group has at least one subsidiary. all conveying the Group’s core values embodied in the Charter of In particular, it has rolled out programs to motivate and retain Fundamental Principles: its key talent (see section 2.2.3.3. of this Registration Document), W onboarding seminars (“Welcome Days” for new hires) to share and makes skills and talent management one of the priorities of the Group’s vision, strategy, culture and values; the Group’s CSR roadmap. Training, individual appraisal reviews (Competency Appraisal Performance & Perspective – CAPP), the W information resources, such as the Group intranet “Dialeg” and talent management process and manager retention program local Dialeg intranets, and the online magazine. are key to this and are detailed in section 4.4 of this Registration Document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 43 03 RISK FACTORS Operational risks 3.2.4 Business continuity Events of natural or other origin sometimes occur (such as ﬁres, W an active industrial and logistical risk prevention policy. As natural disasters, health risks, geopolitical events, machine part of this policy, Legrand conducts joint audits with experts failure, etc.) that could disrupt or interrupt a site’s activity. from the Group’s insurance companies to evaluate the level of ﬁre prevention installations and takes any action deemed The likelihood that such events will occur and the overall exposure necessary. In 2016, 49 visits were made to assess damage risk that could result for the Group are limited by the following factors at the Group’s facilities. and measures: Finally, Legrand has taken out a global insurance policy to cover W the number and geographical dispersion of its industrial sites direct property damage and potential operating loss resulting for all operating activities; from accidents (see section 3.5 of this Registration Document). W regular investments in the modernization and upkeep of industrial plant and logistics assets; 3.2.5 Security and continuity of IT systems Legrand considers that optimum management of networks, guidelines on the use of IT resources and information security. information infrastructures and systems enhances the efficiency, This function is also responsible for conducting security audits reliability and continuous improvement of the Group’s operating of the Group’s information systems, with the support of external and functional processes. service providers where necessary; To this end, the policy of the Information Systems Department W project teams responsible for implementing information (ISD) is to integrate and manage all of the components of the systems and infrastructure are organized according to value chain (purchasing, production, sales, logistics ﬂows, CRM, established governance structures; etc.) in the company’s resource management tools. Accordingly, W support teams responsible for continuity of service of and due to the number and scope of its international operations, infrastructure and applications deﬁne the investment and Legrand requires multiple linked information systems. maintenance programs required; The risk of failure of these systems (infrastructure and W a special team which assists and monitors subsidiaries applications operated directly or through third-party service regarding both infrastructures and application projects. providers) and their security could hamper the Group’s operations, affecting the smooth running of the business and the quality of its An analysis of the risks of business-continuity or security failure customer service. Such failures could originate inside (errors in is performed on ﬁve components of the Group’s IT system (work conﬁguration, obsolete systems, infrastructures not maintained, stations, network, applications, infrastructure, rooms). poor control of IT projects, malice) or outside the Group (viruses, Relationships with suppliers responsible for outsourced IT cybercrime, etc.). services are overseen by agreements that include continuityand Legrand relies on speciﬁc skills within the ISD to handle these security-related clauses and by a governance designed for this risks: purpose. W a team dedicated to improving the quality and security of With regard to security, risk management measures have been information systems deﬁnes and implements policies speciﬁc set up. In an effort to better structure the overall approach, the to these areas, such as data backups and information security, Group’s Information Systems Department continued its initiatives data protection, and dissemination to all employees of in 2016, launching a plan to formalize the information systems security policy based on ISO 27001. 44 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Reputational and compliance risks 3.3 REPUTATIONAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS 3.3.1 Product quality and safety Despite product testing, Legrand’s products might not operate quality control processes are implemented by the Purchasing properly or might contain errors and present defects, particularly Department for trade products. upon the launch of a new range of products or enhanced products. In addition, a customer dissatisfaction management process Such errors and defects could cause injury to persons and/ identiﬁes product defects and allows appropriate corrective or damage to property and equipment. Such accidents have in the past and could in the future result in product liability claims, loss of revenues, warranty claims, costs associated with product action to be taken. Customer claims are systematically recorded and evaluated in real time using a single tool. If necessary, an 03 instant alert procedure is set in motion with industry contacts and recalls, litigation, delay in market acceptance or harm to the the team responsible for product expertise. Group’s reputation for safety and quality. The Group conducts regular customer satisfaction surveys on Legrand cannot guarantee that it will not face material product product lines and service quality. liability claims or product recalls in the future, or that it will be able to successfully dispose of any such claims or effect any such As detailed in section 4.2.1.2 of this Registration Document, product recalls at acceptable costs. Moreover, a product liability “ensuring the safety of users of electrical equipment” is one of the claim or product recall, even if successfully concluded at a Group’s CSR concerns. Legrand may also launch product recalls nominal cost, could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s at its own initiative as a preventive measure and in the event that reputation for safety and quality, and on its business. products could present a material risk. In 2016, there were two product recall or withdrawal operations. For more details of these In response to standards and safety issues, the Group has operations, see section 4.2.1.2. of this Registration Document. introduced a global quality control program which includes a process of ISO 9001 certiﬁcation for production sites, product Provisions for product warranties totaled €21.0 million at qualiﬁcation by certiﬁed laboratories, and products conformity December 31, 2016, compared with €18.8 million at December 31, and quality monitoring plans. The same product qualiﬁcation and 2015. 3.3.2 Compliance with local and international regulations and standards Legrand’s products, which are sold in approximately application of these quality and safety standards could require 180 countries, are subject to numerous regulations, including the Group to make capital expenditures or implement other trade, customs and tax regulations applicable in each of these measures to ensure compliance, the costs of which could have countries and on an international level. Changes to any of these a material adverse effect on the Group’s business, results and regulations and their applicability to Legrand’s business could ﬁnancial position. lead to lower sales or increased operating costs, and result in a The Group cannot give assurance that it has been or will be at decrease in Legrand’s proﬁtability and income. all times in compliance with such standards and regulations, that In addition, Legrand’s products are subject to quality and safety it will not incur material costs or liabilities in order to ensure controls and regulations arising from national and international compliance with such regulations in the future, or that it will be standards, such as European Union directives or the National able to fund any such potential future liabilities. Electric Code in the United States, and product norms and In order to follow changes in regulations, Legrand has set up a standards adopted by international organizations such as the compliance department that is in charge of managing related risks. European Committee for Electrotechnical Standardization or the Federal Communication Commission (FCC), and the International In addition, in the majority of markets where it sells its products, Electrotechnical Commission. A change or more stringent Legrand is subject to local and international competition, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 45 03 RISK FACTORS Reputational and compliance risks embargo and export control regulations. Any issues regarding laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing, Legrand launched a Groupthese regulations could have a material impact on the Group’s wide compliance program in 2012. This program is one of the business, reputation, results and ﬁnancial position. objectives of the CSR roadmap 2014-2018 (see section 4.3.1 of this Registration Document). Given the potential risks of obstruction of the principles of competition law and non-compliance with international Where speciﬁc advice is needed, the Group contacts specialized regulations on embargoes, export control and combating money law ﬁrms or the relevant authorities. 3.3.3 Environmental protection The main industrial processes that take place on Legrand regulatory monitoring supported by a network of environmental sites around the injection and molding of plastic components, correspondents appointed at each Group industrial site who liaise stamping of metal parts, assembly of plastic, metal and with their functional equivalents in each SBU and at the Group’s electronic components, and on a less frequent basis, painting headquarters. or surface treatment of components. These activities may have To support the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation process of its sites, an impact on their environment, even if this impact is, by nature, Legrand has rolled out an environmental risk identiﬁcation policy limited. Because of these activities, and like sites belonging to (“Material Environmental Aspects”). In 2015, the Group also similar companies, some Legrand sites are subject to extensive committed to obtaining ISO 50001 certiﬁcation for multiple sites. and increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations In 2016, 25 sites were certiﬁed. regarding a broad spectrum of issues including air emissions, asbestos, noise, health and safety, the handling of hazardous With regard to ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certiﬁcation, environmental substances or preparations, waste disposal, and the remediation audits (internal or external) were conducted in 2016 (about 180 of potential environmental contamination. for ISO 14001 and 22 for ISO 50001). Regulatory authorities could suspend Legrand’s operations if it Warning systems are also in place to quickly inform the Group fails to comply with relevant regulations, and/or may not renew about actual or suspected pollution. the permits or authorizations it requires to operate. Provisions for environmental risks are recognized when Besides the regulatory requirements of the RoHS Directive environmental assessments are available or remedial works and the REACH regulation in Europe, the Group complies with are probable and their cost can reasonably be estimated. These restrictions on the substances identiﬁed in the RoHS Directive for provisions amounted to €9.3 million at December 31, 2016, none all of its products sold worldwide. of which was individually signiﬁcant. Moreover, Legrand may be required to pay potentially signiﬁcant Lastly, the Group could be impacted by consequences related to ﬁnes or damages as a result of past, present or future violations climate change (rise in average sea levels, increased frequency of environmental laws and regulations, even if these violations of extreme weather events). Such consequences could be occurred prior to the acquisition of companies or lines of business operational, for example the risk of damage to facilities or by Legrand. Courts, regulatory authorities or third parties employees, or ﬁnancial, for example the risk of increased could also require, or seek to require, Legrand to undertake insurance costs. investigations and/or implement remedial measures regarding In light of the above, Legrand conducted a preliminary study either current or historical contamination of current or former into the vulnerability of its sites in the face of climate change facilities or offsite disposal facilities. Any of these actions may consequences. So far, this analysis has focused on the exposure harm the Group’s reputation and adversely affect its business, of Group sites to the increased risk of extreme weather events results and ﬁnancial position. and natural disasters. (For more details on this analysis, please Legrand has designed and developed an environmental risk refer to chapter 4 of this Registration Document.) Please see prevention and measurement policy. This policy includes section 4.5.1. for more details of the impact of the Group’s operations on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. 46 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Reputational and compliance risks 3.3.4 Internal control vulnerability and/or non-compliance risks Legrand’s international presence, its ongoing expansion and the Legrand endeavors to integrate automated controls and audit diversity of its businesses result in many complex administrative, tools in IT systems to optimize internal control within processes. ﬁnancial and operational processes. Its entities have varying The correct use of these tools is checked regularly by general or levels of maturity in terms of internal control, operate in a variety specialist internal auditors. of legal environments, and use different information systems. In addition to internal control, the Group relies on the CSR In this context, a ﬂaw in the internal control system could lead to policy described in chapter 4 of this Registration Document, the risk of internal or external fraud (theft, embezzlement, etc.) which incorporates the roll-out and monitoring of a compliance and/or result in inaccurate and/or inappropriate transactions or program, overseen by a dedicated Compliance Committee (see operations being recorded. Weakness in internal controls could also mean that corruption is not detected or prevented. More generally, the Group’s performance may be limited by inefficient section 4.3 of this Registration Document), which reports to the Risk Committee. The Group’s compliance program comprises four themes, 03 processes. including the risk of fraud (anti-corruption, fraud, trade In a bid to prevent a major failure in internal control, Legrand has embargoes, money laundering). As part of this approach, each deﬁned a corpus of guidelines, rules, procedures and mandatory entity must assess its own risks and put in place the necessary key controls which apply to all subsidiaries. These rules and controls. procedures are regularly updated to keep pace with changes in Legrand has implemented a systematic procedure for reporting Legrand’s business, organization, processes and tools. fraud to the Internal Control Department so that the necessary The Company’s fundamental principles also include an ethics corrective action can be taken. Employees and third parties also component with requirements impressed upon all staff members. have access to a “whistleblowing hotline”, which they can use The internal control system is evaluated each year to ensure that to inform the Group’s ethics officers (the Group Legal Affairs it is being properly implemented. Director and Compliance Officer, and the Group Director of Human Resources) of any breach of the Group’s code of ethics. This is done via a self-assessment process (see section 3.6.2 of this Registration Document), as well as through regular reviews and audits. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 47 03 RISK FACTORS Financial risks 3.4 FINANCIAL RISKS Counterparty, liquidity, currency and interest rate risk and the corresponding ﬁnancial instruments are also described in Note 5.1.2 on the management of ﬁnancial risk, found in chapter 8. 3.4.1 Counterparty risk The Group’s exposure to ﬁnancial counterparty risk is related to Additionally, the Group could ﬁnd itself unable to repatriate funds its cash surpluses, existing in the form of cash, bank deposits, blocked in countries that limit or suspend foreign exchange, or short-term investments and hedging instruments set up by the that prevent the repatriation of foreign capital. Group. The Group incorporates the bank accounts of its subsidiaries in The Group seeks to place these assets with solid counterparties, a cash pooling mechanism allowing cash to be repatriated to the regularly monitoring their external rating and objective market Group automatically and daily. In countries where this mechanism data, such as credit default swaps. The Group also selects leading cannot be set up, the Group endeavors to limit cash amounts to insurance companies so as to restrict its counterparty risk (please the extent possible. In addition to centralized day-to-day cash refer to section 3.5 of this Registration Document). management, cash held by subsidiaries whose accounts cannot be linked to the cash pooling mechanism is monitored twice a month by the Group’s Treasury Department. 3.4.2 Liquidity risk The banking and ﬁnancial indebtedness of the Group is described of volatile markets), as is headroom (immediately available in section 5.5.2 of the management report, as well as in Note 4.6 ﬁnancing). In this regard, in December 2015 the Group made to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in chapter 8 of this arrangements to reﬁnance its bonds maturing in 2017 by issuing Registration Document. bonds in the amount of €300 million with a 12-year maturity. The Group considers that managing liquidity risk depends The total amount of net debt was €957.0 million at December 31, primarily on having access to sources of ﬁnancing that are 2016 and is entirely funded by credit facilities that expire at the diversiﬁed in terms of both origin and maturity. This approach earliest, in 2017 and at the latest, in 2027. The average maturity is the basis of the Group’s ﬁnancing policy. Although in the past of gross debt is 5.5 years. At the same date, available credit lines the Group has demonstrated its capacity to generate signiﬁcant totaled €900 million. There are no covenants associated with the levels of free cash ﬂow enabling it to ﬁnance its growth, its credit lines. capacity to comply with the covenants stipulated in certain loan In addition, Legrand could be forced to devote a signiﬁcant part agreements and to reﬁnance or repay its borrowings according of its cash ﬂow to the payment of the principal and interest on to the provisions thereof, will depend on its future operating its debt, which could consequently reduce the funds available performance and could be affected by other factors (economic to ﬁnance its daily operations, investments, acquisitions or the environment, conditions of the debt market, compliance with payment of dividends. legislation, regulatory changes, etc.). However, the Group has a structurally high level of free cash ﬂow, The Group has an investment grade rating from Standard & amounting to €673 million in 2016. Poor’s (Awith a stable outlook), a testament to the strength of the Group’s business model and its balance sheet. At December 31, 2016, its cash and cash equivalents stood at €940.1 million. The debt repayment deadline is regularly monitored (spread of reﬁnancing and anticipation of maturities against a backdrop 48 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Financial risks 3.4.3 Market Risks R INTEREST RATE RISK The Group is exposed to risks associated with the effect of and Polish zloty). The preparation of the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, which are denominated in euros, requires the conversion of these assets, liabilities, revenues and costs into interest rate rises (see Note 5.1.2.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial euros at the applicable exchange rate. Consequently, ﬂuctuations statements in chapter 8 of this Registration Document). in the exchange rate for the euro versus these other currencies The Group manages this risk by using a combination of ﬁxed could affect the amount of these items in the Group’s consolidated and ﬂoating rate debt and through interest rate hedging ﬁnancial statements, even if their value remains unchanged arrangements, if necessary. in their original currency. These translations have in the past resulted, and could result in the future, in material changes to the Contracts for swaps entered into between Legrand and ﬁnancial institutions could provide that the swap counterparty require Legrand to deposit, into a pledged or blocked account, a sum in Group’s results and cash ﬂows from one period to another. In addition, to the extent that the Group may incur expenses 03 collateral equal to its net liability determined on a marked-tothat are not denominated in the same currency as that in which market basis, pursuant to the provisions of the relevant ﬁnancial corresponding sales are made, exchange rate ﬂuctuations could hedging contract. On the date of ﬁling of this Registration cause the Group’s expenses to increase as a percentage of net Document, Legrand is not engaged in interest rate swaps. sales, thus affecting its proﬁtability and cash ﬂows. However, where possible and when justiﬁed economically, the Group seeks to balance its revenues and costs by geographic region, which R CURRENCY RISKS The Group operates internationally and is therefore exposed to gives a certain degree of protection. With regard to the balance sheet, natural hedges are preferred, currency risk arising from the use of several different currencies. for example by seeking a balance between the distribution of net The Group therefore has certain assets, liabilities, revenues and debt by currency and operating income by currency. costs denominated in currencies other than the euro (mainly the The details regarding the exchange rate risk are discussed in US dollar, Indian rupee, Chinese yuan, Brazilian real, Russian Note 5.1.2.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in chapter 8 ruble, Australian dollar, British pound, Mexican peso, Turkish lira, of this Registration Document. 3.4.4 Customer credit risk Credit risk is the risk linked with Legrand’s outstanding trade Consequently, Legrand imposes strict monitoring of its trade receivables. accounts receivable. Credit limits are set for each customer, debt collection is closely monitored, with systematic reminders As stated in chapter 8, notes 2.1 and 5.1.2.4, a signiﬁcant portion when payment deadlines are missed, and the balance of of Legrand’s income is from sales to its two electrical equipment outstanding trade receivables is monitored carefully at each of distributors (around 21% of sales in 2016). In addition, the portion Legrand’s product distribution subsidiaries. The Group’s Finance of sales generated from the Group’s ten biggest customers Department reviews speciﬁc indicators monthly using reporting represented around 30% of Group sales in 2016, more or less in and analysis tools. These indicators are part of the elements line with previous periods (31% in 2015). considered to be key to assessing the commercial performance Therefore, Legrand can have a signiﬁcant open balance on its of Legrand’s subsidiaries and the individual performance of their trade receivables, which exposes it to the risk of customer respective management teams. insolvency or bankruptcy. When the situation warrants it, the Group may resort to Furthermore, Legrand’s global presence means that the Group factoring or credit risk insurance which it has arranged with an operates in regions where credit risk is higher than in the Group’s international insurer. historical markets. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 49 03 RISK FACTORS Insurance policies and risks coverage 3.4.5 Litigation risk The Group could face various types of dispute that could have a adverse impact on its business, results or ﬁnancial position material impact on its reputation, ﬁnancial position or cash ﬂow. (see section 8.5 “Legal Proceedings and Arbitration” of this Registration Document). To ensure that material legal proceedings are dealt with at the highest level, a joint review procedure exists for material There are no other governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings, legal proceedings between the Legal Department and Group or pending or threatened litigation of which the Company is aware, Management Control. that could have or have had a material impact on the ﬁnancial position of the Company and/or Group in the past 12 months. The Group considers that no litigation currently in process, either individually or in aggregate, should have a material 3.5 INSURANCE POLICIES AND RISKS COVERAGE Legrand has taken out global insurance policies to cover its assets Legrand intends to continue its practice of maintaining global and income from identiﬁable and insurable risks. Working closely insurance programs where practicable, increasing coverage with brokers, it seeks the insurance market’s most appropriate where necessary and reducing insurance costs through risk solutions that offer the best value for money in terms of coverage. protection and prevention and through self-insurance (adapted deductibles). The major risks incurred by the Group across all its operating activities are covered in the context of a risk and insurance Legrand believes that the coverage offered by these insurance management policy centralized at headquarters. programs is adequate in scope, amounts insured and limits of cover. [The Group regularly reviews its insurance coverage These insurance programs are contracted from reputed and with the help of its brokers.] The Group’s insurance and risk ﬁnancially sound international insurance companies without management policy and related prevention programs are recourse to a captive reinsurance structure. These policies periodically presented to the Risk Committee by the Legal provide global coverage for the Group and take into account the Department (and to the Audit Committee as part of its annual speciﬁc risks and activities related to the Group’s operations, review of the Group’s main risks). including property damage and the resulting operating losses, and product liability. 3.5.1 Civil liability The global, integrated “civil liability” program covers possible pollution. More speciﬁcally, these policies cover the costs of claims arising from the Group’s liability for physical injury, material removal/reinstallation, product withdrawals or recalls, damage damage and consequential loss arising during production or after to property of assets and pollution control expenses. product delivery, as well as damages arising from accidental 50 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control 3.5.2 Property damage and operating loss insurance Subject to the usual excesses, exclusions and cover limits, the active industrial and logistics risk prevention policy, and intends Group’s property damage/operating loss insurance program to continue risk awareness and prevention campaigns in its covers direct material damage arising from any event of a sudden operating entities. and accidental nature (such as ﬁre, storm, explosion, electrical damage, water damage, etc.) affecting the insured property, as well as the resulting operating losses. In addition to this insurance program, and as mentioned in R OTHER RISKS INSURED The Group’s other main insurance programs cover the following section 3.2.4 of this Registration Document, Legrand has an risks: D&O (Directors’ and Officers’) liability, employer’s liability, credit insurance and, since January 1, 2017, cyber-attacks. 03 3.6 REPORT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE, RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Chairman’s report relating to corporate governance, risk The report was then examined by the Audit Committee on management and internal controls is drawn up pursuant to article February 6, 2017 for its section on “Risk management and L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), internal controls” before being reviewed by the Nominating under the responsibility of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. and Governance Committee chaired by the Lead Director for its section on “Corporate governance”. This report was prepared with support from the Group Finance Department, the Internal Control and Finance Control Department The Chairman’s report was approved by the Board of Directors on and the Legal Department. It results from discussions with March 15, 2017. the main contributors involved in internal control and risk The reader’s attention is drawn to the fact that a description of management within the Group, with the Company’s Statutory the major risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Auditors, and with members of the Audit Committee. various entities within the scope of consolidation is part of the The report was drawn up bearing in mind applicable legislation, reports drawn up by the Board of Directors pursuant to articles recommendations issued by the French Financial Markets L. 225-100 and L. 225-100-2 of the French Commercial Code and Authority (AMF) on corporate governance, internal control and is presented in detail in Chapter 3 of the Company’s Registration audit committees, the reference framework published by the AMF Document. on risk management and internal control, principles of corporate governance and recommendations made by AFEP and MEDEF, as well as market practice among listed companies. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 51 03 RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control 3.6.1 Corporate Governance Under French law, certain aspects of corporate governance are governance are disclosed in several sections of the Company’s to be reported in the Chairman’s report on corporate governance, Registration Document, as mentioned in the following chart, and risk management and internal controls. Such aspects of corporate are incorporated by reference into this Chairman’s report: Information relating to corporate governance Heading of the section of the Company’s Registration References required under article L. 225-37 of the French Document disclosing the information required under Commercial code article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial code Membership of the Board of Directors and application Section 6.1.1.1 “Composition of the Board of Pages 154 et seq. of the Company’s of the principle of gender equality with a view Directors” of the Company’s Registration Document Registration Document to guaranteeing balanced representation of men Section 6.1.3.1 “Composition of the Board of Pages 169 et seq. of the Company’s and women Directors’ specialized Committees” Registration Document of the Company’s Registration Document Preparation and organization Section 6.1.1.2 “Functioning of the Board of Pages 160 et seq. of the Company’s of Board of Directors work Directors” of the Company’s Registration Document Registration Document Section 6.1.3.2 “Functioning of the Board Pages 170 et seq. of the Company’s of Directors’ specialized Committees” Registration Document of the Company’s Registration Document Section 6.1.1.3 “Work done by the Board Pages 165 et seq. of the Company’s of Directors in 2016” of the Company’s Registration Registration Document Document Section 6.1.3.3 “Work done by the Board Pages 174 et seq. of the Company’s of Directors’ specialized Committees in 2016” Registration Document of the Company’s Registration Document Potential limits on the powers Section 6.1.4 “General Management of the Pages 176 et seq. of the Company’s of the Chief Executive Officer Company” of the Company’s Registration Document Registration Document Formal reference to a code Section 6.1 “Administration and management Page 154 of the Company’s of corporate governance of the Company” of the Company’s Registration Registration Document Document Provisions of the code of corporate governance Nil with which the Company is not in strict compliance and related explanations Indication as to where the code of corporate Page 154 of the Company’s governance may be accessed Registration Document Formalities for shareholders’ participation Conditions for participation in the Company’s Page 275 of the Company’s in General Meetings General Meeting are outlined in article 12 Registration Document (“General Meetings”) of the Company’s Articles of Association (available on the www.legrand. com website) and in section 9.3.5 “Shareholders’ General Meetings” of the Company’s Registration Document Principles and rules set by the Board of Directors Section 6.2.1 “Compensation and benefits of Pages 179 et seq. of the Company’s for determining the compensation and beneﬁts company officers” of the Company’s Registration Registration Document of Executive Officers Document Factors likely to affect the outcome of a public offer Readers are invited to refer to the management Pages 314-315 of the Company’s report, which contains factors likely to inﬂuence Registration Document a public offering. This report can be found in Appendix 2 of the Company’s Registration Document 52 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control 3.6.2 Risk management and internal control R 3.6.2.1 FRAMEWORK, DEFINITIONS, PURPOSES AND ORGANIZATION W rally Group employees around a shared vision where major risks are concerned, and raise awareness both of the risks inherent to their activity and of newly emerging risks. Framework Deﬁnition and purposes of internal control The Legrand Group’s risk management and internal control system falls within the legal framework applicable to companies The Legrand Group’s internal control system consists of a set of listed on the Paris stock exchange and relies on the framework means, behaviours, procedures and actions suited to Legrand’s document on “Risk management and internal control systems” special features, which: published by the AMF in 2010. W enable it to take appropriate account of signiﬁcant risks, whether strategic, operational, ﬁnancial or compliance-related; 03 Scope and The Legrand Group’s internal control system covers all controlled W contribute to control of its business, the effectiveness of its entities that fall within the scope of consolidation of which the operations and the efficient use of resources. Company is the parent company. No entity is excluded from The internal control system is a wide-ranging scheme not the scope. The Company ensures that internal control and limited solely to procedures for making accounting and ﬁnancial risk management are performed effectively throughout its reporting data more reliable. More generally, it aims to: subsidiaries. Newly acquired companies are subjected to a ﬁrst audit by the Group Internal Audit team within about a year W ensure compliance with laws and regulations; following acquisition, and included in the internal control system W ensure the enforcement of instructions and of targets set by the as part of their docking process. General Management; The scope of application of internal control concerns every area W guarantee the proper functioning of internal processes, within the Company. The internal control system is regularly especially those that contribute to the protection and updated, to keep it closely aligned with risk management issues safeguarding of assets; and developments in the Company. W support both organic and external growth; Deﬁnition and purposes of risk management W contribute to the optimization of processes and operations; A risk represents the possibility of an event occurring that might W provide assurance of the reliability of ﬁnancial and accounting have adverse effects on people, resources, the environment, the information. Group’s objectives or its reputation. Resources allocated to risk management and internal Risk management involves a dynamic system which enables control management to identify, analyse and deal with the main risks in view of the Company’s strategic objectives (see section 4.2.1.3. The Group’s Internal Control Department coordinates and of this Registration Document) so as to contain them at an organizes monitoring of the risk management and internal acceptable level. control system, using key tools including risk mapping, the internal control framework, the self-assessment process, audits, Risk management comprises a set of means, behaviours, and action plan follow-up. The Internal Control Department is procedures and actions suited to the Group’s special features; it also a contributor to the Group’s compliance program. is a duty of all parties involved within the Group. Assigning these tasks to a single department ensures consistent It seeks to be comprehensive, so as to cover all of the Group’s methodology and constant adaptation of audit procedures to activities, processes and assets. the internal control risk areas as well as rapid adaptation of the Risk management is considered as a company management internal control framework in view of any weaknesses detected leverage tool, it aims to: during audits. W ensure the safety of the Group’s employees; For a dozen Group countries including the largest contributors in W preserve the Group’s value, assets and reputation; terms of business (France, Italy, United States, India, China, Brazil, Russia, Colombia, etc.), the Group’s Internal Control Department W make Group decision-making and processes secure, to relies on local internal controllers who steer the approach in their contribute to the achievement of objectives and thereby to respective units. In smaller subsidiaries, internal control is the value creation for all stakeholders; direct responsibility of the entity’s Chief Financial Officer. W ensure that initiatives undertaken are consistent with Group values; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 53 03 RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control In the Group as a whole, the equivalent of 26 staff members were The information system comprises a dedicated tool enabling fully dedicated to internal controls in 2016. internal dissemination of risk-related information. The manager in charge of this function at Group level has direct Risk management procedure access to the Chairperson of the Audit Committee with whom he confers independently in the context of Audit Committee meeting The Group’s risk management procedure involves three stages: preparations. 1) Risk identiﬁcation: the risk environment has been jointly The manager in charge of this function at Group level reports determined using data gathered from the Group’s main directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, which senior executives (“top-down” approach) and supplemented ensures he/she enjoys the required authority within the Company. both by contributions from Group subsidiaries and functional departments (“bottom-up” approach) and by external benchmark data; Other key contributors 2) Assessment of identiﬁed risks: risk assessment and ranking Aside from the Internal Control Department, other key are performed by a college of Group senior executives, using contributors include: a dedicated tool. Risks are assessed and ranked according W the General Management, involved in the overall design and to the probability of their materialization and their potential steering of the Group’s internal control system; impact, assessed on the basis of a homogeneous set of W the Company’s governance bodies, especially the Audit criteria. The risk analysis is supported by a regular review Committee whose assignment includes monitoring the of speciﬁc indicators (KRI – Key Risk Indicators). These effectiveness of the system; indicators, produced using historic and prospective data, are tracked by the relevant functional departments and fed back W the Group’s different departments, some of which take a leading to the Internal Control Department in charge of coordinating role in the internal risk management and control system as the process. part of various operational committees; On the basis of this risk identiﬁcation and assessment a risk W the Finance Department in general, and especially Financial map is produced, which is submitted to the Risk Committee Managers appointed in the Company’s various subsidiaries, for approval; information on risks and risk control systems who play an ongoing role in organizing the control environment are detailed in chapter 4: Risk factors. and ensuring compliance with procedures; 3) Risk treatment: measures applied to deal with risks include W managers at all levels of the organization who are responsible the reduction, transfer, or acceptance of a risk. Action plans for steering the internal control system in their particular area. are decided upon by the Internal Control Department and the Section 3 of the integrated report contains a summary diagram risk owners identiﬁed among the functional departments. presenting the existing governance structure on internal risk The Risk Committee validates the procedure for dealing with management and control. the main risks and monitors the progress of action plans. Limitations Ongoing monitoring of the risk management system It should be noted that the internal control mechanism outlined The Internal Control Department ensures the proper above and detailed hereafter, however well designed and carried implementation of this policy, the coordination of the process, and out it may be, cannot provide an absolute guarantee that the the continuous improvement approach, by: Group’s targets will be met and that every risk, particularly of W leading risk committees and risk mapping exercises; error, fraud or failure, will be fully controlled or eliminated. W designing risk indicators in cooperation with risk owners (Group functional departments) and monitoring these indicators; R 3.6.2.2 COMPONENTS OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT W monitoring action plans deployed under the responsibility of risk owners; MECHANISM W drawing lessons from risk occurrences; Risk management W making sure the identiﬁed risk control schemes work properly, through targeted audits. Organizational framework To illustrate the progress strategy, the risk management process The organization deﬁnes the players’ roles and responsibilities, was equipped with a speciﬁc tool in 2016, to enable formal and establishes procedures. The Group’s risk management policy recording of the approach, allow for greater involvement of the deﬁnes the aims of the system, and the process for identifying, parties involved, and facilitate steering and reporting. analyzing and dealing with risks. 54 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control The approach as a whole is reviewed and monitored by a Risk In the event of fraud, it is mandatory that a detailed form Committee chaired by the Group’s General Management and specifying the circumstances and amounts at stake be forwarded involving the functional departments. The Risk Committee met to the Group’s internal control management, for validation of twice in 2016, in line with the usual semi-annual frequency of its the proposed action plans. If this occurs, the Audit Committee is meetings. informed. The Audit Committee is also regularly informed of the topics There is also an ethics alert hotline enabling employees and third addressed. In particular, the risk assessment and treatment parties to inform the Group’s ethics officers (the Group Executive approach is discussed annually with the Audit Committee on a VP Legal Affairs and Group Executive VP Human Resources) of dedicated occasion, during which a review is done of major risks, any breach of the Group’s rules of ethics. control mechanisms put in place, and any action plans that may be in progress. A report on this is presented to the Board of Internal control activities Directors. The Group’s internal control and risk control operations Internal control (procedures and controls) are deﬁned in an internal control framework that is updated regularly. There is online access to 03 this internal control framework on the Group’s intranet, as well Control environment as to all of the legal, ﬁnancial, management and accounting rules The Group’s internal control environment is based on the applied by the Group. following items: Internal control activities, particularly key controls, are reviewed W the Group’s values, formally enshrined in a set of charters annually, using a self-assessment scheme which is mandatory which have been widely circulated among its teams. For for all entities and supported by a dedicated tool. The scheme example, the Group’s Charter of Fundamental Principles and its combines the completion of a questionnaire for all entities and Application Guide setting out the Group’s values, its Prevention more detailed tests on controls for the larger entities. charter and its Environment charter, and the Guide to good The self-assessment scheme addresses questions concerning business practice. Commercial practices are framed by the Fair the internal control environment, critical controls focused on competition charter and the Guide to good business practice; the main Group processes (e.g. Purchasing, Sales, Inventory W exemplary behaviour, an essential means of disseminating management, Payroll, Fixed assets, etc.). Beyond the register of values throughout the company; essential and mandatory critical controls, the scheme is adapted as required in line with developments in terms of risks and the W clear objectives deployed throughout the company and Group’s control environment. communicated to its employees (see section 2.2.1); The self-assessment scheme as applied to the largest entities W an organizational and hierarchical structure enabling a clear was reviewed in 2016 as part of the continuous improvement deﬁnition of responsibilities and of powers; process, to enhance its effectiveness and ensure it is aligned W IT tools and access to information systems determined with the rules and controls described in the internal control according to each person’s role, complying with the rules of framework. The questionnaire is adapted according to the segregation of duties. strengths and weaknesses identiﬁed during audits and selfThe risk management process continually feeds into the assessments, to reinforce the messages to be conveyed. internal control scheme, which thereby adapts in response The results of these self-assessment questionnaires and tests to developments in the Group’s risk environment. The risk are systematically reviewed, consolidated and analyzed by the management process is outlined in the section above. Internal Control Department. The 2016 self-assessment campaign showed Group entities Communication and information to have achieved an overall conformity rate of 90% with the The reporting structures which exist for all the Group’s major minimum requirements of the internal control scheme, as against business processes, enable the gathering and circulation of 88% in 2015. The Group considers this to represent a satisfactory relevant and reliable information at the various levels of the conformity rate. Targeted support is provided to help all entities company, and ensure that a shared language exists between to reach this level, and cross-functional initiatives are launched the Group’s different organizational levels (subsidiaries and as required. In 2017, speciﬁc projects will be conducted on some functional departments). Examples are provided by the annual IT sytems to improve internal control level and to further enhance budget process, the monthly and quarterly country performance these processes in line with developments in the external reviews, and the various reporting schemes (ﬁnancial, human environment on related topics such as cybercrime. resources, corporate social and environmental responsibility, etc.). The dedicated tool also includes a module for steering action plans identiﬁed by subsidiaries. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 55 03 RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control Steering and auditing W the Board of Directors which approves the consolidated The Group’s internal control system and any changes it may ﬁnancial statements, based in particular on the work of the undergo are presented annually to the Audit Committee. Audit Committee; An audit plan, which is reviewed annually, ensures a rotation W the internal audit team, which, through its work, supplies of audits in all of the Group’s country entities and its functional various recommendations to General management and to departments. It also takes into account major and emerging the Audit Committee on areas for improving internal control risks. After approval by the General Management, the audit plan applied to accounts and ﬁnancial statements; is presented annually to the Audit Committee. W the Statutory Auditors who, through their external audit work, Every audit assignment systematically generates a report. These express an independent opinion on published consolidated reports are submitted to General management, and a quarterly ﬁnancial statements. summary is presented before the Audit Committee. Control mechanism for accounting and ﬁnancial The recommendations expressed in the audit reports directly information address the risks underlying any internal control weaknesses identiﬁed, thereby strengthening the previously mentioned This mechanism is based on the deﬁnition and implementation of bottom-up approach. Correct implementation of action plans is processes to prepare and review ﬁnancial and accounting data so monitored systematically by the Internal Control Department. that it can be used internally for steering purposes and disclosed externally for publication on the markets. The mechanism is An information systems auditing team has also been set up, which deployed through concerted action involving contributions from performs audits jointly with the Group Internal Audit Department. the following staff within the Finance Department: The tools, procedures and results of internal control reviews are available to the Company’s Statutory Auditors, and there are Financial managers in subsidiaries regular consultations to optimize the internal control framework The subsidiary Financial managers, who are appointed by, and and coverage of risk areas, which reinforce the internal control functionally attached to, the Group Finance Department, are scheme and risk control. entrusted speciﬁcally with responsibility for internal controls and with the role of Compliance Officer in their respective subsidiaries. Nominees for these positions are reviewed systematically by the R 3.6.2.3 PROCEDURES FOR PREPARING AND PROCESSING ACCOUNTING Group’s Finance Department, to ensure consistently outstanding levels of expertise. AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION Group ﬁnance control Objectives The Group Finance Control Department, which reports to the Internal controls applied to accounts and ﬁnance must meet the Group Finance Department, plays a key role in monitoring and following objectives: controlling subsidiaries’ performance and their enforcement of procedures. It coordinates the preparation of annual budgets W guarantee that the accounting and ﬁnancial information and regularly performs in-depth review of achievements and published complies with applicable regulations; estimates. This work relies on reporting and budget rules, which W ensure that instructions issued by the Group’s General can be found in the internal control procedures framework. Management are applied, where such information is concerned; All subsidiaries issue a detailed consolidation report every month, W preserve the Group’s assets; which includes a balance sheet and its analytical review, an W detect and prevent fraud and accounting irregularities insofar income statement and its analysis, to enable detailed monitoring as possible; of their performance. W guarantee the reliability of ﬁnancial information and internal Corporate ﬁnancial analysis accounts, as well as the information disclosed to the markets. The Corporate Financial Analysis unit, which reports to the Group Finance Department, prepares and analyzes the Group’s Main contributors consolidated ﬁnancial statements. It prepares and circulates, on a W General Management, by setting up and structuring the monthly basis, a progress sheet showing the Group’s consolidated Group’s internal control system, as well as preparing ﬁnancial performance and the difference between actual performance and statements for approval and publication; budget targets. This data is formally reviewed each month by the Group’s Finance Management and General Management. 56 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND RISK FACTORS Report by the Chairman of the Board of Directors on Corporate governance, risk management and internal control Accounting data are consolidated by a dedicated team using the All bank accounts are managed in accordance with the Group’s consolidation reports available through a software application Treasury Department, ensuring a degree of overall consistency in deployed in all Group subsidiaries. Consolidated ﬁnancial relationships with banks. statements are prepared on a monthly basis, except at the end of July, according to a schedule circulated to all subsidiaries. Information systems This allows them to plan accordingly and provide the ﬁnancial The Information Systems Department reports to the Group information in a timely manner. Finance Department. Almost all consolidated entities have their annual and/or In order to decrease risks relating to reliability of accounting and consolidation reports reviewed by the local affiliated offices of ﬁnancial data processing, the Group has implemented a full set of the Group’s Statutory Auditors or by independent auditors. IT procedures to mitigate security risks and data back-up plans. Group Financing and Cash Flow In addition, the deployment of internal control helps strengthen The Treasury Department reports to the Group Finance Department. and harmonize processes related to the implementation and operation of information systems, as well as protections and access to system and network conditions. 03 Bank account signatories are individually approved by the Group The very nature of the activity of information processing in a Finance Department. Cash ﬂow is monitored through speciﬁc changing environment in terms of scope of Group activity as procedures. Investment, borrowing and hedging transactions are well as information systems used makes IT risk management a centralized and controlled by the Group’s Finance Department. process of continuous improvement. 3.6.3 Company ﬁnancial ratings At December 31, 2016, Legrand’s rating by ﬁnancial rating agency Standard & Poor’s was: Astable outlook. This information is disclosed in accordance with the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance recommendations. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 57 03 RISK FACTORS Statutory Auditors’ report prepared in accordance with Article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code 3.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L. 225-235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE Year ended December 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French prepared in accordance with article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Legrand on the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction and construed in accordance with French law and the relevant professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of Legrand (the “Company”) and in accordance with article L. 225-235 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), we hereby report to you on the report prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code for the year ended December 31, 2016. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to prepare, and submit to the Board of Directors for approval, a report on the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and containing the other disclosures required by article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, particularly in term of corporate governance. It is our responsibility: W to report to you on the information contained in the Chairman’s report in respect of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information; and W to attest that the report sets out the other information required by article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, it being speciﬁed that it is not our responsibility to assess the fairness of this information. We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Information on the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of ﬁnancial and accounting information The professional standards require that we perform the necessary procedures to assess the fairness of the information provided in the chairman’s report in respect of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and ﬁnancial information. These procedures consisted mainly in: W obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and ﬁnancial information on which the information presented in the Chairman’s report is based and the existing documentation; W obtaining an understanding of the work involved in the preparation of this information and the existing documentation; W determining if any signiﬁcant weaknesses in the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and ﬁnancial information that we would have noted in the course of our engagement are properly disclosed in the Chairman’s report. On the basis of our work, we have nothing to report on the information in respect of the company’s internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of the accounting and ﬁnancial information, contained in the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board, in accordance with article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Other disclosures We hereby attest that the Chairman’s report includes the other disclosures required by article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 15, 2017 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Deloitte & Associés Edouard Sattler Jean-François Viat 58 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) 04 4.1 THE GROUP’S CSR STRATEGY 60 4.1.1 Priority issues and 2014-2018 roadmap 61 4.1.2 A structured approach 62 4.1.3 CSR governance and performance management 64 4.1.4 Recognized CSR performance 67 4.2 OFFERING USERS SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS 67 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions 67 4.2.2 Playing a driving role in the electrical sector 74 4.3 ACTING ETHICALLY TOWARDS SOCIETY 80 4.3.1 Acting ethically 80 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing 84 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all 88 4.4 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES 92 4.4.1 Respecting Human Rights 92 4.4.2 Guaranteeing occupational health and safety 94 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity 97 4.5 LIMITING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 104 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint 104 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy 109 4.6 OVERVIEW OF INDICATORS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 113 4.6.1 Reporting procedures 113 4.6.2 Overview of social indicators 113 4.6.3 Overview of environmental indicators 119 4.6.4 Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law – Cross-reference table 121 4.6.5 GRI Content Index 123 4.6.6 Global Compact principles and corresponding sections of this Registration Document 123 4.6.7 Cross-reference table with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals 124 4.6.8 Materiality of the core issues of ISO 26000 for the Group 126 4.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT 127 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 59 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy 4.1 THE GROUP’S CSR STRATEGY Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is an integral part of of business practices and purchasing policy. In 2016, more than Legrand’s development strategy. Its aim is the sustainable use 500 additional people were trained in business ethics, taking of electricity by everyone and access to new technologies, the number of people trained on these topics to almost 2,300 driving improvements for all stakeholders involved in Legrand’s since 2014. The compliance program continued to be rolled activities. By embracing this commitment, Legrand seeks to give out to over 50 countries. 253 suppliers exposed to CSR risks more meaning to ethics and transparency, not only in managing have been detected, 166 action plans have been started in its own operations, but in its relations with different stakeholders, 10 countries covering 66% of exposed suppliers. As a socially and its ecosystem applying an integrated thinking approach and responsible organization, the Group is also committed to thus considering the Group in the widest sense. helping as many people as possible gain sustainable access to Legrand produces its CSR strategy in the form of a roadmap electricity. In 2016, joint action with Électriciens sans frontières covering a period of several years. In 2014, Legrand published led to 200,000(1) people beneﬁting directly or indirectly from its third roadmap for the period 2014-2018. This roadmap access to power. The Legrand Foundation has supported contains details of the Group’s principal CSR contingencies and 23 projects since it was created. commitments during this period. It speciﬁes in particular the W Employees: Legrand pays particular attention to the working 21 priorities that the Group has set itself for 2018. The Group’s conditions of its employees and its responsibilities towards annual CSR performance is measured by monitoring indicators them. The Group seeks to ensure respect for Human Rights relating to these 21 priorities. For each issue and priority, the all over the world. It is also committed to health and safety Group publishes its annual progress according to the indicator(s) for all. It strives to develop the skills of each individual and to identiﬁed. In 2016, 19 out of 21, or 90%, of the annual objectives foster diversity. In 2016, an assessment of the risk of Human within the roadmap priorities were achieved. Legrand’s CSR Rights violations was carried out on all the Group’s workforce strategy consists of four focus point: user, society, employees considered as being exposed to these risks. The occupational and the environment. risk management plan and the health and safety monitoring and improvement process covers 90% of the workforce, while W User: Users of the Legrand’s products and their needs are the workplace accident frequency rate has dropped by 37% the Group’s main focus and concern. It relies on innovation to between 2013 and 2016. In all, 87% of employees attended offer users sustainable solutions and to drive progress in the one or more training courses and 88% of managers had an electrical sector. In 2016, for example, the Group continued to individual appraisal review. develop its business in the assisted living market, while its energy efficiency solutions resulted in the avoidance of the W Environment: Legrand has long been committed to equivalent of 835,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions. It continued safeguarding the environment. This responsibility applies not to deploy its communication policy on the environmental only to the Group’s sites but also the design of its products. impact of its products, with 60% of its sales achieved with The challenge is to innovate in order to limit the environmental products with a Product Environmental Proﬁle (PEP). A total impact of Legrand’s operations. This includes promoting the of 715,000 counterfeit products were seized and destroyed development of a circular economy. In 2016, 91% of the main in 2016. In addition, seven major new partnerships and industrial and logistics sites were ISO 14001 certiﬁed. The collaborative research projects were initiated during the year. Group’s average energy intensity dropped by 15% between More than 437,000 customers have received training since 2013 and 2016 (at current scope). 88% of waste was sent to 2014, while 89% of Group sales are covered by a Customer recycling units and 89% of the Group’s sales(2) conform with the Relationship Management (CRM) system. requirements of RoHS regulation. W Society: Social responsibility applies to all partners with which In addition to chapter 4 of this Registration Document, readers the Legrand Group interacts. This interaction takes place with are encouraged to view the latest information, data and examples the utmost respect for ethical principles, particularly in terms posted at www.legrand.com/EN. (1) Figures provided by Électriciens sans frontières, indicating the number of people potentially affected by projects supported by Legrand. (2) Including Group products outside the scope of RoHS regulation. 60 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy 4.1.1 Priority issues and 2014-2018 roadmap Priority issues corporate social responsibility: Human Rights, labor practices, The four focus points of Legrand’s CSR strategy (see above) the environment, best business practices, consumers issues, and in turn consist of 10 key issues, or topics on which the Group community involvement. focuses its CSR efforts. The relevance and importance of each central issue of ISO 26000 USER to the Group and its stakeholders are analyzed and evaluated based on the following criteria: 1. Providing sustainable solutions W Relevance: if it is closely related to Legrand’s businesses and 2. Playing a driving role in the electrical sector values and is linked to the social challenges facing the electrical SOCIETY industry and Legrand’s stakeholders; 3. Acting ethically W Importance: impact on the Group’s business (such as its sales and workforce), and if it drives progress among Legrand’s key 4. Ensuring responsible purchasing stakeholders. 5. Enabling access to electricity for all This weighting is carried out on the basis of feedback from the EMPLOYEES 6. Respecting Human Rights Group’s various departments, and particularly studies and surveys conducted among the Group’s customers, for example. 04 7. Guaranteeing health and safety at work The test resulted in the materiality matrix shown below. It highlights the core subjects of ISO 26000 that have a signiﬁcant 8. Developing skills and promoting diversity inﬂuence on Legrand’s business and for which stakeholder ENVIRONMENT expectations are high. It was used to conﬁrm the 10 key issues for the Group and its stakeholders, which have been included 9. Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint in the Group’s 2014-2018 CSR Roadmap (for more information, 10. Innovating for a circular economy please refer to the analysis in section 4.6.6 of this document). Materiality test Legrand has conducted a materiality test since 2013. The test is structured around the core subjects of ISO 26000 concerning Q Consumer data Strong V Community involvement protection and privacy O Climate change & mitigation Q Protecting consumer's health +Economic, social +Duty of care and safety and cultural rights O Sustainable resource use + Resolving + Avoidance of complicity +Fundamental rights & social benefits grievances +vulnerable +Conditions of work +Civil & political rights and Discrimination groups & social protection +Human rights risks situations +Health and safety at work + Employment creation Stakeholders expectations V Education and culture & skills development V Promoting O Prevention of pollution +Human development social responsibility V Anti-corruption O Protection of V Health in the value chain environment & biodiversity V Respect + V Fair business practices +Social dialogue for property rights Employment & employment relationships Q Fair practices in terms of marketing, Q Access to essential services information and contracts V Social investment Q Consumer service, support & compliant & dispute resolution Q Sustainable consumption Q Education and consumer’s awareness V Technology development and access V Income creation V Responsible political involvement Weak Weak Inﬂuences on Legrand business Strong Q User V Society +Employees O Environment REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 61 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy Roadmap be achieved during the period 2014-2018 (these priorities are detailed in section 4.1.3.2 of this Registration Document). Each Since 2007, Legrand has deﬁned and coordinated its CSR strategy year, the global results of this roadmap are published at the through multi-year roadmaps, built around the key issues of same time as the annual ﬁnancial results; the detailed results this strategy and their performance indicators. The ﬁrst two are published in the Group’s Registration Document and are roadmaps covered the periods 2007-2010 and 2011-2013. presented at the Shareholders’ General Meeting. In 2014, Legrand continued this trend by publishing its third CSR Please refer to section 4.1.3.2 of this Registration Document roadmap for the period 2014-2018. The roadmap is based on for the entire 2014-2018 roadmap, together with the progress the four focus points and the 10 key issues described above. It indicators at the end of its third year of implementation. identiﬁes 21 priorities for its various businesses and entities, to 4.1.2 A structured approach CSR is integrated within Legrand’s businesses with a view to W being receptive to their needs so that Legrand can respond delivering proﬁtable and sustainable business growth, while accordingly. respecting the stakeholders. It involves the entire organization: Discussions involve the eight key stakeholders identiﬁed by all Group entities and subsidiaries are committed to the Group’s Legrand, namely: CSR strategy and are responsible for implementing it worldwide. The CSR strategy offers a response to the economic, social and 1) its customers and users of its products and solutions, environmental challenges faced by Legrand. whether they are speciﬁers, installers or end customers; Legrand’s CSR strategy and its 2014-2018 roadmap are deﬁned 2) its employees and trade unions; based on a series of guiding principles: 3) its suppliers and subcontractors; W the completion of previous roadmaps, furthering Legrand’s 4) the scientiﬁc community, industry and the education sector; longstanding contingencies and commitments while taking 5) the ﬁnancial community (especially banks); into account new issues emerging from developments affecting Legrand’s businesses and the economic, social and 6) its shareholders; environmental context surrounding them; 7) civil society; W discussions with internal and external stakeholders have been 8) NGOs and charitable organizations. taken into account for the deﬁnition of the roadmap’s priorities; Legrand maintains a detailed mapping of its stakeholders on which W factoring in regulatory and legislative requirements for CSR it identiﬁes their expectations, Legrand’s responses and forms (“hard law” and “soft law”). of dialogue. This mapping is available at www.legrand.com/EN. This approach represents a medium-term commitment for The activities of the Group’s subsidiaries, functional departments Legrand as a responsible player within its environment. and strategic business units (SBUs) are part of an approach involving reciprocity and dialogue with their customers, suppliers, employees and partners. This approach encourages R DIALOGUE WITH LEGRAND’S STAKEHOLDERS Legrand’s CSR strategy requires close interaction with its knowledge-sharing and dialogue on CSR. For example, Legrand is involved in studies, surveys and round tables, both in and outside stakeholders. It is based on: the industry, to help share its own practices with less mature players. The Group is therefore a member of the CSR committees W its historical involvement with players in the electrical sector; set up within professional bodies (GIMELEC, FIEEC, etc.) and the W its culture of social dialogue; Club des Directeurs du Développement Durable (C3D). Locally, W discussion with local communities; Legrand’s teams may take part in the studies, working groups and committees on CSR topics which are active in their countries. 62 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy Focus: Legrand ﬁrst signed the CAPIEL Code of Conduct W the Prevention Charter, which sets out the key principles of “Diriger nos business de façon durable” (Sustainable business Legrand’s health and safety policy. It deﬁnes three principles: management) in 2012 compliance with national legislation and regulations, It is committed to guiding and supporting stakeholders in the incorporation of safety into the industrial policies, and the market by setting demanding standards for itself in the ﬁelds harmonization of prevention strategies; of ethics, social responsibility, the environment and customer W the Environment Charter, which sets out the requirements and satisfaction. Year after year, the Group strives for continuous fundamental aspects of the Group’s environmental strategy; improvement in each of these areas, focusing on creating value over the long term. These objectives apply to the entire supply W the Quality Policy, which sets out Legrand’s principles regarding the quality of its products; chain, from suppliers to product sales. W the Purchasing Policy, which establishes the principles of sustainable, balanced and mutually beneﬁcial supplier relations. R REGULATORY CONTEXT: “HARD LAW” AND “SOFT LAW” The promotion and dissemination of these documents is carried out locally through ethics and environmental representatives, Legrand applies the main international standards concerning and human resources and prevention managers. Corporate Social Responsibility. These include: These documents are available from the CSR Resource Center on W the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; W the Declaration of the International Labour Organization (ILO); our website (www.legrand.com/EN). Furthermore, Legrand has been a signatory of the Global 04 W Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and ISO 26000, Compact since 2006. The Group’s General Management which are also tools used to evaluate the Group’s approach continuously reaffirms this commitment, regularly submitting a (cross-reference tables respectively presented in chapters “Communication On Progress” (COP) on how the Group upholds 4.6.5 and 4.6.8); its commitments under the Global Compact. W United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (2030) (cross-reference table presented in chapter 4.6.7); W the obligations under article 225 of Act No. 2010-788 of R CONFIRMATION OF THE GROUP’S COMMITMENT TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT July 12, 2010 establishing the national commitment to the “Legrand stands by its commitment to the ten Global Compact environment (“Grenelle 2 Law”). This article requires CSR principles. information to be made public and introduces a mandatory audit of this information by an independent third party. The Since we joined the Global Compact in 2006, we have made Group’s response to these obligations is set forth in detail in consistent efforts, within our sphere of inﬂuence, to favor progress this Registration Document: the relevant chapters are shown in areas relating to Human Rights, working standards, protection of in the cross-reference table presented in chapter 4.6.4 and the the environment and the ﬁght against corruption. In perfect accord certiﬁcation report is presented in chapter 4.7. with the Group’s Charter of Fundamental Principles, these principles are incorporated into company policy through our CSR strategy. These standards are adopted by Legrand entities in the form of guidelines and charters which all employees are expected to This results in a model for business development founded on social, observe, namely: societal and environmental values, which we actively promote in all our subsidiaries and in relationships with our stakeholders in all W the Charter of Fundamental Principles, which lays down the parts of the world. rules on how to behave and conduct business and incorporates the principles of anti-corruption and respect for Human Rights. In the interest of transparency and continued progress, we are The text has been translated into a dozen languages and is including in this Registration Document a progress report on accompanied by a practical guide; Legrand’s project.” W the Fair Competition Charter, which deﬁnes the rules on Gilles Schnepp compliance with competition law; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Legrand Group W the Guide to Good Business Practice, which focuses on preventing corruption and fraud. Other matters relating The cross-reference table between the principles of the Global to conﬂicts of interest, lobbying, political contributions or Compact and the chapters of the Registration Document can be compliance with international trade rules (compliance with found in chapter 4.6.6 of this document. sanctions, ﬁght against money laundering, ﬁnancing of terrorist activities) are also covered; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 63 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy 4.1.3 CSR governance and performance management R 4.1.3.1 CSR GOVERNANCE Legrand’s CSR Department is part of the Strategy and R 4.1.3.2 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT The implementation and management of the roadmap are Development Department and is responsible for managing and handled jointly by the CSR Department with the managers of the implementing the Group’s CSR strategy. SBUs and subsidiaries, and by the functional departments (HR, Purchasing, Occupational Health & Safety, Environment, etc.) with This central structure relies on several specialist functional the local representatives concerned. Legrand keeps track of its departments: Legal and Compliance, Human Resources, Group CSR performance through an organized reporting process for Purchasing, and the SBUs (Strategic Business Units). These non-ﬁnancial data. This process involves: coordinate networks of around 300 representatives located within the Group’s subsidiaries, and work directly with the W the departments and countries that are directly responsible for different areas comprising the Group’s CSR strategy. producing the data; For example, corporate governance subjects relating to business W the functional departments and SBUs (strategic business units) ethics are overseen by the Legal and Compliance Department, that analyze the data; which reports to the Finance Department. The subjects relating W the CSR Department, tasked with consolidating the data and to Human Rights are covered jointly by the CSR Department and comparing them against the commitments of the roadmap. the Human Resources Department. Reporting enables the various units to capitalize on best practices In addition, a network of 60 ethics representatives is deployed in and share them within the Group. the subsidiaries. This is responsible for providing local guidance on the proper application of the Group’s principles, and for This deployment is accompanied by different tools: procedural ﬂagging issues that merit priority attention by the Group. guidelines (deﬁnitions and reasons behind the issues and priorities, how each entity contributes, their performance A CSR Steering Committee, composed of all the functional evaluation grid, individual and consolidated dashboards for the departments, the SBUs (Strategic Business Units) and main Group), communication tools and best practices, available on the country departments, meets three times a year with the Group’s intranet. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to approve and follow up on the actions of the Group CSR strategy. The progress and evaluation of the 21 priorities of the roadmap are consolidated through 31 indicators. Most of the data used to Within Legrand’s Board of Directors, the Committee on Strategy measure these indicators are derived from the Group’s reporting and Social Responsibility, composed of four directors, two tools, especially those pertaining to Occupational Health & Safety, of them independent, guarantees that the Group’s strategy Human Resources, Environment and Marketing. remains compliant with CSR requirements. Once a year, the CSR Department presents the previous year’s results to the committee, For more information on the Group’s reporting tools, see together with targets for the coming year (see section 6.1.3 of this section 4.6.1 of this Registration Document. Registration Document). The 31 indicators mentioned above are deployed at two levels: This organizational structure gives Legrand’s General W locally: for each priority, the progress of each entity is Management coherent oversight of its CSR actions in Group ranked based on four levels (“Insufficient”, “Deployment”, entities. It allows the CSR strategy to be adapted and deployed “Performance”, “Excellence”). Each year they are provided with coherently and applied to all entities, following set rules and a CSR dashboard. This allows them to track their performance gradually integrating new acquisitions. over time, relative to the Group as a whole; Finally, in accordance with article 225-102-1 of the French W at Group level: the Group’s overall CSR performance is derived Commercial Code (Grenelle 2 Law), the content of this chapter has from the consolidated results of all its entities. Measured on been audited by an independent third party for 2016. This task quantitative indicators, performance is compared against a was assigned to one of the Group’s Statutory Auditors, Deloitte & baseline established at the end of 2013. Associés, which has produced a statement of completeness of the CSR information and a reasoned opinion on its fairness (for more details on this statement, see section 4.7). 64 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy Approximately 10% of the above-described local CSR performance Committee is index-linked to overall CSR performance. Starting is included in the measurement of subsidiary directors’ individual in 2016 one third of the performance criteria for performance performance. At the end of 2016, the CSR performance levels shares awarded under a three-year plan to the Chairman and Chief of more than 70 reporting scopes (subsidiaries, regions or Executive Officer, to members of the Executive Committee and entities) have been assessed, representing all Group activities to key managers were indexed to the overall CSR performance, (apart from new acquisitions not included in the Group’s report, linked to the roadmap. as per the rules described in section 4.6.1 of this document). The performance of certain departments within the Group is Of these reporting scopes: also partially assessed on the basis of CSR criteria, including, for W 78% were ranked at the “Performance” level (rating greater example, the rate of completion of individual appraisal reviews for than or equal to 2.5 on a scale of 1 to 4) versus 43% in 2015; certain human resources functions, or the evaluation of suppliers according to sustainable development criteria for buyers. W 20% were ranked at the “Deployment” level (rating between 2 and 2.5) versus 49% in 2015; Each year, Legrand includes a roadmap progress report in its Registration Document. This is calculated based on intermediate W 2% were ranked at the “Insufficient” level (rating below 2) annual targets and the annual achievement rate is calculated on versus 8% in 2015. these intermediate targets. The rates of achievement of annual Individualized action plans are drawn up and deployed across all targets for 2016 were the subject of a voluntary audit moderate of the above reporting scopes so that each can meet the target set assurance by one of the auditors, Deloitte & Associés. Please refer by the Group, namely a minimum rating of 3 by the end of 2018. In addition, in 2016, 10% of the variable compensation of the to section 4.7 of this Registration Document for more information about this approach and the associated results. 04 Chairman and CEO and of most of the members of the Management 2014: Target 2015: Target 2016: Target Roadmap 2014–2018: 2018 targets achievement rate achievement rate achievement rate Ref. Focus: User 4.2 Issue no. 1: Providing sustainable solutions 4.2.1 W To increase by 50% Group sales of solutions that improve living conditions and comfort 57% 47% 51% 4.2.1.1 W To actively continue the deployment of initiatives to improve product quality and tackle counterfeiting in the electrical industry 93% 94% 89% 4.2.1.2 W To provide product environmental data compliant with ISO 14025 for products accounting for two-thirds of Group sales 101% 101% 102% 4.2.1.3 W To avoid the emission of 1.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent 74% 105% 100% 4.2.1.4 Issue no. 2: Playing a driving role in the electrical sector 4.2.2 W To continue to provide training to industry players by further innovation in response to local needs and conditions 122% 130% 146% 4.2.2.1 W To continue to develop university partnerships and collaborative research projects, and implement the resulting innovations 83% 131% 114% 4.2.2.2 W To provide feedback mechanisms and customer satisfaction measurement for 95% of Group sales 109% 112% 104% 4.2.2.3 Focus: Society 4.3 Issue no. 3: Acting ethically 4.3.1 W To have an additional 3,000 employees trained in business ethics 273% 198% 152% 4.3.1.1 W To cover 100% of Group sales through a compliance program monitoring scheme 110% 105% 107% 4.3.1.2 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 65 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) The Group’s CSR strategy 2014: Target 2015: Target 2016: Target Roadmap 2014–2018: 2018 targets achievement rate achievement rate achievement rate Ref. Issue no. 4: Ensuring responsible purchasing 4.3.2 W To support 100% of higher risk suppliers in implementing an improvement plan for environmental issues, fundamental rights in the workplace, and business ethics 100% 124% 131% 4.3.2 Issue no. 5: Enabling access to electricity for all 4.3.3 W To enable an additional 800,000 people to have access to electricity, whether directly or indirectly 141% 167% 153% 4.3.3.1 W To ensure the widest possible access to the initiatives of Legrand Foundation 100% 100% 100% 4.3.3.2 Focus: Employees 4.4 Issue no. 6: Respecting Human Rights 4.4.1 W To map and annually assess workforce exposure to the risk of Human Rights violations in the workplace and deploy measures for improvement as appropriate 100% 108% 100% 4.4.1 Issue no. 7: Guaranteeing health and safety at work 4.4.2 W To extend and maintain an occupational risk management plan covering 90% of the Group’s workforce 106% 100% 100% 4.4.2.1 W To implement the health and safety monitoring and improvement process and maintain coverage of at least 90% of the workforce, with the objective of reducing the Group’s workplace accident frequency rate by 20% 211% 235% 184% 4.4.2.2 Issue no. 8: Developing skills and promoting diversity 4.4.3 W To maintain a dynamic strategy in talent and skills management, suited to employee expectations and market needs 71% 90% 104% 4.4.3.1 W To increase the number of women in key positions by 25% 127% 125% 113% 4.4.3.2 W To reduce the pay gap between men and women in the Group’s non-managerial positions by 15% 274% 94% 142% 4.4.3.3 Focus: Environment 4.5 Issue no. 9: Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint 4.5.1 W To achieve ISO 14001 certiﬁcation at more than 90% of the Group’s industrial and logistics sites 102% 104% 102% 4.5.1.1 W To reduce energy intensity by 10% 315% 175% 247% 4.5.1.2. Issue no. 10: Innovating for a circular economy 4.5.2 W To deploy the principles of a circular economy from the product design phase through to end-of-life 100% 87% 118% 4.5.2 TOTAL ACHIEVEMENT RATE 123% 120% 122% 66 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions 4.1.4 Recognized CSR performance R 4.1.4.1 SRI (SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT) INDEXES Legrand has also received the following recognition and ratings: W “Prime” status in Oekom Research’s Corporate rating; To promote transparency and openness, in particular towards W “Inclusion in the “2017 Sustainability Yearbook”, published by investors and shareholders, Legrand regularly responds to the asset manager RobecoSAM in conjunction with KPMG; requests relating to its non-ﬁnancial performance. These are recognized and rewarded by its inclusion in the world’s leading W Inclusion in the Ethibel Pioneer and the Ethibel Excellence Europe and Global registers; CSR indexes, particularly at the end of 2016: W 59th place in the “Corporate Knights 2017 Global 100 Most W Dow Jones Global Sustainability Index (DJSI) World; Sustainable Corporations in the World”. W FTSE4Good (London Stock Exchange); To allow access to the information, a special CSR analysts’ room W ESI Excellence Europe and Excellence Global; has been created on our corporate website www.legrand.com/EN. W Euronext Vigeo: Eurozone 120, Europe 120, France 20, World 120; W MSCI World ESG Index (part of the MSCI Global Sustainability R 4.1.4.2 CSR AWARDS AND DISTINCTIONS: A RECOGNIZED STRATEGY 04 index series) and MSCI World SRI Index (part of the MSCI Global The list of CSR awards and distinctions received by the Group in SRI index series); 2016 is available on our website www.legrand.com/EN. W STOXX® Global ESG Leaders indexes. 4.2 OFFERING USERS SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS Legrand places the user and the user’s needs at the center of its attention and its concerns. The Legrand user may be the end consumer, the electrician, or the professional installer. The Group harnesses innovation to offer sustainable solutions to everyone and drive progress in the electrical sector. 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions Legrand’s solutions are the answer to some of the major these functions fulﬁll essential needs or satisfy expectations global challenges of today and tomorrow. On the one hand for enhanced and intelligent systems. The Group is therefore are environmental challenges, linked to the scarcity of raw developing products and solutions to improve people’s living materials and the impact of global warming. On the other are conditions and comfort; social challenges, mainly relating to the aging population and W as an industry leader, Legrand is also committed to ensuring increasing urbanization (especially in new economies). Yet there the safety of users of electrical equipment, by striving for are also technological challenges, with increasing digitalization: product quality and ﬁghting against counterfeiting; the advent of smart grids and the rapid increase in digital streams. W since improving the energy efficiency of buildings is a priority, The Group’s objective is therefore to develop solutions so that the Group believes it is important to inform users about the everyone can use electricity sustainably: environmental impact of its products, and designs solutions W Legrand is helping to make the functions of electrical that will reduce electricity consumption. installations available to the largest number of people, whether REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 67 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions R 4.2.1.1 IMPROVING THE LIVING CONDITIONS AND COMFORT OF USERS to position itself in the area of assisted living and to launch ranges in new economies, in a bid to work towards the goals originally set. There are several ways of using Legrand products to improve living conditions and comfort. Chief among these are: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 W “low-end” product ranges, ensuring the widest possible access Target achievement rate * 57% 47% 51% to high-quality, safe electrical solutions for the home; * Calculated against annual targets. W products and solutions that limit power outages and optimize the building’s energy efficiency, reducing energy bills for the occupants; W assisted home systems for the home that allow people to have Products resulting from frugal innovation a better life at home for longer. The Group’s frugal innovation approach is reﬂected by the The product offering designed to fulﬁll the criterion of improved development of product ranges that meet these basic needs. It living conditions and comfort is outlined by the Group’s marketing involves rethinking certain offerings by stripping them back and teams, depending on the nature of the Group’s products and redesigning products to suit users’ basic needs. It means using solutions. Weighting coefficients can be used for some product innovative design to meet the expectations of users who are yet families that are not fully part of this offering. These may be to become customers, either for cost reasons or because the updated from year to year as the ranges evolve, based on products themselves do not meet their requirements. surveys carried out on a sample of subsidiaries. These are then In practical terms, it does not mean downgrading the existing extrapolated to the Group as a whole. offering, but rather designing a speciﬁc offering that meets local constraints in terms of the right cost and essential functionalities: safe, user-friendly and high-quality products, integrating the Group priority 2014-2018 latest technology where necessary. To increase by 50% Group sales of solutions that improve living Legrand’s frugal innovation approach can be seen in the design, conditions and comfort. development and marketing of safe, sustainable and affordable Key performance indicator: ranges of accessories (sockets, switches) and circuit breakers, Percentage of sales generated in the residential building sector which enable buildings to be sustainably and safely equipped with: at an affordable price for the greatest number. This is mainly intended for the emerging economies: W affordable ranges of switches, sockets and circuit breakers to suit every budget; W in Brazil, with the Zuli range designed for small-scale residential projects such as the Minha Casa Minha Vida program, aimed at W solutions limiting power outages and optimizing energy reducing the housing shortage; efficiency; W in China, with the Yi Pin and K2 ranges, designed to be installed W home systems enabling people to have a better life at home in new builds constructed as part of the Social Housing Project; for longer. Annual targets: W in India, with the Group’s subsidiary Indo Asian and its range of Glint accessories for the residential market, designed in response to the budgetary constraints speciﬁc to this type of 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 requirement; Growth in the proportion of sales generated W in South and Central America, with the Domino Sencia with these solutions accessory ranges, or with Luzica and New Galica in Colombia. compared with 2013 +4% +10% +19% +32% +50% For more information on solutions that address these basic needs, see our website www.legrand.com/EN. 2016 achievement: The percentage of Group sales represented by these offerings Products promoting energy efficiency increased by 9.7% between 2013 and 2016. This was below the To combat energy poverty, Legrand designs solutions limiting 19% growth target that the Group set itself at the end of 2016. power outages and optimizing energy efficiency. This means Sales for this product offering were slightly below expectations, consuming less electricity and reducing energy bills across the particularly in some of the mature markets. The Group continues board by adopting simple solutions. 68 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions In the home, for example, solutions range from sensors to VISIOVOX touch-screen tablets for video calls offer easy access complete automation equipment. This allows lighting, heating to services and also allow users to stay in touch with loved ones. and other sources of electricity consumption to be controlled and For more information on the Group’s solutions for assisted living, programmed, optimizing electricity consumption and ultimately see the website www.legrand.com/EN. For more information reducing energy bills. about the Group’s initiatives for the Silver Economy, see In commercial or industrial buildings, the offering consists, for sections 4.2.2.2 and 2.1.1.2.3. example, of lighting management, office equipment management, security lighting or even network metering and monitoring. Further examples include capacitor banks, which increase system performance, and network analyzers, which measure R 4.2.1.2 ENSURING THE SAFETY OF USERS OF ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT consumption and energy quality. Because its products can bring people into contact with For more information on the Group’s energy efficiency solutions, electricity, Legrand views quality as imperative in guaranteeing see section 4.2.1.4, or visit the website at www.legrand.com/EN. user safety. The Group is therefore committed to ensuring that the products it places on the market are of the highest quality Products dedicated to assisted living and that they conform to the relevant standards. To protect users, Legrand is involved in an ongoing industry campaign to prevent Legrand provides support to people with diminishing capacities counterfeiting. for independent living with solutions that improve comfort and safety. These home systems allow people to enjoy living at home safely and for longer. This roadmap priority is measured by the deployment and maintenance of resources to combat counterfeiting and maintain 04 product quality. Speciﬁcally, the Group has set itself the goal of By 2050, the global population over the age of 80 is set to more completing at least one signiﬁcant action each year in the ﬁght than triple compared with 2015 (source: UN). These social against counterfeiting. The term “signiﬁcant” here means being able changes represent new challenges for electrical and digital to take action by involving several partners, potentially in several infrastructure, particularly in terms of: different countries. These actions should also enable the Group to W guaranteeing the safety of people who are frail, with a range build on the number of counterfeit products seized each year. of everyday devices, such as switches and plugs, which are In terms of product quality, the aim is to ensure that the product easy to use, or enhanced home automation functions, such risk management policy is properly applied within the Group. as My Home, which offers centralized or remote commands. Lighting paths, which highlight obstacles, aid orientation and prevent falls, reducing the latter by up to 30% (source: trial Group priority 2014-2018 carried out in association with Corrèze Regional Council in Extend the deployment of initiatives in favor of product quality and France). Finally, safety in the home, which involves the use of against counterfeiting in the electrical industry. technical sensors such as smoke, gas and carbon monoxide detectors; Key performance indicator: number of seized counterfeit products, anti-counterfeiting measures, percentage of Group W facilitating access to building functions such as shutters or sales compliant with the product risk management policy. heating with Legrand home automation solutions (e.g. Legrand’s Céliane lighting control systems or Bticino 300 connected Annual targets: door-entry systems) means that home environments can be To monitor the number of seized counterfeit products, introduce programmed from a single control point, with lighting, heating at least one major anti-counterfeiting measure, and ensure that and access set to match personal needs and preferences. 100% of sales are covered by the product risk treatment policy. Céliane systems can even be coupled with remote control 2016 achievement: systems to offset speciﬁc motor or sensory deﬁciencies; The Group underperformed on the indicator for the implementation W facilitating communication with the outside world by sending of the product risk management procedure, since 77% of its sales reports on the status of the dwelling and its occupant to a are generated within entities that apply the principles, against an support center, which can then respond to alerts remotely annual target of 100%. The changes in this indicator between 2015 and take control of home automation systems. The wearable and 2016 are due to the redeﬁnition of key control points of the alarm devices of the subsidiary Intervox Systèmes can be used procedure to include a greater degree of rigor. A comprehensive to trigger a manual or automatic alarm (fall sensor) and alert communication on the subject of product risk is underway, which a remote support center in the event of illness, for example. will allow the Group to strengthen this process. The targets REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 69 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions set for counterfeiting have meanwhile been achieved, with the For more information on the dissatisfaction management process, seizure and destruction of about 715,000 counterfeit products please refer to section 4.2.2.3 of this Registration Document. and the action plans implemented to tackle counterfeiting in several countries. Focus: Legrand Korea receives product quality award. Legrand Korea received an award from the Korea Product Safety 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Association during Korean Product Safety Day in recognition of: Target achievement rate * 93% 94% 89% W its contribution to the technological development of ﬁre * Calculated against annual targets; each subject has a 50% weighting in the prevention solutions; target achievement. W the development of product testing equipment (including heat resistance tests) and safety test speciﬁcations; W its ongoing efforts to promote product safety, especially in case Quality policy of ﬁre (following misuse of the product). The Group’s quality policy, managed by the Group’s Operations Department, is deployed within SBU, and in each country. It deﬁnes The Legrand Group’s quality policy is available on our website the Group’s commitments in terms of quality, and, speciﬁcally, www.legrand.com/EN. compliance with the regulatory requirements, the need for product reliability, and the organization, control, measurement Fight against counterfeiting and monitoring of processes. Management systems (which are Coordinated by the Group’s Intellectual Property Department, ISO-certiﬁed) reduce and prevent risks. which is part of the Group’s Strategy and Development The Group’s quality policy is essentially implemented through: Department, the Group’s ongoing struggle against counterfeiting and for consumer protection is two-pronged: W ISO 9001 certiﬁcation of Group sites, with almost 98% of sites certiﬁed at the end of 2016 (sites included in the Environment W internal anti-counterfeiting mechanisms (see Copytracer Report); below), managed by intellectual property representatives at the SBUs; W laboratory accreditation processes, overseen by the SBUs and carried out before products are brought to market; W actively participating in the seizure and destruction of counterfeit electrical products, working closely with the customs agencies W quality monitoring plans, which ensure that the product of the countries concerned. Through global communication speciﬁcations remain consistent with the original quality strategies via trade unions or industry associations FFB standards and accreditation, throughout the manufacturing (Fédération Française du Bâtiment), IGNES (Industries du and marketing process. Génie Numérique Énergétique et Sécuritaire), BEAMA (British Non-product quality indicators are closely monitored at Electrical and Allied Manufacturers’ Association), to raise the country and business unit level. Any divergence from awareness among all stakeholders, including installers and these indicators is systematically analyzed and corrected by distributors. implementing action plans. As a result of actions carried out in 2016, the Group seized The product risk management procedure, applicable to all Group 715,000 counterfeit products. More than 80% of these seizures products irrespective of brand and target market, includes fastcome from actions taken on the direct initiative of Legrand’s track internal processing for potentially critical situations. In the teams in China. The remainder result from Legrand taking part in most sensitive cases, product withdrawal or recall actions could actions carried out jointly by members of the electrical industry be launched. In 2016, two operations of this type were carried out and customs supervision. within the Group. For example, since January 2006, more than 5.5 million counterfeit The customer dissatisfaction management process ranks devices (primarily switches and sockets) and circuit breakers dissatisfaction according to different levels of severity: those that under all the Group’s brand names, as well as 21 production could have implications for the safety of goods or people, or that molds, have been seized and destroyed. Legrand has also shut have signiﬁcant ﬁnancial implications, are dealt with separately. down some 10,000 links to websites selling counterfeit goods. The increased accountability of all Group employees is encouraged through their commitment and application of the quality policy. 70 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions Focus: Copytracer, protecting the user 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Customer satisfaction also depends on the Group’s ability to Target achievement rate * 101% 101% 102% guarantee the authenticity of its products to customers. To combat counterfeiting, Legrand has introduced a system known * Calculated on year-end sales (excluding services and acquisitions in 2016) as Copytracer Legrand. This is a unique registration number compared with annual targets. applied to certain Legrand products (e.g. new generations of modular circuit breakers, Valena wiring devices in Russia). This system applies a speciﬁc mark to the Group’s products to An industry-wide approach differentiate between original products and copies and other The Product Environmental Proﬁle (PEP) is a reference tool for counterfeits that are often synonymous with risk for users. It is information on the environmental impact of electrical products. gradually being extended to all Group subsidiaries and brands. It is based on an international benchmark standard, ISO 14025 – Since 2014, it has been introduced by the Egyptian, Polish, Italian, Environmental labels and declarations – Type III environmental Russian, Indian, Hungarian and South African subsidiaries, as declarations. well as other historic subsidiaries. The information provided is taken from the LCA (Life Cycle For more information on Legrand’s ﬁght against counterfeiting, Assessment), which calculates the environmental impact of see chapter 3.1.5 of this Registration Document on “Risks related a product or service over its entire lifetime using the EIME to intellectual property”. (Environmental Improvement Made Easy) calculation software, applying the rules deﬁned by ISO 14040 – Environmental Management – LCA. 04 R 4.2.1.3 INFORMING CUSTOMERS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT NB: LCA techniques and calculations are also used to optimize the environmental performance of products during the design phase. OF PRODUCTS This subject is covered in section 4.5.2. Reducing the environmental impact of buildings requires The PEP ecopassport® program was ﬁrst developed in France careful design choices. Product environmental information, in with leaders in the electrical industry which are members of accordance with ISO 14025, speciﬁcally informs users of the the PEP Association (of which Legrand is a founding member). environmental impact of the electrical products they use. This is It now has a global reach and is today recognized by countless a unique advantage for users of Legrand products. operators for environmental reporting programs and sustainable building certiﬁcation worldwide. On the basis of a set of rules Group priority 2014-2018 deﬁned by the program and currently being standardized, PEP ecopassport® provides a strict framework for the LCA approach, Provide product environmental data compliant with ISO 14025 for and characterizes the environmental information to be provided: products accounting for two-thirds of Group sales. a review of the materials used, information on hazardous Key performance indicator: substances when present, environmental impacts on air, water and natural resources based on the calculation of at least eight Percentage of Group sales of products sold with a PEP (Product indicators. Each stage in the life of the product or service is taken Environmental Proﬁle), in compliance with ISO 14025. into account, from the extraction of raw materials needed for Annual targets: manufacturing to the end of product life, as well as the production, distribution, implementation and use stages. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 In 2015, with the publication of the third edition of the Product To achieve a sales Category Rules (PCR ed3), the rules of the PEP ecopassport coverage rate of: 51% 55% 59% 63% 66% program were updated to facilitate the use of PEPs in the LCA of a building. PEPs that comply with these new rules have 2016 achievement: been aligned with the requirements of European standard At the end of 2016, 60% of Group sales were of products with a EN 15804 (Sustainability of construction works – Environmental PEP. Having achieved its 2016 target for this priority, the Group is product declarations), the benchmark for type III environmental continuing its communication policy on the environmental impact declarations for construction products. Legrand’s PEPs offer of its products. all the environmental indicators necessary for a building’s LCA calculation. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 71 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions A recognized tool Group priority 2014-2018 The PEP environmental declaration and the associated PEP Avoid the production of 1.5 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent. ecopassport® program are recognized by several construction Key performance indicator: number of metric tons of CO2 rating systems. For example, the LEED (Leadership in Energy emissions avoided by using the energy efficiency solutions sold and Environmental Design) scheme, a standardization system each year by the Group. for high-performance buildings, is the ﬁrst global standard in this area, with about 140,000 m2 certiﬁed daily. Version 4 of LEED Annual targets: emphasizes the need for product environmental information in accordance with ISO 14025 for electrical equipment installed in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 a building. Not only do PEPs enable Legrand to position itself on Million of metric tons projects with more added value, but they also allow the industry to of CO2 avoided using deliver projects with better environmental performance, thereby the energy-efficient adding value to the building in which these solutions are installed. solutions marketed by the Group 0,18 0,43 0,83 1,2 1,5 More than 1,400 PEPs available 2016 achievement: By including all environmental data in a single document, A total of 835,000 metric tons of CO2 emissions were avoided the PEP provides the supply chain with authentic, reliable thanks to the energy efficiency solutions marketed by the Group, information enabling an informed technical choice to be made against a target of 833,000 by end 2016 and this enabled the while acknowledging the environmental aspects, particularly in Group to achieve its 2016 target for this priority. buildings with environmental certiﬁcation (HQE, LEED, BREEAM, etc.). 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Legrand has ﬁled more than 1,400 PEPs in the official database Target achievement rate * 74% 105% 100% of the PEP ecopassport® program (pep-ecopassport.org). These documents can also be accessed on the websites of the * Calculated against annual targets. Group’s various brands, or on request from customer service departments. For example, about 4,500 downloads of these documents were recorded on Legrand’s French website in 2016. Simple and accessible solutions Thanks to the efforts of its R&D teams, 60% of Group sales were generated by products covered by PEPs at the end of 2016. The Group offers energy-efficient solutions for residential, commercial and industrial buildings, both new builds and those In 2016, some 300 new PEPs were developed for the Group’s being renovated. They are easy to install, adapt and use and can various international offerings. All R&D centers involved in the be implemented by the Group’s usual industry partners. These Legrand Way for Eco-conscious Design were involved in this effort solutions serve the needs of investors and speciﬁers working in to create PEP ecopassport® for their market. This environmental the ﬁeld of energy efficiency (Energy Service Companies, Facility information has also been made available to customers in the Managers, System Integrators, Technical Consultants on Green U.S., China, Brazil and India. Buildings, etc.). For more information about the PEP ecopassport program, see In energy distribution, Legrand contributes to a building’s energy the section on our website www.legrand.com/EN. performance with the following solutions: W Reactive energy compensation and harmonics ﬁltration: Alpes R 4.2.1.4 IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN BUILDINGS Technologies offers a full range of services and products that improve energy quality and reduce the environmental impact, Because buildings are responsible for 40% of energy consumption particularly in terms of CO2 emissions; and 20% of CO2 emissions, reducing the energy consumption of W Energy-efficient transformers and busbars to optimize power buildings is a major part of the ﬁght against global warming. distribution and reduce system losses; Installing equipment to improve energy efficiency in buildings is therefore a priority for Legrand. The aim is to reduce CO2 W High-quality uninterrupted power supply: the Group’s UPS ranges are based on smart power factor correction circuitry, emissions through solutions that improve energy consumption. which optimizes the absorption of energy inputs: efficiency 72 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions remains at a high and constant level, even at a low rate of Focus: Making consumption more transparent so that it can be charge. Through its subsidiaries Inform (Turkey), SMS (Brazil), managed better Meta System Energy (Italy), Numeric (India), S2S (France), The Legrand eco-meter is the ﬁrst commercially available Primetech (Italy) and Fluxpower (Germany), Legrand offers meter with an integrated IP output connected to the occupant’s conventional UPS ranges, high-tech modular UPS facilities communications cabinet or box, or to the building’s IP network. for critically important systems (data centers and ﬁnancial Consumption is displayed online and can either be viewed on-site institutions), and photovoltaic power inverters. or remotely on a PC, tablet or smartphone. Meter readings are In energy management, Legrand contributes to a building’s taken for electric or gas heating, air conditioning, hot water, energy performance with the following solutions: electrical sockets, and other sources of consumption in the home. W Lighting, heating and plant management: the Group’s solutions manage energy and reduce waste and therefore electricity CO2 emissions avoided bills, with a quick return on investment for users. The Group has expanded with the acquisition of Pinnacle for lighting and Energy saved using the Group’s energy-efficient solutions is Q-Motion and Solarfective for natural lighting management. calculated from Group sales of energy-efficient solutions, a In addition, digital lighting management solutions optimize return on investment, and the cost of electricity in the countries energy consumption by adapting to usage. concerned, respectively for France over a period of ﬁve years and €90/MWh in line with industry-wide data. In other countries, the W Analysis, measurement and monitoring of electrical equipment are essential steps when preparing an energy audit (i.e. ISO 50001 audit) and managing installations. local cost of electricity and the impact on return on investment is balanced when it comes to calculate energy saved. Besides, the greenhouse gas emissions avoided in each country considered 04 W Photovoltaic panel connections: Legrand offers photovoltaic take into account the carbon content of local electricity. For each panel connection solutions for residential and commercial use. of Legrand’s national markets, combining all these factors helps to establish a link between the volume of sales in the country and W Electric vehicle charging solutions: Legrand offers a domestic total CO2 emissions from using the products sold for one year. type socket, Green’up Access, which can charge at 14 A Note that the impact calculation takes into account 50% of annual (3.2 kW). It also has a range of charging stations, Green’up sales for the ﬁrst year considered. It is assumed that avoided Premium, suited to the home, public or corporate parking areas, emissions are cumulative over a given year, calculated on sales residential buildings and public roads. made since 2014. W Energy savings for data centers: largely thanks to Minkels, the Since 2014, the Group has thus avoided an aggregated total of Dutch acquisition that specializes in data-center equipment, the 1.4 million metric tons of CO2 emissions. Group provides energy-saving solutions for data centers both for large, medium and small enterprises and for commercial facilities. For example, the Varicondition Cold Corridor® solution Focus: Responsible and transparent information. is a system based on the complete separation of hot and Energy-efficient products are identiﬁed by a symbol which is cold air ﬂows, to increase efficiency and energy savings. The found on all of the Group’s commercial brands. To help customers acquisition of Raritan rounds out the data-center offering with make an informed choice, the Legrand Group has endeavored to smart PDUs(1). communicate the beneﬁts of its energy-efficient solutions using three indicators: the ﬁnancial saving, the product lifespan and the CO2 emissions avoided. Calculations are based on regulatory or standard speciﬁcations, and/or evidence from recognized outside experts. This information is also backed up with concrete examples of installations presenting solutions in speciﬁc applications and building types. (1) PDU: Power Distribution Unit. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 73 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions 4.2.2 Playing a driving role in the electrical sector Users of the Group’s products include professional electrical Annual targets: installers and product speciﬁers. Legrand is committed to helping them drive change, particularly in view of the social, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 environmental and technological developments within the Customers trained electrical industry. The challenge is to foster skills enhancement (in aggregate) 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 500,000 across the industry and to stimulate innovation. Legrand also places particular importance on customer satisfaction and 2016 achievement: feedback in order to make continuous improvements to the Legrand has trained more than 430,000 customers since 2014, products and services offered to users. exceeding its target of 300,000 customers by more than 40%. This positive performance is mainly due to the results of the U.S., Focus: Minkels wins Frost & Sullivan Best Practices Award Brazilian, Chinese, Chilean and Peruvian subsidiaries. In 2015, Minkels received a Frost & Sullivan award for its Free Standing Cold Corridor, a revolutionary new racks and cabinet 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 solution for the European market. Frost & Sullivan, a partnership Target achievement rate * 122% 130% 146% company for growth and visionary innovation, presents this award to companies that have achieved remarkable success * Calculated against annual targets. and have demonstrated superior performance in different areas (e.g. leading market position, technological innovation, customer service or strategic product development). Dedicated training centers Legrand offers training programs to local distributors, speciﬁers R 4.2.2.1 FOSTERING SKILLS ENHANCEMENT ACROSS THE ELECTRICAL INDUSTRY and electrical installers, including at its Innoval international training centers in Limoges, Lyon, Aix-en-Provence, Nantes, Nancy and Paris, France, as well as in the Middle East and South Because electrical trades are becoming increasingly high-tech, America. In total, there are 17 training centers around the world technical support is often required today for high value-added for electrical industry players. systems. Legrand is committed to training all industry players to help them develop their skills. People want to have access to The training courses offered allow electrical installers to keep up training anywhere, at any time and in a wide range of formats. with the latest innovations and installation methods used by the To meet these needs, Legrand uses new communications and Group, and to expand their know-how and range of services. The training technologies. For example, the Group has introduced courses help them keep their skills up to date, consolidate their various online training tools, such as e-learning and virtual knowledge and develop their commercial offering. classrooms. The Innoval training centers offer more than 50 hands-on programs which reproduce the actual site conditions, in different areas, ranging from home automation, the wiring of electrical Group priority 2014-2018 cabinets and ﬁber-optic cabling, to installing security lighting To continue to provide training to industry players by further systems or providing training on current regulations and innovation in response to local needs and conditions. technical standards. Tailor-made courses are also available for professionals at each stage of their commercial development. Key performance indicator: number of customers trained by providing tools and training tailored to their needs. In 2016, the Innoval centers in France welcomed about 7,500 customers and nearly 5,500 apprentices to training courses. For more information on the Group’s training strategy, see section 2.3.1.3. 74 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions Focus: A simulation wall for the My Home system with remote to accelerate the forging of new technology and research access partnerships. The home automation system My Home offers a host of possible 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 conﬁgurations to suit the myriad requirements of the Group’s customers. Using a simulation wall integrated with the My Home Target achievement rate * 83% 131% 114% system, customers can prepare their projects locally or online via remote access. The simulation, generated by the Group’s * Calculated against annual targets. specialists, can enhance projects by providing advice during the design phase and clariﬁcation during the execution phase. Collaborative projects More information on training can be found on the website at www. legrand.com. Legrand is a member of several competitive clusters, designed to bring local businesses, training centers, research laboratories and universities together in partnerships to develop innovative R 4.2.2.2 STIMULATING TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATION collaborative projects. The Group is a founding member of ELOPSYS, which, on January 1, 2017 following the creation of the Nouvelle Aquitaine region in 2016, merged with Route des Lasers To encourage and drive innovation, Legrand works closely with to form the high-tech cluster called Alpha Route des Lasers et industry and with the scientiﬁc and academic communities. For example, the Group is involved in collaborative research projects and works in competitive clusters or technology transfer des Hyperfréquences, specializing in photonics, electronics and microwaves. Legrand is also a founder member of S2E2 (Science 04 et Système de l’Énergie Électrique – Science and Electrical centers. It also works with startups and SMEs in various forms Power System), focusing on electrical energy for the Center and (collaborative research or development projects, partnerships, Limousin regions. investee companies). This acts as a catalyst for the industry, particularly in disruptive or growth areas such as the Silver The Group is also involved in various collaborative projects, such Economy, personal comfort and well-being, access to electricity, as: energy efficiency, building security, electric vehicles, connected W “Smart Grid Vendée” and “Smart Electric Lyon”. The aim of these objects, and digital networks. The Group is also extensively Smart Grid projects is to develop new energy management involved in education through its partnerships with training solutions for commercial and/or residential buildings by establishments, regular discussions with engineering schools, incorporating new energy sources and optimizing consumption. and support for the creation of new, specialist courses. The commercial and residential pilot buildings are currently By sharing innovation, it can expedite its growth and drive operational and will be used to assess the real-world beneﬁts progress throughout the entire electrical sector. of innovative energy management solutions. W In 2015, Legrand participated in the funding round held by Group priority 2014-2018 Netatmo, a specialist in connected objects for the home. Legrand is therefore involved in providing Netatmo with the resources To continue to develop university partnerships and collaborative it needs to pursue its strong growth. Netatmo products research projects, and implement the resulting innovations. (weather station for smartphone, thermostat for smartphone, Key performance indicator: number of new and signiﬁcant Welcome, security camera with facial recognition) have been collaborative research projects or partnerships embarked on successfully marketed in Europe, the United States and Asia. In during the year. addition to giving Legrand closer proximity to the latest trends in the Internet of Things, these connections will also facilitate Annual targets: collaboration for the development of interoperable electrical 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and digital infrastructure products with wider practical applications, such as the Céliane™ with Netatmo offering Partnerships established presented at the CES in Las Vegas in January 2017. (in total) 6 13 21 30 40 W Legrand is the lead participant in Cocaps, a collaborative 2016 achievement: research project certiﬁed by the S2E2 competitiveness cluster with French government Single Inter-ministerial Legrand embarked on 7 major new collaborative research Funding. It is aimed at developing low-cost sensors providing partnerships and projects in 2016. This brings the number of enriched information on presence detection and activity inside signiﬁcant partnerships established since 2014 to 24 (versus buildings, information that is essential for the automation of a target of 21), which is testament to Legrand’s commitment assisted living functionality, energy management, comfort and, ultimately, security. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 75 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions W To expedite the development of smart buildings, Legrand For more information on innovation management, please refer to is working with various stakeholders to strengthen section 2.2.2.1.1 of this Registration Document. interoperability between their technologies, for example in energy management, heating, ventilation, air conditioning and Engagement with the academic community heat pump systems. More speciﬁcally, Legrand has established The Group is involved with the academic community, especially an international technology partnership with Samsung to in innovative ﬁelds that represent opportunities for the electrical develop offerings that improve hotel room control and comfort industry, such as access to electricity, energy consumption and thus enhance the guest experience through connected management, personal well-being, health and safety, as well as solutions. assisted living and electric vehicles. W Starting in 2016, Legrand continues with its pioneering work To maintain a vital link between industry and education, and thus on developing sensor networks in partnership with CEA-Leti contribute to the skills enhancement of future professionals in (French Atomic Energy Center).The aim of this collaboration the electrical sector, certain Group subsidiaries are establishing is to develop autonomous power supply solutions for wireless partnerships with training establishments, their teachers/ controls and sensors. trainers and students, the future product speciﬁers and installers W In 2016, Legrand went into partnership with Ablerex to develop of the electrical industry. This is the case, for example, with energy storage solutions for buildings. Legrand’s subsidiary in Costa Rica, which has joined forces In addition, Legrand is committed to promoting the future of its with the Universidad Católica Santa María La Antigua (USMA) industry: to run and teach courses on home automation to students studying for electrical qualiﬁcations. Subsidiaries in Chile and W Legrand was involved, together with the French government, Egypt have also formed partnerships respectively with INACAP in the creation of the Silver Economy, a “business incubator” (Universidad Tecnologica de Chile) and the University of Heliopolis that brings together innovative start-ups and groups positioned (University for Sustainable Development). In 2015, the Brazilian in the assisted living market. Legrand’s Chairman and Chief subsidiary launched the innovation project New PowerView with Executive Officer has been appointed Vice-Chairman of the the Reconcavo Institute of Technology (Instituto de Tecnologia). Silver Economy “Industry of the Future” committee, responsible The aim of the project is to develop a modern management and for organizing and coordinating this sector. The committee remote monitoring tool for uninterruptible power supplies (UPS). brings together companies, trade federations, competitive clusters, government departments, ﬁnancial institutions and Legrand has always forged close links with the world of actors involved in long-term care and welfare. It is tasked with education and training, keen to offer its know-how and skills examining proposals from industry stakeholders so that the to promote the electrical engineering and digital sectors and government can then plan and implement its response for this scientiﬁc, technical and vocational disciplines in general. sector. Legrand is a longtime partner of both WorldSkills France and WorldSkills Hungary. Between them they share common values W Legrand is an active member of the OCF (Open Connectivity based on professionalism and knowledge-based excellence. Foundation), the largest international consortium set up to Through competitions such as WorldSkills, Legrand seeks to promote the worldwide adoption of products, systems and further its aim of promoting vocational training pathways such services comprising the Internet of Things based on a shared as apprenticeships. technology and open-source languages. Members of this alliance are working on an open-source software project For more information about innovation at Legrand, visit the with industry wide support, which accepts contributions from Innovation section of our website www.legrand.com/EN. members and the open source community. Participation in legislative and regulatory developments Focus: Legrand signs “Open Innovation Alliance” charter Legrand is involved in environmental standardization through The Legrand Group is involved in lobbying the French government the work of CENELEC’s Technical Committee, TC111X, in charge to promote open innovation by signing the “Open Innovation of environmental aspects for electrical and electronic products Alliance” charter. The aim of the alliance is to harness best and systems. This work mainly covers energy efficiency and practice, success and tangible results to foster the widespread resource efficiency. For example, Legrand’s experts, members of adoption of open and collaborative innovation in the French the French and Italian mirror committees, were directly involved economy. It seeks to provide a policy framework of virtuous in drafting the future standard EN50XXX dealing with product principles for collaboration between companies and start-ups category rules (PCRs) applicable to the Life Cycle Assessment and to champion the values of a mutually beneﬁcial partnership. (LCA) of electrical and electronic products and systems. 76 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions Through its membership on the Technical Secretariat (TS) for UPS systems, Legrand is also involved in the Product Environmental R 4.2.2.3 ENSURING CUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND FEEDBACK Footprint (PEF) project. The aim of this project, funded by the European Commission, is to draw up methodological guidelines Monitoring customer satisfaction offers valuable insights for the deﬁnition of the PCR required for an LCA that reduces the for improving products and services and understanding environmental impact of products and services over their entire customers’ needs. This is why customer feedback is one of life cycle. Legrand’s fundamental values. The Group intends to reinforce its image as the partner of choice by improving how it handles Legrand also supports various Green Building initiatives (e.g. customer dissatisfaction, delivering to customer deadlines and LEED, Green Star, BREEAM, HQE, etc.). It is a member of the Green continuously improving its customer relationship. Customer Building Council (GBC) in several countries, including the United relationship management is formalized through standard States, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam, Singapore and China. contracts that specify terms of sale and are adapted to various In the United Arab Emirates, for example, the Group’s subsidiary geographical areas under the responsibility of the Sales Director is an active member of the Emirates Green Building Council in each country. (EGBC) and a member of its Board of Directors. In 2015, it was The four values and quality policy of the Legrand Group can be involved in drawing up EGBC technical guidelines on building found at www.legrand.com/EN. renovation and contributed to the section on lighting management. The guidelines were developed in accordance with the UAE sustainable development program and with local sustainable strategies (e.g. Integrated Energy Strategy for Dubai, Abu Dhabi’s “Vision 2030”, etc.). It offers UAE project managers an effective Group priority 2014-2018 To provide feedback mechanisms and customer satisfaction 04 measurement for 95% of Group sales. toolbox for designing sustainable and comfortable buildings using cost-effective methods. In 2017, the EGBC will launch an Key performance indicators: educational tool on its website to promote greener buildings. W percentage of Group sales covered by a customer service rate This tool is called the Green Building Toolkit. By sponsoring this indicator; initiative, Legrand is helping set up and publicize the platform. W percentage of Group sales made by entities with a CRM The Group is also involved with government authorities in the (Customer Relationship Management) tool; construction of the regulatory framework for energy efficiency in buildings, for example, in France (Effinergie label), the UK (Part L W percentage of Group sales made by entities with the SOLUTIO (customer dissatisfaction management) tool; and Smart Home), and the USA (ASHRAE). The Group is involved in the national debate in France on the energy transition (nuclear, W percentage of Group sales made by entities using customer renewables, smart grids, etc.). In the United States, the Group satisfaction surveys. is a partner of the Alliance to Save Energy. This organization Annual targets: brings together business leaders, policymakers and heads of environmental protection and consumer associations all over the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 world who are committed to promoting energy efficiency through Sales coverage rate political, research, technological, communication and public achieved on at least two of awareness initiatives. the above four indicators 75% 80% 85% 90% 95% 2016 achievement: The roll-out of CRM and customer feedback tools continued in 2016. At the end of 2016, the principal indicators for this priority were the following: W customer service rate indicator: 88%; W CRM tool launched: 89%; W SOLUTIO tool launched: 87%; W customer satisfaction surveys: 71%. In 2016, service rate measurement continued to be rolled out (+4 points compared with 2015), while customer satisfaction surveys are also encouraged (71% of the Group’s sales covered, as against 67% in 2015). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 77 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions chain, distribution policy, cooperation). These assessments are 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 carried out by independent service providers. The Strategy Target achievement rate * 109% 112% 104% and Development Division analyzes these results and shares them with all countries. Meetings are held every two years * Calculated in relation to the average of the two highest achievement rates of with distributors to develop, monitor and discuss business the above four indicators, i.e. SOLUTIO and the service rate in 2014, the CRM relationships. Regular meetings are also held with product and SOLUTIO in 2015, and the service rate and CRM in 2016, compared with speciﬁers to discuss their expectations. annual targets. Focus: In the United Arab Emirates: Legrand improves customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction In 2013, Legrand introduced an innovative approach to improve The availability of Group products for its customers is key to customer satisfaction in the United Arab Emirates. The idea is to customer satisfaction. As a result, Legrand monitors the service strengthen and formalize the relationship between the Group and rate for its different subsidiaries to measure the Group’s ability its distributors via a series of mutually beneﬁcial commitments to ﬁll orders from its customers in the desired quantities and for both parties. time frame. This service rate is consolidated by the Group Supply An audit of business partners and an assessment of Legrand’s Chain Department. technical support were carried out to assess the ability of both The Group has introduced a standard system for enhanced parties to meet customer expectations. The quality of Legrand’s customer relationship management. This has boosted customer service, particularly in terms of training, technical support and satisfaction and loyalty by continually exceeding customer logistical support, was assessed. This approach resulted in the expectations. For example, more than 89% of Group sales are implementation of actions that allow these distributors, with covered by a CRM (Customer Relationship Management) tool, Legrand’s support, to improve their own customer service. or example Salesforce. This incorporates a corporate social network, Chatter, which allows projects and information to be shared more widely. From a marketing perspective, it facilitates Collaborative innovation the reporting of market data. The 3-point reduction from 2015 is The value and functional properties of the Group’s products due to the number of acquisitions that the Group made, where any are essential for customer satisfaction. They are involved in implementation takes place in the ﬁrst few years. the Group’s innovation processes through shared creativity Subsidiaries’ Customer Service Departments have local workshops, for example through the UCD (User Centered Design) responsibility for ensuring the satisfaction of their customers. project, which includes the end user in the product development These send comments or requests for product improvements process. Based on ISO 13407, the project offers a design approach to SBUs to inform the debate on product developments. The centered on the user and how the product is used. dissatisfaction monitoring software SOLUTIO provides a Legrand has also introduced a “Future Home” program in which direct connection between the after-sales departments of each users participated in identifying major trends impacting on subsidiary, the quality departments of the SBUs and the central housing and its use, as well as emerging expectations around product risk management department. Information is shared electrical products. The program has resulted in concrete in real time, and technical issues or customer dissatisfaction innovative concepts which are now being analyzed by the Group’s is registered immediately for optimized processing. At the end SBUs (strategic business units). of 2016, 87% of Group sales due to have the SOLUTIO tool were already included within the reporting scope of the tool. Responsible communication In addition, satisfaction surveys are carried out at different The Group undertakes to comply with responsible communication levels: principles and codes for all information communicated W multi-criteria surveys are carried out regularly by the Group’s (advertising, direct marketing, public relations, promotional subsidiaries to measure the brand perception, quality, price, campaigns) and all its tools (digital, booklets, brochures, etc.). service, etc. with customer panels or focus groups. In 2016, The Director of Group External Communications, reporting to the for example, such surveys were conducted in the Netherlands, Director of Strategy and Development, is responsible for ensuring Belgium, France, Italy, Chile and the United States. Subsidiaries the implementation of these principles throughout the Group’s are encouraged to perform annual surveys, which is the case subsidiaries, with a dedicated team of 179 people in all. Local for most of the subsidiaries that have introduced them; teams manage their own communications, in accordance with the W every year, the Group’s key distributors evaluate its regulations and, where there is no self-regulation body locally, performance and services (marketing, technical support, supply communications are systematically checked for compliance with 78 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Offering users sustainable solutions Group values and the speciﬁc cultural requirements of some non-compliance with established principles and codes. The Group countries and validated by the Group. undertakes to respect the ARPP’s decisions, for example with regard to advertising submitted ahead of campaign launches. The For each international product launch, and for all Corporate UDA has published a checklist for responsible communication Communication activities, traditional and digital communication aimed at marketers, as well as a charter setting out standards is handled by Group External Communications, in accordance with for the respectful portrayal of people in advertising, which is Group rules. All communication must be approved by the Director recognized by the French Ministry for Solidarity and Social of Group External Communications and his team. Communication Cohesion. tools – particularly the source ﬁles – are held in a database accessible only to the department’s communications officers and The UPA is also a member of the WFA (World Federation of the communications officers of the Group’s subsidiaries. Advertisers) and has two programs: “Responsible Advertising and Children Program” and the “Responsible Marketing Pact”. Compliance with Group rules is veriﬁed before these are distributed to subsidiaries, which may not adapt the creative concepts to the local context. The directors of subsidiaries are Data protection also briefed so that they can apply these principles to their own As a specialist in electrical and digital building infrastructure, media relations. The Group has been found to be compliant with Legrand generated sales in 2016 of close to €440 million from these principles and ethics since their introduction, with no connected objects, representing an increase of nearly 40% in occurrences of non-compliance. total sales achieved with already connected products compared The Group is a member of associations that prepare principles for voluntary communication and codes of conduct, including for with 2015, which places the Group ahead of its market plan. While the Internet of Things and the proliferation of data will 04 example the Union des Annonceurs (UDA) and the Utenti Pubblicità necessarily have implications for privacy, Legrand intends to Associati (UPA), which are the advertisers associations in France remain true to its values, without compromising on respect for and Italy, respectively. its customers. The Eliot program will thus help to maintain data These associations comply with a range of European and national conﬁdentiality. In view of this, Legrand has introduced an approach regulations, including: promoting data privacy and the security of these data oriented toward the Eliot program on the development of connected devices W ICC Code no. 240-46/557 of February 3, 2010: Framework (Privacy by Design) and based on recommendations issued by the for responsible environmental marketing communications, article 29 Working Party (the article 29 Data Protection Working and the consolidated ICC Code of advertising and marketing Party was set up under Directive 95/46/EC of October 24, 1995 communication practice; on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing W Charter of commitments and objectives for responsible of personal data and on the free movement of such data). In advertising of the French Ministry of Ecology, Energy, particular, security audits and regular intrusion tests are carried Sustainable Development and Territorial Development, the out by Legrand or by leading cybersecurity companies. These Secretary of State for Industry and Consumption and the are conducted in the form of simulation of hacking throughout French Advertising Standards Authority (BVP); the process, from software development to production. Legrand also implements PIAs (Privacy Impact Assessments) to measure W the Self-regulatory Commercial Advertising Code (Codice di and minimize the impact of personal data processing on users’ Autodisciplina della Comunicazione Commerciale) of the IAP privacy. (Istituto dell’ Autodisciplina Pubblicitaria) in Italy. The Group is also conducting speciﬁc tests and analyses on The UDA has also established an advertising self-regulatory the security and protection of personal data in association with authority, the ARPP, which is tasked with responding to cases of companies specializing in cybersecurity. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 79 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society 4.3 ACTING ETHICALLY TOWARDS SOCIETY Social responsibility applies to all the partners with which the Legrand Group interacts. This interaction must take place with the utmost respect for ethical principles, particularly in terms of business practices and purchasing policy. As a socially responsible organization, the Group is also committed to helping as many people as possible gain sustainable access to electricity. 4.3.1 Acting ethically The Group’s commitments and priorities employment at the expense of the company; second, noncompliance with accounting standards and communication to One of the basic tenets of Legrand’s social responsibility is to the Group of ﬁnancial data that is known to be materially false; abide by ethical principles. This approach covers the themes third, failure to obey the law. Fraud is strictly prohibited within of compliance with competition rules, the application of the Legrand Group. best business practices (particularly on anti-corruption), the prevention of conﬂicts of interest and management of fraud risks, The Legrand Group does not tolerate non-compliance with the the observation of international embargoes and sanctions, and laws on export control or trade embargoes against a country or the prevention of money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. These individuals, particularly ﬁnancial and economic sanctions imposed themes are reﬂected in the four pillars of the Group’s compliance by the United Nations Security Council, the U.S. Government and program. the European Union. Furthermore, each Group subsidiary has a duty to monitor compliance with national regulations that may Concerning compliance with the competition rules, the Group have been enacted by some countries and that impose economic, prohibits formal or implicit agreements between companies, trade or ﬁnancial sanctions against certain states. whether horizontal between directly competing companies, or vertical between players at different levels in the economic Lastly, Legrand is committed to enforcing anti-money laundering chain. Such agreements may have the effect of distorting or legislation and seeks to have reputable customers with legitimate reducing competition. The Group also prohibits the exchange of operations, ﬁnanced by lawfully obtained funds. commercially sensitive information with competitors and abuses The Group’s commitments and rules regarding business ethics of dominant position that could lead to the closure of the market are enshrined in its guidelines and charters. The Guide to Good to the arrival of new players or exclude existing competitors, to Business Practices illustrates how the Group views and conducts the detriment of customers and end consumers. business; it sets out the values shared by the Group’s employees. The Group deﬁnes corruption as unlawfully or inappropriately In terms of trade relations, Legrand’s Competition Charter sets offering an advantage in return for a favor or advantage, or to out the best practices to adopt and explains how to abide by inﬂuence someone’s actions. Legrand prohibits corruption in competition rules. These documents supplement the Group’s its dealings with public authorities, customers, suppliers or Charter of Fundamental Principles. All Group employees must other partners (by bribes, commission or illegal payments, for adhere to these rules, particularly if they are in contact with the example). The Group is extremely attentive to other situations that Group’s customers, suppliers or business partners. All these might prove legal or illegal, depending on the circumstances or documents can be found at www.legrand.com. the local legal context, such as facilitation payments and lobbying The ethical business rules that the Group applies do not stop at its for example. In addition, strict procedures apply to business gifts, subsidiaries: they also apply to its suppliers and subcontractors. hospitality and entertainment. Donations to charities are also Legrand expects them to adhere to the sustainability standards regulated. contained in its Ethical Supplier Relations Code. Compliance The Group deﬁnes fraud as the willful use of deception by one with these rules is a major factor in supplier selection and or more members of management, individuals in charge of management. governance, employees or third parties to obtain an undue and/ The Group demonstrates its commitment in these areas through or unlawful advantage. The notion of fraud includes various two priorities of its CSR roadmap: employee awareness and concepts: ﬁrst, the misappropriation of assets by an employee training, and by ensuring that its compliance program is properly and any attempt to derive a personal beneﬁt from his or her implemented. 80 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society The General Management’s commitment is cascaded down to the The Group’s business ethics framework involves head office Group’s various divisions and countries, which must sign a letter departments, which are regularly called upon to reinforce pledging to comply with the rules on business ethics. The letter established rules and develop awareness, training and monitoring is relayed by the countries, departments and SBUs at the highest activities. The Group Compliance Committee, composed of the level of their organization. Reﬂecting the two priorities of the CSR heads of central departments (HR, Group Purchasing, Group roadmap, the letter conﬁrms the signatories’ commitment to train Operations, Finance, Export and Strategy), oversees the Group’s local staff and effectively implement the rules and procedures of compliance program. the Group’s compliance program. The Fraud and Alerts Committee deals with cases of nonThe Group’s compliance guide sets out the rules and obligations compliance under the supervision of the Group Compliance to be observed by all Group employees. Officer. The General Management has affirmed its strong commitment to Group subsidiaries locally implement the rules deﬁned and adapt business ethics by signing the Global Compact and by adhering them according to local laws and regulations. The Country Chief to the main universal principles and the international reference Financial Officers have been named as Country Compliance documents, including: the Universal Declaration of Human Officers for the purposes of the Group’s compliance program. Rights and additional compacts; the United Nations Sustainable They ensure that all entities within their remit implement the Development Goals; the guiding principles of the OECD on the program. Country Compliance Committees track the deployment ﬁght against bribery of foreign public officials in international and management of compliance programs locally. business transactions; the guiding principles of the OECD for multinational companies; the United Nations Convention against Corruption; transnational or national legislation and regulations Focus: Legrand proactive in implementing the new French 04 regulatory requirements on preventing breaches of integrity. on competition and anti-corruption. In the interests of ongoing improvement and risk management, the Group’s compliance program takes into account the requirements Organization of business ethics within the Group on the prevention of corruption and inﬂuence peddling under the Business ethics is the responsibility of the Group Legal and French Sapin II Law (Law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016). Compliance Department. The Group Executive VP Legal Affairs These requirements strengthen Legrand’s existing processes, also acts as Group Compliance Officer. Her role is to protect particularly by segmenting the Group’s compliance risk map by the Group from non-compliance risks by enforcing rules and geographic area, and by assessing third parties and their position regulations on business ethics. in relation to major risks. The Group has implemented a compliance program under the The measures implemented are subject to control and internal aegis of the Group Legal and Compliance Department. It is based assessment. on the regulatory and legislative framework, the best practices deﬁned by the Group, and an analysis of the risks relating to business ethics for the Group (please refer to chapter 4.3.1.2, “Verifying the application of the Group’s compliance program”). R 4.3.1.1 AWARENESS AND TRAINING IN BUSINESS ETHICS The Internal Control Department incorporates business ethics into all risk management, internal control and audit processes. Respect for ethical principles implies, ﬁrst of all, precise and detailed awareness of these issues. Continuous employee training Risk management reporting for business ethics takes place twice is therefore essential. The aim of the Group’s training schemes is a year within the Group Risk Committee and annually within the to ensure that employees likely to encounter risk situations have Audit Committee. The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports a sound knowledge of the rules on business ethics. It also means back to the Board of Directors. The Group Compliance Officer reducing the likelihood of an infringement of competition law or works directly with these committees on speciﬁc cases of nonanti-corruption, anti-money laundering or export control laws, compliance; she has direct access to the Group Chairman and in all Group entities and subsidiaries. Any breach of the Group’s CEO, advising him on matters relating to business ethics and ethical principles by an employee gives rise to a detailed analysis submitting policies proposed as part of the compliance program and, if applicable, to sanctions. to him for approval. Group priority 2014-2018 Train an additional 3,000 employees in business ethics (anticorruption, fraud prevention, compliance with competition rules, conﬂicts of interest, etc.). Key performance indicator: the number of employees trained in business ethics during the year. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 81 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society Annual targets: tools (risk assessment questionnaires, presentations) as well as speciﬁc procedures for gifts, meals, entertainment and business 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 partners. In 2016, new procedures for gifts, entertainment and Total number of employees conﬂicts of interest were drawn up locally. Other measures may be trained in business ethics* 400 900 1,500 2,200 3,000 used depending on the various requirements and environments, particularly via speciﬁc interventions at Executive Committee and * Numbers provided for the roadmap period and thus not taking into account business meetings in the various entities, or via more widespread employees trained prior to 2014. internal communication (in-house magazine, intranet). Local initiatives are regularly advertised in the company’s 2016 achievement: in-house magazine and webzine so that all Group subsidiaries can be engaged in the ﬁght against corruption and the promotion of In 2016, an extra 501 people received training in business ethics, ethical conduct. For example, the videos uploaded to the Group’s in addition to the 1,783 people trained in 2014 and 2015. This intranet show the best practices deployed in the subsidiaries. gives a total of 2,284 people, against a cumulative target of 1,500 at the end of 2016 (these 2,284 employees are added to Business ethics, together with CSR, are taken into account in the the 2,500 employees who received training prior to 2014). As a annual performance appraisal of the Group’s employees, and result of this training, the achievement rate for this priority is more speciﬁcally that of country managers and managers of 152%. Since 2015, the Group’s subsidiaries have also arranged SBUs. It is their responsibility to ensure that all of their employees local training – in addition to the online courses offered by the who have been identiﬁed as at risk in terms of business ethics Group – to make the process of training in business ethics even have received the proper training, in accordance with the Group’s more efficient. More than 8,000 employees have received training plan. A monitoring system, available for each country and each in the prevention of corruption and fraud, respect for competition SBU, can be used to track whether the corresponding training rules, avoidance of conﬂicts of interest, and compliance with plans have been implemented correctly. trade embargoes, as well as the ﬁght against money laundering and the ﬁnancing of terrorism. Focus: Ethics and fraud whistleblowing system In the event of non-compliance with ethics rules relating to the public 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 interest, to individuals or to the company, each Group employee Target achievement rate * 273% 198% 152% and all external stakeholders can alert Legrand via the generic email address ethics.legrand@legrandelectric.com. Alerts are * Calculated against annual targets. received by the Group Compliance Officer and the Group Director of Human Resources, and are dealt with by the Group’s Fraud and Alerts Committee. Strict conﬁdentiality is maintained outside this Committee. As stated in the Group’s Charter of Fundamental Awareness-raising measures Principles, Legrand protects the whistleblower against reprisals. Speciﬁc instructions were conveyed to the Group’s country The Group’s whistleblowing system for ethics and fraud has been chief ﬁnancial officers or Compliance Officers via intranet and notiﬁed to the French data protection authority (CNIL). webcasts in order to encourage employees to embrace their In 2016, eight ethics alerts were reported to the Group. None of role and responsibilities in the context of the deployment of the these alerts represented a signiﬁcant risk. They were examined compliance program and the prevention of corruption in their and handled in accordance with Group principles as detailed in country. the Charter of Fundamental Principles. As mentioned above, special training webcasts prepared with guidance from specialized lawyers are held on the risks of corruption and on competition law. These are intended for ethics representatives, compliance officers, the various functional departments, SBUs (Strategic Business Units), and any other R 4.3.1.2 VERIFYING THE APPLICATION OF THE GROUP’S COMPLIANCE PROGRAM person considered exposed to these risks, especially in the The Group’s compliance program covers all aspects of business context of the deployment of the Group’s compliance program. ethics: compliance with competition rules, the application of best business practices (particularly on anti-corruption), the In addition to this training, communication tools (practical guides, prevention of conﬂicts of interest and management of fraud risks, presentations) are available for employees and compliance the observation of international embargoes and sanctions, and officers to facilitate their actions in the ﬁeld of business the prevention of money laundering and terrorist ﬁnancing. ethics. Some of these guides can be found on the website (www.legrand.com/EN). All compliance officers have access to 82 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society This program is organized around ﬁve principles: Annual targets: W a strong commitment from the Group’s General Management, 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 relayed by local divisions by signing a letter pledging to comply with the rules on business ethics. The program translates into Rate of implementation of local action plans based on the priorities set and a speciﬁc the compliance program to communication plan; the Country Compliance Officers are be achieved for subsidiaries: responsible for overseeing the program and report to the W most exposed Country Compliance Committees on the progress of the actions; and most signiﬁcant 70% 90% 90% 100% 100% W others 50% 70% 80% 90% 100% W a Group risk analysis methodology: the risks relating to business ethics have been deﬁned and are the subject of an 2016 achievement: annual self-assessment by the Group’s various countries and At the end of 2016, implementation rates for the compliance entities as part of the internal control process; program were 90% for the Group’s eight largest entities (in line W clear control mechanisms and policies have been deﬁned with the target for 2016) and 90% for all other reporting scopes for the four areas of the compliance program. These must be (against a target of 80% by the end of 2016). Deployment and applied locally and meet the Group’s requirements. They are monitoring will continue over the next few years to conﬁrm that supplemented by practical guides tailored to the local context the compliance program is being implemented on schedule. and designed to deﬁne the Group’s rules and tools (e.g. do’s and don’ts). Audits are performed to identify inappropriate practices. These might concern registers of guests and Target achievement rate * 2014 110% 2015 105% 2016 107% 2017 2018 04 expenses, purchasing processes, or agreements with business partners, for example; * Calculated as the average achievement rates observed in Legrand’s two groups of subsidiaries compared with annual targets. W training and communication actions: a communication plan promotes the program, while the Group’s messages and tools are translated into the local language and disseminated among employees. The employees concerned receive training from the Compliance program coordination and monitoring Group (on e-learning, competition or webcasting, for example) (please refer to section 4.3.1.1. Coordination of this compliance program is entrusted to an internal, multidisciplinary committee, the Group Compliance W an approach for internal audit, for implementing action plans Committee that meets quarterly under the supervision of the in response to the risks identiﬁed, and for continuous progress. Group’s Legal and Compliance Department. Its two main tasks Compliance tests and audits are conducted within the various consist of deﬁning core areas of concern, and monitoring the entities through a veriﬁable and traceable process. The internal results of these actions. Cases of non-compliance may also be control of these compliance practices is crucial to Legrand’s referred to this committee. This Compliance Committee reports business ethics. This helps to disseminate and foster a solid annually on its work to the Group Risk Committee, which reports understanding of and respect for business ethics. to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. The compliance risk analysis is included in Legrand’s overall risk Group priority 2014-2018 map, each risk being assessed on the basis of an occurrence/ To cover 100% of Group sales through a compliance program impact matrix (for more information on risk management, please monitoring scheme. refer to chapter 3 – Risk factors). Risk is managed by the Group Audit and Internal Control Department. Key performance indicator: rate of implementation of the compliance program. Monitoring procedures and policies associated with compliance are fully integrated within the Group’s internal control program. Since 2006, as part of the annual assessment of key controls reviewed by the Internal Audit Department and extended to all subsidiaries, ﬁve controls in particular speciﬁcally concern the subject of compliance program deployment (see section 3.6.2 of this Registration Document for more details of the Group’s internal control approach). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 83 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society For example, with particular regard to the risk linked to that have a signiﬁcant probability of materially affecting, or that its downstream economic chain, Legrand has, since 2009, have recently affected, its ﬁnancial position, assets or business. implemented a detection procedure for economic actors subject No legal action is pending against the Group for anti-competitive to sanctions and/or considered to be exposed to the risk of behavior, violations of antitrust laws or monopolistic practices. money laundering or the ﬁnancing of prohibited activities. This No legal action is pending against the Group for non-compliance customer compliance program (Know Your Customer) relies with laws and regulations on business ethics, except for the on consolidated data through a ﬁnancial services provider case concerning the implementation of the UN Oil-for-Food specializing in this ﬁeld. Every two months, Legrand is sent an Programme, in respect of which a Group subsidiary was acquitted updated list of individuals or entities categorized as exposed by a trial court in June 2015. In these last two matters, no major or sensitive, covering all of the Group’s markets. This list is ﬁnancial or non-ﬁnancial sanctions have been applied to the compiled from lists deﬁned by the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Group. Control (OFAC) and the European Commission. All of these items are forwarded to the Group’s subsidiaries, which several times a The compliance program set up by the Group and described year, and periodically, conﬁrm that their customer portfolios or above is a tool aimed at preventing the occurrence of such risks. partners do not include individuals or companies on these lists. A total of 16 cases of fraud or attempted fraud outside the Group All of these checks are reviewed annually by the Internal Audit were recorded in 2016. However, none of these cases presented a Department. Some of these controls are reviewed annually as signiﬁcant issue for the Group. Corrective action plans have been part of a self-assessment exercise, and then checked by internal systematically implemented to address the risks identiﬁed. In audit. At end 2016, 86 entities had been assessed, representing accordance with the Group’s governance principles, these cases 90% of the Group’s sales. have been reported to the Group Audit Committee. In addition to the procedure described above, joint audits Focus: Legrand Group compliance program recognized by between the Internal Audit Department and Legal and Les Échos Business Compliance Department may be conducted in the Group’s subsidiaries considered to be most at risk of non-compliance The Legrand Group compliance program was hailed by Les Échos with good business practices. During these audits, efforts to raise Business, the leading French ﬁnancial newspaper, in 2015 and awareness of these principles may be conducted with local teams again in December 2016, when the Group’s Executive VP Legal based on the practices identiﬁed. Affairs was quoted as saying that it is important to “remain focused and responsive in an area that is constantly changing, Focus: Every country Director has signed a letter of to keep pace with regulations and technological and societal commitment pledging support for the compliance program developments such as transparency and ethics”. Education and communication are the key aspects of this program, which Since June 2015 the Directors of all Group subsidiaries and covers all Group employees. It owes part of its success to functional departments have signed a letter of commitment to subsidiaries such as Chile, with its communications policy and the compliance program. They reaffirm their deep commitment its motto “Transparency is our identity”; Italy, with its “camera to local deployment of the program’s actions, thus ensuring that compliance” videos featuring some of the risks that employees the right messages are conveyed within the organization. This may encounter; Switzerland and New Zealand with compliance letter is published on the local intranet of each subsidiary and quizzes on conﬂicts of interest, and gifts and hospitality; Colombia department or SBUs. with its external communication campaign “Buzon Etico”, about its whistleblowing system. Finally, the Group endeavors to communicate the results of the program and any non-compliance. In line with this principle, the For more information on Group ethics, see our website www. Group does not currently consider there to be any extraordinary legrand.com/EN. circumstances or government, legal or arbitration proceedings 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing Fundamental principles and organization The Group Purchasing Policy establishes the principles of sustainable, balanced and mutually beneﬁcial relations with Faced with market globalization, Legrand works with suppliers suppliers that uphold Legrand’s values. that have potentially different social and environmental practices. 84 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society Legrand’s responsible purchasing strategy is based on the was working with 510 Group suppliers satisfying multi-site principle that the Group’s ethical, environmental and social and multi-country needs and accounting for around 30% of the rules also apply to its suppliers and subcontractors, who are Group’s total purchases; selected and managed in accordance with those rules. As such, W local suppliers who meet the speciﬁc needs of a site or Strategic Legrand expects its suppliers to adhere to the same standards Business Unit (SBU) and are managed by buyers at the sites or of responsibility as it does. For example, because Legrand is a SBUs concerned. member of the Global Compact, the Group’s suppliers are also encouraged to respect the Global Compact’s principles. Nearly 60% of purchases from the Group’s panel are from suppliers that Supporting the Group’s suppliers embrace these principles. in making improvements This concerns all of the Group’s suppliers and subcontractors. Overseen by a matrix-type Purchasing Department, which is The priority is to identify suppliers who pose a higher risk and ISO 9001 certiﬁed, the Group’s purchasing policy is implemented to assist them with making ongoing improvements to their worldwide by the purchasing function present in each of the environmental, social and societal performance. Group’s entities, maintaining proximity with internal customers, departments and Strategic Business Units (SBUs). A sustainable purchasing manager within the Purchasing Department is Group priority 2014-2018 responsible for monitoring and implementing responsible To support 100% of higher-risk suppliers in implementing an purchasing rules. Focus: Legrand is awarded Responsible Supplier Relations improvement plan for environmental issues, fundamental rights in the workplace, and business ethics. 04 certiﬁcation Key performance indicator: conducting the overall risk analysis (2014); percentage of suppliers with CSR risks covered by In 2009, Legrand – through the CDAF (French National Purchasing adequate action plans (from 2015 onwards). Council) – helped draft the Ten Commitments for Sustainable Purchasing Charter. It was one of the ﬁrst signatories of this Annual targets: charter, which later became the Responsible Supplier Relations Charter. In 2012, Legrand was one of the ﬁrst four companies in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 France to receive this certiﬁcation, which was renewed at the Support for suppliers 100% end of 2016. It conﬁrms Legrand’s commitment to responsible presenting risks identiﬁed 25% 50% 75% 100% purchasing practices with its suppliers, a process in which it was rated as having a very good level of performance by the ﬁrm 2016 achievement: ASEA, which performed the audit. Since 2015, Legrand has been The CSR risk analysis carried out in 2014 made it possible to an ambassador for this certiﬁcation, sharing best practices at establish the baseline and list of action plans to be implemented. events held in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region. It also takes part in It is reﬁned as and when the procedure is rolled out. At the end of working groups for the community of accredited ﬁrms, such as 2016, 253 suppliers with potential CSR risks had been identiﬁed. the working group on Actively Listening to Suppliers. In all, 166 action plans have been launched in 10 countries: the United States, France, Italy, India, China, Brazil, Russia, Turkey, The Group Purchasing Department uses an ISO 9001-certiﬁed Colombia and Poland, i.e. the Group’s major countries. These Quality Management System (QMS) to phase in the requirements countries represent more than 80% of the Group’s purchases. of the Group’s CSR strategy and manage supplier relations in all Each has appointed a local representative to monitor actions Group purchasing departments. In 2014 and 2015, key procedures relating to the responsible purchasing policy, in line with the such as contracting, approval and supplier risk management Group’s strategy adopted by the Purchasing Department. For were updated and continued to be rolled out internationally in 2016, approximately 66% of higher risk suppliers are covered 2016. by an action plan, versus a target of 50%. The results of the The Group Purchasing Department produces reports on the action plans are monitored in an intranet database shared by all amounts of purchases by supplier and by purchasing category. purchasing departments and audited by the Group Purchasing Group purchases of raw materials and components represent Department. This represents one of the key performance around 32% of its sales. All purchases are made with two main indicators for responsible purchasing within each entity. types of suppliers: 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 W Group suppliers, who, as major players in their market and key Legrand partners, support the Group in its international Target achievement rate * 100% 124% 131% projects. Corporate buyers, Lead Quality Specialists and users establish a close, privileged and sustainable relationship with * Calculated against annual targets. them. In 2015, the panel of Group suppliers was altered to reﬂect the needs of the SBUs. At the end of 2016, the Group REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 85 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society Involving and training buyers type of supplier, regardless of location. Each of these stages (approval, contracting, visits and audits, and risk and incident Parties involved in supplier relations, buyers, quality controllers management) thus include customized Group rules on and designers apply the principles of the CSR strategy through responsible procurement: procurement procedures. One of the commitments of the purchasing policy is skills development for all stakeholders W approval: approval ensures that the supplier meets within the purchasing function. The induction module for new all the required criteria, such as technical capability, buyers includes a speciﬁc section on CSR with, in particular, quality, logistics, organization, ﬁnancial assessment, an introduction to the code of ethics and key deliverables and and observance of the Group’s compliance and social procedures. In 2016, the purchasing code of ethics in France was responsibility criteria. This process includes a supplier renamed the Ethical Supplier Relationship Code. It was updated self-assessment questionnaire, followed by a documentary to reﬂect changes in procedures under the compliance program, audit for the required items, followed by an on-site audit if and to set out the rules of responsible relations with suppliers in necessary. Non-negotiable rules are established at an early accordance with the commitments of the Responsible Supplier stage in the approval process. These include, for example: Relations Label. A total of 88 people (buyers, assistants, not employing children under the age of 15 in accordance purchasing support roles) were trained in changes in the Ethical with ILO (International Labor Organization) rules, as well Supplier Relations Code in the second half of 2016. Since 2015, as compliance regulations to prevent the risk of fraud or under the CSR roadmap, 10 countries have been trained in the conﬂicts of interest, for example. detection and monitoring of suppliers at risk in terms of CSR and The approval process may enable the identiﬁcation of in the management of the corresponding action plans. suppliers at risk in terms of CSR, which applies mainly to the outsourcing of surface processing (involving the Focus on France: How to contribute to value creation use of chemical products) and to the level of dependence in the ecosystem? Purchasing Open Minded (POM) training on Legrand. Once detected, the CSR documentary audit To give buyers advanced levers for creating value within the requires speciﬁc evidence relating to: the environmental projects they manage, and to incorporate suppliers’ innovations, aspects, such as veriﬁcation of the authorizations required POM training was introduced with the support of an external to conduct the business; workplace health and safety, such service provider. In 2016, about 20 buyers completed this as an analysis of the operating risks); and social, including training. For example, one of the projects offered as part of this compliance with the ILO’s eight Fundamental Conventions. training consisted of coming up with a solution for UPS battery Documentary evidence relating to regulations such as replacement that would satisfy Legrand’s customers, based on a RoHS and REACH, for example, are also required for the collaborative approach between a supplier and Legrand’s sales approval of suppliers subject to these types of regulations. A teams. document management tool is used to compile the supplier’s documents and certiﬁcates thus collected. W contracting: the rules on the drafting and approval of Group Including a CSR dimension for supplier selection and local contracts concern all Group units and are part of and monitoring the ﬁnancial procedures; in addition, supplier contracts Formally, the Group manages its responsible purchasing strategy shall contain a paragraph on the supplier’s corporate social with its suppliers via its Purchasing Quality Management System responsibility. (QMS), mentioned earlier, and via the following: W visits and audits: suppliers are visited regularly to W Purchasing Speciﬁcations, a contractual document containing review technical questions, to monitor the quality of the Legrand’s requirements for its suppliers, particularly in terms manufacturing processes and products, and also to examine of compliance with the regulations and standards in force for the environmental, social or logistical aspects. In order to be both environmental and social matters. The document includes approved, the Group’s accredited suppliers for raw materials the ten Global Compact principles; and components are systematically audited, on site, by corporate buyers and quality professionals based on criteria W General Purchasing Conditions, which include a supplier mediation process in the event of a dispute, by appointing an incorporating aspects relating to the organization, ethics, the internal ombudsman from outside the Purchasing function. environment and risk management. These documents are available from the resource center on our As part of the implementation of the CSR roadmap and after website www.legrand.com/EN; the CSR documentary audit, the evidence to be obtained on the production sites of suppliers at risk in terms of CSR was W the operational stages of supplier selection, the extent of reﬁned in 2016, particularly with regard to such aspects which depends on the issue, risk, purchasing group and as: health and safety in the workplace, the identiﬁcation of 86 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society individual and shared protective equipment and their use by the relationship with the supplier concerned, but as part employees, and awareness of environmentally safe waste of a progress and monitoring program devised by affected treatment. To calibrate Legrand’s CSR audit methodology, stakeholders (buyers, internal customers, etc.). In extreme a dozen or so vulnerable suppliers will be audited by an cases, particularly where a supplier has not sought to make any outside ﬁrm applying the SMETA 4-pillars standard social improvements, it may be phased out of the supplier portfolio. In audit methodology. 2015, two cases resulted in a plan for withdrawal and removal from the Group’s supplier portfolio. In 2016, two suppliers were W risk and incident management: supplier risk analysis is found to be critical: one refused to make any improvements and carried out every year by all the buyers. The supporting left the supplier portfolio; the other has already put in place an analysis grid includes around a dozen criteria and is action plan, managed by a local buyer with the Group’s support reviewed at the beginning of each year for any necessary and under its control. changes. It identiﬁes suppliers that expose the Group to CSR risk, particularly those that are dependent on Legrand. The list of suppliers identiﬁed as exposing the Group to CSR The results are presented every six months to the Group Risk risks may change depending on discussions with the Group’s Committee (for more information on the Risk Committee, subsidiaries and as action plans are reﬁned. please refer to section 6.1.3 of this Registration Document). The results of the risk analysis are consolidated by the Management of hazardous substances purchasing quality manager. In 2015 and 2016, all Group Questions relating to hazardous substances and the eco-design production units with their own purchasing department conducted this analysis, covering some 50 production units in 29 countries. To entrench the risk management of capability of suppliers are covered in the supplier CSR evaluation questionnaire. The Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and 04 restriction of Chemicals Regulation (or REACH Regulation) and suppliers at risk in terms of CSR, the annual risk analysis Directive 2002/95/EC on the Restriction of Hazardous Substances is accompanied by a speciﬁc detection and monitoring (or the RoHS Directive) are speciﬁcally mentioned during the methodology. This methodology is being rolled out supplier evaluation operational stages referred to above; and progressively to the Group’s international entities. Action suppliers must, for example, disclose whether the substances plans are drawn up for all at risk suppliers, managed by the identiﬁed in the RoHS Directive are present in the products that local purchasing team and monitored in a database shared they supply to the Group. by all purchasing departments, which is available on the Purchasing Department intranet and controlled by the heads Suppliers of raw materials, particularly plastics, are also of purchasing quality and sustainable purchasing. The most encouraged to send their material safety data sheets (MSDS) critical situations are reviewed monthly by the purchases to Legrand via a generic e-mail address. A panel of central Management Committee. In addition, a central report is materials laboratory experts has joined buyers to identify the periodically prepared on supplier failure by the purchasing types of materials and items purchased with a high probability performance controller. of containing REACH substances. The aim is to prioritize the constructive consultation of the suppliers concerned. To comply For 2016, the results of this analysis of suppliers at risk in terms with this regulation, a REACH process has been put in place. of CSR were as follows: W 253 suppliers considered exposed to CSR risks were identiﬁed Conﬂict minerals for the Group. Of these, 52 need to be reﬁned with the entities as and when they are involved in the process. These suppliers In a number of countries around the world but especially in the account for about 7% of the total amount of Group purchases; Democratic Republic of Congo and neighboring countries, the extraction and trade of certain minerals funds armed groups, W 10 countries are currently involved in the process (see above); conﬂicts and crimes against the population. The main minerals W a total of 201 at-risk suppliers in these countries have been concerned, known as “conﬂict minerals”, are cassiterite (tin added to the shared database. At present, 166 of them ore), coltan (tantalum ore), wolframite (tungsten ore) and gold. are covered by an action plan, which always starts with a Given the nature of its business, Legrand is never in a position documentary audit. In 2016, this documentary audit was where it has to purchase directly any minerals in their primary supplemented by a scoring system that determines when the form, so these minerals have little impact on it. However, as a supplier will be audited on the CSR aspects. In the last quarter responsible actor, Legrand supports OECD initiatives by following of 2016, for example, some 20 CSR audits were conducted on the guidance contained in the “OECD Due Diligence Guidance for suppliers at risk, by local purchasing teams, particularly in Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conﬂict-Affected China, India and Turkey. This is largely a case of maintaining REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 87 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society and High-Risk Areas” and is gradually developing a strategy to Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conﬂict-Affected and identify and assess the risks associated with its supply chain: High-Risk Areas” and the applicable requirements of section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act, which seeks to prevent the use of minerals W as a downstream company, Legrand works with its most that directly or indirectly ﬁnance armed groups in the Democratic exposed suppliers (mainly suppliers of electrical contacts, Republic of Congo or in neighboring countries (“conﬂict minerals”). welding, tin-plating and bronze components) to ensure that the metals used originate from sources that are free from conﬂict As a consequence, LNA requires its suppliers to pledge to be or minerals. To date, the investigations carried out have conﬁrmed become “conﬂict free” (which means that this type of supplier that conﬂict-free sources are used; does not source minerals from conﬂict zones) and to use only guaranteed “conﬂict free” foundries wherever possible. LNA W however, if Legrand were to identify a supplier that uses metals requires each supplier to issue comprehensive statements based derived from conﬂict minerals, the Group would immediately on the EICC-GeSI format by highlighting the commitment of the take the necessary action to address this. supplier concerned to become “conﬂict free” and to learn about This position was conﬁrmed in November 2015 with the the country of origin of the tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold it buys. publication of Legrand’s Conﬂict Minerals Policy, signed by the For more information on responsible purchasing within the Group Procurement Director. Group, see the section on our website www.legrand.com/EN. In addition, the Legrand North America subsidiary (LNA) is committed to respecting the “Due Diligence Guidance for 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all Because electricity is a crucial factor in a country’s development, Legrand considers it its duty to ensure that as many people as R 4.3.3.1 ALLOWING THE GREATEST POSSIBLE NUMBER OF PEOPLE TO HAVE ACCESS possible have sustainable access to electricity. TO ELECTRICITY This responsibility is met via a sponsorship policy that seeks to Since 2007, the Group has been a partner of Électriciens sans reduce energy inequality around the world. The aim is both to frontières, an international NGO campaigning for wider access to enable universal access to electricity and to combat electricity energy for people in developing countries. poverty. The policy is deployed on three levels: Legrand’s support for Électriciens sans frontières takes the W a speciﬁc partnership between the Group and Électriciens sans form of ﬁnancial aid, the supply of equipment, the provision of frontières NGO on development aid and emergency aid; premises, and by the involvement of Group employees who offer W the Legrand Foundation for independent living, under the aegis their personal or professional skills and become directly involved of the Fondation Agir Contre l’Exclusion (FACE), a registered nonon the ground, or by providing training or technical support. proﬁt organization; W local initiatives by Group subsidiaries, tailored according to Group priority 2014-2018 local needs. Aim to enable 800,000 additional people to beneﬁt from access to The total budget allocated to charitable activities amounted electricity, whether directly or indirectly. to about €1,927,000 in 2016, consisting of donations of funds, Key performance indicator: number of people with direct equipment, premises and skills. These initiatives are accompanied or indirect access to electricity under the partnership with by voluntary work by Group employees. Électriciens sans frontières. 88 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society Annual targets: soap-making and carpentry in Haute Sanaga Nsem in Cameroon; electriﬁcation of remote villages in the Phongsaly region of Laos; 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 and supplying power to clinics, schools and hospitals in the Total beneﬁciaries provinces of Savalou and Natitingou, in Benin. Each project led of electricity supply by Électriciens sans frontières is accompanied by training for the schemes* 160,000 320,000 480,000 640,000 800,000 people who will be responsible locally for maintaining the new facilities. * Numbers provided for the roadmap period and thus not taking into account The Group’s partnership with Électriciens sans frontières relies beneﬁciaries prior to 2014. particularly on the sales teams of the Group’s French brands, who take action to raise money for the “Electricity for Health 2016 achievement: and Education in Africa” program. Numerous initiatives have been organized by the teams in support of these programs, In 2016, joint action with Électriciens sans frontières enabled including commercial transactions, with the Product Sharing 200,000(1) people to beneﬁt directly or indirectly from access to sale of products (where part of the price goes to the NGO) and power, which takes the number of beneﬁciaries to 1.8 million promoting Électriciens sans frontières at trade fairs, sporting since 2007. events (tournaments, marathons) and gala dinners, as well as concerts, a book fair and, in Haiti, a craft fair. All the proceeds 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Target achievement rate * 141% 167% 153% go to Électriciens sans frontières. This has helped to pay for electriﬁcation projects in schools and clinics, mainly in Burkina Faso, Togo, Senegal and Madagascar. In 2016, six operations 04 * Calculated against annual targets. were organized involving some 900 people from Legrand’s sales teams, and from the Group’s distributors and installers. On the occasion of the 30th anniversary of Électriciens sans Results of partnership initiatives frontières in 2016, Legrand partnered the NGO at events such Legrand offers long-term support for development projects, and as the Nuit Blanche all-night art festival in Paris and the Festival occasionally donates aid to emergency humanitarian actions. of Lights in Lyon, thanks to the skills-based sponsorship by its This concerns three major types of electriﬁcation project: employees. Legrand’s employees were also encouraged to participate in digital events throughout the year. Whenever an W educational establishments, for example to open up access to employee took part in one of these digital events, the Group made multimedia technologies for inter-college communication, or a matching donation to Électriciens sans frontières. the installation of security lighting to enhance safety at sites; Électriciens sans frontières has exported its model across Europe W hospitals, for safer surgery, refrigerated storage of vaccines, with the aim of empowering people to ﬁght global energy poverty and medical consultations at night; and to galvanize the European energy sector. Legrand’s Italian W entire villages, to improve the daily lives of families through subsidiary signed a partnership agreement with Elettrici senza sustainable access to electricity using renewable energy. frontiere, the new NGO, when it was set up in November 2015. The partnership has already embarked on a joint project in Kenya Since 2007, Legrand has contributed to the action by Électriciens to supply power and water to Ilkiremisho and Purko, two Masai sans frontières in more than 150 electricity access or emergency villages 250 km northwest of Nairobi. aid projects in Africa, Asia and Latin America, which represents action in about 30 countries (in particular Argentina, Benin, Group subsidiaries provide logistical and organizational support Burkina Faso, Cambodia, Central African Republic, Congo, to volunteers working for Électriciens sans frontières whenever Ethiopia, Haiti, India, Laos, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Nepal, possible. This may take the form of delivering equipment or Niger, Pakistan, Peru, Senegal, Chad and Vietnam). loaning premises for training. For example, in 2013 Legrand’s subsidiary in the Philippines provided equipment and logistical In 2016, Legrand continued to support Électriciens sans frontières support to Électriciens sans frontières to support its efforts through 20 projects in 13 countries in Africa, Asia and South following typhoon Haiyan, which devastated the archipelago in America. These included the provision of secure, reliable early November. In 2015, after cyclone Pam, Legrand’s teams access to electricity for a multifunctional platform catering for in Australia, New Zealand and New Caledonia arranged for entrepreneurs from sectors as diverse as: weaving, dressmaking, a team of three volunteers from Électriciens sans frontières (1) Figures provided by Électriciens sans frontières indicating the number of people potentially affected by projects supported by Legrand. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 89 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society to visit Tanna Island, in Vanuatu. They assisted them with before the scheme is extended. Unprecedented in this type of choosing equipment, arranging transportation and completing situation, this exemplary initiative is, for Legrand, an example of a administrative procedures, as well as putting them in touch with successful partnership between its local teams in India and NEAT, local electricians. the Group’s Spanish subsidiary specializing in assisted living products. To date, some 30 terminals have been installed as part Focus: Électriciens sans frontières, a leader in access of the initial pilot phase. to electricity Électriciens sans frontières is an international aid organization and a recognized public charity. It organizes projects for those whose development or even survival are under threat without secure R 4.3.3.2 COMBATING EXCLUSION AND TO GAIN INDEPENDENCE and sustainable access to electricity. It also offers its expertise to For Legrand, reducing inequalities means supporting those who international aid organizations to improve the safety of electrical are excluded, disadvantaged or discriminated against. This longinstallations around the world, particularly in healthcare and term commitment led to the creation in 2014 of the Legrand teaching facilities. Finally, it is deployed on emergency missions Foundation Generating independance, under the aegis of the during humanitarian disasters. To ﬁnd out more, visit www. Fondation Agir Contre l’Exclusion (FACE), a registered non-proﬁt electriciens-sans-frontieres.org. organization. More information about the partnership with Électriciens sans The Legrand Foundation aims to combat exclusion linked with frontières can be found on our website (www.legrand.com/EN). a loss of independence and electricity poverty, and to promote education and access to employment, particularly in the electrical sector. Legrand Electricity for all™ program The contribution of the Legrand Foundation takes the form of In the knowledge that access to energy is crucial to achieving material assistance, voluntary work, skills sponsorship and economic growth and reducing poverty in developing countries, ﬁnancial support. Legrand is committed to improving access to electricity for everyone throughout the world. This is why the Group and its The Legrand Foundation forms part of the framework of subsidiaries have taken action to enable access to electricity the Legrand Electricity for all™ program, which aims to take and combat energy poverty within the framework of the Group’s sustainable action to reduce energy inequality. sponsorship policy, as well as through the program Electricity for all™, launched in 2013. Group priority 2014-2018 This program is an integral part of the business strategy and is backed by the Group’s General Management. Global in scope, it To ensure the widest possible access to the initiatives of the is led by Legrand’s Director of CSR. It brings together internal Legrand Foundation. and external stakeholders, from the Group’s employees to Key performance indicator: number and type of projects carried development aid organizations. out by the Legrand Foundation. The initiative structures all Group and subsidiary actions in this Annual targets: area around two pillars: To implement at least one project in each of the Foundation’s four W to enable access to electricity, through aid partnerships such action areas during the whole time-span of the roadmap. as the one with Électriciens sans frontières, and exploratory 2016 achievement: research missions carried out on a collaborative basis; W to combat energy poverty, with a innovation approach, leading 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to the development of product ranges that meet basic needs Target achievement rate * 100% 100% 100% and solutions designed to improve energy efficiency (and therefore reduce energy bills). * Calculated against annual targets. More information on the partnership with the Legrand Electricity for all™ program can be found on our website at www.legrand.com. Action areas Focus: Telemedicine in India The Legrand Foundation operates in four areas: loss of In a country where 300 million people lack access to electricity, independence, electricity poverty, education and employment. Legrand provides telemedicine devices for remote village communities. This equipment makes it possible for a nurse to In each of these areas, the Legrand Foundation seeks to create perform a pre-diagnosis of the patient and upload the data to the or recreate the social link for all those who are excluded, nearest regional hospital, often many miles away. To optimize disadvantaged or discriminated against. It initiates or supports patient access to care, two pilots are currently being tested simple, local initiatives, giving priority to grass-roots solutions 90 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Acting ethically towards Society rooted in the fabric of French communities. These actions are The Legrand Foundation is keen to help these young people and all consistent with Legrand’s business activity and geographical make them more employable. footprint. The Foundation relies on Legrand’s knowledge of the training curriculum for electrical trades, and on the special relationships Loss of independence for housing that allows people between the Group and the relevant training establishments. to continue living at home It also beneﬁts from the Group’s close ties with numerous Assistance for independent living and continued living at home companies, particularly local ﬁrms and small businesses, via its represents a major issue in society. There are 1.6 million dependent network of installers and speciﬁers. people in France. The country has an ageing population: by 2040, 31% of French people will be over 60 and 7% will be over 85. Employment: supporting access to employment Moreover, 80% of French people want to stay in their own home Access to employment is becoming a concern for the whole of for as long as possible but not everyone has the means to adapt society. For all sections of the population, the average time taken their home to compensate for a loss of independence (sources: to ﬁnd a job or return to employment is 384 days (source: Pôle INSEE, Demographic Studies and Surveys division). Emploi, Research and Studies Department). The issue is even Mindful of this, the Legrand Foundation is keen to assist ageing more crucial for certain groups, for example when embarking or dependent persons who are ﬁnancially insecure, particularly on a career or for those who are discriminated against when those living in social housing. The Foundation relies on the looking for work. The unemployment rate among under-25s Group’s expertise and its wide range of solutions as a pioneer in the ﬁeld of assisted living. is approximately 24%. And the level of temporary or casual employment among under-25s is higher than 50% (source: OECD 04 and Observatoire des inégalités). Electricity poverty: combating electrical risk Based on this fact, the Legrand Foundation supports access to and improving energy efficiency employment for those sections of the population that suffer the Electricity poverty is becoming a major issue for society. most discrimination. In particular, it wants to support young According to recent estimates, about 5 million households are people, older workers and women in their job search. The aim now living in energy poverty in France, and 3.8 million households is to facilitate their social and professional integration in the spend more than 10% of their budget on energy. On the other electrical sector. hand, because the age and malfunctioning of electrical systems in individual or collective housing presents safety risks: 7 million Organization dwellings in France have a potential electrical risk, while 30% of The Legrand Foundation is structured around an Executive ﬁres recorded in France have an electrical cause (source: ONPE, Committee, made up of three members from Legrand, one Promotelec and Consuel). person from the FACE Foundation and one external qualiﬁed The Legrand Foundation aims to bring a fresh perspective to this person, a Steering Committee, which identiﬁes and coordinates problem using the Group’s know-how and its solutions to improve the Foundation’s projects, and a dedicated team responsible for energy efficiency and electrical safety in the home. It wishes to the day-to-day tracking of projects. promote awareness among builders, social housing authorities, electrical installers, and the most underprivileged occupants. Focus: Fondation Agir Contre l’Exclusion (FACE). A registered non-proﬁt organization, FACE encourages the social Education: building a career plan in the electrical sector and societal engagement of local industry. Thanks to its network Every year, the electrical sector in France has more than of local associations, it now involves more than 5,250 companies, 100,000 students and apprentices training for electrical trades, both large corporations and SMEs, and has become the leading whether at vocational colleges or engineering schools. Many network of companies in France to focus on CSR, integration, young people leaving vocational colleges, Apprentice Training education, and access to services. Centers, technical colleges, AFPA centers and engineering In keeping with its strategy of proximity, the FACE Foundation is schools are professionally qualiﬁed and are preparing to enter opening new offices every year (72 in France and worldwide) and the job market for the electrical sector. extending the scope of its action. Its aim is to create centers of expertise based on its ﬁve areas of action: within companies, for employment, at school, in daily life, and with participants from the region. Within each of these areas, actions and training courses are administered by the Clubs, with active participation from the partner companies and their employees. To ﬁnd out more, visit www.fondationface.org. For more information about the Legrand Foundation, visit the website www.fondationlegrand.org. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 91 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees 4.4 COMMITMENT TO OUR EMPLOYEES With more than 32,700 employees worldwide and sales and W supporting organizational change to allow ongoing dialogue production sites in more than 90 countries, Legrand pursues its within the company, and thus constantly adapt the organization business development with particular attention to the working and its people to the issues facing the Group. conditions of its employees and its social responsibilities. The human resources policy is the responsibility of the Director of The Group seeks to guarantee the observance of Human Rights Human Resources. It is managed horizontally by the Group, with all over the world. It is also committed to safeguarding the health centralized management targeting key positions and resources. and safety of all employees. Legrand strives to develop the It is deployed in subsidiaries and managed by local human skills of each individual and to foster diversity. Only by helping resources departments. In addition, an HR manager responsible its employees to grow, can Legrand progress and help move its for social issues is given speciﬁc responsibility for: business sector forward. W the deployment of HR actions and priorities contained in the The Group’s human resources management is based on ﬁve Group’s CSR roadmap; fundamental aspects: W ensuring a functional link with the Group’s CSR Department; W managing the human resources of the various entities, taking W being the sole point of contact for all HR departments within into account the issues and business priorities, and ensuring the subsidiaries with the Group on HR topics associated with the best possible match between needs and resources; Legrand’s CSR commitments. W getting the best out of the Group’s employees by implementing The Group’s commitment to its employees is reﬂected in the tailored talent development and performance recognition priorities of the roadmap, as described below, and it aims to strategies, thereby fostering employee engagement; be agile in its approach. With this in mind, in late 2016 the W attracting, developing and retaining talent, and thus matching Group decided to deﬁne a standard for the social beneﬁts of its the Group’s human resources with its future needs; employees. This standard will be rolled out to subsidiaries over the next few years. W encouraging diversity by promoting the internationalization of teams and ensuring that the Group’s HR processes comply with For more information on the Group’s human resources policy, the principle of non-discrimination and equal opportunities; visit the Careers section of our website www.legrand.com/EN. 4.4.1 Respecting Human Rights R 4.4.1.1 GUARANTEEING GROUP-WIDE APPLICATION OF THE UNIVERSAL W the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (the John Ruggie Report), which recommends a three-pronged PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN RIGHTS approach: protect, respect and remedy; AT WORK W United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Group complies with regulations in force in the countries in All of the above rules provide a structural framework for which it operates. Regardless of the local context, Legrand refers Legrand’s policy. to voluntary principles and standards of responsible behavior In all its host countries, Legrand is committed to the progress with regard to Human Rights, in particular: of rights and to ensuring a legal and human framework for W the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the workplace, especially in terms of freedom of association, W the International Labour Organization (ILO) Declaration, recognition of the right to collective bargaining, elimination particularly the eight conventions on the fundamental of all forms of forced or compulsory labor, effective abolition principles and rights at work; of child labor, elimination of discrimination in employment W the Global Compact’s principles for Human Rights and labor standards; 92 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees and occupation, and preservation of health and safety. Where Procedure and management necessary, the Group undertakes to: Since 2012 Legrand has mapped threats to Human Rights at W remedy rights violations against employees on its sites; work. It classiﬁes the countries where the Group operates, based on the ratiﬁcation of the eight ILO conventions on fundamental W eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labor and child labor; principles and rights at work and the Freedom in the World index. This revealed that in 2016, 67% of the Group’s workforce was W eliminate discrimination with respect to employment and based in “free” countries. A total of 33% of employees are based occupation; in countries that are either “not free” or “partially free”. W preserve health and safety at work. A self-assessment accompanied by a debrief with the HR manager The Group also operates a responsible procurement policy that responsible for social challenges, based on the methodology of takes into account the rights of the employees of the Group’s the Danish Institute For Human Rights, is gradually being rolled suppliers. This is included in the supplier approval procedure. out in the Group’s countries considered as being not free or only Rule 1 of the Group’s Sustainable Purchasing Code relates to partially free, according to this methodology. Until 2015, priority child labor (ILO convention 138 on minimum age). was given to countries with a workforce of over 50 people, namely: Saudi Arabia, China, Colombia, United Arab Emirates, For more information on the Group’s responsible procurement Egypt, Hong-Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Russia, policy, please refer to section 4.3.2 of this Registration Document. Thailand, Turkey and Venezuela. From 2016, all the countries Human Rights matters are jointly led by the CSR Department and the Human Resources Department. identiﬁed using the methodology referred to above will be included in the assessment process, whatever the number of their employees. Consequently, seven new countries have been 04 added to the list to be assessed: Algeria, Kazakhstan, Morocco, Group priority 2014-2018 Singapore, Philippines, South Korea and Ukraine. To map and annually assess workforce exposure to the risk of The aim of these self-assessments is to estimate compliance Human Rights violations in the workplace and deploy measures with fundamental rights at work in the countries identiﬁed. The for improvement as appropriate. questionnaires sent out conﬁrmed that neither forced labor Key performance indicators: nor child labor situations, as deﬁned by ILO conventions, were present within the Group entities analyzed. W coverage of Group employees assessed for potential Human Rights violations; This also helps to identify areas of progress for existing Group practices that had not been fully deployed, particularly certain HR W ongoing remedial action. processes such as job descriptions and guidance on employment Annual targets: contracts. Action plans have been initiated on these topics. Finally, following its global awareness-raising campaign in 2015, the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Group implemented in 2016 a new targeted action on the subject Evaluation of the exposed of non-discrimination. The objective of this action, implemented workforce 50% 75% 100% 100% 100% by managers and the heads of human resources, is to tackle Progress actions identiﬁed stereotyping and encourage the hiring of women for technical and taken 100% 100% 100% 100% and skilled positions. 2016 achievement: Focus: Legrand continues its commitment to Human Rights At the end of 2016, an assessment of the risk of Human Rights In late 2016, Legrand joined the French association Entreprises violations was carried out on all the Group’s workforce deemed to pour les Droits de l’Homme (EDH) to further its progressive moves be exposed to these risks by including new geographical regions in this area. EDH acts as a forum for discussion, initiatives and compared with the scope originally deﬁned in 2013 (see below). proposals for international ﬁrms, so that Human Rights become In addition, all selected remedial actions have effectively been an integral part of business policies and practices. undertaken in line with the target. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Target achievement rate * 100% 108% 100% * Calculated against annual targets. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 93 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees Union representation and social dialogue through information meetings, consultations or negotiations that might lead to the signature of a national agreement, and at the Legrand fosters the development of labor relations and social regional level, through the European Works Council, for example. dialogue, and takes into account laws and practices in its various As a result, in 2016: host countries. These initiatives consist of promoting optimal working conditions and driving the changes required for the W 88% of Group workforce are employed in entities in which there Group’s expansion. is an employee representative body and/or a union; Labor relations management relies on employee representatives. W 52% of Group employees were covered by collective agreements Managers receive training on labor relations to help them or agreements applicable to their entity; fulﬁll their role as local labor-relations contacts. For example, W 1,179 information or consultation meetings with employee in particular in France and Italy, regular “Labor Relations representative bodies or unions were held in 2016; Management” meetings are held with key managers and HR to manage labor relations. W 176 new collective agreements were signed in 2016, covering 15,139 people within the Group in both the mature countries At European level, as part of the Legrand Group’s European and the new economies. The agreements essentially cover pay Works Council (EWC), an amendment to the EWC agreement of and working conditions. 2013 was signed by the representatives of the different countries. The purpose of the amendment is to improve how the institution In terms of health and safety, further to the agreement on functions, notably by developing relations with the Council’s managerial best practice in France, negotiations are underway bureau and by providing it with additional resources. on the Quality of Life at Work. In Italy, an agreement was signed on workplace harassment and abuse. Improving social dialogue involves creating bonds and trust within employee-representative bodies both at the country level, For further information about human rights within the Group, please visit www.legrand.com/EN. 4.4.2 Guaranteeing occupational health and safety Legrand’s prevention policy pertaining to employee health and safety is recognized as the responsibility of all employees, and safety is designed in accordance with the International whatever their rank and position. Labor Office’s ILO-OSH 2001 benchmark. It applies to all Group In addition, occupational health and safety and the associated subsidiaries and sites. It encompasses occupational risk metrics are included in the measurement of the operational management and improvements to health and safety at work and performance of the Group’s industrial sites and SBUs. They is based on three principles: are the subject of a quarterly review with the Group’s General W compliance with national legislation and regulations; Management. This topic is also routinely covered in annual budget presentations of the Group’s various subsidiaries and SBUs. W incorporation of safety into industrial policies in all functions and at all levels; The Group establishes directives and benchmarks appropriate to its line of business. For example, the principle of not introducing W harmonization of prevention strategies. new substances classiﬁed as CMR (carcinogenic, mutagenic or The prevention policy is coordinated and implemented by toxic to reproduction) into the manufacturing process, insofar Occupational Health & Safety & HR Corporate Social Responsibility as a technical solution exists, was added to Group Purchasing (SST & HR CSR), which is part of the Human Resources Speciﬁcations. Another example is the Group directive on department. It is supported by a network of Occupational Health workplace equipment (deployed only in France), which requires & Safety officers at the various sites and by prevention managers that purchasing contracts contain clauses to ensure that newly within the Group’s SBUs (Strategic Business Units). Delegations acquired machinery complies with all applicable legal provisions, of authority, or equivalent mechanisms, are established to and that a compliance inspection be conducted each time formalize the responsibility of the managers of each Group entity, equipment is moved. The directive also deﬁnes rules that must especially when it comes to the prevention of occupational risks. be respected to ensure proper maintenance of machinery in use. Job descriptions are worded to ensure that occupational health 94 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees R 4.4.2.1 CONTROLLING OCCUPATIONAL RISK Occupational risk management is assessed on the basis of eight Depending on the country and size of the sites, occupational health and safety management is the responsibility of HR or another designated department. prevention criteria according to the following Occupational Health & Safety reporting process: Many countries have health and safety committees (employee representative bodies) on the initiative of Senior Management W promoting the Prevention Charter; in each country and in accordance with local laws. The Group is W managing occupational health and safety; gradually broadening this principle of employee representation to countries where it is not required under local law. Employees W ensuring staff representation on health and safety committees; and their representatives belonging to these committees have W assessing occupational risk; the time and resources to actively participate in their entity’s W managing emergencies; health and safety processes and initiatives, speciﬁcally through discussion on all relevant aspects of occupational health and W providing health and safety training; safety, including emergency measures. W providing ﬁrst-aid and ﬁre-prevention training; Occupational risk assessment (periodic analysis of hazardous W preventing risks in situations where independent companies situations and levels of risk) enables appropriate and effective are working on site. prevention measures to be established. In 2016, 71% of Group Subsidiaries must fulﬁll at least six of the eight of the aboveemployees (including production, administrative and logistics listed criteria in order to claim a level of implementation deemed to be satisfactory. workers) underwent a formal risk assessment, either using tools speciﬁc to the entity in question, or using a shared tool offered by the Group and tailored to its line of business. 04 Emergency management enables potential accidents and Group priority 2014-2018 emergency situations to be identiﬁed and the risks that result To extend and maintain an occupational risk management plan from them to be prevented, as well as the implementation covering 90% of the Group’s workforce. of appropriate measures to safeguard people and property (information, training, coordination, communication with the Key performance indicator: percentage of employees covered relevant authorities, local responders and emergency services, by the occupational risk management plan based on the key ﬁrst aid and medical assistance, ﬁre-ﬁghting and evacuation principles of ILO-OSH 2001. methods, and so on). Annual targets: Health and safety training concerns the prevention of risks in To ensure that 90% of the Group’s workforce are covered by the the workplace. It may be supplemented by ﬁrst-aid and ﬁreoccupational risk management plan for the entire duration of the prevention training. This training improves staff preparedness roadmap. against risks to their health and safety, particularly by identifying 2016 achievement: hazardous situations, assessing risk levels and implementing measures to prevent risk, safeguard people and property, and At the end of 2016, the occupational risk management plan respond to emergencies. Nearly 90,000 hours of training were covered 90% of the Group’s workforce included in the Occupational devoted to these subjects in 2016. Health & Safety report, in line with the target set at the end of 2016. These results are mainly due to closer supervision of Group Formal and procedures have been implemented and are updated entities, their increased engagement with CSR, and reliability of to ensure that risks are prevented when independent companies the associated actions and indicators. are working on site, (communication, coordination, information, training, and supervision before and during the work). Workplace 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 health and safety criteria are included in subcontractor evaluation Target achievement rate * 106% 100% 100% and selection procedures. Any work-related accidents on site involving contractors’ workers are recorded. * Calculated against annual targets. Focus: Security on business trips The Group also places enormous importance on the safety of The Prevention Charter, signed by the Group’s Chairman and its employees when they are away on business. In France, for Chief Executive Officer and aligned with the guiding principles example, an intranet travel site provides travelers with realof ILO-OSH 2001, formalizes Legrand’s commitment to time information for each country based on potential risks and employees’ health and safety at work. The Charter is promoted advice published by the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It by the managers of each entity. It has been widely circulated to also gives details of the formalities to be completed, the general employees and is available on the intranet in six languages. It is health precautions before a trip, food hygiene rules, emergency also available on the website (www.legrand.com/EN). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 95 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees numbers, and information on healthcare, medical treatment Annual targets: and repatriation. The potential occurrence of a crisis situation is covered in the Group’s crisis unit procedure managed by the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 HR Department. To improve its response procedure, the Group Protect the Group’s encourages its employees to register with the French Ministry workforce by monitoring the of Foreign and European Affairs’ Crisis Center by entering their workplace and improving foreign travel plans on its website. health and safety at work 80% 90% 90% 90% 90% Reduce the frequency of accidents in the workplace 8 7.7 7.2 6.7 6.7 R 4.4.2.2 MONITORING AND IMPROVING HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK 2016 achievement: The purpose of monitoring the effectiveness of prevention At the end of 2016, the health and safety monitoring and measures and implementing a progress process is to improve improvement process covered 94% of the Group’s workforce the health and safety data (workplace accidents and work-related included in the Occupational Health & Safety report, exceeding illnesses). the target set. The frequency of accidents at work has continued to fall by 27%, from 7.3 at the end of 2014 to 5.3 at the end of 2016. A Prevention Reporting Process is in place that assesses six These positive results are mainly due to closer supervision of prevention criteria: Group entities, their increased engagement with CSR, and greater W consolidation and monitoring of indicators; reliability of the associated actions and indicators. It should be noted that the improvement in frequency rate was particularly W systematic analysis after a work injury; signiﬁcant in Italy. W periodic professional (para)medical interviews to monitor health; 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 W legal and regulatory framework monitoring; Target achievement rate * 211% 235% 184% W implementation of a strategy to prevent the risk of musculoskeletal disorders; * Calculated against annual targets W sharing of feedback and best practices on risk prevention at the Group level. Focus: Real-time accident reporting Each subsidiary has an objective to fulﬁll at least four of the above-listed six criteria before being able to claim that it has In 2015, Legrand introduced real-time reporting of workplace reached a satisfactory level of prevention. accidents, which are reported directly to the Group Chairman & Chief Executive Officer. A monthly report for each geographical region and SBU presents the results by material elements Group priority 2014-2018 and nature of injury. This report enables the Group’s General To implement the health and safety monitoring and improvement Management and local management to monitor accident process and maintain coverage of at least 90% of the workforce, indicators more closely. This in turn helps to raise awareness of with the objective of reducing the Group’s workplace accident accident trend rates. As such, it is also a useful tool for managing frequency rate by 20%. trends and evaluating action plans. Key performance indicators: The consolidation and monitoring of health and safety indicators W percentage of workforce covered by the health and safety demonstrates the commitment of the entire Group to improving monitoring and improvement process based on ILO-OSH 2001; the process of occupational risk prevention. It also seeks to guarantee the representative nature of the results reported. W frequency of workplace accidents. Systematic analysis after an accident at work enables occupational risk prevention measures to be improved by identifying the causes of the accident and proposing what needs to be done to prevent a similar incident occurring in the future. Periodic professional (para)medical interviews to monitor health are key to ensuring that the work does not have an adverse effect on the health of employees. It is also a requirement of ILOOSH 2001. Some subsidiaries are carrying out speciﬁc actions 96 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees in this regard. In Colombia, for example, the Group’s subsidiary to help prevent occupational risk in Group entities on an is actively committed to the health of its employees. It has ongoing basis. This includes audits of, and/or improvements to, instituted a program and a joint committee on occupational health equipment, internal investigations or working groups focusing on (COPASO). It has introduced preventive occupational medicine occupational risk prevention, participation in exchange forums and committees for health and industrial safety. Periodic health or other prevention-related conferences, measures to prevent checks are carried out, as well as health awareness-raising and emergency situations, and initiatives to reduce or eliminate risks. promotional campaigns. Monitoring the legal and regulatory framework and strict Focus: BTICINO recognized for its occupational health compliance with applicable regulations are a requirement of the campaign Group’s prevention strategy. Regulatory monitoring is carried out The aim of the “APS-WHP, Aziende Promuovono che la Salute”, a by every country in which the Group has industrial operations. scheme sponsored by Lombardy Regional Authority and local A Group directive acts as the framework for implementation of health authorities in the province of Varese, is to prevent disease an initiative to prevent musculoskeletal disorders (MSD), the and foster a culture of health and well-being in the company leading cause of occupational injury at Legrand. Crafted by a by adopting a healthy lifestyle, both at home and at work. The multidisciplinary working group composed of company doctors scheme focuses on aspects such as nutrition, addiction (smoking, and Legrand employees representing a variety of positions (HR, gambling, alcohol and drugs), exercise, social and personal production, manufacturing, accident prevention), the directive welfare, road safety and long-term mobility. provides a screening method to identify situations that could potentially lead to MSD. It contains explanatory information on MSD which are speciﬁc to Legrand’s activities. This directive For further information about occupational health and safety within the Group, please visit www.legrand.com/EN. 04 formalizes the Group’s intention to focus on the ergonomics of work stations, and in general all risk factors that increase the likelihood of MSD, from the development phase of new production or methods of working. Sharing feedback and best accident-prevention practices at Group level is an effective part of Legrand’s overall strategy 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity Legrand pays special attention to managing the talent of its W holding CAPP (Competency Appraisal Performance and employees. The Group is also committed to combating any form Perspectives) meetings; of discrimination by championing equal opportunities, ethnic W manager retention within the Group. representation, and the integration of people with disabilities. It is managed by the Group’s Human Resources Department, which ensures cross-sectoral management of human resources, R 4.4.3.1 SUPPORTING EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT BY TAKING INTO ACCOUNT THE GROUP’S particularly targeting key positions and resources, and relying on the local management in each country. CHALLENGES AND DEVELOPMENT The Group’s human resources management has to take into Group priority 2014-2018 account the company’s operational challenges and priorities so that it can match its needs to its resources as closely as possible. Maintain a proactive approach to managing skills and talent. The goal is to advance the careers of the Group’s employees, Key performance indicators: foster their commitment, attract talent and build loyalty. This will ensure that the Group will have the appropriate human resources W percentage of employees attending one or more training courses; to meet its future needs. The HR management policy focuses on four key areas of action: W coverage of the Group’s high-potential employees and specialists by a talent-management process; W roll-out of training programs; W rate of completed CAPP (Competency Appraisal Performance W roll-out of talent-management processes; and Perspectives) for managers; W manager retention. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 97 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees Annual targets: W to continue management training to equip new managers with core management skills and strengthen the leadership skills of For the entire duration of the roadmap: to train 75% of Group more experienced managers; employees; to ensure that 90% of the Group’s high-potential and specialist employees are covered by a talent-management W to train sales teams on new solutions, products and systems to process; to complete CAPP interviews for 90% of managers; keep increase sales and boost Group market share. the manager retention rate at 95%. Cross-functional management is steered either by the Group or 2016 achievement: locally within the subsidiaries, and allows training needs to be more clearly identiﬁed and customized approaches developed. W 87% of employees attended one or more training courses In 2016, more than 468,000 hours of training were provided at during 2016; Group level. W 93% of staff were covered by a review of high-potential and Training is provided every year to managers, who play a vital role specialist employees through the Organization and Staffing in identifying priority needs, recommending the development Review (OSR) process; of core competencies, and maintaining and developing the W 88% of managers’ CAPP interviews were completed in 2016; commitment of their employees. W the manager-retention rate was 95% in 2016. Coaching programs help employees settle into new positions and In 2016, the redesign of the OSR process, which resulted in also contribute to their personal development. underperformance in 2014 and 2015, was implemented, which In 2016, the company decided to reinstate a Group Talent training explains achievement of the objective for this indicator and, program with the aim of developing and retaining key employees more generally, for the priority as a whole. The percentage of at all the subsidiaries. Its objectives are to strengthen their sense employees having attended at least one training course has risen of belonging to the Group and to develop their networks and their steadily to exceed the target of 75%. leadership skills. This concerns employees in key operational areas who need to play a role as intermediary for the Group in 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 their respective geographic regions. Target achievement rate 71% 90% 104% Roll-out of a talent management process Calculated in relation to the average achievement rate for the above four The management of talent, i.e. employees with high potential indicators, determined in relation to the annual targets. For both the CAPP who are capable of taking on responsibilities within the Group, achievement rate and the training rate, the actions taken with the persons who is a major challenge for the Group. Currently implemented in the left the company during the year are taken into account. The rates are calculated for the workforce registered at the end of the period. larger countries, it relies on various processes and tools such as: W the Organization and Staffing Review (OSR) process; W Prospective Employment and Skills Management (’GPEC’ in Roll-out of training programs France, or its equivalent in the other countries); The Group’s training commitments and policies are as follows: W staff mobility management. W to pursue and maintain training programs that guarantee In an ever-changing environment, the aim is to maintain these health, safety and well-being in the workplace and are proven processes optimally in major subsidiaries, as well as deploying to raise performance levels; them in other countries, with entities that in most cases have no local HR structure. W to pursue and maintain training/awareness programs for managers and employees to foster diversity and combat all In order to facilitate the harmonization of practices, HR teams forms of discrimination; use the same HR IT platform. This application helps to identify and develop talent, in particular by managing the data of Group W to introduce formal individual training courses for talented employees (such as CVs, etc.). Group employees to support them in new roles, increase their responsibilities or manage change; W to continue orientation programs for key personnel at various Group entities in order to help them succeed and acclimatize swiftly to the Group; 98 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees The OSR process is designed to match the Company’s professional and geographical mobility. Group talents identiﬁed organizational needs to its resources as closely as possible and during the OSR process as ready for mobility are systematically on an ongoing basis. In particular, it handles: taken into account in the various Group Mobility Committees. W career development plans (prepared by employees and discussed with their managers); Legrand encourages staff members’ mobility plans with support including visits to host sites, training that can cover W the identiﬁcation of potential successors for certain key intercultural skills in the case of a move to another country, and positions; ﬁnancial incentives. Thus, people in the Volontariat International W development or mobility action plans; en Entreprise (Volunteer for International Experience or ’VIE’) program who work at the Group’s subsidiaries are regularly W the impact of changes in strategy on jobs and on the monitored at various stages of their mission. When their contract organization; ends, a full assessment is conducted and a detailed analysis W certain speciﬁc situations, such as employees with high of employment opportunities is performed by the Mobility potential or particular expertise. Committee. Having redeﬁned and implemented the new process during the early years of the roadmap, in 2016 the OSR process was applied Individual appraisal reviews for Group managers across almost the entire Group (93% of staff). Individual appraisal reviews, now known as CAPP (Competency Focus: France The implementation of Prospective Employment and Skills Appraisal Performance and Perspectives) interviews are an important part of management and are essential for driving business performance. They enable Human Resources to focus on 04 Management (GPEC) and its guidelines on standard duties enables annual budgetary targets and to increase personal commitment gaps to be identiﬁed in the skills required for each position and by assessing performance, setting development action plans and those of the person holding that position, and deﬁnes priority taking into account wishes regarding functional or geographical training needs. In France, GPEC is an integral part of the CAPP mobility. These individual appraisal reviews are an opportunity process. Internationally, subsidiaries use a simpliﬁed system for for dialogue between the manager and the employee. complying with local laws and practices. In 2016, 88% of the Group’s managers had a CAPP interview, The Prospective Employment and Skills Management agreement which involves a standard approach to the concepts of targets, signed with all the trade unions represented in France in 2009 performance, competencies and mobility. Countries are formalizes an employment policy designed to underpin encouraged to develop this practice and the Group helps them competitiveness, while at the same time enabling employees set up, deploy or adapt the process. For example, countries to better manage their own careers in a rapidly changing deviating signiﬁcantly from the Group standard have received environment. The agreement also offers support to employees speciﬁc assistance. More information about the process has been interested in external mobility – either to start their own business, featured in internal communications. take over an existing one, or switch careers – through business creation leave, ﬂexible working hours, ﬁnancing and advice. It has Manager retention within the Group been renewed a number of times with supplemental agreements, Over and above talent management programs and a strong most recently on September 24, 2014. Legrand is also a partner bias towards internal promotion, the Group also relies on its of the Réseau Entreprendre Limousin et Haute-Vienne Initiatives compensation policy to retain management. Legrand has had (Limousin and Haute-Vienne entrepreneurship network), which retention plans in place for almost 10 years. Under these plans, provides support for start-ups. As part of the Group’s support for performance shares or bonuses are distributed, depending on entrepreneurship, Legrand is a partner of APEC (the Association the year. These are among the tools used to motivate and retain pour l’Emploi des Cadres – executive employment association). the Group’s human capital. The awards are decided each year on Mobility management promotes employability and is a way of the basis of the Group’s overall past and future performance. A developing competencies. It contributes to both personal progress selection process approved by senior management seeks to and business performance. The Legrand Group has a wide range identify the best-performing employees within all of the Group’s of professional positions, business sectors and geographical subsidiaries who help to create value across the organization. In locations, making for multiple opportunities and possibilities for 2015, the categories of grantees and their geographical location career development. Employee mobility platforms allow Groupwere extended. The number of beneﬁciaries has thus doubled wide management of talented staff in key positions, favoring the since the scheme was ﬁrst implemented, and in 2016 covers emergence of new dynamics for professional progress. Vacancies more than 5% of the Group’s workforce (about 1,700 people). are posted on the Group intranet site, which helps to drive REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 99 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees More than two-thirds of allotments are currently made to Employee well-being and satisfaction employees of international subsidiaries, while approximately 40% As part of its efforts to improve the quality of life at work, in 2015 relate to the new economies. It is to be noted that starting in 2016 the Group Executive Committee ratiﬁed a charter comprising one third of the performance criteria for performance shares 15 commitments for a work/life balance. The charter was awarded under a three-year plan to the Chairman and Chief launched in October 2013 by the French Ministry of Women’s Executive Offi cer, to members of the Executive Committee and Rights, City Affairs, Youth and Sport and the Observatory for to key managers were indexed to the overall CSR performance, Work/Life Balance and Parenthood. Its mission is to develop linked to the CSR roadmap. a ﬂexible and open management culture, which is essential to These elements are complemented by other schemes such as adapt to the technological and sociological changes that regulate proﬁt-sharing mechanisms, the Employee Savings Plan and the the life of the company. The main goal is to balance the private Company Investment Fund: and professional life of all employees. These 15 commitments have been ratiﬁed by all members of the Executive Committee. W proﬁt-sharing and incentives: under French law, the Group’s French entities are required to pay their employees a share of The well-being and satisfaction of the Group’s employees are the proﬁts once their after-tax proﬁt reaches a certain level. addressed through different processes: In addition to this obligation, a number of the Group’s French entities and foreign subsidiaries have set up discretionary W the CAPP interview (see section above), during which quality of life at work is discussed; proﬁt-sharing plans. Under these plans, employees receive a portion of the entity’s proﬁt calculated on the basis of W internal audits in which labor relations are assessed (for predetermined formulas negotiated by each entity. In France, example, absence of labor disputes or claims); the proﬁt-sharing agreements in effect were signed on June 17, W periodic satisfaction surveys among employees at the Group’s 2015 by Legrand and its French subsidiaries. Total proﬁtsites and subsidiaries, after speciﬁc events such as major sharing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2016 were organizational changes. For example, this was the case in Italy, €24.6 million, or 9.73% of the total payroll in France in 2016; Turkey, Hungary and the U.S.A. in recent years; W collective retirement savings plan (PERCO): this scheme, W surveys on speciﬁc projects, for example a poll to assess the in which the Company participates voluntarily, consists of level of employee satisfaction with communications sent on a plan to enable employees, if they so choose, to build longtheir smartphones, or a survey in Italy to measure participants’ term retirement savings with the help of the Company, under satisfaction with annual communication seminars. favorable ﬁnancial and ﬁscal conditions. This plan was signed in October 2012 at the level of the Group’s French companies; Group also values the reinforcement of the communication sharing between employees through various internal tools: W the Employee Share Ownership Plan: in 2004, the Company and its French subsidiaries set up an employee share W the Group intranet, which provides real-time information for all ownership plan (a Plan d’Épargne d’Entreprise groupe Legrand). employees with access to a computer; In accordance with the law, this plan enables all employees W the in-house magazine Legrand Info, which has a circulation of who have been with the Group in France for more than three 15,000 and is published in ﬁve different languages; months to build savings through various investment funds (Fonds Commun de Placement) of their choice, managed by W the internal corporate social network Yammer, which was launched in 2015 and has numerous community groups. This accredited institutions, during a lock-in period of ﬁve years. The network is designed to facilitate knowledge transfer within sums paid into employees’ savings accounts, which are by law the Group. Terminals have been set up in the manufacturing frozen for a period of ﬁve years, may include statutory proﬁtfacilities to enable people without a PC to keep track of the sharing, discretionary proﬁt-sharing, and voluntary payments, Group’s news; subject to legal limitations. Administrative costs are borne by the Company. The employee savings plan is effective for a W social media (“Legrand_news” on Twitter and “YouTube renewable term of one year; Legrand”) and communities specializing in areas such as Marketing, Purchasing, and Communication. More crossW Company investment fund: in 2003, Legrand set up a new functional communities also allow employees to share their fund, in addition to those already in place, under the name of opinions and ideas on products; “Legrand Obligations Privées” (Legrand private-sector bonds). It allows Group employees in France to invest their proﬁt-sharing W databases enabling data and ﬁle-sharing; payments during the lock-up period in a fund paying a similar rate of return as that paid on the previous locked-up current accounts. In 2016, this return was 5.5%. On, December 31, 2016, employee investments in this fund totaled €53.1 million. 100 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees W internal webcasts for staff training and the sharing of Group priority 2014-2018 information; To increase the number of women in key positions by 25%. W speciﬁc workshops are organized to allow various departments Key performance indicator: Number of women in key positions to present their activities to other employees. in the Group. In 2017, the Group will launch its ﬁrst worldwide employee Annual targets: engagement survey. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Focus: Change management Percentage of women Adapting to markets involves organizational changes and in key posts 12.6% 13% 13.5% 13.9% 14.4% therefore adapting resources and funding. These organizational changes take place within the framework of local labor 2016 achievement: relationships. Social dialogue is particularly important when At the end of 2016, 13.8% of the Group’s key positions were held it involves discussing possible changes and reorganizations by women, an increase of 19.7% versus the end of 2013. inside the Company. Employee representatives are kept closely informed and are regularly consulted about new projects. Once 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 changes have been decided upon, the Group puts in place measures to support those affected (e.g. redeployment, training, Target achievement rate * 127% 125% 113% coaching, help with setting up or taking over a business, etc.). A formal Group framework on best practices for change * Calculated against the percentage as at end of 2013 (11.5%). 04 management is currently being ﬁnalized in order to standardize practices. For further information about human resource Key positions are those considered to have a signiﬁcant impact management, please visit www.legrand.com/EN. on the strategic objectives and performance of their entity: they consist of management team positions in subsidiaries, SBUs (Strategic Business Units), and corporate departments. The goal of increasing the percentage of women in key positions applies R 4.4.3.2 PROMOTING DIVERSITY, ESPECIALLY BY PLACING MORE WOMEN worldwide. IN MANAGEMENT POSITIONS The Group plans to increase this by 25% between the end of 2013 and the end of 2018 at the current scope, meaning that it will The Group is deeply committed to combating discrimination include employees joining the Group as a result of acquisitions and promoting diversity. In 2004, it published its ﬁrst Ethics (which, in terms of diversity, can sometimes dilute the Group’s Charter and in 2009 formalized these guidelines in a Charter of performance, often for cultural reasons). Fundamental Principles. Another sign of its commitment in this regard is the fact that Legrand is also a signatory to the UN Global Promoting women to the Group’s key positions is part of an Compact. ongoing action plan that joins the measures already implemented by the Group in recent years: General Management recognizes that diversity, i.e. the variety of people proﬁles within the Group, contributes to innovation, W non-discrimination awareness and training for managers: performance and quality of life within the company. There initiatives include presentations by independent experts are twenty nationalities at the Group’s headquarters today. to HR employees and workforce representatives involved Employees beneﬁting from geographical mobility not only come in negotiating Professional Equality and Sustainable from headquarters but also from the Group’s subsidiaries in Development agreements; raising awareness among new hires all geographical zones. The Human Resources Department during orientation sessions; using dedicated tools (webcasts, encourages the diversiﬁcation of the proﬁle of talents who support testimonials, quizzes and posters); incorporating the promotion the Group’s growth. Employees from around ten nationalities of diversity into internal communication campaigns, and beneﬁted from geographical mobility schemes in 2016. organizing a gender equality week. Countries that have been involved in these initiatives include Australia, the United Arab The Group also encourages the hiring of more women managers Emirates, the United States, Germany, Italy and Canada; and undertakes to guarantee the same working conditions for women as those for men. W guarantee of compliance of HR processes with the principles of non-discrimination: production of a recruitment guide consistent with the principle of non-discrimination, written by an international working group composed of human resource managers from four countries (France, Italy, Turkey and the United States); signature of agreements on employment parity and equality, particularly in France in 2012, with renewal of REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 101 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees these agreements in 2014, and in Italy; guidelines sent to Group managers in France during the annual pay review; R 4.4.3.3 REDUCING THE PAY GAP BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN W establishment of a network of gender equality guarantors: Legrand champions gender equality and works to reduce the pay appointed to cover France, these guarantors have a mediation gap between the Group’s male and female employees wherever and advisory role and participate in exchanges of best it is found to exist. practices. They must ensure that no discriminatory situations occur in terms of hiring, vocational training, career paths and The aim of this priority is to improve diversity within the “nondevelopment, access for women to positions of responsibility, manager” category, for example by increasing the number of compensation policy, work/life balance, or the organization women in skilled roles. of working hours. The gender equality guarantors reviewed 19 potential cases of discrimination in 2016 (versus 14 in Group priority 2014-2018 2015), 9 of which resulted in salary adjustments being made (versus 6 in 2015); Reduce by 15% the pay gap between men and women in nonmanagerial positions as a whole within the Group. W training program: since 2013 nearly 900 of the Group’s French managers have received training in anti-stereotyping; Key performance indicator: pay gap between men and women in non-managerial positions as a whole within the Group. W diversity network: created on the initiative of Group employees, this network is run by an independent ﬁrm and is funded by the Annual targets: General Management. The elle@legrand network discusses 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 skills development, career progression and work/life balance, it arranges programs (such as mentoring) and organizes To reduce the pay gap to: 16.4% 15.9% 15.4% 14.9% 14.4% presentations and exchanges of views with other networks. In 2015, the network went global with the launch of an elle@ 2016 achievement: legrand network in North America (Elle at Legrand NA). In This priority applies to the entire non-managerial population 2016, Italy (with Lei@Bticino), the UK (Elle at Legrand UK), Peru, and does not address the gender pay gap for a particular role. Russia and India have also set up their own networks. At the end of 2016, the pay gap between men and women in nonmanagerial positions was 14.7%, slightly ahead of the target. Focus: Combating discrimination and harassment. The Charter of Fundamental Principles lays out Legrand’s 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 commitments regarding the respect of people and is designed to Target achievement rate * 274% 94% 142% ensure that each employee can enjoy fair, equitable and legally compliant working conditions. Any form of discrimination is * Calculated on the basis of the percentage reduction recorded relative to the strictly prohibited. The Group’s employees must ensure that baseline (17% in 2013) and compared against annual targets. their behavior is consistent with these principles. Managers must prevent situations of harassment or discrimination and This commitment applies to the Group’s non-managerial quickly deal with any problems that may arise within their teams, population while perfectly complementing the commitment relying on the ethics correspondent within their remit, the Human described above. Although measures to promote women to more Resources Department or the Legal Department. Requests and senior positions will reduce the pay gap between men and women queries are handled in the strictest conﬁdence and with the within the managerial population (as a result of the gender utmost respect for the individuals concerned. mix within the population concerned), they will not, by their Subsidiaries apply these commitments locally and may expand nature, reduce pay gaps within the non-managerial population. on them where circumstances allow. For example, in the United Therefore, the Group has chosen to apply this commitment to States, Legrand North America is committed to the prevention non-managerial positions. of workplace violence through a statement that no verbal or Measures to reduce pay gaps between men and women are already physical intimidation, harassment, threats or acts of violence in place within some Group reporting perimeters. For example, for may be tolerated in the workplace, either among the Group’s the last six years in France, an annual budget equivalent to 0.10% employees or among its customers and suppliers. of the payroll has been spent on reducing gender inequality. This The Charter of Fundamental Principles can be viewed at budget was used after performance-related increases had been www.legrand.com/EN. awarded to make appropriate adjustments in identiﬁed cases. To achieve this, the Group implemented a mechanism permitting employees to request a review of their working conditions (coefficient, compensation, career management) to ensure that these comply with the principle of non-discrimination. 102 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Commitment to our employees The Group’s goal to reduce the pay gap between men and French disability awareness week, events are organized at the women in the non-managerial population by 15% by 2018 goes head office and elsewhere to change the perception of disability. hand in hand with the implementation in other Group entities of Since 2010, and again in 2016, APSAH’s physiotherapy-massage mechanisms similar to those employed in France since 2009. training institute (PMTI) has visited the Limoges site during Disabled Employment Week, and visually impaired students have For example, in the last two years, the Hungarian subsidiary offered stretching sessions to prevent musculoskeletal disorders. has developed a training program to promote female assembly This relationship of trust between APSAH’s PMTI and Legrand operators to forklift driver positions, improving their salary is reﬂected in a partnership agreement demonstrating the progression and gender diversity within the trades. company’s commitment to improve the perception of disability. This agreement also enables Legrand to offer internships to R 4.4.3.4 DISABILITY MISSION FOR GREATER DIVERSITY PMTI’s third-year students. These internships are approved by the Regional Health Agency. This year, awareness campaigns were also conducted in Italy and the United Kingdom, giving a Legrand has special initiatives for people with disabilities, an area European ﬂavor to the event. it has been actively involved in for many years. This approach is a natural ﬁt with the Group’s commitment to disability: “Promote Actions of this kind are also carried out in the Group’s other equal opportunities through an improved awareness of diversity countries, especially involving awareness actions on different in Human Resources management”. Group-wide, the employment disabilities. The Group’s various subsidiaries adopt these rate of people with a disability is 2.36% of the Group’s workforce included in Occupational Health & Safety reporting. commitments locally and support charities promoting access to employment for people with disabilities. Group sites in Brazil are also committed to employing disabled 04 In France, the Group’s agreement on preventing discrimination and integrating people with disabilities comprises a hiring plan, people, either directly or through institutions. Persons with an integration and training plan with adapted work stations, and disabilities can thus participate in remunerated industrial a plan for retaining employees in the Company. projects, which enables them to be employed. In Italy, since the “International Year of the Disabled” in 1981, the Bticino subsidiary The Group has close relationships with sheltered employment has partnered with the association CFPIL (Varese Center for centers (Établissements de Service et d’Aide par le Travail) in the Vocational Training and Integration through Work) and the Italian Limousin and particularly with the French association for the province of Varese to facilitate the integration into the workplace blind and disabled (APSAH – Association pour la Promotion Sociale of young people with mental and motor disabilities. Governed by des Aveugles et autres Handicapés). Annual contracts for service an agreement, this commitment translates into the integration provision as well as production work are signed every year. of trainees into the Group’s Italian teams. The objectives of Moreover, Legrand offers free training to the personnel of ESAT this partnership were mainly to promote their integration into in safety rules and the use of ﬁreﬁghting means. Trainees with working life. disabilities are also integrated into the different establishments. The Group’s various subsidiaries adopt these commitments In Turkey, Legrand has created a “No handicap for our future” locally and support charities promoting access to employment fund which supports social enterprises whose workforce is at for people with disabilities. least 80% composed of people with disabilities. This initiative helps the people concerned to ﬁnd work and earn a guaranteed Under this agreement, Legrand allocates a budget for the donation minimum wage. of disability-related electrical equipment to refurbishment or new-build projects. For example, Legrand supplied the “La Maison In Dubai, Legrand subsidizes SENSE, a local association that des Cinq” association in Haute-Vienne with electrical equipment helps disabled children. to build ﬁve housing units for adults with brain injuries. In parallel with this action, Legrand has joined the ILO Global The Group also set up a disability unit to steer the initiatives Business and Disability Network. This network seeks to promote contained in the agreement on anti-discrimination and integration, the inclusion of people with disabilities into the workplace. and to raise awareness of the issues faced by disabled people For further information about human resource management, both inside and outside the company. Each year, to mark the please visit www.legrand.com/EN. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 103 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact 4.5 LIMITING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Legrand has long been committed to safeguarding the Industrial sites as well as the major administrative and logistics environment. This responsibility applies not only to the Group’s sites contribute to Group environmental reports by producing sites but also the design of its products. The challenge is to some 30 indicators, such as energy and water consumption, VOC innovate in order to limit the environmental impact of Legrand’s (Volatile Organic Compound) emissions and waste production. operations. This includes promoting the development of a circular A selection of the data from this reporting is presented in economy. section 4.6.3.1. To achieve this objective, Legrand encourages grassroots In addition, by actively contributing to the industry guide on CSR, action at its production and R&D sites which is overseen by the published by the French trade association GIMELEC based on SBUs (Strategic Business Units). At the same time, the Group stakeholder contributions, Legrand sought to provide speciﬁc Environment Department manages the Group’s environmental information about the sector, and in particular to identify the policy within the Strategy and Development Division and environmental impacts that apply to its businesses. This is contributes to environmental reporting by providing data analysis. particularly the case with noise pollution: as a manufacturing More than 130 people worldwide work on environmental issues. industry, noise pollution is limited to the noise of machinery For example, environmental representatives at the various located inside buildings; this is controlled so as not to generate production sites ensure that the Group’s environmental policy is any particular problem to neighborhoods around the Group’s implemented. They are responsible in particular for implementing sites. Concerning food waste, the subject is not directly related environmental diagnostics. Within the framework of Legrand’s to Legrand’s business. Consequently, Legrand does not consider operational organization, they also help implement improvement this to be applicable to its operations and has therefore not plans, in most cases as part of an Environmental Management speciﬁcally included this topic in this Registration Document System (EMS). (consistent with the “comply or explain” approach). All these environmental representatives work closely with each of the quality, environment and safety managers of the SBUs, and with the Group Environment team. 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint Legrand deploys its environmental policy on its sites in Group priority 2014-2018 conjunction with ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. This has led to an EMS To achieve ISO 14001 certiﬁcation at more than 90% of the Group’s (Environmental Management System) being set up, accompanied industrial and logistics sites. by an ISO 50001-certiﬁed energy management system at some European sites. This process, along with a host of local EMS Key performance indicator: percentage of the Group’s sites with initiatives that have proven effective in Group entities that are ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. most advanced in terms of environmental management, has led Annual targets: to a reduction in the company’s environmental footprint. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 R 4.5.1.1 SYSTEMATICALLY OBTAINING ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION FOR GROUP SITES Certiﬁcation rate of sites* 87% 88% 89% 90% * Sites considered are within the Group for more than ﬁve years. 90% Legrand’s approach is to prevent environmental risk and improve the performance of its sites. The management systems of industrial and logistics sites are assessed regularly and appropriate action 2016 achievement: plans are implemented for ongoing improvement. This process At the end of 2016, 91% of the Group’s industrial and logistics has resulted in third-party ISO 14001 certiﬁcation of sites covered sites had been ISO 14001 certiﬁed. In 2016, the Haridwar site in by the Group’s environmental reports. India was included in the scope of certiﬁcation. 104 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact most sensitive sites in terms of their environmental impact on 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 local water resources. Target achievement rate * 102% 104% 102% All of Legrand’s industrial facilities are monitored to limit the risk of pollution from discharges into the water. For surface treatment * Calculated against annual targets. workshops, the water must be treated and treatment provisions are strictly maintained and regularly updated. More generally, the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation policy for all Group sites as described Procedure above enables responsible industrial processes and practices for Sites of companies recently acquired by the Group must be water management to be deployed. certiﬁed within ﬁve years. New sites joining Legrand are therefore In 2016, the Group consumed 880,000 m3 of water, a decrease of assisted in their efforts to reach the required performance level 4.3% at current scope compared with the ﬁgures posted in 2015, through continuous improvement plans incorporating the Group’s or a much more favorable change than the Group’s targeted best practices and environmental techniques. This commitment reduction of 2% per year. This decrease demonstrates the represents a major ongoing effort, especially in countries where continued effectiveness of the actions introduced. regulations and standards fall short of the criteria for ISO 14001 Just as with greenhouse gas emissions under the GHG protocol certiﬁcation. (see section 4.5.1.3) the main water consumption indicators The introduction of an ISO 14001 compliant environmental relating to accommodation and catering for employees at management system (EMS) has two main consequences: W it determines the site’s signiﬁcant environmental aspects industrial sites are not taken into account, when this is technically possible. 04 (SEAs). The site’s management and personnel will put In addition, the Group’s subcontractors for surface treatment are measures in place in accordance with the site’s environment, in general, historic local suppliers, for which the same regulatory activities and local culture in order to prevent pollution and constraints are applied. Logistical proximity enables Group environmental risks in general; buyers to verify easily that these subcontractors implement a compliant and optimal effluent treatment system. W it establishes a continual improvement process, often symbolized by the DEMING wheel (Plan-Do-Check-Act), involving the implementation of concrete improvements. For example: improvements to energy efficiency in compressed air circuits and industrial cooling systems; reductions in water R 4.5.1.3 REDUCING THE ENERGY INTENSITY OF THE GROUP’S OPERATIONS consumption in industrial processes; reductions in waste Legrand regards reducing the energy intensity of its operations production at source and the installation of recovery processes. as a priority. To achieve this, the Group – taking advantage of its privileged position as a supplier of energy-efficient solutions that it can use at its own sites – has committed to a policy of R 4.5.1.2 CONTROLLING WATER CONSUMPTION The Legrand Group monitors its water use separately and continuous improvement of its energy performance. In 2015, this commitment was translated with the publication of the Group’s takes the scarcity of the local water supply into consideration. It energy policy, which is available for all Group employees on the measures its impact by taking account of the water consumption Legrand intranet. All subsidiaries and industrial, logistics and at industrial sites (using environmental reporting data) and the commercial sites are affected by this continuous improvement local value of water, which is estimated based on the natural process and are responsible for monitoring their energy abundance of the resource and the competition to access it. performance. Areas of progress are identiﬁed at each site and action plans implemented to reduce energy consumption. In For this reason, the Group uses public benchmarks to assess addition, the on-site organization put in place for the purposes of its exposure and dependency on water. By combining the ISO 14001 certiﬁcation ensures compliance with the legal energy consumption reported by the sites and the WSI (Water Stress requirements. Index) mapping data published by the UNEP (United Nations Environment Programme), the Environment Department has Legrand intends to pool best energy practices within the Group identiﬁed the 21 sites that account for 80% of the Group’s water by focusing on workforce training and information-sharing. As load worldwide. This analysis has revealed that approximately part of its investment policy, Legrand’s General Management 70% of the Group’s water consumption occurs at industrial also provides the resources required for the implementation of sites situated in zones where there is low or moderate water action to reduce energy consumption, involving suppliers and consumption (WSI index < or equal to 0.7). This approach enables service providers in improving the Group’s energy performance. the SBUs (Strategic Business Units) to focus their actions on the The Group thus offers its subsidiaries the opportunity to present REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 105 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact investment projects dedicated to improving energy performance 2016 achievements: on the relevant sites, with a speciﬁc return on investment (longer For 2016, energy consumption at the Group’s sites was 440.7 GWh, than the periods required for other investment plans). Site down slightly on 2015 (445.1 GWh). As a percentage of Group renovations enable a general improvement of the building in the sales, energy consumption amounted to an average intensity of search for energy optimization. 90 MWh/million euros at the end of 2016, against 105.8 MWh/ To build on this continuous improvement process, Legrand’s million euros of sales at the end of 2013, down 15% (at current management has decided to introduce an Energy Management scope). This change, compared with a reduction target of 2% per System (EMS) according to the ISO 50001 standard. The scope year, represents 9% outperformance by the Group and is due of the EMS corresponds to approximately 80% of the Group’s to the energy-saving initiatives introduced by the Group (some energy consumption in Europe and covers all industrial, logistics of which are detailed below) and to more favorable climatic and administrative operations of the sites concerned. An annual conditions in some regions. energy review consolidates the results measured at all sites in scope, setting and/or revising objectives and targets, and 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ensuring that they are achieved. Finally, an annual management Target achievement rate * 315% 175% 247% meeting allows management to review the EMS to ensure that it is relevant, adequate and effective and modify it if necessary. * Calculated against annual targets. Where appropriate the Group’s energy policy is revised. Focus: Legrand obtains ISO 50001 Energy Management Energy practices certiﬁcation The Group automatically incorporates energy efficiency into In 2015, Legrand obtained ISO 50001 certiﬁcation for its energy its operations when building, refurbishing and maintaining its management system. This certiﬁcation covers Legrand’s premises. Presence detectors are routinely installed during headquarters, 21 production sites and three logistics sites located building renovations to reduce power consumption from lighting. in Spain, France, United Kingdom, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands and In 2014, for example, a portion of the company’s headquarters Poland. Legrand is the ﬁrst French industrial group to obtain was equipped with a double-ﬂow CMV, while more efficient ISO 50001 certiﬁcation for multiple sites across a broad European glazing units were installed at several sites in the Limousin platform. The certiﬁcation demonstrates the Group’s commitment region to improve building insulation. to tackling major energy transition challenges through the promotion of solutions and services to improve energy efficiency Energy-efficient solutions developed by the Group are also in buildings. Legrand’s European Energy Management System installed at its industrial and service sites. For example, systems (EMS) is supported by the Group’s energy policy (fully consistent and sub-systems for measuring power consumption have been with its Environment Charter), existing ISO 14001 environmental installed in several Group sites in China, helping to obtain LEED management systems, and actions and information from the certiﬁcation for three Group sites. The new production facility in sites. Shenzhen, which opened in 2015, is also highly energy efficient. The Group also keeps track of best available techniques and is committed to replacing obsolete equipment with less energyGroup priority 2014-2018 intensive processes (free cooling, electric injection molding To reduce energy intensity by 10%. machine, energy-efficient motors, etc.). In 2015, for example, a chiller unit and air cooler were installed at the Ulyanovsk Key performance indicator: the Group’s energy intensity. plant in Russia to generate iced water for the injection molding Annual targets: machines and extrusion plant. At Boxtel in the Netherlands, an energy recovery system was installed on the paint line, and the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 warehouse unit heaters were replaced with radiant gas burners. To reduce total energy For building refurbishments, athermic glazing/shading solutions intensity, compared are preferred to air conditioning, which is only installed if there with 2013, by: 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% is no other option. Similarly, when ventilation systems need to be replaced, the Group opts for double-ﬂow ventilation with recycled fresh air in summer, saving on heating in winter and preventing 106 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact the entry of warm air in summer, thereby reducing the use of air lighting buildings. The speciﬁc carbon content of electricity in conditioning. each country is taken into account(1). As part of the “Better Building, Better Plants” initiative backed by In all, scope 1 and 2 emissions accounted for 179,000 metric tons the White House, North American entities are encouraging energy in 2016, as against 167,000 metric tons in 2015. retroﬁts of their office buildings and industrial sites, targeting a This total includes GHG (greenhouse gas) emissions associated 25% reduction in energy consumption over the next four years. In with the sales force’s vehicles and with presumed leaks of the this context, Legrand North America, the Group’s U.S. subsidiary, refrigerants used in the cooling and air-conditioning systems. commissioned a fuel cell device at one of its main industrial It is important to note that the extrapolation from sites covered sites. In principle, this will allow electricity to be generated from by environmental reporting to estimate the GHG emissions of oxygen and natural gas, without any combustion. Calculated over administrative sites (particularly offices and sales branches) a 20-year period, the fuel cell will deliver a 40% reduction in covers all of the Group’s GHG emissions. greenhouse gas emissions and eliminate 100% of SOx and NOx type gases. It will also save more than 50% on electricity costs. The following items were evaluated for scope 3 emissions (ranked in decreasing order of percentage of emissions): raw In France, the Group has partially replaced its ﬂeet of company materials (45.8%), purchased goods and services (32.1%), vehicles with electric vehicles. Charging stations continue to logistics (13.5%), product end-of-life (3.31%), capital expenditure be installed in parking areas of several industrial sites. These (2.48%), commuting (1.53%), upstream losses for production and stations are used for cross-site shuttles and travel within the transportation of fuels, and downstream losses for electricity, local area. business travel and waste(2) (1.25%). It should be explained that the item “use of products sold” is not taken into account, the 04 The Group’s carbon footprint quantiﬁcation of its size is in progress at Group level, and its Every year, Legrand contributes to the Carbon Disclosure Project evaluation is not expected to be very signiﬁcant. (CDP), a non-proﬁt organization whose objective is to measure, In 2016, scope 3 emissions totaled 1.839 million metric tons publish and share environmental information and provide a of CO2 equivalent, and were therefore signiﬁcantly higher than framework for actions to combat global warming. In 2016, the scope 1 and 2 emissions. Group was given a B rating under the new CDP rating system. In With regard to CO2 emissions linked to shipping the Group’s 2015, the Group had scored 95C with steady improvement. The methodological approach of the Carbon Footprint project isolates products, and more speciﬁcally regarding emissions linked scope 1 and 2 emissions, i.e., CO2 emissions directly related to to outbound shipping (i.e. from one Group site to another or to independent customers), the latter fell from 98.6 ktons in 2015 the Group’s activities, from indirect scope 3 emissions, which to 98.2 ktons in 2016. This fall reﬂects a fall of 4.6% in constant correspond to greenhouse gas emissions generated by other sales, conﬁrming the reducing trend of these emissions already stakeholders as a result of the Group’s activities. recorded in previous years. More precisely, a distinction is made between: The Group constantly strives to: W scope 1 emissions: these are Group emissions related to the consumption of fossil fuels (almost entirely natural gas) W simplify its logistics ﬂows to reduce the distances traveled by products and components between production and storage used for heating buildings, and to a lesser degree for some sites in sales areas; it also analyzes the “overall cost,” which industrial processes. Consumption by company cars, which are takes environmental criteria into account; used overwhelmingly by sales forces in the various countries where the Group operates, is also taken into account. Lastly, W consolidate the different manufacturing stages into a single the contribution of refrigerant leakage is evaluated and taken location, thus reducing transportation between sites. into account; Actions to optimize logistics are also consistently encouraged, W scope 2 emissions: these are indirect greenhouse gas such as: emissions related to electricity and heating consumption, W optimizing the loading of trucks leaving the Group’s international mainly for industrial processes and marginally for heating and distribution center for the main subsidiaries; (1) Excluding these speciﬁc emission factors, the French environment and energy management agency’s (ADEME) emission factors for France are taken into account. (2) For emissions related to waste management, Legrand is using emission factor of domestic waste for non-dangerous waste, and emission factor of incineration for dangerous ones. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 107 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact W the increase in the proportion of goods shipped by sea, consequences linked with extreme weather events that could especially between France and Turkey; affect business continuity. The methodology used is based on site scores developed by the Group’s insurers for exposure to the risks W using rail transport, particularly between Paris and Italy (Milan), of natural disasters. The mapping was done for the 126 major and between Antibes and Paris; sites (of a total of 153 sites) visited regularly by insurers. Note W using river transport between the port of Le Havre and the that the 27 sites excluded from the study are mainly unoccupied Paris region, particularly to supply the Group’s international or dormant sites or minor sites deemed non-critical for the Group. distribution center; Regarding the risk of ﬂooding, 77% of the sites visited present no W using, wherever possible, the same mode of transport for risk or have a risk level deemed non-signiﬁcant. A total of 23%, or incoming and outgoing shipments at the Group’s international 29 sites, present a risk level lower than or equal to 1% (i.e. less distribution center, thus reducing the number of empty than a 1% chance that this type of event will occur in any given journeys; year). These sites are mainly in France, Italy, India and the United W limiting the use of air freight. States. The method used by the Group to map its logistics ﬂows covers Regarding the risk of storm and high winds (including extreme more than 95% of its sales. snowfall): 8%, or 10 sites, could potentially be affected by such phenomena, although the likelihood of occurrence remains very The results of the full calculation conﬁrm that, as a materials low (less than 0.5% per year). The sites concerned are mostly processing and assembly company, the Group’s own activities located in India and the United States. The Group’s other sites are do not have a high carbon intensity. Analysis of the contributing not exposed to this type of phenomena. factors shows that, in descending order, the items related to raw materials, goods and services purchased, logistics and industrial These analyses supplement the Group’s site mapping in terms site consumption are the main causes, directly or indirectly, of of water stress, which indicates that approximately 80% of the greenhouse gases. Group’s water consumption is at industrial sites located in areas with low or moderate water use (for more information on this Focus: Calculation of an internal carbon price – Legrand signs topic, please refer to section 4.5.1.2 of this Reference Document). climate manifesto The analyses will become progressively more detailed and will be Legrand invested in the United Nations Climate Change regularly updated. This will enable the Group’s exposed sites to Conference in Paris (COP21), signing the climate manifesto and be targeted, paving the way for action plans to mitigate the longjoining 39 other major French companies which are resolutely term consequences of climate change. committed to the ﬁght against climate change and to limiting For more information on the Group’s risks, please refer to global warming to 2°C. section 3 of this Registration Document. Its initiatives are listed on the United Nations’ official website “International Climate Action”. Focus: Legrand reaffirms its commitment to reducing its energy footprint To reaffirm its leadership role and the impetus it brings to the campaign for a more sustainable world, since early 2016 Legrand Legrand has joined two international initiatives against global has increasingly included the carbon dioxide price per ton into warming: the Science Based Targets initiative, which calls on its operational considerations, notably investment decision companies to commit to CO2 emission reduction targets; and the processes. Global Alliance for Energy Productivity, an international alliance that seeks to improve energy efficiency. These two initiatives underscore Legrand’s longstanding commitment to mitigating Climate change and mitigation strategy the environmental impact of its activities. Climate change results in the materialization of new risks By joining the Science Based Targets scheme (backed by the WWF, for companies: damage to physical installations, business the United Nations Global Compact, the World Resources Institute interruption, ﬁnancial risks (linked to the rise in insurance costs, and the CDP), Legrand takes this one step further. Because to for example), impact on populations and therefore on company limit global warming to no more than 2 °C, the program calls on employees. multinationals to commit publicly to greenhouse gas emission Faced with these new risk factors, in 2015 the Legrand Group reduction targets consistent with a global scenario of limiting a mapped the vulnerability of its sites in terms of the physical rise in temperature to 2 °C. 108 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact R 4.5.1.4 USE OF SOILS AND BIODIVERSITY PROTECTION extent on the environment (destruction of species or habitats, consumption of natural resources, various forms of pollution, GHG emissions, etc.). Legrand’s activities have no direct impact on soil or biodiversity. The vast majority of the Group’s production sites are located Grey biodiversity can be assessed based on PEPs (Product inside business or industrial zones which are subject to speciﬁc Environmental Proﬁles), for which there are numerous impact regulations. Lastly, the manufacturing nature of the Group’s indicators (intermediate indicators), such as air or water toxicity business means that sites can be developed vertically, thereby or eutrophication, which enable an estimate to be made of the reducing their footprint on the ground. potential harm to ecosystem diversity (damage indicators). The Group therefore has a relatively broad base for the indirect Conversely, the Group takes into account the concept of embodied assessment of its impact on biodiversity. biodiversity. By analogy with embodied energy, embodied biodiversity is understood as the cumulative impacts on For more information on PEPs, please refer to section 4.2.1.3 of ecosystems and biodiversity over the entire lifecycle of a material this Registration Document. or product (e.g. equipment, energy): raw materials extraction, For more information about our environmental actions, please manufacturing, transportation, implementation, use and end-ofvisit our website at www.legrand.com. life. Each of these stages has an impact to a greater or lesser 04 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy Safeguarding the environment also means implementing circular of the Group’s offering. The continual changes to these standards, economy principles within the Legrand Group. This consists in coupled with the long lifetime of products and regulations, mean moving from a linear consumption pattern (resource exploitation, that they cannot generally be reconditioned for the second-hand manufacturing, use, end-of-life and waste management) to a market in equipment components. circular approach, like natural cycles in ecosystems. Group priority 2014-2018 R ENCOURAGING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF CIRCULAR ECONOMY PRINCIPLES To deploy the principles of a circular economy from the product design phase through to their end-of-life recovery. At the Legrand Group, circular economy principles are divided Key performance indicators: into three key categories: W percentage of waste sent to recovery facilities; W management of waste from manufacturing processes, in line with the Group’s eco-design approach; W share of Group sales(1) compliant with RoHS regulation; W traceability and disposal of hazardous substances in Group W introduction of eco-design principles to all Group R&D centers. products; Annual targets: W ongoing improvement of the environmental performance of the 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Group’s research and development (R&D) centers. Waste recovery > 80% > 80% > 80% > 80% > 80% It should also be noted that the Group’s products, usually associated with construction infrastructure, have long life spans Coverage rate (typically several decades), thus contributing to the rational use of sales compliant of non-renewable resources. Moreover, electrical equipment with RoHS also changes over the lifetime of a building and the Group’s new regulation(1) 92% 94% 96% 98% 100% products enable new functionality to be added within the existing Introduction of Priority 1: Priority 1: infrastructure, thereby avoiding (or delaying) their obsolescence. eco-design 100% 100% Finally, the role of standards and regulations is fundamental, principles to all Priority 1: Priority 1: Priority 2: Priority 2: Priorities 1 especially for safety products, which make up a signiﬁcant part Group R&D centers 80% 100% 30% 65% & 2: 100% (1) Including Group products outside the scope of RoHS regulations, excluding acquisitions in 2016 and sales of services. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 109 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact 2016 achievement: workshops with the active participation of all employees: weekly meetings with analysis of indicators, improvement proposals, During 2016, 88% of waste was sent for recycling, which conﬁrms brainstorming and suggestions. This initiative has resulted in the positive performance of previous years. At the end of 2016, several noteworthy actions, including: detection of energy losses 89% of its sales(1) were generated from products complying with in machines, switching off machines during breaks, reusing restrictions on the use of substances under RoHS regulation, consumables such as gloves, and increasing selective sorting. lagging behind the Group’s target of 96%. The Group’s acquisitions policy affected performance by merging with companies not subject to this regulation. This explains the underperformance Focus: Legrand Australia involved in the “Australian Package relative to the target for 2016. Fully 80% of R&D centers have Covenant” initiative implemented the Group’s systems for analyzing the risks of For several years, all of Legrand’s brands and entities in Australia hazardous substances being present in their products and for have been involved in a national initiative to reduce the amount monitoring the integration of Group environmental requirements. of packaging placed on the market. Under this program, targets The focus is on continuing to raise the level of expertise of all are deﬁned at the end of each year. Below are some examples of centers. In 2016, this included the team at NuVo, based in the initiatives that are being, or have been, carried out: United States. W review of the packaging practices of the 10 main suppliers of Legrand entities; 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Target achievement rate 100% 87% 118% W systematic reuse of all wood pallets used in workshops; W purchase of 30% of packaging from recycling centers. * Calculated as the average achievement rates for the above three indicators relative to the annual targets. In terms of results, environmental reporting has revealed that the gross amount of waste generated in 2016 was 52 thousand metric tons, a change of 1% compared with 2015 at current scope. Waste management The waste recycling rate remained very high, at 88%, in 2016. The The Group strives to treat the waste from its industrial operations Group’s goal is to maintain a minimum rate of 80% for all the as effectively as possible and monitors the results of its actions duration of its roadmap. by measuring its waste recovery rate. From an operational Legrand makes every effort to collect and recycle its products perspective, Legrand is working to reduce its waste in three main at the end of their life. Historically, the Group is a pioneer as, for ways: over 20 years, it has organized the recovery and recycling of selfcontained emergency lighting units. This has enabled more than W re-use of scrap in production processes; 200 metric tons of products to be recycled every year (including W better sharing of best practices in this matter, including about 70 metric tons from nickel-cadmium batteries). Note that identifying local improvement initiatives to limit the amount of at the national level (for all industrial actors combined), around waste at the source; 30% of all self-contained emergency lighting units placed on the W better waste identiﬁcation to improve sorting and thus facilitate market are collected at the end of their life. recycling. The WEEE Directive has structured and regulated such initiatives Recycling is a critical point for Legrand, especially on its industrial in Europe. Under its leadership, eco-organizations have sites. Sorting instructions are regularly updated to maintain, or established systems to collect and process products that have even improve, the Group’s historically high recycling rate. Some now reached the end of their life. In response to the obligations, scrap is directly reused in the production process: as a result, the Legrand has joined in these efforts by funding recycling facilities sprues from injection molding are ground up and reincorporated that process the tonnage placed on the market through retail with virgin materials in the thermoplastic injection process. In channels. addition, scrap from the metal cutting process is legally classiﬁed Since 2010, recycling processes have been set up that are as production waste and is systematically recycled outside the speciﬁcally tailored to the construction industry, such as the company. “WEEE pro” process in France with the eco-organization Récylum. As an example of best practice, the Group’s Italian subsidiary, Legrand participated as a founding member in the launch of BTicino, launched a campaign to promote responsible consumption this professional process, which recovers end-of-life electrical of resources at its Italian sites called the “3 Rs”: Reduce, Reuse, and electronic equipment. The Group’s sales forces are trained Recycle. Several initiatives have been set up in production to promote membership of the Récylum network among their (1) Including Group products outside the scope of RoHS regulation, excluding acquisitions in 2016 and sales of services. 110 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact customers. The Récylum network in France comprises over 3,600 REACH Regulation collection points at the Group’s electrical equipment wholesalers Legrand takes into account the requirements of the European and installers. Each one is equipped with special containers to REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction collect products under the scope of the WEEE Directive. of Chemicals) Regulation 1907/2006 and takes all necessary The above-mentioned pioneering industry sector of selfmeasures to be in compliance. As a proactive player in this contained emergency lighting units has already created market process, Legrand goes beyond regulatory requirements. For habits that now beneﬁt the collective WEEE sector. Similar example, when developing its products, it has undertaken to initiatives have been implemented in European countries affected exclude any substances included in the REACH “candidate list” by the directive. whenever a technically and economically viable alternative is available. Legrand regularly takes part in one-day forums organized by Recylum to discuss best practices in eco-design for future Legrand is therefore also involved in the application of the recycling purposes. These forums are typically attended by European REACH regulations, in particular by facilitating the stakeholders in the electrical, medical and climate engineering transmission of data on the relevant substances used in its industries, end-of-life product disposal organizations, and the economic chain (upstream and downstream). This includes: French environment and energy management agency (ADEME). W arranging the collection from strategic suppliers of Material Finally, the Product Environmental Proﬁles (PEPs) developed by Safety Data Sheets on substances and preparations, such the Group (covering 61% of the Group’s total sales at end 2016 sheets being key components of REACH for transmitting – see section 4.2.1.3 of this document) are information tools speciﬁcally designed for recycling centers (showing, for example, product information; W providing the Group’s European customer service departments 04 the potential for recycling and recovery and the location of subwith a customer response system connected to the Group’s assemblies requiring speciﬁc treatment). They also facilitate the intranet site covering all brands. This ensures transmission of recovery of Legrand products at the end of their life. the most up-to-date information; Traceability and disposal of hazardous substances W posting a full page dedicated to REACH on the Legrand website for the use of all stakeholders. RoHS Directive To bolster and maintain this proactive approach, a REACH expert The RoHS Directive lays down rules restricting the use of committee, including the Group’s materials and processes hazardous substances for electrical and electronic products. experts, supported by the purchasing organization, was set up in Originally adopted in 2003 ahead of its implementation in 2006, 2011. Its role is to seek, upon publication of the lists of candidate it was revised in 2012 and the list of target substances was substances, alternatives to be promoted among R&D teams for extended in 2015. Nevertheless, since 2004, Legrand has made product design and the development of their manufacturing it a goal to eliminate RoHS substances from all of its solutions, process. starting with those marketed in Europe, whether they are covered by the scope of application of the Directive or not. As a result, Environmental performance of Group R&D Centers in 2007 the Group adopted lead-free welding processes, while As part of its 2014-2018 roadmap, Legrand has set up a process the use of lead-free PVC (mainly in the manufacture of cable to assess the practices of its R&D centers and manage their management proﬁles) was extended throughout the Group from progress in acquiring eco-design know-how. An annual review of 2009. the following seven practices allows a performance index to be In addition to its strict compliance with the RoHS Directive attributed to each R&D center: (2011/65/EU), the Group is already prepared to open the scope of W use of the Group’s system for analyzing the risk of hazardous application, which is due to be introduced in 2019. substances being present (priority 1 practice); Furthermore, the Group has added to its CSR roadmap the target W use of the Group’s system for monitoring the Group’s of complying with the RoHS Directive’s restrictions on the use of environmental requirements (priority 1 practice); hazardous substances for its entire global offering by the end of 2018 (including those outside the scope of the RoHS Directive). At W use of LCA (Lifecycle Analysis) in the concept-deﬁnition phase the end of 2016, 89% of sales were generated from products that (priority 2 practice); did not contain these substances (against a target of 96%). The W obtaining eco-designed products at the end of the R&D process Group’s acquisitions policy affected performance, by merging (priority 2 practice); with companies not subject to this regulation and marketing products potentially containing the substances in excess of the W implementation of one EMS (Environmental Management System) per R&D unit (ISO 14062 or equivalent) (priority 2 restrictions under the RoHS Directive. practice); REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 111 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Limiting our environmental impact W integration of the upstream supply chain in LCA (priority 3 when current is passed, which was achieved by changing the practice); latching inside the switch. This reduction, extrapolated for total future manufacture of these products, is expected to reduce W integration of materials from the circular economy (priority 3 environmental impact by some 57 metric tons of CO2 equivalent. practice). In 2014, the ﬁrst year of deployment, the Group’s goal was to W EDM transformers: the reduction of the power dissipation in complete the ﬁrst full assessment of these seven practices at all the product resulted in a decrease in environmental impacts of of its R&D centers. Since 2015, efforts have focused on developing approximately 30% compared with the previous generation of the expertise of its centers. By the end of 2016, priority 1 products. The PEP ecopassport® issued for this series provides practices have been put in place for 80% of the Group’s R&D details of their environmental impacts. Moreover, with this new centers (compared with a target of 100%). 67% of these teams design the transformer generates less noise. have already implemented priority 2 practices, with a target of W TX3 circuit breakers: the use of thermoplastic instead of 30% by the end of 2016. thermosetting resin improves product recyclability. At the The eco-design approach is particularly signiﬁcant. An ecosame time, improvements in product component design have designed product is a product which, on the basis of multi-criteria led to a reduction in their manufacturing impacts. indicators, has a reduced environmental impact for each stage of W new ERDF connection plate: with extra functions, this new, its lifecycle (production, distribution, use, maintenance and end more compact, version also reduces packaging volumes. In of life – according to the methodology in the ISO 14040 standard). addition, because it has fewer parts, end-of-life disassembly The comparison refers to the older generation of the product or will be easier. a targeted competitor’s product, or even the industry standard W “KALANK CS” recessed lights for drywall: the use of more product (as established by a trade association or a standard such efficient components with 40% less energy consumption and as NF, BAES, etc.). the new compact aluminum shell design made from 50% In the end, only the most carefully developed products from an recycled aluminum have resulted in a more compact product environmental perspective can claim the title of “eco-designed”, which is easier to recycle. Overall, the environmental footprint thus providing a constant challenge for Legrand R&D teams. has been reduced by around 40% for nearly all environmental Lifecycle assessment (LCA) techniques that establish product indicators. environmental proﬁles (PEPs) are a powerful tool for designing W battery-powered emergency lights: switching to LED technology better products. By challenging the usual technical solutions has yielded a 75% reduction in the product’s environmental in the design and industrialization phases, the analysis of impact throughout its lifecycle, while extending the lifetime of environmental impacts is also a remarkable tool for innovation. the light source and reducing the product’s footprint. The following are some examples of eco-designed products The eco-design policy also applies to packaging. It enables the launched by Legrand: ratio of packaging volume to product volume to be lowered. For instance, ’packaging’ experts have deﬁned best practices W Mosaic electrical accessories: the mechanisms used in the which are implemented by all R&D teams. These include using Mosaic and Céliane switch ranges were revised so that they cardboard containing a high percentage of recycled material, would require fewer materials with the potential to deplete printing with water-based inks, using acrylic adhesives which non-renewable natural resources. The resulting reduction was emit fewer VOCs, etc. The new cardboard packaging design of around 75%. This initiative also led to a signiﬁcant reduction Mosaic and Céliane sockets and switches delivered an annual of some 15% in the amount of energy lost through heating saving of 39 metric tons of CO2 equivalent in 2015. 112 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information 4.6 OVERVIEW OF INDICATORS AND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 4.6.1 Reporting procedures Two reporting tools are used throughout the Group to collect, 96.4% of the Group’s workforce in 2016. New acquisitions are administer and manage environmental, social and preventionintegrated the year following their entry into the Group’s scope related data: one is database management dedicated to social of consolidation. The following entities entered the scope of data, and the other is speciﬁc software accessible on the Group’s reporting in 2016: Raritan, Valrack and IME. No entity left the intranet for environmental and prevention data. scope of consolidation; Reporting enables the various units to capitalize on best practices W Environment reporting periodically consolidates statistical and share them within the Group. It should be noted as regards data on the environment. It concerns production sites with the various reporting tools, that: more than 25 employees, administrative or commercial sites with more than 200 employees, and storage sites larger than W Occupational Health and Safety reports periodically consolidate statistical data on occupational risk prevention. It covered 100% of the Group’s workforce (excluding acquisitions 15,000 m2. New acquisitions are integrated between one and three years after they join the Group. Two units were added in 04 2016: Jeddah in Saudi Arabia and Blyth in the UK. Seven sites under three years), in 2016, with 153 entities included in the in Spain, India, Iran, Russia, Slovakia, Turkey and Venezuela left scope of reporting. New acquisitions receive training on the the reporting scope, usually following local consolidation of rules and standards of reporting in the ﬁrst year of their production activities. consolidation into the Group. Their prevention indicators within the aggregates provided by the Group are taken into account W if an entity is sold, it immediately exits the scope of reporting only after the third year following their consolidation because of mentioned above. the time needed to acquire the Group’s methods and standards. All of these applications include an overview document for the In 2016, 4 entities joined the scope of reporting. These are reporting process plus a user guide. Online help, data consistency entities that joined the Group in 2013 (Tynetec in the UK, Adlec checks and mandatory comments are integrated into these Power in India, Seico in Saudi Arabia and S2S in France). applications to help with the input of the entities’ qualitative data. W Human Resources reporting periodically consolidates statistical data on human resources management. It covered 4.6.2 Overview of social indicators R 4.6.2.1 HEALTH AND SAFETY INDICATORS The table below summarizes the main health and safety indicators for the Group. The data presented correspond to the Occupational Health & Safety scope of reporting, which covers all Group employees excluding acquisitions under three years (i.e. 30,691 people at the end of 2016). This is consistent with the integration rules described in section 4.6.1 of this Registration Document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 113 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information 2014 2015 2016 Occupational risk management plan (% of Group workforce covered by this plan) 95% 90% 90% Health/safety monitoring and improvement process (% of Group workforce covered by this process) 94% 90% 94% Health and Safety Committees (% of Group workforce represented by a Health and Safety Committee) 91% 87% 86% Workplace health (Number of people who have had a (para)medical review within the last 5 years) 72% 70% 70% Frequency of workplace accidents leading to absence (Number of accidents × 1,000,000)/(Hours worked) 7.27 5.89 5.29 Severity of workplace accidents (Number of days absence × 1,000)/(Hours worked) 0.22 0.15 0.17 Frequency of accidents suffered by subcontractors (Number of subcontractor accidents occurring on a Group site × 1,000)/ (Number of employees on the Legrand site in question) 1.70 1.74 3.23 Training Number of health & safety training hours per person 3.1 2.5 2.9 Work-related illnesses (Number of recognized work-related illnesses) 61 88 51 Number of fatal accidents 0 0 0 Additional comments: W the frequency of accidents suffered by subcontractors is in progress in terms of reliability and must be analyzed with W the proportion of the workforce for whom risk indicators are caution; consolidated corresponds to all employees covered by Health & Safety reporting, with the exception of a few cases of isolated W in accordance with the pledge made in 2015, particular or seconded employees; attention was given in 2016 to the occupational illness indicator in order to pinpoint the illnesses actually caused by working for W 153 entities are included in the scope of reporting; the Group. 114 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information R 4.6.2.2 INDICATORS ON EMPLOYMENT, THE ORGANIZATION OF LABOR, LABOR RELATIONS AND TRAINING Group workforce at the end of 2016 2014 2015 2016 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (ANNUAL AVERAGE) 36,476 36,097 35,902 By geographical location: France 5,797 5,700 5,600 Italy 2,753 2,800 2,828 Rest of Europe 5,438 5,265 5,351 United States and Canada 3,137 3,312 3,876 Rest of the World 19,351 19,020 18,247 Of which Of which Of which Of which Of which Of which Back Office Front Office Back Office Front Office Back Office Front Office TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES (ANNUAL AVERAGE) By geographical location: 81% 19% 81% 19% 80% 20% 04 France 84% 16% 84% 16% 83% 17% Italy 81% 19% 83% 17% 83% 17% Rest of Europe 76% 24% 75% 25% 74% 26% United States and Canada 78% 22% 77% 23% 76% 24% Rest of the World 82% 18% 82% 18% 82% 18% The Group speciﬁcally applies the concept of “registered The tables below summarize the main indicators for the Group workforce”, which includes employees with both ﬁxed-term in terms of registered workforce. All data correspond to the HR and open-ended employment contracts. The total workforce scope of reporting, which covers 96.4% of the overall workforce, registered at the end of 2016 was 32,722 people. or 31,542 people. Note that HR reporting does not include acquisitions completed in 2016. The table below shows the average headcount, including temporary workers, employed by the Group between 2014 and 2016. The table gives a breakdown of the workforce by geographical location and main business sector. Working hours – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 % of employees working full-time 97.7% 97.5% 97.5% % of employees working part-time 2.3% 2.5% 2.5% Additional note: the deﬁnition of full time and part time is given in the HR reporting user guide. Absenteeism – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 All job categories 3.06% 3.69% 4.20% Additional note: absences to be taken into account are absences due to illness (including work-related illness), accidents at work, accidents during commuting and unexcused absences. It excludes days of temporary layoff, disciplinary suspension, strikes, maternity leave, absence for family events (legal or under agreements), statutory holidays or unpaid leave. For some units, it also takes into account the days of absence for long-term illness compensated by social security bodies. The absenteeism indicator covered 89.6% of the workforce in the end of year HR report. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 115 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information Social dialogue and freedom of association – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 % of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement and/or convention 57% 52% 52% Additional note: the percentage of employees covered by a collective bargaining agreement is the percentage of the total workforce at the year-end for the HR reporting scope. Restructuring and reorganization – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 % of reporting scopes with consultation rules 24% 17% 22% The signiﬁcant difference between the scope of consolidation covered in 2014 and 2015 is due to the entry of new entities in the scope of reporting, which had a dilutive effect. Compensation – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 % of non-managers on minimum wage 1% 1.6% 1.6% Additional notes: W 14 reporting scopes have employees on minimum wage; W this indicator covers 99% of the Group’s non-managers. Compensation by gender and occupational category – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Wage gap between male and female managers 13% 14.3% 13.6% Wage gap between male and female non-managers 15.5% 16% 14.7% Additional note: the calculation of the wage gap between men and women, for both non-managers and managers, is based on the weighted workforce in each reporting scope. With respect to the wage gap for non-managers, Legrand’s industrial operations are assembly-intensive. These workshops are essentially staffed by women and the qualiﬁcation level required is low. Concerning the wage gap for managers, note that these jobs are essentially staffed by men, the explanation for which lies in the nature of the Group’s engineering businesses (electronic, electrotechnical and electromechanical ﬁelds) and sales and marketing activities (sales engineers). Pay for those jobs is above the company average. Geographical breakdown of workforce 2014 2015 2016 Mature countries 40% 41% 43% New economies 60% 59% 57% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% Additional note: the breakdown covers 100% of employees with ﬁxed-term or open-ended employment contracts (registered workforce). 116 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information Breakdown by professional category – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Managers 25% 26% 27% Non-Managers 75% 74% 73% Additional note: the breakdown of professional categories is included in the HR reporting user guide. Breakdown by age – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Employees < 26 years 10% 10% 8% Employees ≥ 26 years and < 36 years 31% 30% 28% Employees ≥ 36 years and < 46 years 30% 30% 31% Employees ≥ 46 years and < 56 years 21% 22% 24% Employees ≥ 56 years Additional note: the age pyramid takes into account employees with ﬁxed-term or open-ended employment contracts. 8% 8% 9% 04 Breakdown by type of contract 2014 2015 2016 Open-ended Worldwide 82% 83% 84% Fixed-term Worldwide 18% 17% 16% Additional note: it should be noted that the proportion of ﬁxed-term contracts is structurally impacted by the large number of temporary contracts in China, a common local practice. Developments during 2016 (hirings and departures) – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Share of open-ended contracts in hiring of employees on open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts (excluding changes of ﬁxed-term contracts into open-ended contracts) 40% 38% 49% Share of ﬁxed-term amended to open-ended contracts in hiring of employees on open-ended contracts 22% 21% 17% Open-ended contract turnover 13% 14% 11.5% In 2016: W the total number of hires was 4,682; W the number of open-ended contracts among new hires on open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts totaled 2,274; W the number of ﬁxed-term contracts amended to open-ended contracts was 457. The “open-ended contract turnover” takes into account resignations, retirements, layoffs for personal reasons, layoffs for economic reasons, departures by stipulated agreement, employees with an open-ended contract not remaining in the company at the end of their probationary period, and other reasons (according to the methodology recommended by the GRI). This “open-ended contract turnover” indicator is calculated based on the total number of terminated open-ended contracts divided by the open-ended contract workforce at the beginning of the ﬁscal year. Moreover, it should be noted that the proportion of ﬁxed-term contracts is structurally impacted by the large number of temporary contracts in China, a current local practice. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 117 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information Departures* 2014 2015 2016 Of which resignations 36% 33% 41% Of which retirement 6% 7% 7% Of which other departures 58% 60% 52% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% * Additional note: the data relating to departures include open-ended contracts. The “other departures” indicator takes into account conventional agreements, layoffs for personal and economic reasons, employees with an open-ended contract not remaining in the Company at the end of their trial period, and various other reasons. For 2016, the total number of departures was 5,401 for all reasons and for all types of contracts combined (of which 21% were departures for personal reasons, layoffs for economic reasons, and ﬁxed-term contracts terminated early by the employer). Out of that total, 3,062 departures concerned employees on open-ended contracts; 2,339 departures concerned employees on ﬁxed-term contracts, of which 60% were in the Group’s Chinese entities on account of the high proportion of ﬁxed-term contracts in China. Note that 75% of departures of employees on ﬁxed-term contracts took place at the employee’s initiative. Hirings by gender – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of women among persons hired 54% 55% 48% Percentage of men among persons hired 46% 45% 52% Additional note: these ﬁgures take into account open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts and exclude ﬁxed-term contracts amended into open-ended contracts. Employee training (ﬁxed-term and open-ended contracts) 2014 2015 2016 Number of training hours per employee (Worldwide) 12 hours 13 hours 15 hours Number of training hours per employee – Managers 18 hours 17 hours 18 hours Number of training hours per employee – Non-managers 10 hours 12 hours 14 hours Percentage of the Group’s workforce receiving training during the year 65% 82% 87% Talent management – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Rate of Individual Appraisal Reviews (CAPPs) – Managers 85% 88% 88% Percentage of experts and talent managed by the OSR (Organization and Staffing Review) system N/A* 48% 93% Manager-retention rate 96% 96% 95% * Indicator not monitored in 2014 following the overhaul of the process in 2014. R 4.6.2.3 DIVERSITY INDICATORS The tables below summarize the main Group indicators in terms of diversity. All data are reported at current scope of consolidation. Breakdown of employees by gender – Worldwide – Open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts 2014 2015 2016 Women 36% 37% 36% Men 64% 63% 64% 118 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information Breakdown of employees by gender and age – Worldwide – Open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts 2014 2015 2016 Female employees < 26 years 5% 5% 4% Male employees < 26 years 6% 5% 4% Female employees ≥ 26 years and < 36 years 11% 11% 10% Male employees ≥ 26 years and < 36 years 20% 19% 18% Female employees ≥ 36 years and < 46 years 10% 10% 11% Male employees ≥ 36 years and < 46 years 20% 20% 20% Female employees ≥ 46 years and < 56 years 7% 7% 8% Male employees ≥ 46 years and < 56 years 13% 15% 16% Female employees ≥ 56 years 3% 3% 3% Male employees ≥ 56 years 5% 5% 6% Additional note: at the end of 2016, the average age of male employees was 41 years, compared with 40 years for women. 04 Breakdown of employees by gender and occupational categories – Worldwide – Open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of female managers 22% 22% 22% Percentage of male managers 78% 78% 78% Percentage of female non-managers 41% 42% 41% Percentage of male non-managers 59% 58% 59% Percentage of women in key positions 12.9% 13.4% 13.8% Percentage of disabled workers – Worldwide 2014 2015 2016 Percentage of disabled workers 2.23% 2.36% 2.36% Additional note: This indicator is calculated for entities that have been with the Group for more than three years. For France, the rate for disabled workers was 7.78% at the end of 2016, above the legal minimum of 6% (as provided for by law, including subcontracting with the protected sector). Note that this rate is computed on 99% of the Group’s workforce in France. 4.6.3 Overview of environmental indicators The tables below show the main Group environmental indicators. For more information on the rules for including newly merged All data correspond to the Environment reporting scope, which acquisitions in the reporting process, please refer to section 4.6.1 covers over 94% of the Group’s production cost, with the exception of this Registration Document. of GHG emissions expressed in metric tons of CO2 equivalent, which cover 100% of the Group’s activities. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 119 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information R 4.6.3.1 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS – SITES The table below shows the main indicators monitored by the Comments on the data presented can be found in section 4.5 of Group as regards impact related to site activities. The data are at this Registration Document. current scope of consolidation. 2014 2015 2016 Energy consumption (GWh) 445 445 441 Direct energy consumption (mainly gas) (GWh) 179 179 176 Indirect energy consumption (mainly electricity) (GWh) 266 266 265 Total CO2 emissions for scopes 1 and 2 of the carbon assessment (in thousands of metric tons equivalent of CO2) 163* 167* 179* Emissions from product transport (in thousands of metric tons equivalent of CO2) 89.0 98.6 98.2 CO2 emissions linked to energy consumption (thousands of metric tons equivalent of CO2) scopes 1, 2 and 3 of the carbon audit 1,887 2,012 2,017 ISO 14001-certiﬁed sites (%) 89% 92% 91% 3 Water consumption (in thousands of m ) 990 920 880 Waste produced (in thousands of metric tons) 52 51 52 Waste recovered** (%) 86% 87% 88% Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) (in metric tons) 125 117 119 * Recovery complies with the requirements of the GHG Protocol. ** Sent for recycling. Additional notes: W the environmental reporting covers a special calendar W a total of 21 new sites (related to Legrand’s acquisitions) were consistently composed of the fourth quarter of year Y-1 and of ISO 14001 certiﬁed between 2011 and 2016, including Fairﬁeld the ﬁrst three quarters of year Y; in the United States, Caxias do Sul in Brazil, Wuxi, Huizhou and Shanghai in China, Preston in Australia, Nashik, ADLEC, the ﬁve Numeric sites and Haridwar in India. At the end of 2016, 91% of industrial and logistics sites consolidated within the Group for more than ﬁve years were ISO 14001-certiﬁed. R 4.6.3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATOR – PRODUCTS 2014 2015 2016 Share of Group sales generated by products with PEPs 52% 56% 60% (1) Share of Group sales compliant with the RoHS regulation 85% 84% 89% (1) Including Group products outside the scope of the RoHS regulation. The elimination of RoHS substances contained in these products is a voluntary commitment by the Group. R 4.6.3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS – OTHER 2014 2015 2016 Environment-related contingency provisions and guarantees (in millions of euros) 13.8 10.8 9.3 Convictions, ﬁnes, closures 0 0 0 For more information on the management of environmental risks, please refer to section 3 of this Registration Document. 120 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information 4.6.4 Article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law – Cross-reference table Sections of the Registration Obligations under article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law Document Company efforts to take into account the social and environmental consequences of its activity, as well as its social Policy commitments to sustainable development; its guidelines, 4.1.1 4.1.2 where necessary specifying the actions or initiatives 4.1.3 4.4 implemented 4.4.3 4.5 Sections of the Registration Obligations under article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law Document W Total workforce 4.6.2 W Breakdown of employees by gender, age and geographical location 4.6.2 04 W New employee hiring and layoffs 4.6.2 a) Workforce W Employee compensation and salary progression 4.4.3 4.6.2 W Working hours 4.4 4.6.2. b) Work organization W Absenteeism 4.4 4.6.2 W Organization of social dialogue 4.4.1 c) Labor relations W Collective bargaining agreements 4.4.1 W Health and safety conditions 4.4.2 4.6.2 W Agreements signed 4.4.2 4.6.2 Labor relations d) Health and safety W Workplace accidents 4.4.2 4.6.2 W Total number of training hours 4.4.3 4.6.2 e) Training W Training policies 4.4.3 W Equality between men and women 4.4.3 4.6.2 f) Equal treatment: W Employment and integration of disabled people 4.4.3 4.6.2 measures taken to promote W Prevention of discrimination 4.4.3 4.6.2 W Promotion of freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 4.4.1 g) Promotion of and compliance W Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation 4.4.1 4.4.3 with the Fundamental Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 4.4.1 Conventions of the International W Labor Organization (ILO) W Effective abolition of child labor 4.4.1 4.3.2 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 121 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information Sections of the Registration Obligations under article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law Document W Organization of the company to take environmental questions into account 4.5 W Employee training and information actions 4.5 4.6.3 W Resources devoted to preventing environmental risks and pollution 4.5 4.5.1 a) General environmental policy W Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks 4.6.3 W Measures to prevent, reduce, or compensate for air, water, and soil emissions affecting the environment 4.5.1 4.6.3 4.5.1 4.5.2 W Measures to prevent, recycle, and dispose of waste 4.6.3 W Taking account of noise and other sources of pollution speciﬁc b) Pollution to an activity, where relevant 4.5.1 4.6.3 W Pollution and waste management: Environmental W measures to prevent, recycle, reuse, repurpose and dispose of waste aspects W actions to prevent food waste 4.5.1 4.6.3 W Use of resources: W Water consumption and water supply depending on local constraints 4.5.1 4.6.3 W Consumption of raw materials and measures to improve 4.5.1 4.5.2 their efficient use 4.6.3 W Energy consumption, and where relevant, measures 4.2.1 4.2.2 to improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable 4.5.1 4.5.2 energy sources 4.6.3 c) Circular economy W Land use 4.5.1 4.6.3 4.2.1 4.5.1 W Greenhouse gas emissions 4.6.3 d) Climate change W Adaptation to the impacts of climate change 4.5.1 4.6.3 e) Protection of biodiversity W Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity 4.5.1 4.6.3 a) Regional, economic and social W Employment and regional development 4.3.3 impact of the activity W On neighboring and local populations 4.3.3 W Conditions of dialogue with interested parties 4.1.2 b) Relations with interested parties W Partnership or corporate philanthropy 4.3.3 Social commitments W Incorporation of social and environmental issues in purchasing policies 4.3.2 to sustainable W The extent of subcontracting and the incorporation of social development and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers c) Subcontracting and suppliers and subcontractors 4.3.2 W Actions taken to prevent corruption 4.3.1 d) Fair practices W Measures to promote consumer health and safety 4.2.1 e) Human rights W Other actions to promote human rights 4.4.1 Note that in the context of its involvement with the GIMELEC trade association (Federation of Industries for electrical equipment, controlcommand and related services), the Legrand Group helped draw up the sector’s CSR reporting guide. This guide follows the structure of article 225 of the Grenelle 2 Law as presented above and clariﬁes the approach adopted (“comply or explain”), based on the degree of relevance and appropriateness of each issue, including those issues speciﬁc to Legrand’s sector. 122 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information 4.6.5 GRI Content Index This report was prepared in line with the core option of the GRI Standards (2016 version). Legrand decided on early adoption of the GRI Standards published in October 2016. The full cross-reference table with GRI guidelines can be found on our website at www.legrand.com/EN, under “Our responsibility”, and then “Resource Center”. 4.6.6 Global Compact principles and corresponding sections of this Registration Document Global Compact principle Sections of the Registration Document 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity 04 proclaimed Human Rights 4.4.2 Guaranteeing occupational health and safety 4.3.1 Acting ethically 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity 2. Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 4.4.2 Guaranteeing occupational health and safety 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4.3.1 Acting ethically 4. The elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing 5. The effective abolition of child labor 4.4.1 Respecting Human Rights 6. The elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. The undertaking of initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint 9. The encouragement of the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions technologies 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy 4.3.1 Acting ethically 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 123 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information 4.6.7 Cross-reference table with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals for 2015-2030 are global in scope. Legrand demonstrates its commitment to achieving these goals through its CSR strategy. Principles of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Sections of the Registration Document 1. No poverty 4.2.1.1 Improving the living conditions and comfort of users End poverty in all its forms everywhere 4.2.1.4 Improving energy efficiency in buildings 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all 4.4.1 Respecting human rights 2. Zero hunger Legrand has no direct lever for this goal Ending hunger, achieving food security and improved nutrition and promoting sustainable agriculture 3. Good health and well-being 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all Ensuring healthy lives and promoting well-being for all at all ages 4.4.2 Guaranteeing occupational health and safety 4. Quality education 4.3.1 Acting ethically Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 4.4.1 Respecting human rights 5. Gender equality 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls 4.4.1 Respecting human rights 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity 6. Clean water and sanitation 4.5.1.2 Controlling water consumption Ensure availability and sustainable management of water 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy and sanitation for all 7. Affordable and clean energy 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions Ensuring access to affordable, reliable, sustainable 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all and modern energy for all 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy 8. Decent work and economic growth 4.2.2 Being a driving force in the electrical sector Promoting sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, 4.3.1 Acting ethically full and productive employment and decent work for all 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing 4.4.1 Respecting human rights 4.4.3 Developing skills and promoting diversity 9. Industry, innovation and infrastructure 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions Building resilient infrastructure, promoting inclusive and sustainable 4.2.2 Being a driving force in the electrical sector industrialization and fostering innovation 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy 10. Reduced inequalities 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing Reducing inequality within and among countries 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all 4.4.1 Respecting human rights 11. Sustainable cities and communities 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions Making cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient 4.2.2 Being a driving force in the electrical sector and sustainable 12. Responsible consumption and production 4.2 Offering users sustainable solutions Ensuring sustainable consumption and production patterns 4.3 Acting ethically towards society 124 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information Principles of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Sections of the Registration Document 13. Climate action 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint Taking urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy 4.2.1.4 Improving energy efficiency in buildings 14. Life in the water Legrand has little direct leverage, however the following actions Conserving and sustainably using the oceans, seas and marine indirectly contribute to these SDGs: resources for sustainable development 4.2.1 Providing sustainable solutions 4.5.1 Reducing the Group’s environmental footprint 15. Life on land 4.5.2 Innovating for a circular economy Protecting, restoring and promoting sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably managing forests, combating desertiﬁcation, and halting and reversing land degradation and halting biodiversity loss 16. Peace, justice and strong institutions 4.2.1.2 Ensuring the safety of users of electrical equipment Promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable 4.3.1 Acting ethically development, providing access to justice for all and building effective, 4.3.2 Ensuring responsible purchasing accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 4.4.1 Respecting human rights 17. Partnerships for the achievement of goals 4.2.2 Being a driving force in the electrical sector Strengthening the means for implementing the Global Partnership for Sustainable Development and revitalizing it 4.3.1 Acting ethically 4.3.3 Enabling access to electricity for all 04 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 125 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Overview of indicators and additional information 4.6.8 Materiality of the core issues of ISO 26000 for the Group Key issues of the Legrand Group ISO 26000 core issues Low or moderate materiality High materiality CSR strategy Human rights Dispute resolution Prevention of complicity 6. Respecting Human Rights Civil and political rights Discrimination and the underprivileged 8. Developing skills and promoting Economic, social and cultural rights diversity Duty of care Situations posing a risk to human rights at work Labor practices Social dialog Health and safety in the workplace 6. Respecting Human Rights Working conditions and employee welfare 7. Guaranteeing health and safety Employment and employer/employee at work relationship 8. Developing skills and promoting Human resources development diversity Environment Preventing pollution Sustainable use of resources 9. Reducing the Group’s Protection and rehabilitation Climate change mitigation and adaptation environmental footprint of the natural environment 10. Innovating for a circular economy Good business Responsible political engagement Fight against corruption 3. Acting ethically practices Respect for property rights Fair competition 4. Ensuring responsible purchasing Promoting social responsibility in the sphere 5. Enabling access to electricity of inﬂuence for all Consumer issues Best practice in marketing, Protection of consumer health and safety 1. Providing sustainable solutions information and contracts Access to essential services 2. Playing a driving role in Sustainable consumption After-sales service, support and complaint the electrical sector Education and public awareness and litigation for consumers 5. Enabling access to electricity Protection of consumer data and privacy for all Social commitment Education and culture Local presence 5. Enabling access to electricity Wealth and income creation Job creation and skills development for all Health Technological advances and access to technology 1. Providing sustainable solutions Investment in employees 2. Playing a driving role in the electrical sector 126 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Statutory Auditors’ report 4.7 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT Report by one of the Statutory Auditors, appointed as independent third party, on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information included in the management report This is a free English translation of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of Englishspeaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. For the year ended December 31st, 2016 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditor of Legrand SA, (the “Company”), appointed as independent third party and certiﬁed by COFRAC under number(s) 3-1048(1) , we hereby report to you on the consolidated human resources, environmental and social information for the year 04 ended December 31st, 2016 included in the management report (hereinafter named “CSR Information”), pursuant to article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). R COMPANY’S RESPONSIBILITY The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a company’s management report including the CSR Information required by article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code in accordance with the reporting protocols and guidelines used by the Company (hereinafter the «Guidelines»), summarised in the management report and available on request from the Group CSR Department. R INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL Our independence is deﬁned by regulatory texts, the French Code of ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession and the requirements of article L. 822-11 of the French Commercial Code. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ethical requirements, French professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. R STATUTORY AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to: W attest that the required CSR Information is included in the management report or, in the event of non-disclosure of a part or all of the CSR Information, that an explanation is provided in accordance with the third paragraph of article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information); W express a limited assurance conclusion that the CSR Information taken as a whole is, in all material respects, fairly presented in accordance with the Guidelines (Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information); W express, on the Company’s request, a limited assurance conclusion that the 2016 achievement rates of the 2014-2018 Roadmap presented in the summary table of paragraph 4.1.3.2 “Performance management” in the management report was, in all material respects, established in accordance with the Guidelines. Our work involved seven persons and was conducted between October 2016 and March 2017 during a ﬁfteen-week period. We were assisted in our work by our sustainability experts. We performed our work in accordance with the order dated 13 May 2013 deﬁning the conditions under which the independent third party performs its engagement and the professional guidance issued by the French Institute of statutory auditors (Compagnie nationale des commissaires aux comptes) relating to this engagement and with ISAE 3000(2) concerning our conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information. (1) whose scope is available at www.cofrac.fr (2) ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical ﬁnancial information REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 127 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Statutory Auditors’ report 1. Attestation regarding the completeness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work On the basis of interviews with the individuals in charge of the relevant departments, we obtained an understanding of the Company’s sustainability strategy regarding human resources and environmental impacts of its activities and its social commitments and, where applicable, any actions or programmes arising from them. We compared the CSR Information presented in the management report with the list provided in article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. For any consolidated information that is not disclosed, we veriﬁed that explanations were provided in accordance with article R. 225-105, paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. We veriﬁed that the CSR Information covers the scope of consolidation, i.e., the Company, its subsidiaries as deﬁned by article L. 233-1 and the controlled entities as deﬁned by article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the methodological elements, presented in the management report. Conclusion Based on the work performed and given the limitations mentioned above, we attest that the required CSR Information has been disclosed in the management report. 2. Conclusion on the fairness of CSR Information Nature and scope of our work We conducted around thirty interviews with the persons responsible for preparing the CSR Information in the departments in charge of collecting the information and, where appropriate, responsible for internal control and risk management procedures, in order to: W assess the suitability of the Guidelines in terms of their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, and taking into account industry best practices where appropriate; W verify the implementation of data-collection, compilation, processing and control process to reach completeness and consistency of the CSR Information and obtain an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures used to prepare the CSR Information. We determined the nature and scope of our tests and procedures based on the nature and importance of the CSR Information with respect to the characteristics of the Company, the human resources and environmental challenges of its activities, its sustainability strategy and industry best practices. Regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important (presented in Appendix 1): W at parent entity and sites level, we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to corroborate the qualitative information (organisation, policies, actions), performed analytical procedures on the quantitative information and veriﬁed, using sampling techniques, the calculations and the consolidation of the data. We also veriﬁed that the information was consistent and in agreement with the other information in the management report; W at the level of a representative sample of entities and sites selected by us (presented in Appendix 2) on the basis of their activity, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their location and a risk analysis, we conducted interviews to verify that procedures are properly applied, and we performed tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the calculations and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. The selected sample represents on average 27% of headcount and between 17% and 25% of quantitative environmental data disclosed. For the remaining consolidated CSR Information, we assessed its consistency based on our understanding of the company. We also assessed the relevance of explanations provided for any information that was not disclosed, either in whole or in part. We believe that the sampling methods and sample sizes we have used, based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Due to the use of sampling techniques and other limitations inherent to information and internal control systems, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement in the CSR information cannot be totally eliminated. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the CSR Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. 128 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Statutory Auditors’ report 3. Limited assurance attestation on the 2016 achievement rates of the 2014-2018 Roadmap Nature and scope of our work Regarding the 2016 achievement rates of the 2014-2018 Roadmap presented in the summary table of paragraph 4.1.3.2 “Performance management” in the management report, we conducted work of the same nature as the work described in section 2 above regarding the CSR Information that we considered to be the most important. We consider that this work allows us to express a limited assurance conclusion on the 2016 achievement rates of the 2014-2018 Roadmap. Conclusion Based on the work performed, no material misstatement has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the 2016 achievement rates of the 2014-2018 Roadmap, taken as a whole, are not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 15 2017 One of the Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Jean-Marc Lumet Partner Olivier Jan Partner, Sustainability Services 04 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 129 04 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Statutory Auditors’ report Appendix 1 The CSR Information that we considered to be the most important, Quantitative environmental information on which we conducted detailed tests, are the following: W Water consumption (m3) Important information W Direct and indirect energy consumption (GWh) W Quantitative health and safety information W Total CO2 emissions for scopes 1 and 2 of the carbon assessment (t of CO2 equivalent) W Frequency of workplace accidents leading to absence W Severity of workplace accidents W Scope 3 emissions (t of CO2 equivalent) W Number of recognized work-related illnesses W Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) (metric t) W Quantity of waste produced (metric t) Other quantitative social information W Quantity of waste entrusted to providers in charge of their W Total registered workforce on 31/12/2016 recovery (metric t) W Hirings (Share of open-ended contracts in hiring of employees on open-ended and ﬁxed-term contracts) Qualitative information W Departures (of which resignations, retirements and other W Monitoring and improving safety and health departures) W Waste management W Number of training hours per employee W The environmental performance of the Group’s R&D centers W Absenteeism (all job categories) W Actions implemented by the Fondation Legrand, under the aegis of the Foundation Agir Against Exclusion (FACE) W Share of non-managers at minimum wage W Share of employees covered by an agreement or agreements W Responsible purchasing applicable to their entity W Supplier risk analysis campaign W Share of employees employed in entities in which there is a W Product Risk Management Procedure representative organization of employees and / or trade unions Appendix 2 The sample of selected entities and sites is presented below: Other quantitative social information: Poa (Brazil), Limousin (France), Zabkowice (Poland), Rocom Quantitative health and safety information: (China) Caxias (Brazil), Poa (Brazil), Limousin (France), Tradate (Italy), Zabkowice (Poland), Rocom (China) Quantitative environmental information: Caxias (Brazil), Poa (Brazil), Fontaine (France), Malaunay (France), Magré123 (France), Tradate (Italy), Zabkowice (Poland), Rocom (China) 130 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 05 5.1 PRELIMINARY DISCLAIMER 132 5.2 2016 HIGHLIGHTS 132 5.3 OPERATING INCOME 134 5.3.1 Introduction 134 5.3.2 Main factors affecting Group results 134 5.4 YEAR-ON-YEAR COMPARISON: 2016 AND 2015 137 5.4.1 Net sales 138 5.4.2 Cost of sales 140 5.4.3 Administrative and selling expense 140 5.4.4 Research and development expense 140 5.4.5 Other operating income and expense 141 5.4.6 Operating income 141 5.4.7 Adjusted operating income 141 5.4.8 Net ﬁnancial expense 142 5.4.9 Exchange gains and losses 142 5.4.10 Income taxes 142 5.4.11 Net income 142 5.4.12 Net income excluding minority interests 143 5.5 CASH FLOWS AND BORROWING 143 5.5.1 Cash ﬂows 143 5.5.2 Debt 144 5.6 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE 144 5.7 OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS 145 5.8 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 145 5.9 VARIATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES 145 5.10 QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES RELATING TO FINANCIAL RISKS 146 5.11 SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 147 5.12 NEW IFRS PRONOUNCEMENTS 147 5.13 TRENDS AND PROSPECTS 147 5.14 TABLE OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS 148 5.15 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 148 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 131 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Preliminary disclaimer 5.1 PRELIMINARY DISCLAIMER This selected ﬁnancial data of the Company should be read includes forward-looking statements based on estimates relating together with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and their to the future activity of Legrand and which may differ materially related notes in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. Financial from actual results. statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance Percentages may be calculated on non-rounded ﬁgures and with IFRS and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations therefore may vary from percentages calculated on rounded as adopted by the European Union. The following information ﬁgures. 5.2 2016 HIGHLIGHTS Solid integrated performance, targets fully met acquisitions was +4.7%. At constant scope of consolidation and Legrand has fully met all of its 2016 targets: exchange rates, sales rose +1.8%, in line with the 2016 target, reﬂecting a +2.8% increase in mature countries and an -0.1% W organic growth in sales came to +1.8% near the high end of the decline in new economies. The exchange-rate effect was -2.1%. target, driven in particular by a strong rise in the United States and Italy, Adjusted operating proﬁt and margin W adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at 2015 scope Adjusted operating proﬁt was up +5.2% in 2016 and stood at of operations) stood at 19.7% and exceeded the high end of the €978.5m, reﬂecting the Group’s capacity to create value. raised target (19.6%), and Thanks to a good operating performance against a backdrop W CSR roadmap achievement rate reached 122%. of rising sales, adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at 2015 scope of operations) came to 19.7% of sales, 0.4 point Legrand reported a solid integrated performance in 2016: higher than the 2015 ﬁgure of 19.3%. W all ﬁnancial indicators are on the rise, including consolidated Taking acquisitions into account, the Group’s adjusted operating sales up +4.3%, adjusted operating proﬁt up +5.2% and margin stood at 19.5% of sales in 2016. adjusted(1) net income excluding minority interests up +3,0%; W free cash ﬂow stood at €673.0m or 13.4% of sales; Net income excluding minority interests Reﬂecting the Group’s performance, adjusted(1) net income W with a 122% achievement rate for its 2014-2018 CSR roadmap, the Group is ahead of schedule. excluding minority interests was up +3.0% in 2016 and stood at €567.3m. More generally, these good showings demonstrate once again the Group’s capacity to create value for all of its stakeholders. Cash generation and net debt Cash ﬂow from operations was robust in 2016 and stood at Consolidated sales €791.4m or 15.8% of sales. Total sales for 2016 stood at €5,018.9m, up +4.3% from 2015. The impact of the broader scope of consolidation that resulted from Investments and working capital requirement were under control at respectively 3.2% and 6.1% of 2016 sales. Investments as a (1) 2016 adjusted net income excluding minority interests does not take into account the favorable non-recurring accounting impact of a tax income generated by the mechanical revaluation of deferred tax liabilities on trademarks that resulted from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. This €61.2m tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. However, these reductions in the corporate income tax rate, if maintained over time, should have a positive impact on the Group’s tax rate. 132 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 2016 highlights percentage of sales are in line with the average observed over W forged new partnerships with leading players in the Internet the past ten years and are consistent with Group’s ambition (3% of Things, including in July 2016 with China’s TCL, a world to 3.5% of sales over the long term). Working capital requirement specialist in consumer goods, electronic equipment, and expressed as a percentage of sales at the end of 2016 was internet solutions. temporarily at an exceptional low level compared with the past Moreover, at the CES in Las Vegas in January 2017, Legrand ten years, which makes a challenging basis for comparison in announced the launch of its “Celiane with Netatmo” connected 2017. switch and socket solution that was recognized in the 2017 CES Normalized free cash(1) ﬂow stood at 12.4% of sales. Innovations Design and Engineering Awards’ Smart Home and Home Appliance categories. After paying a dividend amounting to over €300m and investing more than €400m in acquisitions (compared with over €250m in More generally, Legrand is also continuing to renew other product 2015), net ﬁnancial debt stood at nearly €1bn at December 31, families and in 2016 launched for instance: 2016, up more than €150m from December 31, 2015. W new Ekinox3 cabinets for residential and commercial buildings CSR Performance in India; For more information refer to chapter 4 of this Registration W the new Domino Sencia user interface range in Central and document. South America; and W new conﬁgurable PDUs(2) in Europe, Africa and the Middle East. Organic growth step up driven by innovation Legrand invested a total of €248 million in R&D, or 4.9% of 2016 Stepping up organic growth driven by innovation Group sales. Innovation-led initiatives, particularly ones involving digital technology, contributed to the acceleration of organic growth Active external growth: 8 acquisitions in 2016 (compared with 4 in 2015) reported in 2016 (+1.8% compared with +0.5% in 2015). Readers are reminded that, through the Eliot program, Legrand’s ambitious target for 2014-2020 calls for double-digit average In 2016, Legrand actively pursued its strategy of self-ﬁnanced bolt-on(3) acquisitions of companies with leading positions or proven technological expertise. The Group thus acquired eight 05 annual growth in sales of connected products. In 2016, it was companies (compared with four in 2015) representing annual ahead of schedule in achieving this goal, with nearly +40% total sales of over €170m and strengthening the Group’s positions growth in sales of connected products. Altogether, sales linked to with: Eliot totaled almost €440m in 2016. W over 80% of acquired sales generated by companies with no. 1 A number of initiatives during the year explain this strong or 2 positions, and performance. In particular, the Group: W six out of eight acquisitions in new business segments(4) W successfully pursued roll-out of its Digital Lighting Management offering high growth potential. systems and intelligent PDU(2) offerings in the United States; Legrand intends to maintain an active external growth policy in W enriched its offer of connected products, in particular with the 2017 and recently announced its ﬁrst deal of the year, purchasing successful launch of Class 300X door entry systems; OCL(5), a specialist in lighting solutions for commercial and W deployed Eliot in the United States (with launches planned in premium residential buildings in the United States. OCL has many other countries in 2017); and around 60 employees and reports annual sales of about $15m, mostly in the United States. Based on acquisitions announced and their likely date of consolidation, the contribution of the broader scope of consolidation to Group growth should be over +1.3% in 2017. (1) Normalized free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the sum of net cash from operating activities—based on a normalized working capital requirement representing 10% of the last 12 month’s sales and whose change at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates is adjusted for the period considered and net proceeds of sales from ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets, less capital expenditure and capitalized development costs. (2) Power Distribution Unit. (3) Smallto mid-size acquisitions that complement Legrand’s activities. (4) Energy efficiency, digital infrastructures, home systems and assisted living. (5) Original Cast Lighting. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 133 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Operating income 5.3 OPERATING INCOME 5.3.1 Introduction The Group reports its ﬁnances and operating results on the basis W Rest of the world, mainly including Australia, China, India, Saudi of ﬁve geographic zones corresponding to the region of origin of Arabia and South America (including particularly Brazil, Chile sales. Information relating to operating results and ﬁnances for and Colombia). each of these ﬁve geographic zones is presented for 2015 and Since local market characteristics are the determining factor 2016 in Note 2.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements shown in Legrand’s performance and net sales by zone, consolidated in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. Each zone represents ﬁnancial information for multi-country zones does not reﬂect either a single country or the consolidated results of a number of the ﬁnancial performance of each national market. Furthermore, countries. These ﬁve geographic zones are: for most regions, products may be manufactured and sold W France; locally, or instead be imported from or exported to another Group’s entity. These factors may distort comparisons of results W Italy; in various geographic zones. Consequently, with the exception W Rest of Europe mainly including Benelux (including particularly of information and data relating to net sales, the discussion of Belgium and the Netherlands), Germany, Iberia (including Spain results hereafter focuses primarily on consolidated results, and Portugal), Poland, Russia, Turkey and the UK; with reference to national markets where these have a material W North and Central America including Canada, Mexico, the United impact on consolidated accounts. States and other Central American countries; and 5.3.2 Main factors affecting Group results R 5.3.2.1 NET SALES Markets in the countries and regions where Legrand operates W changes in sales prices (including discounts and rebates, cash discounts for prompt payment, general price changes relating to local market conditions, and speciﬁc price changes, such as have their own features, essentially as a result of local economic those designed to pass on inﬂation in all costs); conditions and lifestyles, which affect the scale of renovation and new construction of homes, stores and office buildings, as well W ﬂuctuations in exchange rates between the euro and as the level of corporate investment in industrial facilities. Other the different billing currencies, which affect the level of factors include how buildings are used, in particular linked to new consolidated net sales after conversion; and technologies. W changes in the subsidiaries consolidated by Legrand, mainly as Changes in consolidated net sales principally reﬂect the following a result of acquisitions or disposals (which are referred to as factors: “changes in the scope of consolidation”). W changes in sales volume (i.e., the number of products sold in The table below presents a breakdown by geographic zone of the each period) due to changes in product demand and business Company’s consolidated net sales (by destination: market where levels in all markets; customer are based) for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. Sales “by destination” means all sales by the Group to third W product mix; parties in a given geographic market. 134 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Operating income Year ended December 31 2016 2015 (in € millions, except %) € % € % Net sales by destination France 871.5 17.4 892.4 18.6 Italy 493.6 9.8 470.8 9.8 Rest of Europe 873.9 17.4 824.8 17.1 North and Central America 1,467.1 29.2 1,247.8 25.9 Rest of the World 1,312.8 26.2 1,374.1 28.6 TOTAL 5,018.9 100.0 4,809.9 100.0 R 5.3.2.2 DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET SALES 5.3.2.2.3 Disposals during the current period Where companies are disposed of during the current period, the In the discussion below, changes in net sales are analyzed net sales of the company sold are reﬂected in the consolidated by distinguishing variations due to changes in the scope of statement of income for only the portion of the current period consolidation, organic growth (changes in net sales “using prior to the date of disposal and deconsolidation. The calculation constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates”), and the of the change in consolidated net sales at constant scope of impact of exchange-rate variations between the euro and other consolidation does not take into account the sales of the divested currencies. The Company believes that this measure is a useful tool for analyzing changes and trends in its historical consolidated company during the period of the previous year corresponding to the period of the current year after disposal. 05 net sales over different periods. Measures of organic growth are computed by making the following adjustments. 5.3.2.2.4 Disposals during a prior period Where companies were disposed of during the prior period, 5.3.2.2.1 Companies acquired during the current the net sales of the company sold are not reﬂected in the period consolidated statement of income for the current period. The Where companies are acquired during the current period, the net calculation of the change in consolidated net sales at constant sales of the acquired company are reﬂected in the consolidated scope of consolidation does not take into account sales of the statement of income only for the portion of the current period from divested company in the prior period. the date of ﬁrst consolidation of such company. The calculation of the change in consolidated net sales at constant scope of 5.3.2.2.5 Activity suspended during the current period consolidation takes into account sales of the acquired company, Where activities are suspended during the current period, the net based on sales information of the acquired company prepared in sales of the activity suspended are reﬂected in the consolidated a manner consistent with accounting policies, for the portion of statement of income only for the period up to suspension. The the prior period equal to the portion of the current period during calculation of the change in consolidated net sales at constant which Legrand actually consolidated the acquired entity. scope of consolidation does not take into account the sales of the activity suspended during the period of the previous year 5.3.2.2.2 Companies acquired during a prior period corresponding to the period of the current year after suspension. Where companies were acquired during the prior period, net sales of the acquired company are reﬂected in the consolidated 5.3.2.2.6 Activity suspended during a prior period statement of income for the entirety of the current period but Where activities were suspended during the prior period, the only for the portion of the prior period from the date of ﬁrst net sales of the activity suspended are not reﬂected in the consolidation of such company. The calculation of the change in consolidated statement of income for the current period. The consolidated net sales at constant scope of consolidation takes calculation of the change in consolidated net sales at constant into account the sales of the acquired company, based on sales scope of consolidation does not take into account sales of the data for the acquired company prepared in a manner consistent activity suspended in the prior period. with accounting policies, for the portion of the previous year during which it was not consolidated. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 135 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Operating income 5.3.2.2.7 Using constant exchange rates W changes in the prices of raw materials, components and semiﬁnished goods due to local or global economic conditions; Consolidated historical net sales include the effects of exchange rate differences between the euro and other currencies. To W effective purchasing following deployment of the costanalyze the variation of consolidated net sales excluding the reduction policy through the centralization, internationalization effects of these exchange rate changes, Legrand uses constant and standardization of purchasing management at Group level; exchange rates (calculated by adjusting net sales reported for W trends in inﬂation for other cost components (salaries, energy, a given ﬁnancial year using the exchange rates for the prior etc.); ﬁnancial year) to compare year-to-year changes in net sales. W depreciation of industrial capital expenditures needed to manufacture goods; R 5.3.2.3 COST OF SALES Cost of sales consists primarily of the following: W initiatives aiming at improving Group operating efficiency, through the implementation of best practices designed to improve productivity and inventory management optimization; Cost of raw materials and components. The cost of raw materials and and components accounted for, on average, approximately 67% of consolidated cost of sales over the last two ﬁnancial years. W product life cycles. Likewise, on average approximately 72% of this cost relates to components and approximately 28% relates to raw materials. The breakdown between raw materials, components and semiﬁnished products varies according to product mix, trends in R 5.3.2.4 ADMINISTRATIVE AND SELLING EXPENSE market prices and choices for industrial organization, in particular Legrand’s administrative and selling expense consists essentially with the implementation of good practices (“Legrand way”). of the following: Legrand purchases some of its raw materials and components W salary costs and beneﬁt charges for administrative staff and locally. However, Company policy is to increase the percentage of sales personnel; raw materials and components purchased by the Group on world markets in order to beneﬁt from economies of scale. The cost of W expense relating to logistics, information systems and miscellaneous expenses; raw materials and components may also ﬂuctuate with macroeconomic trends. W advertising expense; Production costs. In general, these costs change on an aggregate W amortization of intangible assets, such as trademarks revalued basis in proportion to ﬂuctuations in production volumes; they following acquisitions; and rise due to inﬂation and decline as a result of productivity W other selling expense, such as printing costs for catalogs and initiatives and economies of scale associated with the increase expense incurred in connection with travel and communications. in production volumes. Other items included in production costs are: W depreciation of ﬁxed assets; R 5.3.2.5 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT EXPENSE W subcontracted added value; and Research and development expense consists principally of the W other general manufacturing expenses, such as expenses following: linked to energy consumption. W salary costs and beneﬁt charges for research and development The main factors that inﬂuence cost of sales, in particular as a employees; percentage of net sales, include: W miscellaneous expense related to research and development, W trends in net sales; such as software, prototypes and patent registration costs, less R&D tax credits granted in various countries; W production volumes, insofar as the Company achieves economies of scale through higher production volumes, thereby W expense related to the use and maintenance of administrative spreading ﬁxed production costs over a larger number of units offices, as well as expense related to information systems, in produced; each case, concerning research and development activities; and W the mix of products sold, insofar as consumption and production W amortization of capitalized development expense. Costs costs vary depending on the cost of raw materials and other incurred on signiﬁcant development projects relating to the components needed to manufacture a given product; design and testing of new or improved products are recognized as intangible assets when it is probable that the project, considering its technical, commercial and technological 136 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 feasibility, will be a success, and the costs can be reliably quantiﬁed. Once these conditions are satisﬁed, a portion of R 5.3.2.8 OTHER FACTORS AFFECTING THE GROUP’S RESULTS the relevant development expense is capitalized. Development costs are amortized from the starting date of the sale of the W The acquisition of Legrand France in 2002 and associated product on a straight-line basis over the period of its expected purchase accounting adjustments and transactions related beneﬁt, not exceeding a period of ten years. thereto have affected net income. In particular, the signiﬁcant intangible assets recorded in connection with the acquisition of Legrand France increased the amortization charges of R 5.3.2.6 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE the Group. The purchase accounting adjustments relating to the acquisition of Legrand France essentially concern the revaluation of trademarks that are being amortized on Other operating income and expense includes restructuring a straight-line basis until 2021 at the latest, and patents, expense and other expense and provisions. amortized on a declining-balance basis until 2011. W Acquisitions made since 2002 have also had an impact on the R 5.3.2.7 OPERATING INCOME Operating income consists of net sales, less cost of sales, Group’s net income. This is because intangible assets revalued as part of the purchase-price allocation of entities acquired administrative and selling expense, research and development generate additional amortization. expense, and other operating expense. 5.4 YEAR-ON-YEAR COMPARISON: 2016 AND 2015 05 Year ended December 31 (€ millions) 2016 2015 Net sales 5,018.9 4,809.9 Operating expense Cost of sales (2,381.0) (2,333.5) Administrative and selling expense (1,364.7) (1,310.3) Research and development expense (237.7) (216.1) Other operating income (expense) (101.5) (63.3) Operating income 934.0 886.7 Financial expense (101.3) (93.7) Financial income 10.9 11.0 Exchange gains (losses) 6.5 6.0 Financial proﬁt (loss) (83.9) (76.7) Income before taxes 850.1 810.0 Income taxes (218.6)* (258.0) Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities (1.3) 0.0 Net income for the year 630.2* 552.0 Net income attributable to: W Legrand 628.5* 550.6 W Minority interests 1.7 1.4 * For full-year 2016, net income for the year, net income excluding minority interests and income tax expense shall be read respectively €569.0 million, €567.3 million and €(279.8) million, once adjusted for the favorable non-recurring accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax income, coming from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rates, mainly in France. This tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 137 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 The table below shows the calculation of adjusted operating for impairment of goodwill) and maintainable adjusted operating income (deﬁned as operating income adjusted for amortization of income (i.e., excluding restructuring charges) for the periods revaluation of intangible assets at the time of acquisitions and for under review. expense/income relating to acquisitions, and, where applicable, Year ended December 31 (in € millions) 2016 2015 Net income for the year 630.2* 552.0 Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities 1.3 0.0 Income taxes 218.6* 258.0 Exchange (gains) losses (6.5) (6.0) Financial income (10.9) (11.0) Financial expense 101.3 93.7 Operating income 934.0 886.7 Acquisition-related amortization and expense/income 44.5 43.7 Impairment of goodwill 0.0 0.0 Adjusted operating income 978.5 930.4 Restructuring charges 25.1 28.0 Maintainable adjusted operating income 1,003.6 958.4 * For full-year 2016, net income for the year and income tax expense shall be read respectively €569.0 million and €(279.8) million, once adjusted for the favorable non-recurring accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax income, coming from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rates, mainly in France. This tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. 5.4.1 Net sales Consolidated net sales rose by 4.3% to €5,018.9 million in 2016 for 8 months, Luxul Wireless (USA) for 8 months, Jontek (UK) compared with €4,809.9 million in 2015, reﬂecting: for 8 months, Trias (Indonesia) for 8 months, CP Electronics (UK) for 7 months and Solarfective (Canada) for 5 months; W a +4.7% increase in net sales due to changes in scope of consolidation from 2015 to 2016. This relates in particular W a +1.8% organic rise in sales, in line with 2016 target; and to the ﬁrst-time consolidation in 2016 of Primetech (Italy) for W a -2.1% decline in net sales due to changes in exchange rates 11 months, Fluxpower (Germany) for 11 months, Pinnacle (USA) from 2015 to 2016. 138 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 R 5.4.1.1 ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET SALES BY DESTINATION FROM 2015 TO 2016 The table below shows a breakdown of changes in net sales to third parties as reported by zone of destination (market where sales are recorded) between 2015 and 2016. Year ended December 31 Total Scope of Organic Impact of Net sales (in € millions except %) 2016 2015 change consolidation growth exchange rates France 871.5 892.4 (2.3)% 0.3% (2.7)% 0.0% Italy 493.6 470.8 4.8% 1.4% 3.4% 0.0% Rest of Europe 873.9 824.8 6.0% 5.1% 5.2% (4.2)% North and Central America 1,467.1 1,247.8 17.6% 12.0% 5.8% (0.8)% Rest of the World 1,312.8 1,374.1 (4.5)% 1.7% (2.1)% (4.0)% CONSOLIDATED TOTAL 5,018.9 4,809.9 4.3% 4.7% 1.8% (2.1)% Comments below concern sales by destination. Finally, sales in Turkey were down due to the political situation in the country. In addition to organic growth of +5.2%, sales were France. Sales declined 2.3% in 2016 to €871.5 million compared boosted +5.1% by the consolidation of new acquisitions in 2016 with €892.4 million in 2015. This resulted from a -2.7% organic in particular CP Electronics and Jontek for respectively 7 and change in sales which was partially offset by a change in the 8 months and reduced by an unfavorable 4.2% exchange-rate scope of consolidation that contributed +0.3% due primarily to impact. the consolidation of IME’s French operations for twelve months in 2016. As observed in 2016, the improvement in leading indicators for new residential construction, which accounts for between North and Central America. Sales in the North and Central America region rose 17.6% to €1,467.1 million in 2016, compared with 05 15% and 20% of sales in France, should be reﬂected in Legrand’s €1,247.8 million in 2015. The increase resulted from organic sales business over the next few quarters. growth of 5.8%; from a 12.0% rise in scope reﬂecting primarily the consolidation of Pinnacle and Luxul for 8 months, of Solarfective Italy. Sales increased by 4.8% at €493.6 million in 2016 compared for 5 months and of Raritan for an additional 9 months in 2016; to €470.8 million in 2015. This stems from a 3.4% organic rise, and from an unfavorable exchange-rate effect of 0.8%. Globally, buoyed by the success of new Class 300X connected door entry this rise was driven by good performances in the United States, systems, and more particularly, in the ﬁrst half alone, by onewhere organic growth reached +5.6%, buoyed notably by the off projects in energy distribution. Excluding these two one-offs, success of the Digital Lighting Management offering and good organic growth in sales in Italy would come to around +2%, in showings in non-residential construction. In the second half more line with the estimated market trend. Beyond this 3.4% organic particularly, one-off load-in in the retail business also contributed growth, sales beneﬁt from a positive scope effect with a 1.4% boost from the consolidation of IME over 12 months in 2016 and to strong growth. Excluding one-offs, full-year organic growth in of Primetech over 11 months. the United States was nearly +3%. Other countries in the region, including Mexico, also reported a good rise in sales. Rest of Europe. Sales in the Rest of Europe increased by 6.0% at €873.9 million in 2016 compared with €824.8 million in 2015. Rest of the World. Sales in the Rest of the World zone declined This reﬂected +5.2% organic growth. Countries in Eastern 4.5% to €1,312.8 million in 2016 compared with €1,374.1 million Europe turned in good showings for the year as a whole. Sales in 2015. This resulted from a -2.1% organic change which was also rose sharply in several mature countries in the region, partially offset by 1.7% change in scope of consolidation—due more particularly in Southern Europe(1), as well as in the United primarily to Trias (Indonesia), consolidated for 8 months, and to Raritan, consolidated for an additional 9 months in 2016—and Kingdom (around 2.4% of total Group sales(2)), Germany, Austria from an unfavorable exchange-rate effect of 4.0%. A number of and Belgium. countries including India, Chile and Colombia reported strong (1) Southern Europe = Spain + Greece + Portugal. (2) Based on average exchange rates for 2016 and annual sales of the last acquisitions. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 139 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 organic showings for the year as a whole. Organic sales in North Africa(1) were also up in 2016. These good results could not offset R 5.4.1.2 BREAKDOWN OF CHANGES IN NET SALES BY ORIGIN FROM 2015 TO 2016 organic declines in activity in some other countries, including Brazil and certain countries in Asia and the Middle East. In The following table presents the breakdown of changes in net China, full-year organic sales were steady compared with 2015, sales to third parties as reported by zone of origin between 2015 sustained by one-off government measures in the ﬁrst quarter. and 2016. Year ended December 31 Net sales Total Scope of Organic Impact of (in € millions except %) 2016 2015 change consolidation growth exchange rates France 977.8 1,013.1 (3.5)% 0.8% (4.2)% 0.0% Italy 529.4 505.2 4.8% 1.7% 3.0% 0.0% Rest of Europe 844.6 808.5 4.5% 4.7% 4.5% (4.5)% North and Central America 1,496.7 1,278.6 17.1% 12.0% 5.3% (0.7)% Rest of the World 1,170.4 1,204.5 (2.8)% 1.4% 0.2% (4.4)% CONSOLIDATED TOTAL 5,018.9 4,809.9 4.3% 4.7% 1.8% (2.1)% 5.4.2 Cost of sales The consolidated cost of sales rose 2.0% to €2,381.0 million in These were partly offset by: 2016 compared with €2,333.5 million in 2015, mainly as a result W lower raw material and component prices in 2016 than in 2015; of: W ongoing efforts to raise productivity and adjust to changing W consolidation of new acquisitions; and conditions. W the increase in volume of raw materials and components The cost of sales thus represents 47.4% of total revenue in 2016 consumed as production increased. compared with 48.5% in 2015. 5.4.3 Administrative and selling expense Consolidated administrative and selling expense increased by These were partly offset by: 4.2% to €1,364.7 million in 2016 compared with €1,310.3 million W ongoing efforts on productivity initiatives. in 2015, primarily due to: Administrative and selling expense expressed as a percentage of W ongoing investments in growing activities; and sales stood at 27.2% both years. W consolidation of new acquisitions. 5.4.4 Research and development expense In accordance with IAS 38 “Intangible Assets”, the Group has for development expense to be recognized as intangible assets. implemented an internal measurement and accounting system As a result, €34.6 million in development expense was capitalized (1) North Africa = Algeria + Egypt + Morocco + Tunisia. 140 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 in 2016 compared to €27.4 million in 2015. Amortization charges tax credit for research and development, R&D expenditure for capitalized development costs amounted to €27.1 million in came to €248.0 million in 2016 (4.9% of net sales) compared to 2016, compared to €26.3 million in 2015. €222.5 million in 2015 (4.6% of net sales). Consolidated research and development expense totaled In 2016, R&D operations had close to 2,200 employees in around €237.7 million in 2016 and €216.1 million in 2015. Excluding 18 countries. the impact of the capitalization of development costs and the 5.4.5 Other operating income and expense In 2016, other operating income and expense totaled €101.5 million, compared to €63.3 million in 2015. This rise stems partly from an increase in expenses linked to the implementation of productivity and restructuring initiatives. 5.4.6 Operating income Consolidated operating income edged up 5.3% to €934.0 million W a 5.0% rise in administrative, sales and R&D expense; and in 2016 compared to €886.7 million in 2015, due primarily to: W a 4.3% increase in sales; W a €38.2 million rise in other operating income and expense. As a percentage of sales, operating income stands at 18.6% in 05 W a 2.0% increase in cost of sales; 2016 compared with 18.4% in 2015. 5.4.7 Adjusted operating income Adjusted operating income is deﬁned as operating income W an 11.9% rise in the Rest of Europe zone. This sets the total adjusted for amortization of revaluation of intangible assets ﬁgure for 2016 at €138.8 million compared with €124.0 million at the time of acquisitions and for expense/income relating to in 2015, or 16.4% of sales in 2016 compared with 15.3% in 2015; acquisitions and, where applicable, for impairment of goodwill. W a 16.8% rise to €284.1 million in the North and Central America Adjusted operating income rose 5.2% to €978.5 million in zone in 2016, up from €243.2 million in 2015, representing 2016 compared with €930.4 million in 2015, broken down 19.0% of sales both years; and geographically as follows (as indicated in 5.3.1, consolidated ﬁnancial information for multi-country zones does not reﬂect the W a 10.2% decline in the Rest of the World zone, for a total of ﬁnancial performance of each national market): €164.0 million compared to €182.7 million in 2015, representing 14.0% of sales in 2016 compared to 15.2% in 2015. W a 4.6% decline in France to €209.1 million or 21.4% of sales in 2016, compared with €219.1 million or 21.6% in 2015; Adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at 2015 scope of operations) came to 19.7% of sales in 2016, 0.4 point higher W a 13.1% rise in Italy, to €182.5 million or 34.5% of sales in 2016, than the 2015 ﬁgure of 19.3% and exceeding the high end of the compared to €161.4 million or 31.9% in 2015; 2016 raised target of 19.6%. Taking acquisitions into account, the Group’s adjusted operating margin stood at 19.5% of sales in 2016. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 141 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Year-on-year comparison: 2016 and 2015 5.4.8 Net ﬁnancial expense Net ﬁnancial expense principally corresponds to ﬁnancial Net ﬁnancial expense rose 9.3% to €90.4 million in 2016 compared expense related to Yankee bonds; the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2015 to €82.7 million in 2015, and represents 1.8% of net sales in 2016 bond issues; the 2011 credit facility amended in 2014; and other compared to 1.7% in 2015. bank borrowings (for a description of these arrangements, see paragraph 5.5 of this chapter), less ﬁnancial income arising from the investment of cash and cash equivalents. 5.4.9 Exchange gains and losses Exchange gains and losses correspond mainly to translation Exchange gains came to €6.5 million in 2016, compared with differences recognized on settlement of foreign currency gains of €6.0 million in 2015. transactions, as well as the translation impact at the closing exchange rate of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. 5.4.10 Income taxes In 2016 Legrand’s pre-tax income amounted to €850.1 million, of reductions in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. up from €810.0 million in 2015. This was attributable to a rise in This €61.2m tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and operating income and exchange gains that were partly offset by bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. increased net ﬁnancial expense. Compared to €258.0 million in 2015, 2016 income taxes expense Consolidated income taxes amounted to €218.6 million in 2016, after adjustments (as described in the previous paragraph) of but shall be read €279.8 million once adjusted for the favorable €279.8 million increased by €21.8 million and is essentially non-recurring accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax attributable to a rise in the Group’s pre-tax income combined income generated by the mechanical revaluation of deferred tax with a rise in the effective tax rate from 31.9% in 2015 to 32.9% liabilities on trademarks that resulted from the announcement in 2016. 5.4.11 Net income In 2016, consolidated net income shall be read €569.0 million W an €0.5 million improvement in exchange gains, once adjusted for the favorable non-recurring accounting offset by: impact representing a €61.2 million tax income generated by the mechanical revaluation of deferred tax liabilities on W a €7.7 million rise in net ﬁnancial expense; trademarks that resulted from the announcement of reductions W a €21.8 million rise in income tax expense; and in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. This €61.2m tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no W a €1.3 million decline in share of proﬁts of equity-accounted entities. relationship to the Group’s performance. When unadjusted for the €61.2 million tax income noted above, Adjusted for the €61.2m tax income described above, net income net income as reported stood at €630.2 million. amounted to €569.0 million in 2016 (€17.0 million increase compared with 2015) and reﬂects: W a €47.3 million increase in operating income; and 142 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Cash ﬂows and borrowing 5.4.12 Net income excluding minority interests Adjusted net income(1) excluding minority interests rose +3.0% in 2016 (€16.7 million increase compared with 2015) and stood at €567.3m. Net income excluding minority interests (none adjusted) stood at €628.5m. 5.5 CASH FLOWS AND BORROWING For information related to the share capital of the Company, investors should refer to Note 4.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements cited in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. 5.5.1 Cash ﬂows The table below summarizes cash ﬂows of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015: 05 Year ended December 31 (in € millions) 2016 2015 Net cash from operating activities 831.8 796.2 Net cash from investing activities (552.1) (363.8) Net cash from ﬁnancing activities (416.5) (70.8) Translation net change in cash and cash equivalents (9.0) (1.7) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (145.8) 359.9 For a detailed analysis of cash ﬂows, investors should refer to the consolidated statement of cash ﬂows provided in the Group’s R 5.5.1.2 NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Net cash used in investing activities for the year ended consolidated ﬁnancial statements. December 31, 2016 amounted to €552.1 million, compared with €363.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2015. This R 5.5.1.1 NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net cash provided by operating activities totaled €831.8 million increase was primarily due to the acquisition of subsidiaries, and to a lesser extent to a rise in capital expenditure. at December 31, 2016, compared with €796.2 million at The amount of acquisitions (net of cash acquired) as well as nonDecember 31, 2015. This €35.6 million rise was attributable to controlling interests totaled €430.8 million in 2016 (compared a €5.8 million decrease in working capital requirement and a with €252.9 million in 2015). It includes €407.4 million for €41.4 million rise in cash ﬂow from operations (deﬁned as net acquisitions of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired), comprised cash from operating activities excluding changes in working in the net cash from investing activities and €23.4 million for capital requirement). acquisition of non-controlling interests included in the net cash from ﬁnancing activities. (1) 2016 adjusted net income excluding minority interests does not take into account the favorable non-recurring accounting impact of a tax income generated by the mechanical revaluation of deferred tax liabilities on trademarks that resulted from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. This €61.2m tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. However, these reductions in the corporate income tax rate, if maintained over time, should have a positive impact on the Group’s tax rate. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 143 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Capital expenditure Capital expenditure and capitalized development costs amounted to €160.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2016 (of which R 5.5.1.3 NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net cash used by ﬁnancing activities amounted to €416.5 million €34.6 million related to capitalized development costs), compared with €133.4 million in 2015 (of which €27.4 million related to in 2016, compared with €70.8 million in 2015. This was primarily capitalized development costs), or a rise of 20.6%. due to an increase in 2015 in borrowing through a new 12-year €300 million bond issue. 5.5.2 Debt The Group’s gross debt (deﬁned as the sum of short-term W €128.3 million in other debt, consisting mainly of bank and long-term borrowings) amounted to €1,897.1 million at borrowings, overdrafts and debt related to acquisitions, net of December 31, 2016, compared to €1,891.1 million at December 31, debt issuance costs. 2015. Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities The repayment schedule for the non-current portion of this amounted to €940.1 million at December 31, 2016, compared with borrowing appears in Note 4.6.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial €1,088.4 million at December 31, 2015. Net ﬁnancial debt (deﬁned statements referred to in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. as gross debt, less cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities) amounted to €957.0 million at December 31, 2016, Cash and cash equivalents (€940.1 million at December 31, 2016 compared to €802.7 million at December 31, 2015. and €1,085.9 million at December 31, 2015) consist primarily of very short-term bank deposits and so, counterparty risk is The ratio of net debt to shareholders’ equity was 24% at monitored very closely. December 31, 2016, compared with 21% at December 31, 2015. A description of credit facility contracts is presented in Note 4.6.1 At December 31, 2016, the Group’s gross debt consisted of the to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements referred to in chapter 8 following: of this Registration Document. W €1,400.0 million in bonds issued in February 2010, March 2011, April 2012 and December 2015; W €368.8 million in Yankee Bonds; 5.6 CAPITAL EXPENDITURE Capital expenditure take into account the capitalization of some Capital expenditure consists mainly of investment in new development costs pursuant to IAS 38. products, in productivity and commercial means. Meanwhile, the Group is pursuing ongoing initiatives to control capital employed. In 2016, capital expenditure and capitalized development expense amounted to €160.9 million or 3.2% of consolidated net sales, compared with €133.4 million and also 2.8% in 2015. 144 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Variations in exchange rates 5.7 OFF BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS The Group does not have any off balance sheet arrangements and that would be material to investors. (See Note 5.3 to the that have or can be considered reasonably likely to have a current consolidated ﬁnancial statements referred to in chapter 8 of this or future impact on its ﬁnances, revenues, expenses, results, Registration Document). There is no signiﬁcant off balance sheet operating income, cash, capital expenditure or capital reserves, commitment given linked to acquisitions. 5.8 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations, commercial commitments and principal maturity dates on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2016. Payments due by period At December 31, 2016 (in € millions) Borrowings Total 1,886.2 < 1 year 345.1 1-3 years 455.4 3-5 years 16.9 > 5 years 1,068.8 05 Capital lease obligations 10.9 1.3 3.2 2.9 3.5 Operating leases 203.4 49.0 74.2 45.4 34.8 TOTAL CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS 2,100.5 395.4 532.8 65.2 1,107.1 5.9 VARIATIONS IN EXCHANGE RATES A signiﬁcant number of the Group’s foreign subsidiaries operate that are recognized in other currencies into euros. Variations in in countries outside the euro zone. In 2016, approximately 62% exchange rates affect such items in the Group’s consolidated of the Group’s net sales were denominated in currencies other ﬁnancial statements, even if the value of the item remains than the euro. As a consequence, the Group’s consolidated unchanged in its original currency. sales, operating income and free cash ﬂow could be affected The Group uses end-of-period exchange rates for the translation by variations in exchange rates between the euro and other of balance sheet data and period-average exchange rates for the currencies. translation of income statement and cash ﬂow data. In order to prepare its consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the Group must convert assets, liabilities, income and expenses REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 145 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Quantitative and qualitative disclosures relating to ﬁnancial risks The following table shows, for the periods indicated, data on euro/U.S. dollar exchange rates from 2012 through 2016, expressed in euros per U.S. dollar. This exchange rate information is provided as an indication only and does not represent the exchange rates used by Legrand in the preparation of its consolidated ﬁnancial statements: (euro per U.S. dollar) Period-end rate Average rate(1) High Low 2012 0.76 0.78 0.83 0.74 2013 0.73 0.75 0.78 0.72 2014 0.82 0.75 0.82 0.72 2015 0.92 0.90 0.95 0.83 2016 0.95 0.90 0.96 0.87 (1) The average exchange rate for the euro is calculated as the average monthly ﬁgures for the relevant year-long period. Readers are referred to Note 5.1.2.2 appended to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements mentioned in chapter 8 of the present Registration Document for a description of management of exchange risk. 5.10 -QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES RELATING TO FINANCIAL RISKS Legrand’s exposure to ﬁnancial risk mainly concerns the any speculative transactions. Transactions involving ﬁnancial following areas: instruments are conducted with the sole purpose of managing interest-rate, exchange-rate and commodity price risks, and as W interest rate risk; such are limited in duration and amount. W currency risk; This strategy is centralized at Group level. Deployment is W commodity risk; managed by the Financing and Treasury Department, which W credit risk; recommends appropriate measures and implements these after they have been validated by the Corporate Finance Department W counterparty risk; and and the Group’s senior management. A detailed reporting system W liquidity risk. has been set up to permit permanent tracking of the Group’s The Group’s cash management strategy is based on overall positions and effective oversight of the management of ﬁnancial ﬁnancial risk management principles and involves taking risks. speciﬁc measures to manage the risks associated with interest A detailed description of risks and Legrand’s risk management rates, exchange rates, commodity prices and the investment appears in Note 5.1.2 appended to the consolidated ﬁnancial of available cash. The Group does not conduct trading in statements referred to in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. ﬁnancial instruments, in line with its policy of not carrying out 146 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Trends and prospects 5.11 -SUMMARY OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The accounting policies described below are those the Company These policies include signiﬁcant estimates made by management considers critical in preparing its consolidated ﬁnancial using information available at the time the estimates are made. A statements: more detailed description of the main accounting policies used by the Company in preparing its consolidated ﬁnancial statements W intangible assets; is included in notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements W fair value of ﬁnancial instruments; referred to in chapter 8 of this Registration Document, and in W accounting for stock option plans; particular in Note 1.2.3. W employee beneﬁts; W deferred taxes; and W use of estimates. 5.12 -NEW IFRS PRONOUNCEMENTS 05 Since 2015, main standards and interpretations published by the Summaries of these publications and their possible consequences IASB but not yet compulsory were as follows: as regards the ﬁnancial information provided by the Group are presented in Note 1.2.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements W IFRS 9 — Financial Instruments; referred to in chapter 8 of this registration document. W IFRS 15 — Revenue from Contracts with Customers; and W IFRS 16 — Leases. 5.13 -TRENDS AND PROSPECTS Macroeconomic projections for 2017 call for a gradual Legrand thus sets 2017 targets for: improvement in the economic environment. Against this backdrop W organic growth in sales of between 0% and +3%; and and taking into account high bases for comparison for business in the United States and Italy, the Group intends to pursue its W adjusted operating margin before acquisitions (at 2016 scope strategy of value-creative growth in 2017. of consolidation) of between 19.3% and 20.1% of sales. Legrand will also pursue its strategy of value-creating acquisitions. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 147 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Table of consolidated ﬁnancial results over the last ﬁve years 5.14 -TABLE OF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL RESULTS OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS (in € millions except number of shares, earnings per share and number of employees) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 End of period share capital Share capital 1,057.5 1,062.4 1,065.4 1,067.7 1,069.3 Number of shares 264,374,875 265,590,517 266,357,615 266,930,602 267,327,374 Earnings Net sales 4,466.7 4,460.4 4,499.1 4,809.9 5,018.9 Earnings before tax, depreciation and amortization 920.9 935.2 937.2 979.7 1,025.1 Income taxes (247.6) (233.5) (238.4) (258.0) (218.6) Net income 507.0 533.3 533.3 552.0 631.5 Dividends paid 245.0 265.1 279.3 293.1 307.1 (1) Earnings per share Earnings before tax, depreciation and amortization 3.496 3.530 3.527 3.678 3.848 Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of Legrand 1.920 2.002 2.001 2.067 2.359 Dividend per share 0.93 1.00 1.05 1.10 1.15 Personnel End of period number of employees 33,079 33,272 33,556 32,667 32,722 Personnel costs 1,155.8 1,143.5 1,170.8 1,256.3 1,299.1 (1) Earnings per share are computed on the basis of the number of circulating ordinary shares during the period, or 263,401,182 shares in 2012, 264,932,592 shares in 2013, 265,703,963 shares in 2014, 266,375,725 shares in 2015 and 266,395,359 shares in 2016. 5.15 -SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION The selected ﬁnancial information for the years ended Please read this selected ﬁnancial information in tandem with December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 has been drawn from the the information in the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements, consolidated ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance the Notes thereto (included in chapter 8 of this Registration with IFRS which can be found in chapter 8 of this Registration Document) and all other ﬁnancial information included elsewhere Document and have been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers in this Registration Document. Audit and Deloitte & Associés. 148 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Selected ﬁnancial information (in millions of euros except %) 2016 2015 2014 Revenue 5,018.9 4,809.9 4,499.1 Total sales growth +4.3% +6.9% +0.9% Sales growth at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates +1.8% +0.5% +0.5% EBITDA(1) 1,109.0 1,056.4 1,013.0 Maintainable EBITDA(2) 1,134.1 1,084.4 1,034.7 (3) Adjusted operating income 978.5 930.4 880.4 As a percentage of sales 19.5% 19.3% 19.6% Maintainable adjusted operating income(2) 1,003.6 958.4 902.1 (4) Adjusted net income excluding minority interests 567.3 550.6 531.7 As a percentage of sales 11.3% 11.4% 11.8% Net income(5) 630.2 552.0 533.3 As a percentage of sales 12.6% 11.5% 11.9% Free Cash ﬂow(6) 673.0 666.0 607.4 As a percentage of sales 13.4% 13.8% 13.5% Normalized Free Cash ﬂow(7) 623.9 617.2 607.5 As a percentage of sales 12.4% 12.8% 13.5% Net ﬁnancial debt at December 31(8) 957.0 802.7 855.6 (1) EBITDA is deﬁned as operating proﬁt plus depreciation and impairment of tangible assets, amortization and impairment of intangible assets (including capitalized development costs) and impairment of goodwill. 05 (2) Maintainable EBITDA and maintainable adjusted operating income are used to analyze EBITDA and adjusted operating income excluding the impact of restructuring costs (including capital gains or losses on the sale of assets). (3) Adjusted operating income is deﬁned as operating income adjusted for amortization of revaluation of intangible assets at the time of acquisitions and for expense/ income relating to acquisitions and, where applicable, for impairment of goodwill. (4) 2016 adjusted net income excluding minority interests does not take into account the favorable non-recurring accounting impact of a tax income generated by the mechanical revaluation of deferred tax liabilities on trademarks that resulted from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. This €61.2m tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. However, these reductions in the corporate income tax rate, if maintained over time, should have a positive impact on the Group’s tax rate. (5) Net income corresponds to published net income (before minority interests). (6) Free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the sum of net cash from operating activities and net proceeds from sales of ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets, less capital expenditure and capitalized development costs. (7) Normalized free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the sum of net cash from operating activities—based on a normalized working capital requirement representing 10% of the last 12 month’s sales and whose change at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates is adjusted for the period considered—and net proceeds of sales from ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets, less capital expenditure and capitalized development costs. (8) Net ﬁnancial debt is deﬁned as the sum of short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. The table below shows a reconciliation of EBITDA and maintainable EBITDA with net income and operating income: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 2014 Net income 631.5 552.0 533.3 Income taxes 218.6 258.0 238.4 Exchange (gains)/losses (6.5) (6.0) (1.5) Financial income (10.9) (11.0) (8.6) Financial expense 101.3 93.7 85.9 Operating income 934.0 886.7 847.5 Amortization and depreciation of tangible assets 97.1 97.4 94.5 Amortization and depreciation of intangible assets (including capitalized development costs) and impairment of goodwill 77.9 72.3 71.0 EBITDA 1,109.0 1,056.4 1,013.0 Restructuring costs 25.1 28.0 21.7 Maintainable EBITDA 1,134.1 1,084.4 1,034.7 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 149 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Selected ﬁnancial information The table below shows a reconciliation of the Group’s adjusted operating income and maintainable adjusted operating income with net income and operating income: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 2014 Net income 631.5 552.0 533.3 Income taxes 218.6 258.0 238.4 Exchange (gains)/losses (6.5) (6.0) (1.5) Financial income (10.9) (11.0) (8.6) Financial expense 101.3 93.7 85.9 Operating income 934.0 886.7 847.5 Amortization of revaluation of intangible assets at the time of acquisitions and expense/income relating to acquisitions 44.5 43.7 32.9 Impairment of goodwill 0.0 0.0 0.0 Adjusted operating income 978.5 930.4 880.4 Restructuring costs 25.1 28.0 21.7 Maintainable adjusted operating income 1,003.6 958.4 902.1 The table below shows a reconciliation of research and development expenditure with research and development expense: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 2014 Research and development expense (237.7) (216.1) (193.2) Amortization related to acquisition and R&D tax credit (2.8) (5.3) (6.5) Amortization of capitalized development costs 27.1 26.3 25.8 Research and development expense before capitalized development costs (213.4) (195.1) (173.9) Capitalized development costs (34.6) (27.4) (29.0) Research and development expenditure for the year (248.0) (222.5) (202.9) The table below shows a reconciliation of the Group’s free and normalized free cash ﬂow with net cash from operating activities: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 2014 Net cash provided by/(used in) operating activities 831.8 796.2 726.4 Net proceeds from sales of ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets 2.1 3.2 6.3 Capital expenditure (126.3) (106.0) (96.3) Capitalized development costs (34.6) (27.4) (29.0) Free cash ﬂow 673.0 666.0 607.4 Increase (decrease) in working capital requirement (40.4) (46.2) 2.3 (Increase) decrease in normalized working capital requirement (8.7) (2.6) (2.2) Normalized free cash ﬂow 623.9 617.2 607.5 150 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 Selected ﬁnancial information The table below shows changes in the net ﬁnancial debt of Legrand: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 2014 Short-term borrowings 346.4 67.9 71.4 Long-term borrowings 1,550.7 1,823.2 1,513.3 Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities (940.1) (1,088.4) (729.1) Net ﬁnancial debt 957.0 802.7 855.6 The table below shows the changes in Legrand’s equity: (in millions of euros) 2016 2015 2014* Share capital 1,069.3 1,067.7 1,065.4 Retained earnings 3,227.8 3,006.2 2,764.4 Translation reserves (240.0) (276.1) (281.8) Equity attributable to equity holders of Legrand 4,057.1 3,797.8 3,548.0 * Restated comparative data at December 31, 2014 (see Note 1.2.1.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements referred to in chapter 8 of 2015 Registration Document). 05 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 151 05 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 152 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 06 6.1 ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY 154 6.1.1 Board of Directors 154 6.1.2 Lead Director 167 6.1.3 Board of Directors’ specialized committees 169 6.1.4 General Management of the Company 176 6.1.5 Service agreements 178 6.2 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF COMPANY OFFICERS 179 6.2.1 Principles and criteria for the calculation, breakdown and allocation of ﬁxed, variable and exceptional elements of compensation and any beneﬁts in kind due to company officers in respect of their office 179 6.2.2 Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers for 2016 185 6.2.3 Shareholding by Directors 196 6.2.4 Other beneﬁts granted to Directors 196 6.2.5 Compensation attributable for the 2017 ﬁnancial year to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and compensation components due or allocated for the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, submitted to shareholders’ opinion 197 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 153 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company 6.1 ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY The Company refers to the principles of corporate governance for listed companies set out in the Afep-Medef Code of Corporate Governance, as revised in November 2016 (the “Code of Corporate Governance”). This Code of Corporate Governance can be viewed on the Medef website: www.medef.com. 6.1.1 Board of Directors R 6.1.1.1 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS their total number, the oldest member will be deemed to have resigned at the end of the Ordinary General Meeting of the shareholders called to consider the accounts for the previous ﬁnancial year and held during the year in which the age limit Principles is reached; The current Articles of Association of the Company and the internal rules of the Board of Directors deﬁne the following W office of Chairman of the Board of Directors: the Chairman is appointed by the Board of Directors from among its members. principles: He or she must be a physical person aged under 65 at the W number of Directors: the Board of Directors has at least three time of appointment. When the Chairman has reached this age members and no more than the maximum number of members limit, he/she is considered as having resigned at the end of the authorized by the applicable legal and regulatory provisions Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders that approved the (subject to the exception provided by law in the event of a ﬁnancial statements for the past ﬁnancial year (held in the year merger); this age limit is reached). The Chairman may be reelected. His/ W term of office of Directors: directors have a four-year term of her compensation is determined by the Board of Directors; office. This expires at the end of the Ordinary General Meeting W office of Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors: the Board of Shareholders convened to consider ﬁnancial statements for of Directors may appoint a Vice-Chairman if necessary. His/ the previous ﬁnancial year and held in the year in which their her role is to take the place of the Chairman if the latter is term of office expires. They may be reappointed for consecutive prevented from fulﬁlling his or her duties. The Vice-Chairman terms without limit; is subject to the same age limit as the Chairman; W ownership of Legrand shares: subject to legal exceptions, each W lead Director: the Board of Directors may appoint a lead director. Director must own at least ﬁve hundred shares, registered in In accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance, the his/her name, for the entire duration of his/her mandate. In the lead director must be appointed from among the independent course of his/her term of office, each Director is proposed to directors. This is a requirement if the roles of Chairman and gradually acquire a number of shares equivalent to one full year Chief Executive Officer are performed by the same individual. If of his/her share of Directors’ fees. For calculation purposes, necessary, the Lead Director may directly convene a meeting of the assumption will be participation, over one ﬁnancial year, the Board of Directors on a given agenda whose importance or at all meetings of the Board and of the special committee(s) to urgency justify holding an extraordinary meeting of the Board. which the relevant Director belongs, the Legrand share price Please see Section 6.1.2 “Lead Director” for details of the Lead unit value being the average Legrand share price over the Director’s tasks and resources; previous ﬁnancial year; W coopting: when the legal conditions are met, the Board of W age limit for Directors: no one over the age of 70 may be Directors may appoint provisional members of the Board for appointed to the Board of Directors if such appointment means the remaining term of office of their predecessor. Pursuant to that more than a third of Board members will be over this age. the law, provisional appointments are subject to ratiﬁcation at If, during their term of office, the number of members of the the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders thereafter. Board of Directors over the age of 70 exceeds one-third of 154 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Current composition of the Board of Directors Other directorships in listed Committee membership Years companies not Expiry served Main Role on the affiliated with Audit Appointments Date of ﬁrst of term on the Name duties Legrand Board NationalityAge GenderIndependence the Group(1) services Governance CompensationCSR strategy appointment of office Board(2) Legrand 2018 Chairman Chairman and Shareholders’ Gilles and Chief Chief Executive General Schnepp Executive Officer Officer French 58 M 1 P 12/10/2002 Meeting 14 2018 Shareholders’ François Companies Honorary General Grappotte Director Chairman French 80 M 0 12/10/2002 Meeting 14 2020 Angeles EMEA CoShareholders’ GarciaManaging Director, P P General Poveda Spencer Stuart Lead Director Spanish 46 F P 0 Chairwoman Chairwoman P 05/25/2012 Meeting 5 2018 Shareholders’ Olivier Companies General Bazil Director Director French 70 M 2 P P 12/10/2002 Meeting 14 2020 Shareholders’ Christel Deputy CEO of P General Bories Eramet Director French 52 F P 2 P Chairwoman 05/25/2012 Meeting 5 Isabelle 2020 Shareholders’ 06 BocconCompanies General Gibod Director Director French 48 F P 2 P 05/27/2016 Meeting 1 Chairman and 2020 Thierry Chief Executive Shareholders’ de La Tour Officer of SEB General d’Artaise Group Director French 62 M P 2 P 04/06/2006 Meeting 11 Chairman and Chief Executive 2018 Officer and Shareholders’ Dongsheng founder of TCL General Li Corporation Director Chinese 59 M P 2 07/26/2012 Meeting 4 Chief Marketing Officer of Printemps Group 2017 Annalisa and member Shareholders’ Loustau of its Executive General Elia Committee Director Italian 51 F P 1 P May 24, 2013 Meeting 4 2019 Eliane Shareholders’ RouyerCompanies P May 26, General Chevalier Director Director French 64 F P 0 Chairwoman P 2011 Meeting 6 (1) The term served at the Company was not taken into account for the calculation. (2) At the date of the next General Meeting of Shareholders, i.e. May 31, 2017. As at the date of this Registration Document, the Board was In addition, on the date of publication of this Registration composed of ten members including the Chairman and Chief Document and under the terms of an agreement with the unions, Executive Officer, the Honorary Chairman and the Lead Director. four representatives of the Central Works Council also attend The biographies of the Company’s directors can be found on meetings of the Company’s Board of Directors in an advisory pages 319-324 of the Company’s Registration Document. capacity. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 155 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Since the Company has fewer than 50 employees and does not criteria set forth in that article. The term of office of the director have a Works Council, it does not fulﬁll all the criteria of article representing employees will expire at the end of the Ordinary L. 225-27-1 of the French Commercial Code as drafted prior General Meeting of Shareholders of Legrand France convened in to Act No. 2015-994 of August 17, 2015. Consequently, there 2018 to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year is no director serving on the Company’s Board of Directors ending December 31, 2017. After that date, the Company (Legrand representing employees. However, in accordance with article SA) will come within the scope of application of article L. 225-27-1 L. 225-27-1 of the French Commercial Code as drafted prior to of the French Commercial Code in its current form which requires Act No. 2015-994 of August 17, 2015, a director was appointed the presence of one or more directors on the Board of Directors to represent employees on the Board of Directors of Legrand to represent employees (the number of directors representing France, a subsidiary of the Company, by the Central Works Council employees being determined based on the size of the Board of at its meeting on October 16, 2014, as this subsidiary fulﬁlls the Directors, in accordance with statutory regulations). Since 2011, Directors’ terms of office have gradually been staggered, as reﬂected in the following table: 2017 2018 2019 2020 Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Shareholders’ Shareholders’ General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting General Meeting Number of directorships due for renewal 1 4 1 4 Absence of convictions or conﬂicts of interest conducting awareness-raising initiatives on the existence of facts likely to lead to such conﬂicts. Accordingly, the Lead Director is On the date this Registration Document was ﬁled and as far as the informed by each director of any actual or potential conﬂict of Company is aware, none of the Company Directors: interest, and reports on these to the Board, as he/she does on any W have family links with other Company directors; actual or potential conﬂict of interest which he/she may detect independently. W have been convicted of fraud within the last ﬁve years; No actual or potential conﬂict of interest was reported to the Lead W have been associated with any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation within the last ﬁve years; Director or to the Board of Directors. As far as the Company is aware, no conﬂict of interest currently exists. W have been convicted of any offense and/or received an official public penalty issued by the statutory or regulatory authorities Furthermore, the Company’s Chairman and Chief Executive (including professional bodies); Officer has undertaken to inform the Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee of any intention to take on another W have been prohibited by a court from sitting on an administrative, Directorship, and must ask the Board for its opinion before management or supervisory body of an issuer or from taking accepting any new directorship in a listed company. part in the management or conducting of the affairs of an issuer over the last ﬁve years. Independent Directors In keeping with its corporate governance responsibilities, the Board of Directors adopted a Directors’ Charter, which has been Deﬁnition of Independent Director and applicable criteria integrated into the internal rules. This Directors’ Charter sets A Director is considered to be independent if he or she has no forth the rights and obligations of the directors and is binding relationship with the Company, its management or the Group upon each director. which might compromise such Director’s free judgment or create Pursuant to the provisions of the Directors’ Charter, directors a conﬂict of interest with the Company, its management or the undertake (i) to apprise the Lead Director and the Board of any Group. actual or potential conﬂict of interest, to abstain from related In this regard, the internal rules of the Company’s Board of discussions and votes and (ii) to avoid any personal engagement Directors lists the independence criteria set forth in the Code of with businesses that are competitors of the Company and its Corporate Governance. Pursuant to the provisions of the Board’s Group without having informed the Board of Directors and internal rules and those of the Code of Corporate Governance, an obtained its consent. independent director must not: In addition, the Board of Directors’ internal rules lay down the W be or have been in the past ﬁve years: requirements for preventing and managing conﬂicts of interest. Speciﬁcally, they state that the Company’s Lead Director is W an employee or executive officer of the Company or Group, responsible for preventing conﬂicts of interest from arising by 156 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company W an employee, executive officer or director of a company Findings of the review conducted by the Nominating consolidated within the Company, and Governance Committee and the Board on the criterion of business dealings between the Company and its directors W an employee, executive officer or director of the Company’s parent company or of a company consolidated by that parent During the annual review of the qualiﬁcation criteria for company; independent directors, the Nominating and Governance Committee and then the Board of Directors at their meetings of W be an executive officer of a company in which the Company January 26 and March 15, 2017 analyzed the business dealings directly or indirectly holds a directorship or in which an that could exist between the Group on the one hand, and each employee appointed as such or an executive officer of the director or companies with which they are associated (as a Company (currently in office or having held such office during customer, supplier, investment banker or ﬁnancing banker) on the last past ﬁve previous years) is a director; the other hand. W be a customer, supplier, commercial banker or investment banker: To prepare its assessment, the Nominating and Governance W that is material to the Company or its Group, Committee asked directors to complete an independence questionnaire. The Committee then analyzed the position of each W or for a signiﬁcant part of whose business the Company or director based on the responses given in order to: its Group accounts; the evaluation of the signiﬁcant or nonsigniﬁcant relationship with the Company or its Group must W determine the existence of a business relationship; and, where be debated by the Board and the qualitative and quantitative applicable; criteria that lead to the evaluation (continuity, economic W assess whether or not this relationship was signiﬁcant by dependence, exclusivity, etc.) must be explicitely stated in applying qualitative criteria (context, background and structure the annual report. of the relationship, and parties’ respective powers) as well as W be related by close family ties to a company officer of the quantitative criteria (material signiﬁcance of the relationship to Company or Group; the parties). W have been a statutory auditor for the Company or a Group The tests showed that none of the directors had business dealings company in the course of the ﬁve previous years; with the Company, except for Mr. Dongsheng Li. W have been a director of the Company for more than 12 years. With regard to Mr. Dongsheng Li, business dealings between Loss of the status of independent director occurs on the date at Legrand and the TCL Group, of which Mr. Dongsheng Li is chief which this period of twelve years is reached; executive officer, consist of: W be a non-executive officer and receive variable compensation in cash or in the form of shares or any compensation linked to W a trademark licensing agreement entered into in 2008 by two Chinese companies acquired by the Group and TCL; 06 the performance of the Company or Group, other than directors’ W a technology agreement between Chinese subsidiary fees, with the exception of attendance fees. Legrand (Shanghai) Management Co Ltd, Legrand, and the Directors representing major shareholders of the Company TCL subsidiary Smart Home Technologies Co Ltd aimed at may be considered as being independent, provided that these promoting communication and compatibility between their shareholders do not take part in control of the Company. However, products and respective applications. This agreement is one when a director represents a shareholder of the Company directly of the collaborative arrangements set up by the Group with or indirectly holding more than 10% of the Company’s capital or other companies or partnerships to promote the development voting rights, the Board of Directors, after receiving a report from of interoperable connected solutions (Nest, La Poste, Samsung, the Nominating and Governance Committee, must systematically and so on). review his or her status as an independent director, with due The Nominating and Governance Committee noted that business regard for the Company’s share ownership structure and the relations between the two groups were limited to certain of their potential for conﬂicts of interest. entities and to China. Procedure for the review of the status of independent In addition, the Committee noted that as regards the respective Directors power of Legrand and Mr. Dongsheng Li: In accordance with the internal rules of the Company’s Board W the Group’s organizational structure meant that the Company of Directors, the qualiﬁcations for independent directorships did not get involved in business relationships formed between are discussed by the Nominating and Governance Committee its various entities, which are managed locally; with regard to the independence criteria deﬁned above, and are approved by the Board of Directors when a director is appointed W as a director, Mr. Dongsheng Li had no decision-making power within the Legrand Group in connection with establishing or and annually for all directors. The ﬁndings of the Board’s review maintaining these business relations. are made available to shareholders. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 157 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Finally, the ﬁnancial stakes involved are not material, either for Findings of the review conducted by the Nominating Legrand or for the TCL group, since in 2016 they accounted less and Governance Committee and Board concerning other than 1/2 per mil of both groups’ sales. independence criteria The Nominating and Governance Committee consequently After reviewing the individual position of each director with qualiﬁed the business relationship between Legrand and regard to the independence criteria discussed above, the Mr. Dongsheng Li as “non-material,” both from a qualitative Board of Directors, at its meeting on March 15, 2017 and on the standpoint, given the nature of the business between Legrand recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, and TCL, as presented above, and the absence of the parties’ repeated its assessment that Ms. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod, respective powers, and from a quantitative standpoint, given Ms. Christel Bories, Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda, Ms. Annalisa the low ﬁnancial stakes involved for both groups. The Board of Loustau Elia, Ms. Eliane Rouyer-Chevalier, Mr. Thierry de La Tour Directors subsequently approved the Nominating and Governance d’Artaise and Mr. Dongsheng Li could be classiﬁed as independent Committee’s conclusion. directors: Non-independent Directors Independent Directors Angeles Isabelle Thierry Annalisa Eliane Gilles Olivier François Christel GarciaBocconde La Tour Dongsheng Loustau RouyerReviewed criteria Schnepp Bazil Grappotte Bories Poveda Gibod d’Artaise Li Elia Chevalier No employee or company officer status during the previous 5 years X P P P P P P P P P No cross-Directorships P P P P P P P P P P No signiﬁcant business relations P P P P P P P P P P No close family relationship with a company executive P P P P P P P P P P No statutory auditor relationships during the previous 5 years P P P P P P P P P P No status as Director of the company for more than 12 years X X X P P P P P P P No receipt of any signiﬁcant additional compensation apart from Directors’ fees X P P P P P P P P P P: independence criterion met. X = independence criterion not met. The proportion of independent Directors on the Company’s Board W the Nominating and Governance Committee has three of Directors thus stands at 70%, higher than the minimum ratio members, two of whom are independent, therefore two-thirds of 50% recommended by the Code of Corporate Governance for of its members are independent directors. This is in line with non-controlled companies. the Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that the majority of the Committee’s members should be independent With respect to the specialized committees: directors; W the Audit Committee has three members, all of whom are independent, therefore the percentage of independent W the Compensation Committee has three members, all of whom are independent, therefore the percentage of independent directors is 100%. This is consistent with the Code of Corporate directors is 100%. This is in line with the Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that at least two-thirds of the Governance, which recommends that the majority of the Committee’s members should be independent directors; Committee’s members should be independent directors; 158 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company W the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee has four As regards the lead director, his or her appointment complies members, two of whom are independent, therefore the with the Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that percentage of independent directors is 50%. the lead director be independent (see also Section 6.1.2). Changes in the composition of the Board of Directors Changes in the composition of the Board of Directors in 2016 In the course of the 2016 ﬁnancial year, changes in membership of the Board of Directors were the following: Date End of term of office Appointment Reappointment Christel Bories Isabelle Angeles Garcia-Poveda May 27, 2016 Gérard Lamarche Boccon-Gibod Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Ms. Christel Bories, who has been a Company’s Board Director General Meeting of Shareholders convened on May 27, 2016. The since 2012, is also Chairman of the Strategy and Social shareholders voted in favor of this appointment. Responsibility Committee and a member of the Audit Committee. The Company beneﬁts from her senior management experience Directorship due for renewal in 2017 with industrial groups and her expertise in strategy. The directorship of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia expires in 2017. Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda, who has also served on the Ms. Loustau Elia has indicated that she wishes to stand for reelection. Company’s board since 2012, is Lead Director and Chairman Her experience in marketing and product development in of the Nominating and Governance Committee, Chairman of the luxury, retail and consumer goods sectors means that the Compensation Committee, and a member of the Strategy Ms. Loustau Elia brings not only a complementary perspective and Social Responsibility Committee. The work of these bodies to issues speciﬁc to the Company’s business sector but also it is enhanced by her contribution, in particular her skills in matters to beneﬁt from her expertise in mainstream strategic drivers. of compensation and governance as well as questions of strategy Her Italian nationality is also useful from the standpoint of the and senior management experience. Group’s historic presence in Italy. Mr. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, a Company director since 2006, is also a member of the Nominating and Governance Committee. As a long-standing board member, he is familiar with the Company, Ms. Loustau Elia, a Company director since 2013, is also a member of the Compensation Committee. 06 As a result of the foregoing, the Board of Directors has proposed its area of business, and its challenges. Serving or having served that the General Meeting of Shareholders convened for on a number of boards of major groups, and being himself chief May 31, 2017 reappoint this director for a four-year term (see executive officer of a major industrial group, he offers the Board presentation of the agenda and draft resolutions in Appendix 4 of of Directors and Nominating and Governance Committee the the Company’s Registration Document). beneﬁt of this experience. Consequently, the Board of Directors asked the General Meeting Diversity of membership of the Board of Directors of Shareholders called for May 27, 2016 to reappoint these three directors for a four-year term. The shareholders voted in favor of Each year, the Board of Directors examines its composition and these reappointments. that of the specialized committees to ensure that the balance of members is correct, particularly in terms of diversity. It is Following the non-reappointment of Mr. Gérard Lamarche, the constantly seeking to improve the gender balance, international Board wanted to enhance its membership by selecting someone dimension, skills diversity, international experience, expertise and with a background in industry along with recognized ﬁnancial independence of its members, so that it can assure shareholders expertise and a sound knowledge of Anglo-Saxon culture. To and the market that it acts with the necessary independence and this end, the Board of Directors (on the recommendation of objectivity. the Nominating and Governance Committee) put forward the candidacy of Ms. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod for vote at the Company’s REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 159 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Subject to the approval of the annual Combined Ordinary and Given all these factors, the Board considered its composition Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders convened for in 2016 to be satisfactory with regard to the diversity criteria May 31, 2017 to renew the term of office of Ms. Annalisa Loustau examined. Nevertheless, it will continue to give careful Elia as a Company Director, the Board will comprise: consideration to any areas of improvement that could be useful for the development and dynamic growth of the business. W ﬁve women, representing a proportion of 50%, which is higher than the minimum ratio provided for by the French Commercial For these reasons, and in view of the upcoming expiry of the Code (40% from 2017) and the ratio recommended by the Code directorship of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia, the Board has decided of Corporate Governance (40% from 2016); to support the reappointment of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia who is standing as a candidate for reelection for the reasons set out in W four different nationalities – one Chinese, one Spanish, one the above paragraph, “Changes in the composition of the Board Italian and seven French directors; and of Directors”; W seven independent directors, representing a proportion of 70% of the Board, which is higher than the minimum ratio of 50% recommended by the Code of Corporate Governance. In terms of gender balance, the Board welcomed the fact that R 6.1.1.2 FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS the proportion of women on the Board increased from 25% at The Company’s Board of Directors has adopted, pursuant to the December 31, 2012 to 40% at May 24, 2013 and 50% at May 27, Articles of Association, internal rules designed to establish, within 2016, a rate that will be maintained if Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia the framework of current legal and regulatory provisions and the is reappointed as a director. The Board also looked favorably Articles of Association, details of the composition, organization on the signiﬁcant efforts made in recent years to become more and functioning of the Board of Directors and its Committees, international in terms of members and their experience. as well as the rights and obligations of Directors. The Board of For 2016, the Board of Directors considered directors’ skills Directors’ internal rules, which include a Directors’ Charter, are to be varied and complementary, with some directors having regularly updated and can be viewed on the Company’s website: strategic skills suited to the general management of industrial www.legrand.com. groups, and others having ﬁnancial competencies or more The main rules relating to the organization and functioning of the speciﬁc expertise, including investor communications, talent Company’s administration and management bodies determined management, marketing and corporate social responsibility. Also, by the internal rules and the Company’s Articles of Association the participation on the Board of Directors of past and current are outlined hereunder. representatives of Legrand’s management ensures the Board enjoys a good level of knowledge of the Group and its workings. Missions and duties of the Board of Directors With regard to its composition, the Board of Directors has and of its Chairman received a number of Corporate Governance Awards organized The Board of Directors carries out the missions that have been by the French ﬁnancial magazine AGEFI: assigned to it by the law in order to act at all times in the corporate W on the occasion of the eleventh edition of the AGEFI Corporate interest. Governance Awards, on September 24, 2014, Legrand was The Board of Directors rules on how the Company is managed. awarded the Silver Governance Award for the Composition The Board of Directors is authorized to allow the Chairman to of the Board of Directors. This award reﬂected recognition of issue special pledges on the issuing of bonds. several features of Legrand’s Board, including the percentage of female members, the number of different nationalities The Board of Directors may decide to set up specialized among members, the provision of detailed information about committees to consider matters submitted to them by the Board Board members, the length of their terms of office, and their of Directors or its Chairman. It sets the composition and powers independence. On the same occasion, Legrand was also of its Committees which shall carry out their duties under its awarded the 2014 Corporate Governance Grand Prix and the responsibility and without prejudice to the powers of the Board Golden Governance Trophy for Dynamic Governance; itself; these can never be delegated to the Committees. W on the occasion of the twelfth edition of the AGEFI Corporate The Board’s strategy and decisions are made within the context of Governance Awards, on September 16, 2015, Legrand once the Company’s sustainable development policy. again won an award for the composition of its Board. In consequence, it is in particular the duty of the Board: W to consider and approve all decisions relating to signiﬁcant strategic, economic, social, ﬁnancial and technological issues for the Company and the Group and ensure that management puts them into effect; 160 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company W concerning the matters itemized below, to make related liquidation of the Company, and any decision that may result proposals to shareholders where they are subject to approval in the initiation of insolvency proceedings or the appointment at General Meetings of Shareholders or to grant prior of an ad hoc authorized agent, authorization to the Chief Executive Officer (or the Chairman, W any proposal for a decision entailing amendment of the as the case may be) for their ﬁnalization and implementation Company’s Articles of Association, where they are matters for general management: W in the event of disputes, the conclusion of any agreements, W delegation of powers or competence for purposes relating to settlements or arrangements, or acceptance of any the issue or purchase of shares or other securities providing compromise, where the amount concerned exceeds access to equity, €100 million, W subscription to, or agreement for, any loan, whether in the W the grant of any surety on Company assets if the obligation form of bonds or of any other kind, or any early voluntary for which surety is given or the assets pledged represents an repayment of loans, advances or borrowings for an amount amount in excess of €100 million, exceeding €100 million, W and more generally, any material transaction outside the W the establishment of joint venture(s) or the acquisition of scope of the Legrand’s stated strategy, where the amount any business(es) for an amount exceeding €100 million; concerned exceeds €100 million; the acquisition of any equity interest or business, or the execution of any joint-venture agreement where the amount W to examine and approve the reports on the activities of the involved exceeds €100 million, Board of Directors and its Committees to be included in the annual report; W the sale or transfer of any business or businesses, asset or assets for an amount exceeding €100 million; the sale of any W to examine and approve, at the proposal of the Nominating equity interest or business involving an amount exceeding and Governance Committee, the presentation of Directors €100 million, to be included in the annual report, in particular the list of independent directors, setting out the criteria applied; W the annual budget (including, but not limited to, capital expenditure), W to co-opt directors where necessary, and present proposals for the reelection of directors to the Ordinary General Meeting of W the selection, replacement or removal of any or all of the Shareholders; statutory auditors, W to discuss the performances of the executive officers (not in W merger transactions or proposals concerning the Company or, more generally, any transaction resulting in the transfer or sale of all, or a substantial portion of, its assets, the presence of the interested parties) and determine, based on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, 06 the compensation due to executive officers and to apportion W any transaction leading to an increase or decrease in the attendance fees; Company’s equity capital, including, as may be the case, W to deliberate on stock option and bonus share plans and all through the issue of securities providing access to the other share-based payments or compensation indexed on or Company’s equity capital, such as securities convertible otherwise linked to shares; into shares or exchangeable for or redeemable in shares or preferred shares (except for grant of free shares or stock W to ensure that shareholders and investors receive a relevant options in the ordinary course of business of the Company), balanced and instructive information about the strategy, development model, the consideration of non-ﬁnancial W any creation of double voting rights or any other change to issues that are of signiﬁcance to the Company and its the voting rights attached to Company shares, long-term outlook; W changes to governance, including but not limited to, any W to approve the management report, together with the sections change in the rules of governance applying within the of the annual report illustrating corporate governance and Company, in particular the rules governing the membership describing the compensation policy; and operation of the Board of Directors and, more generally, any change to these internal rules in accordance with what The Board of Directors alone has the power to amend its internal is set forth below, rules. W any proposal for the appointment of new members to the The Chairman of the Board organizes and directs the work of the Board of Directors, Board, on which he must report back to the General Meeting of Shareholders. He/she monitors the proper operation of the bodies W the listing of any ﬁnancial instrument issued by the Company of the Company and ensures, in particular, that the members of on a regulated market other than Eurolist by Euronext or any the Board are in a position to exercise their duties. other ﬁnancial instrument issued by the Company, W bankruptcy ﬁlings, appointment of an ad hoc authorized agent, liquidation, etc., any voluntary dissolution or agreed REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 161 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Meetings of the Board of Directors Deliberations take place subject to the conditions of quorum and majority provided for by law. In the event of a tie, the Chairman The Company’s Board of Directors may meet as often as required has a casting vote. The Board may appoint a secretary who can be in the interest of the Company, and in any event, must meet at chosen from outside the shareholders and members. least ﬁve times per year. Members of the Board of Directors are called to Board meetings Attendance register by the Chairman, or, in the event of unavailability of the Chairman by the Vice-Chairman, if any. An attendance register is maintained at the Company’s registered office and contains the names of the Board members who were The Lead Director, if necessary, may also (i) ask the Chairman to physically or otherwise present (e.g., by telecommunication), call a meeting of the Board of Directors or, (ii) directly convene represented, excused or absent at each meeting. Proxies granted a meeting of the Board of Directors on a given agenda whose by mail, fax, telex, telegram or electronic mail are annexed to the importance or urgency justify holding an extraordinary meeting attendance register. of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer may also ask the Chairman to call a Minutes Board meeting on a speciﬁc matter. Whenever the Board has not Deliberations of the Board are evidenced by minutes established, met for more than two months, at least one-third of the members signed and maintained in accordance with regulatory of the Board of Directors may ask the Chairman to call a meeting requirements. of the Board to consider a particular agenda. The minutes of each Board meeting must include: The Chairman is bound by the requests made to him/her under the previous paragraph. W the name of each director present (either physically or by means of telecommunication or teletransmission), represented, Subject to the above, the agenda is decided by the Chairman and excused or absent; can only be set, if required, at the time of the meeting. Notices are issued by any means, even verbally, at the registered W the occurrence of any technical incident that disrupted proceedings during a videoconference or teleconference; office or in any other place indicated in the meeting notice, in France or abroad. The internal rules of the Company’s Board of W the name of other persons attending all or part of the Board Directors state that meeting notices, which can be sent by the meeting; secretary of the Board of Directors, can be issued by letter, telex, W a summary of the discussions and deliberations of the Board telegram, fax, e-mail or verbally. of Directors; and Where the notices of meeting so stipulate, Board meetings may W questions raised and the reservations of participating directors, be held by videoconference or teleconference, provided that these if any. transmit at least the voices of participants and meet the technical Board meeting notices and minutes are translated into English. requirements for the continuous and simultaneous relay of deliberations. Directors participating in Board meetings using such means are deemed present for the purposes of quorum and Evaluation of the Board of Directors majority requirements. and its specialized committees If one or more Directors notify the Chairman of the Board that At least once a year, the Board of Directors debates of its they cannot attend a Board meeting, the Chairman must attempt operations (this involves a corresponding review of the Board’s to organize a Board meeting using the means described in the specialized committees) and an account of this is to be included in preceding paragraphs. the Company’s annual report so that shareholders are informed each year of the assessments carried out and, if applicable, of any Board meetings held by videoconference or by other electronic steps taken as a result (see Section 6.1.1.3). means cannot adopt certain decisions set forth by law. The assessment of the Board’s operations and those of its The Chairman shall strive to issue meeting notices ﬁve days prior specialized committees is supervised by the Lead Director. to the actual meeting. He/she shall also strive to take account of the agenda constraints of the Board members so as to ensure the Director access to information presence of as many members as possible at each meeting. In order to allow Board members to carry out their duties effectively, the Chairman of the Board must provide each Director with the documents necessary to consider items on Board meeting agendas, at least ﬁve days prior to the meetings. 162 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Directors may request any documents they believe relevant for Deontology for Directors the preparation of the meeting, provided that they submit such In accordance with the Directors’ Charter, before taking up their requests with reasonable notice. post, all Directors must ensure that they are fully aware of their When required by conﬁdentiality, in particular where sensitive general and speciﬁc duties, particularly where these result from ﬁnancial information is concerned, information may be legislation and regulation, the Articles of Association, the Board’s communicated during the meeting. internal rules and its Charter, as well as from any other legally Directors receive all relevant information on signiﬁcant events or binding document: transactions for the Company between meetings. W directors must be competent, active and committed; Directors have the opportunity to meet with the Company’s W directors must act at all times in the corporate interest of principal executive managers, even outside the presence of the business. They undertake to promote and defend the executive Officers. In the latter case, these should be given prior Company’s values; notice. W directors are to devote the necessary time and attention to their Board members are informed about market developments, the tasks. competitive environment, and most important issues at hand, In this regard, they undertake to: including in the ﬁelds of corporate social and environmental responsibility. W not hold more than four other directorships in listed companies, including foreign companies, not affiliated with Directors’ training the Group; an executive officer may not hold more than two other directorships in listed companies, including foreign Each Director may be provided, at the time of their appointment companies, not affiliated with the Group. However, the and throughout their term of office, with training relating to the limit of two other directorships applicable to the executive speciﬁc features of the Company, its businesses and the sector officers does not apply to directorships held by an executive it operates in. officer in subsidiaries and holdings, held alone or together New Directors are provided with an induction program aimed at with others, of companies whose main activity is to acquire facilitating their integration and assumption of their new duties. and manage such holdings, The induction program includes site guided tours and meetings W keep the Board of Directors informed of directorships held with Group management. in other companies, including participation on the board To take the most recent appointment to the Board as an example, visits, presentations and meetings were organized after the appointment of Ms. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod as a director by the committees of these companies, both in France and abroad; an executive officer must seek the opinion of the Board of Directors before accepting a new directorship in a listed 06 General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016, to familiarize company, Ms. Boccon-Gibod with her duties on the Board. In the course W be assiduous and as far as possible attend all meetings of of this induction program, Ms. Boccon-Gibod visited the Innoval the Board of Directors and any committee they may belong to; Customer Training Center in Limoges, as well as the My Home Apartment, which showcases the technologies marketed by W in the interest of transparency, the annual report includes a Legrand in its home systems. She was also given a presentation report on directors’ attendance at meetings of the Board of of several production sites and product testing laboratories, and Directors and its committees; meetings were organized with several senior executives and W directors shall make every effort to attend General Meetings of operational management staff at Legrand. Shareholders; Moreover, Audit Committee members are provided, at the time W the Company recommends that all directors gradually acquire of their appointment, with information relating to the Company’s a number of shares during their term of office equivalent to speciﬁc accounting, ﬁnancial and operational features, which was one full year of their share of attendance fees, which they the case in 2016 for Isabelle Boccon-Gibod. must own personally. To calculate the number of shares, the The Board internal rules also stipulate that, if appointed, Directors following are assumed: attendance, for one ﬁnancial year, at all representing employees or employee shareholders shall receive meetings of the Board and of the special committee(s) of which appropriate training on the requirements of their role. the relevant director is a member; and using the average price of Legrand shares over the previous ﬁnancial year as the value Lastly, the four Central Works Council representatives who attend for one Legrand share. The minimum number of shares to be Company Board meetings received ﬁnancial and legal training in held personally and kept throughout the term of office is set at 2016. 500. The Company is informed of the number of shares held and includes this information in its annual report. W directors have a duty of loyalty and diligence. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 163 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company In this regard, they undertake to: W the rules for trading the Company’s shares and the preventive measures set up so that each employee may invest in the W apprise the Lead Director and the Board of any actual or Company’s shares without contravening market integrity rules; potential conﬂict of interest, and abstain from the related discussions and votes, W the penalties incurred in the event of violation of these rules. W avoid any personal involvement with businesses that are The Code also speciﬁes: competitors of the Company and its Group without having W the appointment of the Ethics Officer, which is the Group’s informed the Board of Directors and obtained its consent; Executive VP Legal Affairs; W directors are subject to a duty of conﬁdentiality concerning W the rules for preparing lists of insiders, which is done by the any unpublished information they obtain as a result of their Ethics Officer and service providers acting in the name and on position; behalf of the Company who have access to inside information W directors shall make sure they receive in time all documents and as part of their business relationships with the Company; information necessary for the performance of their duties. It is W the embargo periods during which the Company will not give their responsibility to ask the Chairman to supply all documents out any new information about its business or earnings to they consider necessary for their proper information; ﬁnancial analysts and investors; W directors who consider the information supplied inadequate W the role of the MAR Committee, which was set up when the may request additional information from the Chairman or the Company adopted an internal procedure for qualifying and Board of Directors; publishing inside information in 2016. This role consists in W directors are to have the broadest possible knowledge of the evaluating, on a case by case basis, whether or not information speciﬁc features of the Company, its businesses and the sector is privileged in nature and then qualifying and examining the it operates in; consequences should such information be disseminated. W directors are to comply with the provisions of the Company’s In accordance with this Code, individuals who have ﬁnancial and Code of Conduct with respect to trading and market activities. accounting information and as such holding information that, while not constituting inside information within the meaning Code of Conduct with respect to trading of the MAR criteria, is nevertheless sensitive and conﬁdential, and market activities are required to observe the blackout periods determined by the Company. As in the case of individuals with executive In 2006, the Group adopted a Code of Conduct concerning stock responsibilities who are subject to abstention obligations during market trading activity, which can be accessed on the Company’s blackout periods under the applicable regulations, such persons website at www.legrand.com. It was revised in the second half of are required, as a preventive measure, to refrain from carrying 2016 to take into account the new European rules resulting from out, either directly or indirectly, on their own behalf or on behalf EU Market Abuse Regulation no. 596/2014 (MAR), which entered of others, any transactions involving Legrand shares (i) during into force on July 3, 2016, and the AMF Position-recommendation the 30 calendar days preceding the date on which the annual, no. 2016-08: Guide to Ongoing Information and the Management half-yearly or quarterly ﬁnancial statements are made public of Inside Information. Since this Code was revised in 2016, the by means of a press release regarding the results concerned, position of Ethics Officer has been held by the Director of Legal including the date of the publication of this press release and Affairs. for the three trading days after the aforementioned ﬁnancial The purpose of this Code, adopted by the Board of Directors on statements have been published, and (ii) during any other period June 2, 2006 and the new version of which was presented at the deﬁned and communicated by the Ethics Officer. Board meeting of November 9, 2016, is to raise awareness among The Code has three categories of individuals: all Company employees regarding: W insiders, meaning individuals in possession of information W the legislative and statutory provisions in force concerning the whose privileged nature has been identiﬁed in respect of the MAR holding, disclosure and use of “inside information” concerning criteria by the MAR Committee as part of the implementation the Company which could apply to them since they may have of the internal procedure for qualifying and publishing inside access to such information by virtue of their positions or duties information and who were notiﬁed by the Ethics Officer of their for the Company; inclusion on the Company’s list of insiders. These individuals W the rules applicable to the holding of certain sensitive must comply with the rules applicable to the holding, disclosure information concerning the Company and in particular to and use of inside information and in particular the absolute conﬁdentiality obligations and compliance with the blackout prohibition of carrying out any transaction on the Company’s periods established by the Company; shares while such information has not yet been made public; 164 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company W individuals involved in preparing the Company’s ﬁnancial W approval of the consolidated and company ﬁnancial and accounting information, who are not included on the statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and Company’s list of insiders but are on the list of individuals the related reports, the consolidated quarterly ﬁnancial subject to blackout periods insofar as they hold ﬁnancial or statements to March 31, 2016, the half-yearly consolidated accounts-related information which, while not necessarily ﬁnancial statements and management report to June 30, constituting inside information with regard to the MAR criteria, 2016, and the consolidated quarterly ﬁnancial statements to is nevertheless sensitive and conﬁdential. These individuals September 30, 2016, are required to comply with the abstention obligations during W review and approval of press releases on the annual, halfthe blackout periods established by the Company as described yearly and quarterly consolidated ﬁnancial statements, above and to ensure that the information in their possession remains conﬁdential; W proposal for appropriation of earnings, W individuals discharging managerial responsibilities(1) who W choice of dividend payment method and consequences in are required to comply with abstention obligations during the terms of securities adjustment, blackout periods established by the Company as described W presentation of forecast ﬁnancial statements for 2016, above. These individuals, as well as those closely associated W approval of the 2016 budget; with them, furthermore have a duty to disclose to the AMF (French Financial Markets Authority) any transaction they W corporate Governance: have performed on Legrand shares within three business days W report on the work of the Lead Director, following the completion of said transaction(s). W report on the work of the Nominating and Governance Any person may seek the opinion of the MAR Committee before Committee, as set out in Section 6.1.3.3 below, performing a transaction on the Company’s shares by submitting a request to the Ethics Officer who will then call a meeting of the W qualiﬁcation of independent directors, MAR Committee for said purpose. The Chief Financial Officer may W review of the composition of the Board of Directors in view only give an advisory opinion: the decision on whether or not to of the reappointment of three directors and approval of the execute the transaction is the sole responsibility of the person candidacy of one director, who requested the opinion. W review of the composition of the committees, W deﬁnition of diversity targets for the Board of Directors’ R 6.1.1.3 WORK DONE BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2016 W membership, reappointment of the statutory auditors and deputy statutory 06 In 2016, the Board met six times. Directors’ attendance at Board auditors, meetings was satisfactory; the attendance rate in 2016 was over W assessment of the performance of the Board of Directors 86%. and its Committees (summary and proposals), According to the Board’s internal rules, some of its deliberations W changes to the Board of Directors’ internal rules primarily may be prepared by specialized committees, enabling the Board due to: to discharge its duties under optimum conditions. The work of these committees is the subject of a detailed report at the – the introduction of the ability of the Lead Director to attend meeting of the Board of Directors. meetings of the Committees of which she is not a member, In 2016, the meeting attendance rate for the various specialized – the addition of an extra duty for the Lead Director consisting committees was 100%. Information on these specialized of being a point of contact, as necessary, with Legrand committees can be found in Section 6.1.3 of the Company’s shareholders, subject to the prior consent of the Board of Registration Document. Directors on the principle and terms of such contact, – the integration of the principle according to which Topics covered in 2016 by the Board of Directors any material transactions involving an amount above The Board met to consider the following agenda: €100 million that fall outside the strategy announced by the Company must receive prior approval from the Board W company results: of Directors, W report on the Audit Committee’s work, as set out in Section 6.1.3.3 below, (1) Individuals with executive responsibilities is taken to mean (i) senior executives, i.e. members of the Company’s Board of Directors, including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, and (ii) high-level managers who, without being members of the Board of Directors, have regular access to inside information about the Company either directly or indirectly, and have the power to make management decisions regarding the Company’s strategy and future development. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 165 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company – the revision of some of the provisions of the Afep-Medef W presentations on strategic issues, especially during the Code of Corporate Governance in 2016, Board of Directors’ Annual Seminar; W review of regulated agreements and commitments, W risk management: W update of the Code of Conduct with respect to trading W review of the risk management procedures; and market activities; W preparation for the annual General Meeting of Shareholders W compensation: and Special Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016: W report on the work of the Compensation Committee, as set W convening of the annual Combined Ordinary and out in Section 6.1.3.3 below, Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (setting of the agenda and approval of proposed resolutions), W executive officer compensation: – examination of compensation for 2015, W production of reports for the General Meeting of Shareholders; – determination of the principles of compensation for 2016, W other: W long-term proﬁt-sharing plans/performance share plans W recognition of the capital increase following the exercise of and stock option plans: options, – implementation of the delegations approved under the thirteenth resolution of the Combined Ordinary and W annual review of the policy regarding gender equality and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, equal pay, 2016, W regulatory changes: presentation of the new European – approval of the rules of the 2016 performance share plan for system on market abuse and review of the Code of Conduct Group employees and the executive officer, and long-term with respect to trading and market activities. proﬁt-sharing premiums, Board of Directors’ Annual Seminar – approval of individual performance share awards to Group employees and the executive officer, Every year Legrand’s directors and the representatives of the Central Works Council who attend meetings of the Board of – deﬁnition of the number of shares that the executive officer Directors attend a seminar organized in France or abroad. The shall be obligated to hold in bearer form under the Board’s seminar is a recurring event. Program content is such performance share award until such time as he steps down that directors have the opportunity to better understand their role from his duties, on the Board and improve their knowledge of the Group and its W attendance fees: structure, products and markets. – amounts distributed in 2015, In 2016, the seminar was held in the United States, at the headquarters of Legrand North America in West Hartford. It was – determination of the budget for reimbursement of directors’ an opportunity to present directors with an in-depth view of the expenses; special nature of the U.S. market and how Legrand is organized in W ﬁnancial management of the Company: that country. The seminar featured: W annual renewal of authorizations for reﬁnancing, W a tour of the Customer Experience Center; W renewal of annual powers granted to the Chairman for W a tour of the West Harford production site; and guarantees, endorsements and security, W presentations moderated by Legrand North America’s W delegation of powers to the Board of Directors to be proposed operational executives, thus giving directors the opportunity to the General Meeting of Shareholders, to meet the teams and freely discuss the Group’s strategic W implementation of the delegations approved under objectives. the eleventh resolution of the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, Areas of improvement for the operation 2016; of the Board of Directors further to the annual evaluation of the Board of Directors W company strategy and growth: Since 2007, a formal assessment of the operations of the Board W report on the work of the Strategy and Social Responsibility of Directors and its specialized committees has been performed Committee, as set out in Section 6.1.3.3 below, every year in order to measure, as required by the Code of W approval of acquisition projects involving an amount in Corporate Governance, (i) the methods of operation of the Board excess of €100 million, and its specialized committees, (ii) the quality of preparation W regular progress reports on proposed acquisition projects, and debate regarding signiﬁcant matters, and (iii) the effective contribution of each director to the work of the Board, and his/her W annual update of the Company’s shareholder structure, involvement in deliberations. In compliance with its internal rules, summary of roadshows and investor day, 166 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company the Board discusses its operating procedures at least once a year allows directors and representatives from the Central Works and includes a report on this in the Company’s annual report. Council to get together with Group executives and senior managers working in cross-disciplinary roles on a formal as In 2016, a formal assessment was made in-house of the Board of well as an informal basis. In 2016, the Board invited the Group Directors and specialized committees, under the supervision of Executive VP Human Resources to give a presentation on the Lead Director, based on a questionnaire issued to directors, the Group’s talent management policy. Organizing the Board who also had the option of scheduling individual meetings with Seminar in different countries – Italy in 2015, the United States the Lead Director. The questionnaire was divided into two parts: in 2016 and France planned for 2017 – is also a response to one for assessing the overall operations of the Board and its the suggestion of organizing presentations targeting a speciﬁc committees, and one for assessing the individual contribution of activity or country; each director. The results of the questionnaire were analyzed by the Nominating and Governance Committee and later discussed W more in-depth knowledge of the Group, in particular by at a Board meeting. organizing a presentation devoted to the strategy of the To summarize, the self-assessment conducted in 2016 in respect Company’s seven SBUs and instituting a regular progress of 2015 revealed that all directors were satisﬁed, particularly report on any changes in the Company’s shareholder with regard to (i) the Board’s composition, especially the diversity structure: in response, it was decided to organize a presentation of proﬁles and its size; (ii) the quality of the information provided on this subject at the 2017 Seminar. With regard to changes in by Legrand to help the directors carry out their duties, the the Company’s shareholder structure, the Board introduced a quality of the support documentation, and the transparency of formal annual report on this at its meeting of March 15, 2016. discussions; (iii) the Board’s operating procedures, especially This process will now be done on an annual basis; in terms of holding meetings and quality of discussions; (iv) the W more detailed information to be communicated regarding operating procedures of the specialized committees, particularly budget construction, the Group’s ﬁnancial performance and evident in the quality of the reports made to the Board; (v) the planned acquisitions: responses were made in this regard content of the annual meeting of non-executive directors, which in 2016. was especially appreciated by the directors, and (vi) the directors’ Directors are conscious that the Board and its specialized website, which overall was deemed satisfactory. More generally, committees must achieve and maintain the right balance of directors highlighted the fact that their suggestions were taken members. Please see the section entitled “Diversity in the into account. composition of the Board of Directors” in the Registration Document In 2016, suggestions made by directors and responses from for more details of their conclusions on this matter. management regarding the process of continually improving the Board’s operating procedures were as follows: At its meeting of November 9, 2016, the Board approved the process for assessing its work based on a three-year cycle 06 W more discussion with operational staff and the opportunity alternating between an external assessment and internal to organize presentations to the Board targeting a speciﬁc assessments which may, depending on the year, include an activity or country: to this end, the Board’s annual Seminar assessment of directors’ individual contributions. 6.1.2 Lead Director In 2013, the directors amended the Board’s internal rules to make of powers in matters of governance (in this respect, readers are the appointment of a Lead Director compulsory in the event that invited to refer also to Section 6.1.4.2). the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by The Lead Director is appointed from the independent directors the same person. This is consistent with the recommendations (in accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance) who of the Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers (French Financial Markets have been members of the Board for at least one year, following Authority) in its 2013 report on corporate governance and a nomination from the Nominating and Governance Committee. executive compensation. The term of office of the Lead Director may not exceed his or The appointment of a Lead Director is one of the guarantees her term as Director. The Lead Director may be reelected based established within the Company to ensure an appropriate balance on a recommendation from the Nominating and Governance Committee. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 167 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company Accordingly, the Board of Directors has appointed Ms. Angeles The Lead Director ensures that Directors have the possibility of Garcia-Poveda as ﬁrst Lead Director until the expiration of meeting and hearing senior management and Statutory Auditors, her term of office as Director. Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda, an as provided for by the Board’s internal rules. independent Director, is a member of the Strategy and Social More generally, the Lead Director ensures that Directors receive Responsibility Committee. Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda, an the information needed to discharge their duties in the best independent director, is a member of the Strategy and Social possible conditions, as provided for in the Board’s internal rules. Responsibility Committee and Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee and Compensation Committee. The Lead Director reports to the Board of Directors once a year. Duties of the Lead Director Lead Director’s report for 2016 The Lead Director’s chief responsibility is to ensure the proper In 2016, Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda called and chaired an annual operation of the Company’s governance bodies. In this respect, meeting of the Company’s non-executive directors, without he/she is tasked with: the executive officer being present. During this meeting, the non-executive directors discussed various topics, including W preventing and managing conﬂicts of interest: the Lead Director the assessment of the performance of the Chairman and Chief is responsible for preventing conﬂicts of interest by raising Executive Officer, his compensation, and the succession plans. awareness on the existence of factors likely to lead to such During the annual assessment of the operations of the Board and situations. The Lead Director is informed by each director of its specialized committees, the Lead Director asked the directors any actual or potential conﬂict of interest, and reports on these to give their opinion on the quality of the organization of the to the Board, as she does on any actual or potential conﬂict of annual meeting of non-executive directors (scheduling, duration, interest which she may detect independently; and so on) and their assessment of the quality and content of W supervising the periodic assessment of the Board’s operations the discussions that took place at the meeting. The directors and its specialized committees; expressed their full satisfaction regarding the above points. W chairing and moderating an annual meeting of non-executive In 2016, the Lead Director also presided over the Board’s directors without executive or internal directors being present, deliberations regarding the assessment of the Chairman and during which, in particular, meeting the performance of senior Chief Executive Officer’s performance and decision regarding his executives is assessed and future management prospects pay; these discussions took place without the Chairman and Chief given consideration; Executive Officer being present. W reporting to the Chairman of the Board of Directors on the The Lead Director addressed the General Meeting of conclusions of the annual meeting of non-executive directors; Shareholders on May 27, 2016, when she gave a presentation on and corporate governance, including details of the functioning of the administrative and management bodies (Executive Committee, W if necessary, acting as point of contact for Legrand shareholders, Board of Directors and specialized committees), reported on their subject to consent by the Board of Directors on the principle respective activities, submitted nominations for the appointment and terms of such contact. or reelection of Directors, and ﬁnally reported on her own work in 2015. Resources of the Lead Director At the request of the Lead Director, the assessment of the Board’s In the exercise of his/her duties, the Lead Director may: operating procedures and those of its specialized committees W submit a proposal, as appropriate, to the Chairman of the Board regarding 2015 took place early in 2016 under the supervision of of Directors to include additional items on the agenda of Board the Lead Director. Directors were given a questionnaire which, for meetings; the ﬁrst time, contained a section designed to produce a qualitative assessment of a director’s individual contribution. This new W ask the Chairman to call a meeting of the Board of Directors or directly convene a meeting of the Board of Directors on a feature was introduced to comply with AMF recommendations given agenda whose importance or urgency justiﬁes holding an and ensure alignment with best market practice. The results extraordinary meeting of the Board; of this assessment are reported in the above section, “Areas of improvement for the operation of the Board of Directors further W chair meetings of the Board of Directors in the event of the to the annual evaluation of the Board of Directors.” Chairman being unable to attend; and On February 10, 2016, the directors decided to supplement the W if appropriate, attend meetings of committees of which he/she tasks and remit of the Lead Director, who is now a potential point is not a member. 168 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company of contact for Legrand shareholders, subject to the prior consent In accordance with the Board of Directors’ internal rules, the of the Board of Directors regarding the principle and terms Lead Director presented a report of her activities in 2016 to the of such contact, and has the right to attend any meeting of the Board of Directors at its meeting on March 15, 2017. The Board of committees of which she is not a member, if deemed necessary. Directors approved the Lead Director’s activity report, at the time expressing its full satisfaction with the work she had done. 6.1.3 Board of Directors’ specialized committees In order to facilitate the work of the Board of Directors and the The same procedure shall apply for the extension of the term of preparation of deliberations, there are specialized committees office. that examine topics within their respective areas of competence The Nominating and Governance Committee may have a and submit opinions, proposals and recommendations to the maximum of ﬁve members. The Nominating and Governance Board of Directors. Committee should not include any executive officers. The There are four permanent specialized committees: Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee is chosen by the committee from among its independent members. W the Audit Committee; The Compensation Committee may have a maximum of W the Nominating and Governance Committee; ﬁve members. The Nominating and Governance Committee W the Compensation Committee; and should not include any executive officers. The Chairman of the W the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee. Compensation Committee is chosen by the committee members from its independent members, on the recommendation of the In addition to the permanent committees, the Board of Directors Nominating and Governance Committee. may at any time set up one or several ad hoc committees, which may or may not be temporary, and determine their membership With respect to the Strategy and Social Responsibility and operation as it sees ﬁt. Committee, it has a maximum of ﬁve members. The Chairman of the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee is chosen Finally, the Chief Executive Officer may create an executive committee and determine its membership and scope. by the members of said committee from its membership, on the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee. 06 R 6.1.3.1 COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ SPECIALIZED Current composition of the specialized committees Subject to the approval of the General Meeting of Shareholders COMMITTEES called for May 31, 2017 to reappoint Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia as a Company board member, it should be noted that with regard Principles to the composition of the specialized committees, effective 2016: The Board of Directors appoints committee members on the W two specialized committees, the Audit Committee and the recommendation of the Nominating and Governance Committee, Compensation Committee, are composed entirely of women; for a term set by the Board of Directors and which may not exceed their term of office as Directors. The Board of Directors W the four specialized committees are chaired by women. may remove committee members after consultation with the The Audit Committee Nominating and Governance Committee. The Audit Committee is made up of three members appointed The Audit Committee may have a maximum of ﬁve members. by the Board of Directors, all three of whom are independent: Members of the Audit Committee may not be executive officers Ms. Christel Bories, Ms. Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier, and Ms. Isabelle or managers holding salaried positions with the Company or any Boccon-Gibod. Their biographies and education can be found in of its subsidiaries. Members of the Audit Committee should be pages 321, 324 and 320 of the Company’s Registration Document. competent in ﬁnance or accounting. The Audit Committee is chaired by Ms. Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier The Chairman of the Audit Committee is chosen by the members who has ﬁnancial and accounting qualiﬁcations and makes an of the Audit Committee at the proposal of the Nominating and additional contribution through her understanding of ﬁnancial Governance Committee, from among the independent members equilibrium and risk assessment. Ms. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod has of the committee. The appointment of the Audit Committee’s expertise in ﬁnance and accounting as well as prior experience as Chairman should be specially reviewed by the Board of Directors. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 169 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company a member of the audit committee of a listed company; Ms. Christel areas of corporate governance. Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia has Bories has experience of senior management in industrial groups the skills and abilities to assess the non-ﬁnancial aspects of the which is also invaluable to the committee. Group’s performance (initiatives for growth, marketing, and so on). With all Audit Committee members being independent, With all of its members being independent Directors, the membership of the Audit Committee is compliant with the Code Compensation Committee is compliant with the Code of Corporate of Corporate Governance which recommends that two-thirds of Governance, which recommends that the majority of the members be Independent Directors. Committee’s members be independent Directors. As indicated in the section “Directorship due for renewal in The Nominating and Governance Committee 2017” of this Registration Document, Ms. Annalisa Loustau The Nominating and Governance Committee has three members Elia has expressed her intention to seek reappointment as a appointed by the Board of Directors, including two independent director. The Nominating and Governance Committee supported Directors: Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda (independent Director), the reappointment of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia as director, Mr. Olivier Bazil, and Mr. Thierry de la Tour d’Artaise (independent especially since she has the skills and abilities to assess the Director). Their biographies and education can be found in pages non-ﬁnancial aspects of the Group’s performance. Since Ms. 321, 320 and 323 of the Company’s Registration Document. Loustau Elia has been conﬁrmed as an independent director by The Nominating and Governance Committee is chaired by Ms. the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Nominating Angeles Garcia-Poveda, who has expertise both in executive and Governance Committee, her appointment will not impact the recruitment and corporate governance. Mr. Olivier Bazil has independence ratios mentioned above. extensive knowledge of the Legrand Group, in which he has spent his entire career. As such, Mr. Bazil knows the business, The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee the industry and its issues, which is particularly useful to the The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee is made up of Committee’s work. Mr. Thierry de la Tour d’Artaise has served and four members appointed by the Board of Directors: Ms. Christel continues to serve on various boards of major groups. He also Bories and Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda, who are both independent has a particular interest in the subject of corporate governance Directors, Mr. Olivier Bazil, and Mr. Gilles Schnepp. Their and has practical experience of governance issues. biographies and education can be found in pages 319, 320 and With two independent Directors out of three members, the 321 of the Company’s Registration Document. composition of the Nominating and Governance Committee The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee is chaired by is compliant with the Code of Corporate Governance, which Ms. Christel Bories, whose senior management experience within recommends that the majority of the Committee’s members be industrial groups and as a strategy consultant is invaluable to independent Directors. the committee. Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda brings to the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee a wealth of prior experience The Compensation Committee gained from her time with the Boston Consulting Group and The Compensation Committee has three members appointed now as an executive at Spencer Stuart. Finally, Mr. Olivier Bazil by the Board of Directors, all of whom are independent: and Mr. Gilles Schnepp offer the Committee the beneﬁt of their Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda, Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia and in-depth knowledge of the Group and its businesses. Ms. Eliane Rouyer-Chevalier (independent directors). Their biographies and education can be found in pages 321 and 324 of the Company’s Registration Document. R 6.1.3.2 FUNCTIONING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ SPECIALIZED The Compensation Committee is chaired by Ms. Angeles GarciaCOMMITTEES Poveda who, thanks to her HR experience and current position as manager at Spencer Stuart, brings to the committee her Each Committee is responsible for setting its own annual meeting extensive knowledge of corporate remuneration structures schedule, taking into account the schedules for Board meetings and methodology. Ms. Eliane Rouyer-Chevalier has expertise and General Meetings of Shareholders. in Corporate Social Responsibility, a major component of the Each Committee meets as often as required to consider issues compensation of the Group’s executives. The Compensation falling within its purview; meetings are convened by the Chairman Committee beneﬁts from her experience and sensitivity in the of the Committee or by half of its members. The Chairman of 170 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company the Board of Directors may call a Committee meeting if he/she Assignment of the Audit Committee considers that a Committee has not met as often as required The Committee assists the Board of Directors in the conduct by the rules speciﬁc to each Committee, as detailed below. The of its mission as regards the adoption of annual company Chairman may also convene a Committee meeting if he/she and consolidated ﬁnancial statements and the preparation of deems it necessary for the Committee to give an opinion or a information for shareholders and the market. It monitors the recommendation to the Board on a speciﬁc topic. efficiency of internal controls and risk management. It is also The Chairman of each Committee establishes the Committee charged with monitoring issues relating to the establishment and meeting agenda and gives notice of Committee meetings to control of accounting and ﬁnancial information, as well as legally Committee members within a period of time sufficient to allow required veriﬁcation of accounts. each Committee member to prepare for the meeting. The notice The Audit Committee must conduct regular hearings of the must contain the Committee meeting agenda and all information Statutory Auditors, including hearings without the presence of and documentation useful to the examination of agenda items. executive officers. Committee meetings may be held at the Company’s registered Should the Audit Committee call upon outside experts, it must office or at any other location. Committees are provided with ensure that they have the requisite skills and independence. secretarial assistance by the persons appointed by or in agreement with the Committee Chairman. W As regards internal control procedures and risk management, the Board of Directors entrusts the Audit Committee with the In performing its duties, each Committee may contact the following tasks: Company’s principal executives after having informed the Chairman of the Board of Directors of its intention to do so and W to ensure that the internal control and risk management subject to brieﬁng the Board of Directors on the exchange with systems exist; such principal executives. W to assess the efficiency and quality of the Group’s internal The committees make sure that the quality of reports to the control procedures, in order to ensure that these contribute Board of Directors enables the latter to be fully informed, thereby to the production of annual separate and consolidated facilitating its deliberations. ﬁnancial statements providing a true and fair presentation of the Company and its Group, and complying with applicable accounting standards; The Audit Committee W to give its opinion on the organization of the internal audit The powers and operation of the Audit Committee are outlined in the Board’s internal rules, the provisions of which are restated below. The duties and operating rules of the Company’s Audit W and risk control departments; to monitor the implementation and effectiveness of risk 06 Committee were determined on the basis of the conclusions of management procedures; the AMF working party on audit committees in July 2010. W to ensure that corrective actions are implemented in the To take account of the new European statutory audit framework event of signiﬁcant weaknesses or ﬂaws; resulting from European Regulation 537/2014/EU of April 16, W to examine the risks and the material off-balance-sheet 2014, and European Directive 2014/56/EU of the same date, commitments, to assess the importance of any failures or transposed into French law by order number 2016-315 of weaknesses which are communicated to it and if necessary, March 17, 2016, a temporary mechanism has been introduced to to inform the Board of Directors; pre-approve services other than account certiﬁcation. This means that services which, by their nature, pose no problem in terms of W to ensure the relevance and quality of the Company’s the independence of the statutory auditors and whose amount ﬁnancial communications; does not exceed €100,000 are considered as pre-approved by W to hear the person in charge of Corporate Social the Audit Committee and do not require formal Audit Committee Responsibility (CSR) on (i) the risks, especially for the CSR approval. This temporary mechanism relies on an internal control risk mapping, (ii) the conclusions of the independent thirdsystem that veriﬁes that these services comply with the law. party body in charge of reviewing extra-ﬁnancial data, and The Audit Committee section of the Board’s internal rules will be (iii) the methods of construction and analysis of the roadmap. reviewed to clarify the pre-approval rules for services other than In this framework, the Audit Committee may decide, with account certiﬁcation when the ﬁnal guidelines on approving such approval from the Board of Directors, to entrust special services are published. assignments to one of its members, it being speciﬁed that in accordance with the provisions of article 3.5 of the internal rules of the Board of Directors, undertaking such tasks may give rise to additional fees; W to receive the internal control and risk management report drawn up in compliance with article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code and to make any observations as it sees ﬁt. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 171 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company The Statutory Auditors must be heard at the Audit Committee W by ensuring that the Statutory Auditors fulﬁll their duty in meetings dealing with evaluation of the process for preparing performing the statutory audit of the annual separate and ﬁnancial information and review of the ﬁnancial statements in consolidated ﬁnancial statements; order to report on the execution of their tasks and the conclusions W by overseeing the selection procedure for the Statutory of their work. Auditors and examining the issues relating to the appointment, The Audit Committee is informed of the main ﬁndings of renewal or removal of the Company’s Statutory Auditors. the Statutory Auditors and the internal audit as regards the The Audit Committee shall suggest to the Board of Directors effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems. a procedure for the selection of the Statutory Auditors. In It hears the views of the persons responsible for the internal the event of a call for tenders, the Audit Committee must audit and for risk control. It is informed about the internal supervise it and approve the speciﬁcations and the choice audit program and receives internal audit reports or a regular of ﬁrms consulted, making sure that the selection results in summary of those reports. the appointment of the “best bidder”. The Audit Committee also submits a recommendation to the Board of Directors W As regards the review of the ﬁnancial statements, the Board of regarding the Statutory Auditors proposed for appointment Directors entrusts the Audit Committee with the following tasks: by the General Meeting of Shareholders; W to carry out a prior examination of the draft separate and W by receiving each year from the Statutory Auditors: (i) their consolidated ﬁnancial statements, whether annual, halfdeclaration of independence; (ii) the amount of the fees yearly or quarterly, in order to ascertain the conditions in paid to the network of Statutory Auditors by the companies which they were prepared and to ensure the relevance and controlled by the Company or the entity controlling the consistency of the accounting rules and principles adopted; Company, in respect of services not directly related to W to examine the method and scope of consolidation applied in the Statutory Auditors’ engagement, and (iii) information the ﬁnancial statements; concerning the services supplied in respect of the tasks W to ensure the proper accounting treatment of signiﬁcant directly related to the Statutory Auditors’ engagement; transactions at Group level; W by examining the amount and details of the remuneration W to regularly gather information on the ﬁnancial position, paid by the Group to the Statutory Auditors’ ﬁrm and to the cash ﬂow and signiﬁcant commitments of the Company and network to which the ﬁrm may belong. In this respect, the the Group. Audit Committee is to obtain details of the fees paid by the Company and its Group to the Statutory Auditors’ ﬁrm and The review of ﬁnancial statements by the Audit Committee is to the network to which it belongs, and to ensure that the accompanied by a presentation from the Statutory Auditors amount of such fees, or the fraction they represent of the stressing the essential points not only of the results of the total revenues of the Statutory Auditors’ ﬁrm and of the statutory audit, in particular the adjustments resulting from the ﬁrm’s network, are not such that the independence of the audit and signiﬁcant weaknesses in internal control identiﬁed Statutory Auditors might be affected. during the auditor’s works, but also of the accounting methods chosen. At the time of review of the ﬁnancial statements, the Audit Meetings of the Audit Committee Committee may consider the major transactions in connection The Audit Committee meets as often as may be necessary. The with which conﬂicts of interest could have arisen. Audit Committee must regularly report on its activities to the The review of ﬁnancial statements by the Audit Committee Board of Directors, and in any event, at the time of the approval should also be accompanied by a presentation from management of the annual and six-monthly ﬁnancial statements. The reports describing the Company’s risk exposures, its material offof the Audit Committee to the Board of Directors aim at keeping balance-sheet commitments, as well as the chosen accounting the Board of Directors fully informed in order to facilitate its options. deliberations. More generally, for the review of ﬁnancial statements, the Audit A meeting of the Audit Committee is validly held if at least half of Committee may question, without the presence of the company its members are present. Decisions are taken by simple majority, officers or, more generally, of Directors playing an active role with its Chairman having a casting vote. in the Company, any person who, in one capacity or another, The Audit Committee meets 48 hours before the review of the participates in preparing or auditing the ﬁnancial statements ﬁnancial statements by the Board of Directors, it being speciﬁed (ﬁnance department, internal audit department and statutory that this period of time may be reduced from time to time, with auditors). the agreement of the Chairman and of the members of the Audit W As regards external control procedures, the Audit Committee’s Committee. main task is to ensure the proper examination of the annual Meetings of the Audit Committee may take place by telephone or separate and consolidated ﬁnancial statements by the video-conference. Statutory Auditors and the independence and objectivity of these auditors: 172 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company The Nominating and Governance Committee Meetings of the Nominating and Governance Committee The powers and operation of the Nominating and Governance The Nominating and Governance Committee meets at least Committee are outlined in the Board’s internal rules, the twice a year and, if necessary, prior to approval of the agenda provisions of which are restated below. of the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders, to review the draft resolutions which are to be submitted to it and which fall Assignment of the Nominating and Governance Committee within the Committee’s remit. The Nominating and Governance The Nominating and Governance Committee is tasked with: Committee must report on its activities to the Board of Directors. W considering and submitting proposals to the Board of Directors The Nominating and Governance Committee may only properly on the various options for the organization of the Company’s meet if at least half of its members are present. Decisions are management and supervision; taken by simple majority, with its Chairman having a casting vote. W considering and submitting proposals to the Board of Directors Meetings of the Nominating and Governance Committee may be for appointment to the positions of Director, Lead Director, Chief held by teleconference or videoconference. Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chairman of the Board and members and Chairs of the specialized committees; to The Compensation Committee that end, it must assess the levels of expertise and experience The powers and operation of the Compensation Committee are required, deﬁne assignments and assess the amount of time outlined in the Board’s internal rules, the provisions of which are needed to carry them out; restated below. W submitting proposals to the Board of Directors on the nature of the responsibilities of the specialized committees; Assignment of the Compensation Committee W considering proposals submitted by interested parties, As regards the compensation of company officers, the including management and shareholders; Compensation Committee is required to: W preparing, under the supervision of the Lead Director, the W assess all forms of compensation, including beneﬁts in procedures for the periodic self-evaluation of the Board of kind, insurance and pension entitlements received from any Directors and governance bodies, as well as their evaluation by company in the Group and any affiliated company; an external consultant, if any; W examine and submit proposals to the Board of Directors W preparing a management succession plan so as to be able to regarding all components of compensation and beneﬁts of recommend options to the Board of Directors, particularly in the event of an unforeseen vacancy; company officers in particular as regards the calculation of the variable portions of compensation. To this end, it deﬁnes the rules for calculating this variable portion, taking into account 06 W examining each year, on a case-by-case basis, the position of the need for consistency with annual assessments of the each Director in relation to the independence criteria; performance of company officers and the Group’s medium-term W examining changes in the corporate governance rules, strategy; it also oversees proper application of these rules; monitoring the implementation of those rules by the Company W ensure that the Company fulﬁlls its obligations regarding (including the implementation of the Code of Corporate the transparency of compensation. In particular, it prepares Governance adopted by the Company), assisting the Board of an annual activity report which is submitted for the approval Directors in adapting the Company’s corporate governance, of the Board for inclusion in the Company’s annual report, and submitting proposals in this regard; and ensures that all legally required information concerning W reviewing the Chairman’s draft corporate governance report compensation is fully and clearly set forth in the annual report. and any other document required by applicable law and As regards Directors’ compensation, the Compensation regulations in the matter and, more generally, ensuring that Committee: the proper information on corporate governance is given to shareholders. W issues a recommendation on the overall amount and conditions of Directors’ fees in accordance with the provisions of the The Chief Executive Officer is involved in particular with the Board’s internal rules; Committee’s work on the selection of new Directors and succession planning for company officers. W makes recommendations concerning any compensation awarded to Directors entrusted with special assignments. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 173 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company As regards stock-option plans for the purchase of existing Responsibility Committee may hear from Company managers shares or subscription to new shares, and all other share-based on the assumptions used to draw up or amend these budgets; compensation or compensation indexed on or otherwise linked to W assess consistency between Group strategy and the CSR shares, the Compensation Committee is tasked with: principles espoused by the Group and ensure that management W examining the general policy governing eligibility for such conducts an analysis of internal or external factors related to schemes and submitting any proposals it may have on this to CSR stakes (risks and opportunities) which have an inﬂuence the Board of Directors; on the Group, such as regulations, third-party expectations and sectorial comparisons; W reviewing the information on this subject provided in the annual report and to the General Meeting of Shareholders; W evaluate the adequacy of the resources available to the Group for the successful implementation of its CSR strategy, in view of W submitting proposals to the Board of Directors regarding the the objectives pursued; choice to be made from among the options permitted by law and explaining the reasons for such choice, together with its W take cognizance of the main ﬁndings and observations of the consequences; independent third-party body, assess them and examine the related management action plans. W preparing the Board’s decisions on such schemes. In addition, the Committee must be informed of the compensation Meetings of the Strategy and Social Responsibility policy of key senior executives other than executive officers. In Committee this respect, the committee’s work shall involve the executive The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee meets as often officer. as may be necessary and in all events at least twice a year. The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee must report on its Meetings of the Compensation Committee activities to the Board of Directors. The Compensation Committee meets at least twice a year and, if The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee may only necessary, prior to approval of the agenda of the Annual General properly meet if at least half of its members are present. Meeting of Shareholders, to review the draft resolutions which Decisions are taken by simple majority, with its Chairman having are to be submitted to it and which fall within the Committee’s a casting vote. remit. The Compensation Committee must report on its activities to the Board of Directors. Meetings of the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee may be held by telephone or videoconference. The Compensation Committee may only properly meet if at least half of its members are present. Decisions are taken by simple Services offered by external consultants majority, with its Chairman having a casting vote. The Committees of the Board may request external technical Meetings of the Compensation Committee may take place by studies relating to matters within their competence, at the teleconference or videoconference. Company’s expense, after informing the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Board of Directors itself, and subject to reporting The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee back to the Board thereon. The powers and operation of the Strategy and Social In the event of Committees having recourse to services offered Responsibility Committee are outlined in the Board’s internal by external consultants, the Committees must ensure that the rules, the provisions of which are restated below. consultant concerned is objective. Assignment of the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee The mission of the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee R 6.1.3.3 WORK DONE BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ SPECIALIZED is to assist the Board of Directors in its decisions on strategic COMMITTEES IN 2016 directions for the Company’s business, and in particular to: Work done by the Audit Committee in 2016 W examine all signiﬁcant projects concerning the Group’s development and strategic positioning, in particular projects The Audit Committee met four times in 2016. Attendance for the for strategic partnerships and signiﬁcant investments or year was 100%. The Committee essentially met to consider the divestments; following agenda: W examine draft annual budgets submitted to the Board W company results: of Directors. For this purpose, the Strategy and Social 174 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company W review of the annual separate and consolidated ﬁnancial Work done by the Nominating and Governance statements to December 31, 2015 and the management Committee in 2016 report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, review of Nominating and Governance Committee met three times in the quarterly consolidated ﬁnancial statements to March 31, 2016. Attendance for the year was 100%. The Committee met to 2016, the half-yearly consolidated ﬁnancial statements to consider, in particular, the following matters: June 30, 2016 together with the half-yearly ﬁnancial report, and the quarterly consolidated ﬁnancial statements to W membership of the Board of Directors and its Committees: September 30, 2016, W procedure for the review of the status of independent W review of the Statutory Auditors’ work at December 31, 2015 directors, and June 30, 2016, W annual review of the diversity policy of the Board of Directors, W review of key ﬁgures in the press release on the annual, W recommendation to reappoint Ms. Christel Bories, Ms. quarterly and half-yearly consolidated ﬁnancial statements Angeles Garcia-Poveda and Mr. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise, and assumptions on the outlook for 2016, as well as accounting options, W recommendation to appoint Ms. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod to replace Mr. Gérard Lamarche, W assess how dividends will be distributed and the consequences of such distribution on resolutions for the W recommendation concerning the membership of the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016; Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee, Nominating and Governance Committee, Compensation Committee, and W risk management and internal control: Audit Committee; review of the Group’s risk management policy and W W Group succession plans: procedures, its internal audit and control procedures, and the related organization and resources, W annual review of existing succession plans, whether in the long term or in the case of unforeseen events, concerning W review of the report by the chairman of the Board of Directors the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and all key on corporate governance, risk management and internal management positions within the Group; control, W other: W examination of risk mapping; W review of the section of the Chairman’s report on corporate W auditing and relations with external auditors: governance, risk management and internal control, and of W internal audit: 2015 summary and review of the 2016 audit plan, W certain sections of the Registration Document, proposal of amendments to the internal rules of the Board 06 W quarterly update on internal audits and fraud (review of audit of Directors, summaries and fraud report), W report on the assessment of the operation of the Board of W review of the assignments of Statutory Auditors, including Directors and its committees conducted internally, including additional assignments, a qualitative assessment of the individual contribution of each director. W review of the budget for auditors’ fees, W consider with a view to renewing the appointments of an Work done by the Compensation Committee in 2016 Auditor and of a Deputy Statutory Auditor; The Compensation Committee met three times in 2016. W other: Attendance for the year was 100%. The Committee met to W presentation of the Registration Document, consider, in particular, the following matters: W Monitoring regulatory changes: statutory audit reform and W compensation: European market abuse regulation (MAR). W compensation of the executive officer: Pursuant to the internal rules of the Company’s Board of – review of the overall compensation structure, Directors, the Audit Committee, as part of its duties, met the Chief Financial Officer, the heads of internal audit and risk control, – calculation of compensation for 2015, and the person responsible for Corporate Social Responsibility – determination of the principles of compensation for 2016, (CSR) matters. The Audit Committee also met with Statutory Auditors in the presence of and without the Company’s general management, in line with the recommendations of the Code of Corporate Governance. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 175 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company W long-term incentive plans/performance action plan: W review of acquisitions made since 2004, – setting the 2016 performance share plan, W examination of proposed acquisitions, – approval of individual award of performance shares to the W deﬁnition of strategic orientations for future acquisitions; Executive Officer and the Group’s key managers, W budget: – determination of number of shares that the Executive Officer W presentation of the 2016 draft budget, is required to retain in registered form until the termination of his duties as concerns performance shares, W approval of the 2016 budget; W attendance fees: W corporate Social Responsibility: – amounts distributed in 2015, W review of CSR indices in which the Company is listed, and competitive analysis, – proposal of an overall annual reimbursement budget. W review of Legrand’s CSR strategy and assessment of the 2014-2018 roadmap, Work done by the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee in 2016 W review of priorities for 2016, The Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee met ﬁve times W report on philanthropic initiatives. in 2016. Attendance for the year was 100%. The Committee met to consider, in particular, the following matters: W acquisitions: 6.1.4 General Management of the Company R 6.1.4.1 IDENTITY OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE COMPANY be changed at any time. The Board of Directors must discuss whether to keep the current system whenever the mandate of the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer Mr. Gilles Schnepp is responsible for the general management of comes to an end. the Company. He is also Chairman of the Board of Directors. He was appointed on March 17, 2006. When the Chairman of the Board of Directors is responsible for the general management of the Company, the following provisions Please see page 319 of this Registration Document for information relating to the Chief Executive Officer apply. about Mr. Gilles Schnepp. The Chief Executive Officer must always be a physical person aged under 65 at the time of appointment. When the Chief Executive R 6.1.4.2 FUNCTIONING OF THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY Officer has reached this age limit, he/she is considered as having resigned from the role after the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders called to approve the ﬁnancial statements from the Choice relating to general management of the Company past year and held in the same year the age limit is reached. The Chief Executive Officer can always be reelected. The Chief Principles Executive Officer may or may not be a Director. If the Chief The Board of Directors shall decide, under the conditions set out Executive Officer is not a Director, he/she attends meetings of in the Company’s Articles of Association, whether the General the Board of Directors in an advisory capacity, except if the Board management is performed by the Chairman of the Board of decides otherwise by a simple majority. If the Chief Executive Directors or by another individual bearing the title of Chief Officer is temporarily unable to perform his/her functions, the Executive Officer. Board of Directors may appoint a Director to act as Chief Executive Shareholders and third parties are informed of this decision in Officer. The Board of Directors shall determine the compensation accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Responsibility and duration of the role of Chief Executive Officer. If the Chief for the exercise of the powers of general management can Executive Officer is a Director, this term of office may not extend beyond his/her term of office as a Director. 176 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company On the proposal of the Chief Executive Officer, the Board of W the appointment of Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda as Lead Director Directors may appoint a maximum of ﬁve Chief Operating Officers by the Board on November 6, 2013, and her reappointment in this to assist him/her. The Chief Operating Officer must always be a role by the General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016; physical person. They may or may not be a Director. In agreement W setting up an annual meeting of Non-Executive Directors, with the Chief Executive Officer, the Board shall determine the chaired by the Lead Director; scope and duration of the Chief Operating Officer’s powers, which may not exceed the powers of the Chief Executive Officer W existence of a signiﬁcant proportion of independent Directors as well as the duration of the Chief Executive Officer’s role. The on the Board of Directors (70%) and its specialized committees Board shall determine the compensation of each Chief Operating (100% on the Audit Committee, and Compensation Committee, Officer. If the Chief Executive Officer leaves, the Chief Operating two-thirds on the Nominating and Governance Committee, and Officer shall remain in office unless a new Chief Executive 50% on the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee); Officer is appointed (unless a decision to the contrary is taken W chairing of specialized committees by independent directors: by the Board). Chief Operating Officers can be re-appointed and as a reminder, the Audit Committee is chaired by Ms. Eliane are subject to the same age limits as the Chief Executive Officer. Rouyer-Chevalier (independent Director), the Nominating and Governance Committee and the Compensation Committee are Choice of the combination of the offices of Chairman chaired by Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda (independent Director), and Chief Executive Officer by the Board of Directors and the Strategy and Social Responsibility Committee is chaired According to the Code of Corporate Governance, “corporations by Ms. Christel Bories (independent Director). with boards of directors have a choice between separation and The internal rules of the Board of Directors comprise various combination of the offices of chairman and chief executive officer. other safeguards, including the possibility for the specialized The law does not favor either formula and allows the Board of committees to call upon the help of outside experts; the possibility Directors to choose between these two forms of exercise of executive granted to the Audit Committee to question the Statutory Auditors management”. without Executive Officers being present, or to question any At its meeting of March 17, 2006, the Board of Directors decided persons contributing to the production or control of Company to combine the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ﬁnancial statements, without Executive Officers or any Directors both to be assumed by Mr. Gilles Schnepp. This form of governance holding active positions within the Company being present (for was chosen in the context of the Company’s initial public offering more details, see Section 6.1.3.2 of the Company’s Registration and has proved efficient ever since. The combination of duties Document). corresponds both to Company tradition and to the reality of Legrand’s operating model. The Board conﬁrmed this decision when it reelected Gilles Schnepp on May 27, 2014. Plurality of mandates Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is also 06 The combination of duties takes effect in a context of respect for a member of the Board of Directors of another French listed the respective prerogatives of the various governance bodies, company. The number of Directorships held by Mr. Gilles Schnepp and a certain number of safeguards have been established within therefore complies with the Code of Corporate Governance the Company to guarantee the proper operation of the Board of recommendation that executive Officers should hold no more Directors and its specialized committees, to ensure a balance of than two other Directorships in listed companies outside the powers within the Company and, generally, to prevent or resolve Group, including outside France. any situations of conﬂict of interest. Moreover, as mentioned in Section 6.1.1.1 above, the Company’s In this regard, it should be noted that: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is required to inform the Chairman of the Nominating and Governance Committee of any W pursuant to the internal rules of the Board of Directors, the intention to take on another Directorship, and must ask the Board mandatory appointment of a Lead Director whose duties, for its opinion before accepting any new Directorship in a listed means and prerogatives (particularly the power to directly call company, in line with the provisions of the Board’s internal rules. a meeting of the Board of Directors to consider a particular agenda, the importance or urgent nature of which would justify that an extraordinary meeting of the Board of Directors be held or be shareholders’ point of contact) are described in R 6.1.4.3 POWERS OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Section 6.1.2 of the Company’s Registration Document if the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held by Subject to internal limitations which are non-binding to third the same person; parties and which the Board of Directors may ﬁx to its powers in the internal rules, the Chief Executive Officer is vested with the widest powers to act under any circumstances on behalf of REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 177 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Administration and management of the company the Company. These powers are to be exercised within the limits resulting from the Company’s corporate purpose and the powers R 6.1.4.4 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Executive Committee is made up of a tightly-knit ten-member expressly reserved by law to General Meetings of Shareholders and to the Board of Directors. team which has varied and complementary expertise. All members of the Committee understand the core business of the The internal rules of the Board of Directors list the important Group and its stakes. This Committee gathers together countries’ decisions and transactions requiring prior approval from General Management but also operational departments’ support the Board of Directors. These decisions and transactions are of these countries. Several nationalities are represented on the presented in Section 6.1.1.2 of the Company’s Registration Committee (French, American and Italian), reﬂecting Legrand’s Document. history and business breakdown. As of the ﬁling date of this Registration document, the Executive Committee is made up of the following: Name Functions Date of joining the Group Mr. Gilles Schnepp Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 1989 Ms. Karine Alquier-Caro Executive VP Purchasing 2001 Ms. Bénédicte Bahier Executive VP Legal Affairs 2007 Mr. Antoine Burel Chief Financial Officer 1993 Mr. Benoît Coquart Executive VP France 1997 Mr. Xavier Couturier Executive VP Human Resources 1988 Mr. Paolo Perino Chairman of Bticino and Executive VP of Strategy and Development 1989 Mr. John Selldorff President and Chief Executive Officer of Legrand North & Central America 2002 Mr. Patrice Soudan Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Executive VP Group Operations 1990 Mr. Frédéric Xerri Executive VP Export 1993 6.1.5 Service agreements As of the date of this Registration Document and as far as the Company is aware, no existing services contract has been entered into between members of the administrative or management bodies and the Company or any of its subsidiaries that provides for the award of beneﬁts. 178 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers 6.2 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF COMPANY OFFICERS 6.2.1 Principles and criteria for the calculation, breakdown and allocation of ﬁxed, variable and exceptional elements of compensation and any beneﬁts in kind due to company officers in respect of their office The principles and criteria for the calculation, breakdown and W performance conditions should be stringent and correspond allocation of ﬁxed, variable and exceptional components of overall to the key factors of proﬁtable and sustainable growth of the compensation and any beneﬁts attributable to company officer Company, and more generally be aligned with the Company’s in respect of its office are established by the Board of Directors shortand long-term objectives; on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, which W in this context, an increasing proportion of variable compensation helped to produce this chapter. is based on achieving the Company’s commitments towards These principles and criteria are presented in the report required corporate social responsibility (CSR); under article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, which W lastly, the compensation policy should be simple and is subject to shareholder approval. This report can be found in transparent. Appendix 4 of this Registration Document. A Overall structure of compensation attributable R 6.2.1.1 COMPENSATION POLICY CONCERNING THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for the 2017 ﬁnancial year OFFICER IN RESPECT OF HIS OFFICE FOR The total compensation due to the Chairman and Chief Executive THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR Officer in respect of his office, is balanced and consistent with the The compensation policy for the Chairman and Chief Executive Company’s strategy and comprises three components: Officer has been determined by the Board of Directors on the basis of the principles mentioned in the Code of Corporate Governance: W ﬁxed compensation; W annual variable compensation linked to ﬁnancial and non06 comprehensiveness, balance between the compensation ﬁnancial performance during the year; components, comparability, consistency, understandability of the rules and proportionnality. W long-term compensation linked to ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance over the long term. Depending on the year, this The Board of Directors ensures that the compensation policy can take the form of either one of the following ﬁnancial has been tailored to the Company’s strategy and situation instruments: and is designed to boost the Company’s performance and competitiveness in the medium and long term. W performance shares allocated to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer as long-term compensation for the 2017 The underlying principles for the compensation of the Chairman ﬁnancial year (the same ﬁnancial instrument as that chosen and Chief Executive Officer in 2017 remain essentially unchanged for long-term compensation in 2015 and 2016), from 2016, with proﬁtable growth and long-term value creation for stakeholders being central to the Company’s compensation W future performance units paid in cash (the “Future policy and practices: Performance Units”), allocated to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer as long-term compensation for the 2013 W total compensation should be balanced and consistent with the and 2014 ﬁnancial years under Future Performance Unit Company’s strategy; plans (the “2013 Future Performance Unit Plan” and “2014 W the compensation structure (and performance-based Future Performance Unit Plan”, respectively). variable compensation in particular) should be aligned with shareholders’ interests and contribute to the Company’s proﬁtable and sustainable growth; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 179 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Amount salary /Weighting as % Component Strategic purpose Operation of ﬁxed Retaining and motivating Determined by the Board of Directors upon a €625,000 high-performing senior recommendation from the Compensation Committee, Unchanged since 2011 executives according to: FIXED COMPENSATION W level of responsibility; W experience; W market practice; W where applicable, any changes in role and responsibilities. Encouraging the The Board of Directors upon a recommendation from Minimum value: 0% of ﬁxed achievement of the the Compensation Committee, according to strategic compensation Company’s ﬁnancial and priorities, determines the following: Target value: 80% of ﬁxed extra-ﬁnancial annual W annual objectives; compensation targets W type and weighting of performance criteria; Maximum value: 120% of ﬁxed W relative share of quantiﬁable and qualitative portions. compensation Quantifiable portion (predominant): structured so as 3/4 of annual variable compensation to take account of the year’s growth rate, according i.e. 60% of ﬁxed compensation as the ANNUAL VARIABLE to the attainment of speciﬁc, ambitious performance target value criteria: W ﬁnancial criteria (adjusted operating margin excluding acquisitions, organic growth, external growth); W extra-ﬁnancial criteria (Legrand’s inclusion in benchmark CSR indices). Qualitative portion: structured so as to take account 1/4 of annual variable compensation of the year’s initiatives deployed to support long-term i.e. 20% of ﬁxed compensation as the growth target value Incentivising long-term The Board of Directors upon a recommendation Target value: 120% of ﬁxed ﬁnancial and extrafrom the Compensation Committee, determines the compensation, converted into shares ﬁnancial performance and following: Variation in a range between 0% rewarding outperformance W annual objectives; and 150% of the number of shares W type and weighting of future performance criteria. initially allocated according to achievement of future performance conditions Determined after application of a service condition and 1/3 for each criterion LONG-TERM 3 demanding performance criteria tested over three years: W external ﬁnancial criterion (EBITDA margin average gap over 3 years in Legrand’s favour between Legrand and the MSCI average); W internal ﬁnancial criterion (3-year average in normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales); W extra-ﬁnancial criterion (3-year average achievement rate of the Group’s CSR Roadmap priorities) . 180 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers At its meeting on March 15, 2017, the Board of Directors, on the the initial allocation based on the level of achievement of two recommendation of the Compensation Committee, conﬁrmed ﬁnancial criteria (internal and external) and one non-ﬁnancial the following principles regarding the compensation policy for criterion measured on the basis of a three-year average and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2017 detailed on pages 183-184. ﬁnancial year: W a ﬁxed annual compensation of €625,000, unchanged since B – Determination of the calculation principles, 2011. This amount was set by the Board of Directors on criteria and weightings applicable to the annual March 3, 2011, after considering levels of responsibility and variable and long-term elements of compensation experience as well as market practices, determined by way of attributable to the Chairman and Chief Executive a survey conducted by a ﬁrm of independent consultants. It was Officer for the 2017 ﬁnancial year agreed that this amount would remain unchanged for three ﬁnancial years (2011, 2012 and 2013), as recommended by the Annual variable compensation paid to the Executive Officer Code of Corporate Governance. In respect of 2014, 2015, 2016 for the 2017 ﬁnancial year and 2017 ﬁnancial years, the Chairman and Chief Executive The principles for the calculation of variable compensation Officer requested that no increases be applied to his ﬁxed for the 2017 ﬁnancial year, including applicable criteria and annual compensation and that it remains at €625,000; their weighting shown in the table below, were determined by the Board of Directors at its meeting on March 15, 2017 on the W annual variable compensation, the target value of which was recommendation of the Compensation Committee. set at 80% of ﬁxed compensation (3/4 quantiﬁable and 1/4 qualitative), potentially ranging between 0% and 120% of ﬁxed The following changes may be noted in relation to the 2016 compensation, depending on the level of achievement of the ﬁnancial year (i) replacement of the economic income criterion predeﬁned quantiﬁable and qualitative criteria presented on by adjusted operating margin criterion; (ii) increased weighting pages 181-182; of organic and external growth criteria. While in no way altering the degree of strigency of the criteria, these changes enable W long-term compensation in the form of performance share complete consistency between the quantiﬁable targets and the plans, the target value of which has been set at 120% of the Company’s publicly released objectives. ﬁxed compensation and which will be converted into shares. The number of shares can range between 0% and 150% of Choice of performance criteria for annual variable compensation and target-setting method Performance criterion Reason for criterion Target-setting method 06 Adjusted operating margin Alignment with published annual targets Equivalence between i) the annual targets for adjusted before acquisitions operating margin before acquisitions, as disclosed to the market, and ii) the targets to be achieved by the Executive Officer. Organic growth Alignment with published annual targets Equivalence between i) the annual organic growth targets, as a percentage of sales as disclosed to the market, and ii) the targets to be achieved by the Executive Officer. Acquisitions Consistent with the Group’s growth model Legrand’s inclusion Introduce a non-ﬁnancial criterion depending The target ﬁgure is the number of international CSR indices in CSR benchmark indices on the rating of third parties, which should be that included Legrand in 2016, plus another criterion(1). consistent with the Company’s sustainable development targets (1) This CSR criterion was introduced into annual variable compensation in 2016. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 181 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Criteria and targets for annual variable compensation for 2017 Min. Target Max. Operating margin 2017 adjusted As a % of ﬁxed 0% 32% 48% operating margin compensation (at 2016 scope) Indicator value 19.3% 19.7% 20.1% Organic growth Organic revenue growth as As a % of ﬁxed 0% 12% 18% Quantiﬁable portion: a % of 2017 revenue compensation ¾ of variable total Indicator value 0% 1.5% 3% Acquisitions 2017 revenue growth by As a % of ﬁxed 0% 8% 12% 60% of ﬁxed scope of consolidation compensation compensation effect Indicator value 0% 5% 10% (as a target) Corporate Social Inclusion of Legrand in As a % of ﬁxed 0% 8% 12% Responsibility (CSR) benchmark CSR indices compensation 7 12 14 QUANTIFIABLE TOTAL 0% 60% 90% Revenue growth Increased market share, new products, sales policies, 0% 8% 12% Qualitative portion: access to new markets, partnerships (including outside France), expansion in the new economies ¼ of variable total Acquisition strategy Adherence to set priorities, emphasis on multiples, 0% 8% 12% 20% of ﬁxed quality of docking process for acquisitions already made compensation General criteria Risk management, labour issues, successions plans 0% 4% 6% (as a target) QUALITATIVE TOTAL 0% 20% 30% VARIABLE TOTAL AS A % OF FIXED COMPENSATION 0% 80% 120% Executive Officer’s long-term compensation for 2017 the end of the 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders, is 120% of For 2017, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s long-term the target amount of ﬁxed compensation. compensation consists of a performance share plan (the “2017 The number of performance shares that will be ﬁnally allocated Performance Share Plan”), authorized by the Board of Directors to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer at the end of a period at its meeting on March 15, 2017 on the recommendation of the of just over four years will be between 0% and 150% of the initial Compensation Committee. This allocation, which will be converted allocation, after enforcement of a service condition and several into shares when the Board of Directors meets on May 31, 2017 at performance criteria. 182 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Choice of performance criteria for long-term variable compensation and target-setting method Performance criterion Reason for criterion Target-setting method EBITDA margin Relevant and rigorous proﬁtability Since the average gap, in Legrand’s favor, between Legrand’s as a % of sales benchmark indicator EBITDA margin and the MSCI average over a three-year period constitutes outperformance, the targets set are designed to maintain the relative outperformance recorded in the year before the plan’s allocation. Normalized free cash ﬂow Key indicator, central to Legrand’s A high level of normalized free cash ﬂow is essential to ﬁnance as a % of sales self-ﬁnanced model Legrand’s two growth drivers: innovation and external growth. It also allows a dividend to be paid. The targets set are designed to maintain a high level of normalized free cash ﬂow. They are particularly consistent with the annual target for adjusted operating margin before acquisitions, as disclosed to the market. Level of achievement Legrand’s CSR roadmap is central to its business The targets set are intended to maintain a high level of of CSR roadmap priorities model. It seeks to ensure proﬁtable and achievement of the CSR roadmap. sustainable growth for all stakeholders. Type of performance Description of Weighting of criteria performance criteria performance criteria “External” ﬁnancial Comparison between the arithmetic mean of Legrand consolidated EBITDA margin as 1/3 performance criterion shown in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the three years preceding the day of expiry of the three-year vesting period and the arithmetic mean of EBITDA margins achieved by companies forming part of the MSCI World Capital Goods index over the same period. “Internal” ﬁnancial Arithmetic mean of levels of normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales, as shown 1/3 performance criterion in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the three years preceding the day of expiry of Extra-ﬁnancial performance criterion the three-year vesting period, compared to the target level. Arithmetic mean over a three-year period of the average annual rates of achievement of the Group’s CSR Roadmap priorities. 1/3 06 * Note that the Group has identiﬁed a change in accounting standard (IFRS 16) which is likely to affect EBITDA and free cash ﬂow in 2019. For more information, please refer to the section on IFRS 16, “Leases”, which can be found in Chapter 8, note 1, section 1.2.1.4 on page 218 of the Registration Document. Since it was conﬁrmed that the change would distort the assessment of performance, the Board of Directors reserves the right to update these two criteria, particularly for the 2019 performance measurement of the 2017 plan. In accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance, such a change would be made public and would need to maintain the alignment of shareholders’ and beneﬁciaries’ interests. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 183 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Performance conditions are tested over a three-year period and the number of performance shares ﬁnally granted to beneﬁciaries will be calculated according to the following method: “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% EBITDA margin average gap over three years in Legrand’s favour between Equal to or more than Legrand and the MSCI average 3.5(2) points or less 7.8(2) points 10(2) points “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% Equal to or more than 3-year average in normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales 8.6% or less 12% 13.7% Non-ﬁnancial performance criterion Between 70% Between 90% Between 97% Capped at Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 90% and 97% and 150% 150% 3-year average achievement rate of the Group’s CSR Between 70% Between 90% Between 125% Above Roadmap priorities Below 70% and 90% and 125% and 213% 213% (1) Linear calculation of pay-out for any result between the limits indicated above. (2) The values of these limits are indicated in the table above are given as examples only, to illustrate the calculation method applicable to the criterion. For the purposes of the allocation of performance shares which will take place on May 31, 2017, the values referred to will be the following: W mid-point : Gap between Legrand and the MSCI average seen in 2016 (data available in June 2017); W lower limit: mid-point minus 4.3 points; W upper limit: Mid-point plus 2.2 points. R C OTHER ELEMENTS OF COMPENSATION Contract of employment of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Attendance fees In accordance with the Code of Corporate Governance, the The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer receives no Chairman and Chief Executive Officer does not have an compensation in the form of attendance fees or other fees in employment contract with the Company. respect of the office he holds in the Company or in other Group companies. Incentive schemes and Proﬁt sharing The Company has for many years implemented a system of proﬁt Extraordinary compensation sharing beyond the legal requirements for the beneﬁt of all of its No extraordinary compensation is envisaged. own employees and those of its main French subsidiaries. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has not beneﬁted from this. Commitments referred to in article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code Other non-monetary compensation components (company car, pension plan, supplementary Pension plans health plan and more) There is no commitment in this regard. At the date of registration of this Registration Document, the Group does not fund any beneﬁt. Termination beneﬁts The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer does not beneﬁt from Signing bonuses any commitment concerning components of compensation, No signing bonus is planned in the 2017 ﬁnancial year to indemnities or other beneﬁts that might be due as a result of the compensate any new Executive Officer for the loss of previous termination of his office or assignment to a different position, or beneﬁts. subsequently (“golden parachutes”). 184 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers 6.2.2 Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers for 2016 R 6.2.2.1 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS OF THE EXECUTIVE OFFICER FOR 2016 The summary tables of all of the components of due and paid compensation for the 2015 and 2016 ﬁnancial years to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are presented below. Table 1 – Summary of compensation, stock options and shares allocated to the Executive Officer 2015 2016 Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Compensation due in respect of the ﬁnancial year (see Table 2 below for details) (in euros) 1,160,000 1,160,000 Valuation of the stock-options awarded during the ﬁnancial year (see Table 4 below for details) Number of stock-options (in euros) Valuation of performance shares awarded during the ﬁnancial year (see Table 6 below for details) Number of shares (1) (2) Value (in euros) 640,910 659,375 Valuation of long-term variable compensation awarded during the ﬁnancial year Number of shares Value (in euros) TOTAL 1,800,910 1,819,375 06 (1) Number of performance shares allocated in 2015, as determined by an independent expert pursuant to IFRS 2, subject to the future performance conditions detailed in the section on “Outstanding performance share plans” contained in the Company’s Registration Document. (2) Number of performance shares allocated in 2016, as determined by an independent expert pursuant to IFRS 2, subject to the future performance conditions detailed in the section on “Outstanding performance share plans” contained in the Company’s Registration Document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 185 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Table 2 – Summary table of compensation for the Executive Officer 2015 2016 (in euros) Amounts due Amounts paid Amounts due Amounts paid Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Fixed compensation 625,000 625,000 625,000 625,000 (1) (2) Annual variable compensation 535,000 535,000 535,000 535,000 Long-term incentive(3) Extraordinary compensation Attendance fees (4) Fringe beneﬁts 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 1,160,000 1,160,000 1,160,000 1,160,000 (1) Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s variable compensation for 2015 is €535,000 because Mr. Schnepp, on its own initiative, chose to waive a portion of his variable compensation for 2015, maintaining it at the 2014 level of €535,000. Mr. Schnepp’s variable compensation was determined by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, and was to be €630,625, corresponding to the achievement of all quantiﬁable and qualitative targets at 84.1% of the maximum, or 126.1% of the target. Details of the calculations are given in the section entitled “Annual bonus paid to the Executive Officer” on page 183 of the 2015 Registration Document ﬁled with the French Financial Markets Authority under no. D.16-0232. (2) Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s variable compensation for the 2016 and the one for the 2015 ﬁnancial year are identical because Mr. Gilles Schnepp, on his own initiative, waived a portion of his variable compensation for 2016, maintaining it at the 2015 level of €535,000. Mr. Schnepp’s variable compensation was determined by the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, and was to be €640,000, corresponding to the achievement of all quantiﬁable and qualitative targets at 85.3% of the maximum, or 128% of the target. Details of the calculations are given below in the section entitled “Annual bonus paid to the Executive Officer”, on page 187 of the Registration Document. (3) There was no grant during the last ﬁnancial year. Regarding the 2013 Performance Shares Plan, note that the vesting period expired on March 7, 2016 and that the rate of achievement of the future performance conditions was 100.2% achieved. Mr. Schnepp will receive an amount corresponding to these Future Performance Shares at the end of a further two-year period. The amount is not yet known because it is index-linked to the closing price of Legrand’s shares on the NYSE Euronext Paris market on the day of the beneﬁciary’s decision to exercise the Future Performance Units. Shareholders will vote on this amount once it is known. The performance conditions for the 2014 Future Performance Unit Plan will not be assessed until March 6, 2017. However, some of the data required for the assessment of the performance conditions will only be available from June 2017. The Future Performance Units are also subject to a further two-year lock-in period during which their unit value will be determined on the basis of the average daily closing price of Legrand’s shares on the NYSE Euronext Paris market. Shareholders will vote on this amount once it is known. (4) At the date of registration of this Registration Document, the Group does not fund any beneﬁt. 186 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Fixed compensation paid to the Executive Officer It is hereby speciﬁed that, in compliance with the Code of Corporate Governance, the Board deliberated on Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s For the 2016 ﬁnancial year, the ﬁxed compensation paid to compensation without the presence of the latter. Mr. Gilles Schnepp was €625,000, unchanged from the 2011 ﬁnancial year. Note that on March 17, 2016, the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, decided to Annual variable compensation paid replace the quantiﬁable CSR criterion linked to the average level to the Executive Officer of achievement of the 21 priorities of the 2014-2028 roadmap with another CSR criterion linked to Legrand’s inclusion in CSR The annual variable compensation bonus paid to Mr. Gilles indices, as veriﬁed each year. This change is justiﬁed by the need Schnepp for the 2016 ﬁnancial year was determined by the Board to have different CSR criteria for annual variable and long-term of Directors on March 15, 2017, based on the recommendation compensation, since the latter measures the average level of of the Compensation Committee and after applying the criteria achievement of the priorities of the Group’s CSR roadmap as part set at the beginning of 2016 by the Compensation Committee and of the implementation of long-term incentive plans. However, the subsequently approved by the Board of Directors as presented in weighting of quantiﬁable and qualitative criteria established for the following chart. 2015 has been maintained. Min. Target Max. Actual Economic income Adjusted operating income As a % of ﬁxed 0% 40% 60% 50.0% less the cost of capital compensation employed in € millions Indicator value 649 749 849 799 Organic growth Organic revenue growth As a % of ﬁxed 0% 8% 12% 11.6% of net sales as a % of 2016 sales compensation Quantiﬁable portion: Indicator value -2% 0% 2% 1.8% ¾ of variable total 60% of ﬁxed Acquisitions 2016 revenue growth As a % of ﬁxed compensation (as a target) by scope of consolidation effect compensation Indicator value 0% 0% 4% 5% 6% 10% 3.8% 4.7% 06 Corporate Social Inclusion of Legrand As a % of ﬁxed Responsibility (CSR) in CSR benchmark indices compensation 0% 8% 12% 8.0% Indicator value 5 11 14 11 QUANTITATIVE TOTAL 0% 60% 90% 73.4% Revenue growth Increased market share, new products, sales policies, access to new markets, 0% 8% 12% 12% partnerships (including outside France), Qualitative portion: expansion in the new economies ¼ of variable total 20% of ﬁxed Acquisition strategy Adherence to set priorities, emphasis compensation on multiples, quality of docking process 0% 8% 12% 11% (as a target) for acquisitions already made General criteria Risk management, labour issues, succession plans 0% 4% 6% 6% QUALITATIVE TOTAL 0% 20% 30% 29% VARIABLE TOTAL AS A % OF FIXED COMPENSATION 0% 80% 120% 102.4% Therefore, for the 2016 ﬁnancial year, the quantiﬁable and own initiative, Mr. Gilles Schnepp waived a portion of his variable qualitative targets were met at 85.3% of the maximum, i.e. compensation for 2016 in order to maintain it at the 2015 level 128% of the target. As a result, Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s variable of €535,000. compensation for 2016 amounted to €640,000. However, on his REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 187 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers The principles governing the determination of the variable portion W 4% of ﬁxed compensation (target value) linked to other of Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s annual compensation, as calculated in the general criteria, particularly risk management, labour above table, are as follows: relations concerns and succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and key functions of the Group a) the target value of the quantiﬁable portion is set at 60% of with an emergency and mediumand long-term component. ﬁxed compensation, with a possible variation of between 0% and 90% of said ﬁxed compensation. The 2016 achievement of this quantiﬁable portion totaled 73.4% of ﬁxed compensation, Long-term compensation determined on the basis of the following criteria: Future Performance Units W up to 40% of ﬁxed compensation (target value) based on In 2016, no grant was made in respect of the previous ﬁnancial criteria linked to the achievement of a certain level of year. economic income (40% of ﬁxed compensation for economic income of €749 million, with a variation of between 0% and Options for the subscription or purchase of shares 60% of ﬁxed compensation for economic income of between €649 million and €849 million), In 2016, no options to purchase or subscribe to shares have been allocated. W up to 8% of ﬁxed compensation (target value) based on criteria linked to organic growth in revenue compared with Performance shares the annual organic growth targets announced to the market As concerns the allocation of performance shares in 2016, at the beginning of 2016, with the target of this portion of Mr. Gilles Schnepp was allocated performance shares subject the bonus being set at 0% (with a variation of between 0% to the future performance conditions detailed in the section and 12% of ﬁxed compensation for organic growth between “Outstanding performance share plans” on page 190 of this -2.0% and +2.0%), Registration Document. Their value was determined by an W up to 4% of ﬁxed compensation (target value) based on independent expert pursuant to IFRS 2 and stood at €659,375. criteria linked to 2016 revenue growth from acquisitions, with The vesting period of the performance shares allocated in the target of this portion of the bonus being set at 5% (with 2016 will end on June 17, 2020. On that date, performance and a variation of between 0% and 6% of ﬁxed compensation for attendance conditions will be veriﬁed, bearing in mind that with revenue growth from acquisitions of between 0% and 10%), respect to attendance, the following rules are applicable to Mr. W up to 8% of ﬁxed compensation (target value) based on Gilles Schnepp: criteria linked to Legrand’s inclusion in CSR benchmark W in the event that Mr. Gilles Schnepp is dismissed, his contract indices, with the target being set at 11 CSR indices (with a is not renewed, or he resigns or retires during the vesting variation of between 0% and 12% of ﬁxed compensation for period, in line with the recommendations of the French Legrand’s inclusion in 5 to 14 CSR indices); Financial Markets Authority and Code of Corporate Governance, b) the target value of the quantiﬁable portion was set at 20% of he will not be granted the shares initially allocated by the ﬁxed compensation, with a possible variation of between 0% Board of Directors, unless doing so is justiﬁed by exceptional and 30% of said ﬁxed compensation. The 2016 achievement circumstances explained by the Board of Directors and made of this qualitative portion totaled 29% of ﬁxed compensation, public; the Committee deeming that in view of its assessment of the W in the event of death during the vesting period, the beneﬁciary’s criteria below, the efforts undertaken in these areas had been heirs may request that ownership of all the shares the Board particularly sustained. This achievement was determined on of Directors initially allocated to the deceased beneﬁciary be the basis of the following criteria: transferred to them; W 8% of the ﬁxed compensation (target value) based on revenue W in the event that the beneﬁciary becomes permanently growth: increased market share, new products, sales disabled, within the meaning of French law or that of the policies, access to new markets, partnerships (including beneﬁciary’s country of residence, in accordance with the outside France), expansion in the new economies, provisions of French law, he or she may ask that ownership of W 8% of ﬁxed compensation (target value) linked to the the shares the Board of Directors initially allocated to him or external growth policy: adherence to set priorities, emphasis her be immediately transferred without waiting for the vesting on multiples paid relative to those of the market and to those period to expire. paid for peers under the same market and geographical Mr. Gilles Schnepp, on his own initiative, waived a portion of conditions, emphasis on any dilutive effects of acquisitions the shares allocated during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. (for further on the Group’s performance, and also the consolidation/ information, please refer to Table 6, “Performance shares freely development of acquisitions already made, allocated by the General Meeting of Shareholders during the 188 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers ﬁnancial year to the Executive Officer by the Company and by No discount was applied at the time of their implementation. any Group company”, on page 189 of the Registration Document). In addition, the Company has not implemented any hedging instruments for options or performance shares. Mr. Gilles Table 4 – Options for the subscription or purchase Schnepp has formally undertaken to refrain from using any of shares awarded by the Company and by any hedging instruments for the options and/or performance shares Group company to the Executive Officer during allocated to him. To the Company’s knowledge, no hedging the ﬁnancial year instruments for options or performance shares have been implemented. The Company or any other Group company did not grant any options for the subscription or purchase of shares to the Executive The Company is in compliance with the rules on awarding Officer during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. options and performance shares deﬁned in the Code of Corporate Governance. Outstanding stock option plans Stock option plans General principles Since the March 4, 2010 Plan, no options to purchase or subscribe Stock option and performance share plans implemented by the to shares have been allocated. Company in respect of previous ﬁnancial years are outlined in sections 7.2 and 7.3 of the Company’s Registration Document. Table 5 – Options for the subscription or purchase of shares exercised by the Executive Officer during the ﬁnancial year Number of options Executive Officer Date of plan exercised during the year Exercise price* 2010 plan Gilles Schnepp (03/04/2010) 21.57 * As stated in section 7.2 of the Registration Document, the number and exercise price of stock options was adjusted on May 27, 2016, under the conditions of article L. 228-99 of the Commercial Code, to take into account the impact of this transaction on the interests of stock option beneﬁciaries, considering the terms and conditions of dividend payment decided by the Company’s Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. 06 Table 6 – Performance shares freely awarded by the General Meeting of Shareholders during the ﬁnancial year to the Executive Officer by the Company and by any Group company Valuation of the shares according Number of shares to the method used allocated for consolidated Acquisition Availability Performance Executive Officer Date of plan during the year ﬁnancial statements date date conditions For a description of the applicable performance conditions, see page 190 of 2016 plan this Registration Gilles Schnepp (05/27/2016) 15,181* €659,375 06/17/2020 06/17/2020 Document. * Mr. Gilles Schnepp, on his own initiative, waived a portion of the shares allocated during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 189 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Outstanding performance share plans On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the The number of performance shares that will be ﬁnally allocated Board of Directors, at its meetings of May 29, 2015 and May 27, to Mr. Gilles Schnepp will vary between 0% and 150% of the 2016, approved the implementation of the performance share plan number of shares initially allocated, subject to his continued (the “2015 Performance Share Plan” and the “2016 Performance employment and various performance criteria as described in Share Plan”, respectively) to which Mr. Gilles Schnepp is entitled. the tables below. “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: EBITDA margin, average gap over 3 years in Legrand’s 4 points or less* 8.3 points 10.5 points or more favour between Legrand and the MSCI average 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 3.5 points or less* 7.8 points 10.0 points or more “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 3-year average in normalized free cash ﬂow 9.4% or less 12.8% 14.5% or more as a percentage of sales 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 8.8% or less 12.2% Equal to or more than 13.9% Non-ﬁnancial performance criterion (applicable to the 2016 plan) Applicable to the Executive Officer Between 70% Between 90% Between 97% Capped at Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 90% and 97% and 150% 150% 3-year average achievement rate of the Group’s CSR Between 70% Between 90% Between 125% Above Roadmap priorities Below 70% and 90% and 125% and 213% 213% (1) Linear calculation of pay-out rate for any result between the limits indicated above. Table 7 – Performance shares freely awarded that have become available during the ﬁnancial year for the Executive Officer Number of shares that have Executive Officer Date of plan become available during the year Acquisitions terms Gilles Schnepp N/A None N/A 190 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Table 10 – Summary of multi-annual variable compensation allocated to the Executive Officer for previous ﬁnancial years by the Company and by any Group company (in euros) 2013 2014 2013 Future Performance 2014 Future Performance Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Unit Plan Unit Plan Date of plan March 6, 2013 March 5, 2014 Min. Target 0% 0% Max. 100% 100% (as a % of ﬁxed compensation) 150% 150% IFRS valuation (in euros) before index-linking to share price and application of performance conditions 605,221 600,508 For a description of the applicable performance conditions, Performance conditions see page 192 of this Registration Document. Date on which presence and performance conditions are veriﬁed March 6, 2016 March 6, 2017 Level of achievement of future performance conditions 100.2% Known in June 2017 For a description of the method used to index the value of Future Method used to index the value of Future Performance Units Performance Units to the share price during the two-year lock-in to the share price period, please refer to page 193 of this Registration Document. Outstanding performance unit plans For 2013 and 2014, the long-term variable compensation The target value of these plans was set at 100% of ﬁxed approved by the Board of Directors and presented in the table above consists of Future Performance Unit Plans. compensation (for 2013 and 2014) and could vary between 0% and 150% (maximum) of said ﬁxed compensation, depending on 06 the achievement of external and internal performance conditions, On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the and indexing to the share price. Board of Directors, at its meetings of March 6, 2013 and March 5, 2014, decided to implement Future Performance Unit plans (the “2013 Performance Unit Plan” and the “2014 Performance Unit Plan” respectively) to which Mr. Gilles Schnepp is entitled. Overview of the Performance Unit Plans in practice The 2013 and 2014 Performance Unit Plans are contingent on attendance and performance conditions. Details are provided in the chart below: STAGE 1 3-year vesting STAGE 2 STAGE 3 2-year lock-in STAGE 4 period period Allocation by the Board Review of the performance Application of an additional Payment of Future of Directors of an initial conditions attached to 2-year lock-in period Performance Units number of Future Future Performance Units During this period, After taking into account Performance Units based on the Group’s future no payment will be made the indexing of the Future achievements over This number is theoretical in respect of the Future Performance Units to the next 3 years since it corresponds to Performance Units Legrand’s share price during the target achievement rate Subject to compliance with the lock-in period of the future performance an employment condition, conditions attached to the ﬁnal number of vested the Future Performance Units Future Performance Units is calculated according to achievement of performance conditions REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 191 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Nature of the performance conditions attached to the Future Performance Units, tested after a three-year vesting period from the date of the ﬁrst award The applicable performance conditions, which cover all For each Future Performance Unit plan, on the recommendations performance units, are identical to those attached to the of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors Performance Shares, as described in the section “Executive determines the target “external” and “internal” performance Officer’s long-term compensation for 2017” on page 183 of conditions, which will be tested over a three-year period. The the Registration Document. This excludes the non-ﬁnancial target level is set to ensure that the performance conditions are performance condition introduced in 2016, which is linked to the rigorous. After the three-year vesting period, the performance average level of achievement of the priorities of the Group’s CSR conditions will be tested and the number of Future Performance roadmap over three years. Units ﬁnally granted to beneﬁciaries will be calculated according to the following method: 2013 Performance Unit Plan “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 145% Actual: 90.8% Average gap in Legrand’s favour between Legrand and the MSCI average over a three-year period 4 points or less 8.3 points 12 points or more 8.0 points “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 145% Actual: 109.6% Average normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales over a three-year period 9% or less 12.4% 16% or more 13.2% (1) Linear calculation of pay-out rate for any result between the limits indicated above. Rate of achievement of the 2013 Performance Unit Plan: 100.2%. 2014 Performance Unit Plan “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% Average gap in Legrand’s favour between Legrand and the MSCI average over a three-year period 4 points or less* 8.3 points 10.5 points or more “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% Average normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage Equal to or more of sales over a three-year period 9.4% or less 12.8% than 14.5% 192 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Methodology for indexing the value of the vested Future Performance Units to the share price during the additional two-year lock-in period: An additional two-year lock-in period is imposed after the threePerformance Units(1), plus an amount equivalent to dividends year vesting period, during which no payment may be made in per share paid on Legrand shares during the two-year lock-in respect of the Future Performance Units. During this period, the period, capitalized over said period and multiplied by the number value of the Future Performance Units is indexed to the Legrand of Future Performance Units held by Mr. Schnepp. As stated, the share price. amount that will be paid to Mr. Gilles Schnepp may not, in any event, exceed 150% of his ﬁxed compensation. At the end of the two-year lock-in period, the amount to be paid to Mr. Gilles Schnepp will be equal to the unit value of his Future Table 11 – Compensation and beneﬁts due on termination of the Executive Officer’s position Indemnities or beneﬁts due or which may become due as a result Supplementary of termination Non-compete Employment contract pension plans or change of office compensation Executive Officer Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Gilles Schnepp Chairman and Chief Executive Officer x x x x Commencement: May 27, 2014 Expiration: General Meeting of Shareholders called to consider the accounts for the year ending December 31, 2017 06 (1) Under the 2013 Performance Unit Plan, the unit value of Future Performance Units is equal to the closing price of the Legrand share on NYSE Euronext Paris on the day the beneﬁciary decides to exercise Future Performance Units during the two-year lock-in period. This unit value is therefore dependent on the company’s stock market performance. Under the 2014 Performance Unit Plan, the unit value of Future Performance Units is equal to the average of the daily closing price of the Legrand share on NYSE Euronext Paris during the two-year lock-in period. The change in the calculation of the unit value in relation to the 2013 Performance Unit Plan aims to further tie long-term variable compensation to the company’s market performance. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 193 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers R 6.2.2.2 COMPENSATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Attendance fees paid to Directors W an additional €20,000 paid to the Chairman of the Audit The Board of Directors allocates attendance fees to Directors Committee and an additional €10,000 paid to the Chairmen of based on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee the other specialized committees. and on the total amount of attendance fees allocated by the With regard to the Lead Director, and in view of the duties speciﬁc Shareholders’ General Meeting. to this role, the Board of Directors decided to allocate to said The maximum amount of attendance fees authorized by the Director an additional amount of attendance fees corresponding May 27, 2014 General Meeting of Shareholders is €800,000. to one times the ﬁxed portion of attendance fees for one year This amount remains in force until a new one is adopted by the (information regarding the Lead Director’s duties is provided in Shareholders’ General Meeting.. section 6.1.2 of the Company’s Registration Document). The allocation of attendance fees between Directors takes into These rules for attendance fees comply with the Code of Corporate account Directors’ participation on the Board and its specialized Governance. committees. Speciﬁc duties, such as that of Lead Director, may The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer waived his right to occasion the allocation of additional attendance fees or the receive attendance fees from 2011 during the exercise of his payment of exceptional compensation subject to the application duties. of the procedure for related parties agreement. Lastly, according to the Company’s internal rules, all Directors The Board of Directors decided, from the 2014 ﬁnancial year, to are to gradually acquire a number of shares equivalent to one full allocate the attendance fees paid to Directors as follows: year of their share of Directors’ fees. For calculation purposes, W €20,000 a year paid to each Director as part of the ﬁxed the assumption will be participation, over one ﬁnancial year, at all portion of attendance fees, to which is added €5,000 each time meetings of the Board and of the special committee(s) to which the Director attends a Board meeting. Because the Board of the relevant Director belongs, the Legrand share price unit value Directors met six times in 2016, the maximum variable portion being the average Legrand share price over the previous ﬁnancial of attendance fees for the year amounted to €30,000, in line year. The minimum number of shares to be held personally and with the Code of Corporate Governance which recommends kept throughout the term of office is set at 500. that the variable portion of attendance fees be predominant; Summary of amounts paid to directors in attendance fees W €2,000 is also paid to each Director who is also a member of a for 2016 and 2015 specialized committee for each specialized committee meeting The table below presents the amounts paid in attendance fees they attend (thus, a Director who fails to attend any meetings for 2015 and 2016 for the participation of the Directors in the of the specialized committee to which he or she belongs would work done in the previous year. The amount of fees is adjusted receive no attendance fees in this regard); and according to actual attendance at meetings of the Board of Directors and, in the case of Committee members, meetings of Board Committees. 194 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Table 3 – Attendance fees and other payments to non-executive Officers Gross amounts paid in 2015 Gross amounts paid in 2016 Non-executive Directors (in euros) (in euros) Olivier Bazil Attendance fees 65,000 66,000 Other payments Isabelle Boccon-Gibod(1) Attendance fees 33,167 Other payments Christel Bories Attendance fees 76,000 78,000 Other payments Angeles Garcia-Poveda Attendance fees 100,000 112,000 Other payments François Grappotte Attendance fees 50,000 50,000 Other payments Gérard Lamarche(2) Attendance fees 78,000 20,833 Other payments Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise Attendance fees 45,000 51,000 06 Other payments Dongsheng Li Attendance fees 35,000 25,000 Other payments Annalisa Loustau Elia Attendance fees 50,000 56,000 Other payments Eliane Rouyer-Chevalier Attendance fees 58,000 78,000 Other payments TOTAL 557,000 570,000 (1) Director whose appointment was approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016. (2) Director not re-elected on May 27, 2016. The Board of Directors meeting of March 15, 2017 approved the payment in 2017 of €570,000 as attendance fees in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year. The Executive Officer waived his right to receive attendance fees from 2011. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 195 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers 6.2.3 Shareholding by Directors Please refer to pages 319-324 of this Registration Document. 6.2.4 Other beneﬁts granted to Directors The Company has not granted any loan, advance or guarantee to any of its Directors. 196 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers 6.2.5 Compensation attributable for the 2017 ﬁnancial year to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and compensation components due or allocated for the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, submitted to shareholders’ opinion R 6.2.5.1 COMPENSATION POLICY APPLICABLE TO THE CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER IN RESPECT OF THE 2017 FINANCIAL YEAR, SUBMITTED FOR SHAREHOLDERS’ APPROVAL In accordance with article L. 225-137-2 of the French Commercial Code, the principles and criteria for the calculation, breakdown and allocation of ﬁxed, variable and exceptional components of overall compensation and any beneﬁts attributable to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in respect of his office for the 2017 ﬁnancial year, which make the compensation policy applicable to him, are subject to shareholder approval at the next General Meeting of Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the 2016 ﬁnancial year. The amounts that would result from the enforcement of these principles and criteria will be submitted for shareholder approval at the General Meeting of Shareholders convened to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the 2017 ﬁnancial year, it being speciﬁed that payment of variable and exceptional compensation components is conditional upon approval of the 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders. These components are detailed in the following table: Compensation components due or Amounts or weighting allocated in respect of as a percentage the 2017 ﬁnancial year of ﬁxed compensation Details Fixed compensation €625,000 Gross ﬁxed annual compensation approved by the Board of Directors on March 3, 2011, and unchanged since that date Annual variable Min.: 0% The Board of Directors decided that the variable compensation paid to the Chairman and Chief compensation Target: 80% Max.: 120% Executive Officer in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year could vary between 0% and 120% of ﬁxed annual compensation (with a target value set at 80% of ﬁxed annual compensation) and would be determined as follows: 06 W from 0% to 90% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 60%) depending on a quantiﬁable portion (representing ¾ of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) achievement of a certain level of “adjusted operating margin”, (ii) 2017 organic growth in revenue, (iii) 2017 revenue growth by consolidation scope impact, and (iv) Legrand’s inclusion in benchmark CSR indices; and W from 0% to 30% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 20%) depending on a qualitative portion (representing ¼ of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) revenue growth (increased market share, new products, sales policies, access to new markets, partnerships (including outside France), expansion in the new economies), (ii) the acquisition strategy (adherence to set priorities, emphasis on multiples, quality of docking processes for acquisitions already made), and (iii) other general criteria, particularly risk management, labour issues, and succession plans. These quantiﬁable and qualitative criteria, as well as the targets set, are described in detail in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document. Deferred variable Not applicable compensation There are no plans to allocate any deferred variable compensation. Long-term cash Not applicable incentive No grant is planned in respect of 2017. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 197 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Compensation components due or Amounts or weighting allocated in respect of as a percentage the 2017 ﬁnancial year of ﬁxed compensation Details Stock options, Stock options: performance shares Not applicable No grant is planned in respect of 2017. or any other longPerformance shares On a recommendation from the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors on March 15, 2017 term compensation decided to set up a 2017 Performance Share Plan. component This plan is described (especially the performance conditions applicable to the allocation of shares and the calculation method for determining the number of shares ultimately allocated) in section 6.2.1.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, on pages 182-184. The target value of this plan has been set at 120% of the ﬁxed compensation and will be converted into shares. The number of performance shares ﬁnally allocated may vary in a range between 0% and 150% of the initial allocation, according to the level of attainment of “external” and “internal” ﬁnancial performance conditions and an extra-ﬁnancial performance condition. As stated previously, the Board of Directors took its decision on March 15, 2017 on the basis of an authorization granted by the General Meeting on May 27, 2016, in its thirteenth resolution (Authorization to allocate existing shares or shares to be issued beneﬁting Company personnel and/ or corporate officers). Other securities: Not applicable No grant is planned in respect of 2017. Extraordinary Not applicable compensation There are no plans to allocate any extraordinary compensation. Attendance fees Not applicable The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer does not receive attendance fees in respect of his office within the Company or its subsidiaries. Valuation of all types Not applicable of beneﬁts Compensation components to be submitted to shareholders’ approval in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Compensation components to be submitted to shareholders’ approval in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Amounts Details Severance payment Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Non-compete compensation Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Supplementary pension plans Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Signing bonus in the event of the arrival of a new Executive Officer in the course of 2017 There is no provision for any signing bonus intended to compensate loss of beneﬁts in the event of arrival of a new executive officer in the course of the 2017 ﬁnancial year. 198 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers R 6.2.5.2 COMPENSATION COMPONENTS DUE OR ALLOCATED IN RESPECT OF THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR TO MR. GILLES SCHNEPP, CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, SUBMITTED TO SHAREHOLDERS’ OPINION Pursuant to the provisions of the Code of Corporate Governance, shareholders will be consulted on the compensation components due or attributed to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year, at the next General Meeting of Shareholders convened to approve the 2016 ﬁnancial statements. These components are detailed in the following table: Compensation components due or allocated Amounts or for the year ended accounting valuation December 31, 2016 submitted for vote Details Fixed compensation €625,000 Gross ﬁxed annual compensation approved by the Board of Directors on March 3, 2011, and unchanged since that date. Annual variable €535,000 The Board of Directors decided that the variable compensation paid to Mr. Gilles Schnepp in respect compensation of the 2016 ﬁnancial year could vary between 0% and 120% of ﬁxed annual compensation (with a target value set at 80% of ﬁxed annual compensation) and would be determined as follows: W from 0% to 90% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 60%) depending on a quantiﬁable portion (representing 3/4 of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) achievement of a certain level of “economic income,” i.e. adjusted operating income less the cost of capital employed, (ii) 2016 organic growth in revenue, (iii) 2016 revenue growth by consolidation scope impact, and (iv) Legrand’s inclusion in benchmark CSR indices; and W from 0% to 30% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 20%) depending on a qualitative portion (representing 1/4 of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) revenue growth (increased market share, new products, sales policies, access to new markets, partnerships (including outside France), expansion in the new economies), (ii) the acquisition strategy (adherence to set priorities, emphasis on multiples, quality of docking processes for acquisitions already made), and (iii) other general criteria, particularly risk management, labour issues, and succession plans. Based on the work and proposals of the Compensation Committee, the Board, at its meeting on 06 March 15, 2017, set: W the amount of the 2016 variable portion due in respect of meeting quantiﬁable targets at 73.4% of annual ﬁxed compensation; and W the amount of the 2016 variable portion due in respect of meeting qualitative targets at 29% of annual ﬁxed compensation, corresponding to a rate of achievement of 85.3% of the maximum annual bonus and 128% of the target, i.e. €640,000. (details of the rate of achievement of the quantiﬁable and qualitative criteria are presented in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document). However, it should be noted that Mr. Gilles Schnepp chose, on its own initiative, to waive a portion of this variable compensation in respect of 2016 so as to keep it at the same level as 2015, i.e. €535,000. Deferred variable Not applicable There are no plans to allocate any deferred variable compensation. compensation Long-term cash incentive Not applicable There was no grant during the last ﬁnancial year. It may be noted that the vesting period of the 2013 Future Performance Units Plan expired on March 7, 2016, with a rate of achievement of future performance conditions of 100.2%. The amount corresponding to these Future Performance Units, which will be paid to Mr. Gilles Schnepp at the end of an additional two-year period, is not currently known as it is indexed on the Legrand share closing price on NYSE Euronext Paris on the day of the beneﬁciary’s decision to exercise the Future Performance Units. Said amount shall be submitted to the vote of shareholders once it is known. These plans (especially the performance conditions applicable to performance units allocated) are described in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, pages 191-193. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 199 06 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compensation and beneﬁts of company officers Compensation components due or allocated Amounts or for the year ended accounting valuation December 31, 2016 submitted for vote Details Stock options, Stock options: There was no grant during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. performance shares Not applicable or any other longPerformance share On a recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors on May 27, 2016 term compensation valuation: €659,375 decided to set up a 2016 Performance Share Plan. This plan (especially the performance conditions component applicable to the allocation of shares) is described in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, on page 190, and in chapter 7.3 of the Company’s Registration Document, on page 207. The allocation beneﬁting Mr. Gilles Schnepp in respect of this plan amounted to 3.08% of the overall allocation*. The number of performance shares allocated to Mr. Gilles Schnepp is 15,181. This number may subsequently vary in a range between 0% and 150% of the number of shares initially allocated, according to the level of attainment of “external” and “internal” ﬁnancial performance conditions and an extra-ﬁnancial performance condition. As stated previously, the Board of Directors took its decision on May 27, 2016 on the basis of an authorization granted by the General Meeting on May 24, 2013, in its ninth resolution (Authorization to allocate existing shares or shares to be issued beneﬁting Company personnel and/or corporate officers). Other securities: There was no grant during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. Not applicable Extraordinary Not applicable There are no plans to allocate any extraordinary compensation. compensation Attendance fees Not applicable Mr. Gilles Schnepp does not receive attendance fees in respect of his office within the Company or its subsidiaries. Valuation of all types Not applicable of beneﬁts * This calculation takes into account (i) the adjustment in the number of performance shares made in view of the conditions of dividend payment decided upon by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 27, 2016, to acknowledge the impact of this operation on the interests of beneﬁciaries of performance shares (for details please refer to chapter 7.3 of the Company’s Registration Document), and (ii) Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s decision to waive part of his entitlement to shares allocated during the 2016 ﬁnancial year (for details please refer to table 6, “Performance shares freely awarded by the General Shareholders’ Meeting during the ﬁnancial year to the Executive Officer by the Company and by any Group company”, on page 189 of the Company’s Registration Document).. Compensation components having been submitted to the shareholders’ approval in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Compensation components voted upon by the General Meeting of Shareholders in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Amounts Details Severance payment Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Non-compete compensation Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Supplementary pension plans Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. 200 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND SHARE OWNERSHIP 07 7.1 BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL 202 7.1.1 Shareholding structure at December 31, 2016 and changes to the shareholding structure in 2016 202 7.1.2 Shareholding structure at December 31, 2015 and changes to the shareholding structure in 2015 204 7.1.3 Shareholding structure at December 31, 2014 and changes to the shareholding structure in 2014 204 7.1.4 Shareholders’ agreement and speciﬁc agreements 204 7.2 STOCK OPTION PLANS 205 7.3 PERFORMANCE SHARES 207 7.4 REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 208 7.4.1 Description and qualiﬁcation 208 7.4.2 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 208 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 201 07 SHARE OWNERSHIP Breakdown of share capital 7.1 BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL Unless otherwise indicated, the information presented in this chapter is dated December 31, 2016. 7.1.1 Shareholding structure at December 31, 2016 and changes to the shareholding structure in 2016 R 7.1.1.1 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE AT DECEMBER 31, 2016 Voting rights exercisable Shares comprising Theoretical at Shareholders’ the share capital voting rights General Meetings Shareholders Number % Number % Number % Current and former managers and employees (Employee Savings Plan)(1) 10,771,429 4.03 10,771,429 4.03 10,771,429 4.05 (2) Treasury stock 1,365,561 0.51 1,365,561 0.51 0 0 Free ﬂoat 255,190,384 95.46 255,190,384 95.46 255,190,384 95.95 TOTAL 267,327,374 100 267,327,374 100 265,961,813 100 (1) Relates to shares held in registered form by current and former managers of the Group, and to shares held by employees in an employee savings investment fund (FCPE). (2) Voting rights not exercisable at Shareholders’ General Meetings. 202 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND SHARE OWNERSHIP Breakdown of share capital R 7.1.1.2 CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDING DURING THE 2016 FINANCIAL YEAR AND INFORMATION ON BREACHES OF LEGAL THRESHOLDS The Company was notiﬁed of the following breaches of the legal thresholds during the 2016 ﬁnancial year: Declaration Date of Legal Direction % of % of voting Company date breach threshold of breach capital rights BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of the clients and funds it manages 08/12/2016 08/11/2016 5% of the capital Above 5.08% 5.08% BlackRock Inc. has also disclosed that it holds 1,390,824 shares in the Company on behalf of clients (not included in the above holding), in which they retain voting rights. BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of the clients and funds it manages 08/16/2016 08/15/2016 5% of the capital Below 4.99% 4.99% BlackRock Inc. has also disclosed that it holds 1,959,942 shares in the Company on behalf of clients (not included in the above holding), in which they retain voting rights. BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of the clients and funds it manages 08/17/2016 08/16/2016 5% of the capital Above 5.28% 5.28% BlackRock Inc. has also disclosed that it holds 1,650,841 shares in the Company on behalf of clients (not included in the above holding), in which they retain voting rights. BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of the clients and funds it manages 12/13/2016 12/12/2016 5% of the capital Below 4.95% 4.95% BlackRock Inc. has also disclosed that it holds 1,702,843 shares in the Company on behalf of clients (not included in the above holding), in which they retain voting rights. BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of the clients and funds it manages 12/14/2016 12/13/2016 5% of the capital Above 5.01% 5.01% BlackRock Inc. has also disclosed that it holds 1,655,977 shares in the Company on behalf of clients (not included in the above holding), in which they retain voting rights. BlackRock Inc., acting on behalf of the clients and funds it manages 12/15/2016 12/14/2016 5% of the capital Below 4.83% 4.83% BlackRock Inc. has also disclosed that it holds 1,642,439 shares in the Company on behalf of clients (not included in the above holding), in which they retain voting rights. Between the end of the 2016 ﬁnancial year and the date of this Registration Document, the Company was notiﬁed that the following legal thresholds had been breached: Declaration Date of Legal Direction % of % of voting Company date breach threshold of breach capital rights Massachusetts Financial Services (MFS) Company 01/20/2017 01/19/2017 10% of the capital Below 9.98% 9.98% 07 To the best of the Company’s knowledge, and based on the threshold disclosures ﬁled with the French Financial Markets Authority (“AMF”), no shareholder, other than Massachusetts Financial Services (MFS) Company, holds, directly or indirectly, alone or in concert, more than 5% of its share capital or voting rights at the date of this Registration Document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 203 07 SHARE OWNERSHIP Breakdown of share capital 7.1.2 Shareholding structure at December 31, 2015 and changes to the shareholding structure in 2015 The Company’s shareholding structure at December 31, 2015 was as follows: Voting rights exercisable Shares comprising Theoretical at Shareholders’ the share capital voting rights General Meetings Shareholders Number % Number % Number % Current and former managers and employees (Employee Savings Plan)(1) 10,817,714 4.05 10,817,714 4.05 10,817,714 4.06 (2) Treasury stock 156,595 0.06 156,595 0.06 0 0 Free ﬂoat 255,956,293 95.89 255,956,293 95.89 255,956,293 95.94 TOTAL 266,930,602 100 266,930,602 100 266,774,007 100 (1) Relates to shares held in registered form by current and former managers of the Group, and to shares held by employees in an employee savings investment fund (FCPE). (2) Voting rights not exercisable at Shareholders’ General Meetings. Information on breaches of legal thresholds and changes to the shareholding structure during the 2015 ﬁnancial year can be found in section 7.1.1 of the 2015 Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF under No. D.16-0232. 7.1.3 Shareholding structure at December 31, 2014 and changes to the shareholding structure in 2014 The Company’s shareholding structure at December 31, 2014 was as follows: Voting rights exercisable Shares comprising Theoretical at Shareholders’ the share capital voting rights General Meetings Shareholders Number % Number % Number % Current and former managers and employees (Employee Savings Plan)(1) 10,798,984 4.05 19,454,532 6.93 19,454,532 6.95 Treasury stock(2) 493,806 0.19 493,806 0.18 0 0 Free ﬂoat 255,064,825 95.76 260,596,859 92.89 260,596,859 93.05 TOTAL 266,357,615 100 280,545,197 100 280,051,391 100 (1) Refers to shares held in registered form by current and former managers of the Group, and to shares held by employees in an employee savings investment fund (FCPE). (2) Voting rights not exercisable at Shareholders’ General Meetings. Information on breaches of legal thresholds and changes to the shareholding structure during the 2014 ﬁnancial year can be found in section 8.1.1 of the 2014 Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF under No. D. 15-0352. 7.1.4 Shareholders’ agreement and speciﬁc agreements To the Company’s knowledge, there is no shareholders’ agreement in effect as at the date of this Registration Document, governing relations between its shareholders, nor are any shareholders acting in concert. 204 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND SHARE OWNERSHIP STOCK OPTION PLANS 7.2 STOCK OPTION PLANS Table 8 – Breakdown of stock options Since the 2010 plan, no options to purchase or subscribe to shares have been allocated. The Company’s Board of Directors approved the implementation of the stock option plans listed below: 2007 Plan 2008 Plan 2009 Plan 2010 Plan Date of Shareholders’ General Meeting 05/15/2007 05/15/2007 05/15/2007 05/15/2007 Date of Board of Directors’ meeting 05/15/2007 03/05/2008 03/04/2009 03/04/2010 (1) (1) (1) Total number of options granted 1,642,578 2,022,337 1,190,249 3,271,715(1) o/w to company officers 79,871(1) 142,282(1) 94,663(1) 220,212(1) (1) (1) (1) W Gilles Schnepp 40,880 72,824 48,460 135,935(1) W Olivier Bazil 38,991(1) 69,458(1) 46,203(1) 84,277(1) Start of the option exercise period 05/16/2011 03/06/2012 03/05/2013 03/05/2014 Expiry date 05/15/2017 03/05/2018 03/04/2019 03/04/2020 (1) (1) (1) Exercise price €24.91 €20.34 €12.97 €21.57(1) Average closing Average closing Average closing Average closing price over price over price over price over the 20 trading the 20 trading the 20 trading the 20 trading days preceding days preceding days preceding days preceding the Board Meeting the Board Meeting the Board Meeting the Board Meeting Exercise conditions (2)(3) (2)(3) (2)(3) (2)(3) (when the plan has more than one tranche) Number of shares subscribed for as of 12/31/2016 (1,244,096) (1,466,477) (781,985) (1,759,586) Total number of stock options cancelled or expired (108,448) (122,844) (108,507) (238,401) Stock options outstanding at 12/31/2016 290,034 433,016 299,757 1,273,728 (1) In view of the dividend payment terms approved by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders of the Company on May 29, 2015 and May 27, 2016, the number and exercise price of the stock options were adjusted to take into account the impact of this transaction on the grantees’ interests, in 07 accordance with article L. 228-99 of the Commercial Code. (2) Options vest after a maximum of four years, except in the event of resignation or termination for willful misconduct. (3) All these plans were subject to performance conditions. For more details, please refer to note 12 of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements at December 31, 2014. The weighted average market price when stock options were The Group measures the fair value of share-based instruments at exercised in 2016 was €51.36. the grant date. To value them, it uses either the binomial model or the Black & Scholes model. If all options were exercised (i.e. 2,296,535 options), the Company’s share capital would be diluted by a maximum of 0.9% Stock warrants and stock options granted under all of these (this is a maximum dilution as it does not take into account the plans are considered as having a ﬁve-year life. subscription price of the options) as at December 31, 2016. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 205 07 SHARE OWNERSHIP STOCK OPTION PLANS Table 9 – Options granted to and exercised by the ten highest beneﬁciaries who are not Executive Officers The table below shows the options granted to and exercised by the ten highest beneﬁciaries who were not Executive Officers of the Company during the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2016: Total number 2010 Plan 2009 Plan 2008 Plan 2007 Plan Weighted of options average before after before after before after before after Stock warrants or stock-options allocated/ price adjustment(1) adjustment(1) adjustment(1) adjustment(1) adjustment(1) adjustment(1) adjustment(1) adjustment(1) granted to and exercised shares by the ten highest beneﬁciaries subscribed or who are not Executive Officers purchased 20.788 21.75 21.568 13.08 12.97 20.51 20.338 25.12 24.91 Options granted during the year by the issuer and companies within the scope of the option plan to the ten employees of the issuer and those companies included in the scope to which the highest number of options was granted (total) None Options previously granted by the issuer and the companies referred to above and exercised in the course of the year by the ten employees of the issuer and those companies having purchased or subscribed the highest number of shares (total) 111,234 8,779 31,198 3,303 3,758 4,970 48,505 4,927 5,794 (1) In view of the dividend payment terms approved by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of the Company on May 27, 2016, the number and exercise price of the stock options were adjusted, in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code, to take into account the impact of this transaction on the beneﬁciaries’ interests. Information on options granted to and exercised by the executive The executive officer is subject to the requirement to hold at officer during the year ended December 31, 2016 is included in least 30% of all shares acquired (including stock options and section 6.2.2.1 of this Company’s Registration Document. performance shares) until the termination of his duties. 206 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND SHARE OWNERSHIP Performance shares 7.3 PERFORMANCE SHARES Table 10 – Breakdown of free share allocations The Company’s Board of Directors approved the introduction of the following performance share plan: 2012 performance share plans 2012 Plan Date of Shareholders’ General Meeting 05/26/2011 Date of Board of Directors’ meeting 03/07/2012 Total number of free performance shares granted 987,910(1) o/w number of free performance shares granted to the executive officer 30,710 residents’ plan: 03/08/2014 Share acquisition date non-residents’ plan: 03/08/2016 residents’ plan: 03/09/2016 End of holding period non-residents’ plan: 03/08/2016 Number of free performance shares subscribed for as of 12/31/2016 (933,481) Total number of free performance shares cancelled or expired (54,429) Performance shares outstanding at 12/31/2016 0 (1) In view of the dividend payment terms approved by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 29, 2015, the number of performance shares remaining was adjusted to take into account the impact of this transaction on the interests of the performance share beneﬁciaries, in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the Commercial Code. 2015 and 2016 performance share plans The Company’s Board of Directors also approved the introduction of the following performance share plans: 2015 Plan 2016 Plan Date of Shareholders’ General Meeting Date of Board of Directors’ meeting 05/24/2013 05/29/2015 05/24/2013 05/27/2016 07 Total number of free performance shares granted 386,150(1) 492,140(1) (1) o/w number of free performance shares granted to the executive officer 14,487 15,181(1) (2) IFRS 2 liability (total in €m) 16.3 20.3(2) Share acquisition date 06/17/2019 06/17/2020 End of holding period 06/17/2019 06/17/2020 Number of free performance shares subscribed for as of 12/31/2016 0 0 Total number of free performance shares cancelled or expired (13,343) 0 Free performance shares outstanding at 12/31/2016 372,807 492,140 (1) In view of the dividend payment terms approved by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 29, 2015 and May 27, 2016, the number of performance shares remaining was adjusted to take into account the impact of this transaction on the interests of the performance share beneﬁciaries, in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the Commercial Code. Moreover, the number of performance shares was reduced following the decision of the executive officer to waive the 9,577 performance shares that were originally allocated to him under the 2015 plan and the 10,122 performance shares originally allocated to him under the 2016 plan. (2) Total expense by plan valued at the date of the Board of Directors’ meeting, to be spread over the four-year vesting period. If all performance shares under the 2015 and 2016 plans as Under the 2016 Plan, 107,614 free performance shares were recorded as at December 31, 2016 were to vest, the Company’s allotted in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year to the 10 noncapital would be diluted by 0.3% as at December 31, 2016. executive employees of the Company with the highest share awards, before applying the performance and employment conditions attached to said shares. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 207 07 SHARE OWNERSHIP Regulated agreements and commitments Information on the shares allocated to the executive officer or The executive officer is subject to the requirement to hold at vested during the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2016 is least 30% of all shares acquired (including stock options and included in section 6.2.2.1 of this Registration Document. performance shares) until the termination of his duties. 7.4 REGULATED AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS 7.4.1 Description and qualiﬁcation In accordance with the AMF Recommendation No. 2012-05 of July 2, 2012 on “General meetings of shareholders of listed companies”, particularly Proposition 20, the Company has adopted an internal charter to deﬁne agreements, which can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.legrand.com. 7.4.2 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments with third parties issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements and commitments should be read in conjunction and construed in accordance with French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by the French Commercial Code and that the report does not apply to those related-party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company, we hereby report to you on regulated agreements and commitments. The terms of our engagement require us to communicate to you, based on information provided to us, the principal terms, conditions and the reasons for the company’s interest of those agreements and commitments brought to our attention or which we may have discovered during the course of our audit, without expressing an opinion on their usefulness and appropriateness or identifying such other agreements and commitments, if any. It is your responsibility, pursuant to article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce), to assess the interest involved in respect of the conclusion of these agreements and commitments for the purpose of approving them. Our role is also to provide you with the information stipulated in article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the implementation during the past year of agreements and commitments previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting, if any. We conducted the procedures we deemed necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. R AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS SUBMITTED TO THE APPROVAL OF THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorized during the year to be submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code. R AGREEMENTS AND COMMITMENTS PREVIOUSLY APPROVED BY THE SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment previously approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting which remained in force during the year. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 15, 2017 The Statutory Auditors French Original signed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Deloitte & Associés Edouard Sattler Jean-François Viat 208 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS TITRE 1 01 08 8.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH IFRS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 1.1 AND DECEMBERDU RESPONSABLE 2015 31,DOCUMENT DE RÉFÉRENCE 2104 8.1.1 1.1.1 Consolidated Nom keyduﬁgures et fonction responsable du document de référence 2104 1.1.2 8.1.2 Consolidated statement Attestation du responsable of income du document de référence contenant le rapport 211 8.1.3 ﬁnancier annuel Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2114 1.1.3 8.1.4 Incorporation balance Consolidated par référence sheet 2124 8.1.5 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 214 1.2 8.1.6-RESPONSABLES Consolidated DU ofCONTRÔLE statement changes in DESequityCOMPTES 2155 8.1.7 1.2.1 Notes to the consolidated Commissaires titulairesstatements aux comptesﬁnancial 2165 1.2.2 Commissaires aux comptes suppléants 5 8.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED 1.3 FINANCIAL POLITIQUE DE STATEMENTS L’INFORMATION IN ACCORDANCE 6 WITH IFRS de 1.3.1 Responsable FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 l’information 2596 1.3.2 Documents accessibles au public 6 1.3.3-STATUTORY 8.3 AUDITORS’ Calendrier indicatif FEES de la communication ﬁnancière 2606 8.4 DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY 261 8.5 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND ARBITRATION 261 8.6 MATERIAL CHANGES IN THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL OR TRADING POSITION 262 8.7 MATERIAL AGREEMENTS 262 8.8 INVESTMENTS 262 8.8.1 Capital expenditure and capitalized development costs 262 8.8.2 Investments in equity interests: the Group’s primary acquisitions 263 8.8.3 The Group’s primary acquisitions in 2017 and principal investments in process 264 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 209 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 8.1 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH IFRS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 AND DECEMBER 31, 2015 8.1.1 Consolidated key ﬁgures (in € millions) 2016 2015 Net sales 5,018.9 4,809.9 (1) Adjusted operating proﬁt 978.5 930.4 As % of net sales 19.5% 19.3% 19.7% before Acquisitions* Operating proﬁt 934.0 886.7 As % of net sales 18.6% 18.4% Adjusted net income excluding minority interests 567.3 550.6 As % of net sales 11.3% 11.4% Net income excluding minority interests 628.5 550.6 As % of net sales 12.5% 11.4% (2) Normalized free cash ﬂow 623.9 617.2 As % of net sales 12.4% 12.8% Free cash ﬂow(3) 673.0 666.0 As % of net sales 13.4% 13.8% (4) Net ﬁnancial debt at December 31 957.0 802.7 * At 2015 scope of consolidation. (1) Adjusted operating proﬁt is deﬁned as operating proﬁt adjusted for amortization of revaluation of intangible assets at the time of acquisitions and for expense and income relating to acquisitions and, where applicable, for impairment of goodwill. (2) Normalized free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the sum of net cash from operating activities based on a working capital requirement representing 10% of the last 12 month’s sales and whose change at constant scope of consolidation and exchange rates is adjusted for the period considered and net proceeds of sales from ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets, less capital expenditure and capitalized development costs. (3) Free cash ﬂow is deﬁned as the sum of net cash from operating activities and net proceeds from sales of ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets, less capital expenditure and capitalized development costs. (4) Net ﬁnancial debt is deﬁned as the sum of short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings, less cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities. Comment on adjusted net income excluding minority of reductions in the corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. interests This €61.2 million tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, 2016 adjusted net income excluding minority interests does and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. not take into account the favorable accounting impact of a tax The reconciliation of consolidated key ﬁgures with the ﬁnancial income generated by the mechanical revaluation of deferred tax statements is available in the appendices to the 2016 results liabilities on trademarks that resulted from the announcement press release. 210 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 8.1.2 Consolidated statement of income 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Net sales (Notes 2.1 et 2.3.1) 5,018.9 4,809.9 Operating expenses (Note 2.4) Cost of sales (2,381.0) (2,333.5) Administrative and selling expenses (1,364.7) (1,310.3) Research and development costs (237.7) (216.1) Other operating income (expenses) (101.5) (63.3) Operating proﬁt 934.0 886.7 Financial expenses (101.3) (93.7) Financial income 10.9 11.0 Exchange gains (losses) 6.5 6.0 Financial proﬁt (loss) (83.9) (76.7) Proﬁt before tax 850.1 810.0 Income tax expense (Note 2.5) (218.6)* (258.0) Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities (1.3) 0.0 Proﬁt for the period 630.2* 552.0 Of which: W Net income excluding minority interests 628.5* 550.6 W Minority interests 1.7 1.4 Basic earnings per share (euros) (Note 4.1.3) 2.359 2.067 Diluted earnings per share (euros) (Note 4.1.3) 2.339 2.046 * For full-year 2016, proﬁt for the period, net income excluding minority interests and income tax expense shall be read respectively €569.0 million, €567.3 million and €(279.8) million, once adjusted for the favorable accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax income, coming from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rates, mainly in France. This tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. 8.1.3 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 12 months ended 08 (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Proﬁt for the period 630.2 552.0 Items that may be reclassiﬁed subsequently to proﬁt or loss Translation reserves 36.2 5.5 Income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income (2.1) 11.1 Items that will not be reclassiﬁed to proﬁt or loss Actuarial gains and losses (Note 4.5.1.1) (13.8) (5.6) Deferred taxes on actuarial gains and losses 0.4 3.6 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE PERIOD 650.9 566.6 Attributable to: W Legrand 649.1 565.4 W Minority interests 1.8 1.2 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 211 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 8.1.4 Consolidated balance sheet R ASSETS (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Non-current assets Intangible assets (Note 3.1) 1,880.0 1,822.0 Goodwill (Note 3.2) 3,121.9 2,776.3 Property, plant and equipment (Note 3.3) 597.4 562.2 Investments in equity-accounted entities 2.2 0.0 Other investments 19.7 18.3 Other non-current assets 5.3 6.4 Deferred tax assets (Note 4.7) 102.5 114.9 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,729.0 5,300.1 Current assets Inventories (Note 3.4) 670.6 680.3 Trade receivables (Note 3.5) 564.2 545.4 Income tax receivables 41.1 28.6 Other current assets (Note 3.6) 164.8 170.0 Marketable securities 0.0 2.5 Other current ﬁnancial assets 1.6 0.7 Cash and cash equivalents (Note 3.7) 940.1 1,085.9 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 2,382.4 2,513.4 TOTAL ASSETS 8,111.4 7,813.5 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 212 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 R EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Equity Share capital (Note 4.1) 1,069.3 1,067.7 Retained earnings (Notes 4.2 and 4.3.1) 3,227.8 3,006.2 Translation reserves (Note 4.3.2) (240.0) (276.1) Equity attributable to equity holders of Legrand 4,057.1 3,797.8 Minority interests 9.3 9.6 TOTAL EQUITY 4,066.4 3,807.4 Non-current liabilities Long-term provisions (Notes 4.4 and 4.5.2) 127.4 108.8 Provisions for post-employment beneﬁts (Note 4.5.1) 166.0 170.6 Long-term borrowings (Note 4.6.1) 1,550.7 1,823.2 Other non-current liabilities 0.0 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 4.7) 636.2 656.4 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 2,480.3 2,759.4 Current liabilities Trade payables 558.3 531.3 Income tax payables 30.8 41.0 Short-term provisions (Note 4.4) 82.4 104.8 Other current liabilities (Note 4.8) 546.2 501.3 Short-term borrowings (Note 4.6.2) 346.4 67.9 Other current ﬁnancial liabilities 0.6 0.4 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,564.7 1,246.7 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,111.4 7,813.5 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 08 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 213 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 8.1.5 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Proﬁt for the period 630.2 552.0 Adjustments for non-cash movements in assets and liabilities: W Depreciation and impairment of tangible assets (Note 2.4) 97.1 97.4 W Amortization and impairment of intangible assets (Note 2.4) 47.4 43.2 W Amortization and impairment of capitalized development costs (Note 2.4) 30.5 29.1 W Amortization of ﬁnancial expenses 2.4 2.2 W Impairment of goodwill (Note 3.2) 0.0 0.0 W Changes in long-term deferred taxes (36.7) 2.3 W Changes in other non-current assets and liabilities (Notes 4.4 and 4.5) 33.7 18.8 W Unrealized exchange (gains)/losses (16.2) 3.4 W Share of (proﬁts) losses of equity-accounted entities 1.3 0.0 W Other adjustments 0.9 0.3 W (Gains)/losses on sales of assets, net 0.8 1.3 Changes in working capital requirement: W Inventories (Note 3.4) 36.4 (36.0) W Trade receivables (Note 3.5) 18.8 (22.2) W Trade payables 15.7 21.3 W Other operating assets and liabilities (Notes 3.6 and 4.8) (30.5) 83.1 Net cash from operating activities 831.8 796.2 W Net proceeds from sales of ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets 2.1 3.2 W Capital expenditure (Notes 3.1 and 3.3) (126.3) (106.0) W Capitalized development costs (34.6) (27.4) W Changes in non-current ﬁnancial assets and liabilities 14.1 3.5 W Acquisitions of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired (Note 1.3.2) (407.4) (237.1) Net cash from investing activities (552.1) (363.8) W Proceeds from issues of share capital and premium (Note 4.1.1) 8.3 20.1 W Net sales (buybacks) of treasury shares and transactions under the liquidity contract (Note 4.1.2) (81.8) (39.9) W Dividends paid to equity holders of Legrand (Note 4.1.3) (307.1) (293.1) W Dividends paid by Legrand subsidiaries (1.9) (1.7) W Proceeds from new borrowings and drawdowns (Note 4.6.1) 0.0 300.0 W Repayment of borrowings (Note 4.6.1) (7.6) (12.6) W Debt issuance costs 0.0 (3.7) W Net sales (buybacks) of marketable securities 2.5 0.6 W Increase (reduction) in bank overdrafts (5.5) (24.7) W Acquisitions of ownership interests with no gain of control (Note 1.3.2) (23.4) (15.8) Net cash from ﬁnancing activities (416.5) (70.8) Translation net change in cash and cash equivalents (9.0) (1.7) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (145.8) 359.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 1,085.9 726.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (Note 3.7) 940.1 1,085.9 Items included in cash ﬂows: W Interest paid* during the period 85.0 78.7 W Income taxes paid during the period 246.4 166.4 * Interest paid is included in the net cash from operating activities. The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. 214 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 8.1.6 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Equity attributable to equity holders of Legrand Actuarial Share Retained Translation gains and Minority Total (in € millions) capital earnings reserves losses* Total interests equity As of December 31, 2014 1,065.4 2,813.6 (281.8) (49.2) 3,548.0 10.4 3,558.4 Proﬁt for the period 550.6 550.6 1.4 552.0 Other comprehensive income 11.1 5.7 (2.0) 14.8 (0.2) 14.6 Total comprehensive income 561.7 5.7 (2.0) 565.4 1.2 566.6 Dividends paid (293.1) (293.1) (1.7) (294.8) Issues of share capital and premium 3.9 16.2 20.1 20.1 Cancellation of shares acquired under the share buyback program (1.6) (16.8) (18.4) (18.4) Net sales (buybacks) of treasury shares and transactions under the liquidity contract (21.5) (21.5) (21.5) Change in scope of consolidation** (8.6) (8.6) (0.3) (8.9) Current taxes on share buybacks (0.5) (0.5) (0.5) Share-based payments 6.4 6.4 6.4 As of December 31, 2015 1,067.7 3,057.4 (276.1) (51.2) 3,797.8 9.6 3,807.4 Proﬁt for the period 628.5 628.5 1.7 630.2 Other comprehensive income (2.1) 36.1 (13.4) 20.6 0.1 20.7 Total comprehensive income 626.4 36.1 (13.4) 649.1 1.8 650.9 Dividends paid (307.1) (307.1) (1.9) (309.0) Issues of share capital and premium (Note 4.1.1) 1.6 6.7 8.3 8.3 Cancellation of shares acquired under the share buyback program (Note 4.1.1) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Net sales (buybacks) of treasury shares and transactions under the liquidity contract (Note 4.1.2) (81.8) (81.8) (81.8) Change in scope of consolidation** (16.7) (16.7) (0.2) (16.9) Current taxes on share buybacks Share-based payments (Note 4.2) (0.4) 7.9 (0.4) 7.9 (0.4) 7.9 08 As of December 31, 2016 1,069.3 3,292.4 (240.0) (64.6) 4,057.1 9.3 4,066.4 * Net of deferred taxes. ** Corresponds mainly to acquisitions of additional shares in companies already consolidated and to puts on minority interests. The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these consolidated ﬁnancial statements. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 215 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 8.1.7 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements NOTE 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE NOTE 4 DETAILS ON NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 216 LIABILITIES 238 1.1 General information 216 4.1 Share capital and earnings per share 238 1.2 Accounting policies 216 4.2 Stock option plans and performance share plans 240 1.3 Scope of consolidation 219 4.3 Retained earnings and translation reserves 243 4.4 Provisions 244 NOTE 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 222 4.5 Provision for post-employment beneﬁts and other 2.1 Net sales 222 long-term employee beneﬁts 245 2.2 Segment information 222 4.6 Long-term and short-term borrowings 249 2.3 Quarterly data – non-audited 225 4.7 Deferred taxes 251 2.4 Operating expenses 228 4.8 Other current liabilities 252 2.5 Income tax expense 228 NOTE 5 OTHER INFORMATION 252 NOTE 3 DETAILS ON NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT 5.1 Financial instruments and management of ASSETS 229 ﬁnancial risks 252 3.1 Intangible assets 229 5.2 Related-party information 256 3.2 Goodwill 232 5.3 Off-balance sheet commitments and contingent 3.3 Property, plant and equipment 234 liabilities 257 3.4 Inventories 236 5.4 Statutory auditors’ fees 258 3.5 Trade receivables 236 5.5 Subsequent events 258 3.6 Other current assets 237 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 237 R NOTE 1 BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1.1 GENERAL INFORMATION 1.2 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Legrand (“the Company”) along with its subsidiaries (together As a company incorporated in France, Legrand is governed by “Legrand” or “the Group”) is the global specialist in electrical and French company laws, including the provisions of the Code de digital building infrastructures. commerce (French Commercial Code). The Group has manufacturing and/or distribution subsidiaries The consolidated ﬁnancial statements cover the 12 months ended and offices in more than 90 countries, and sells its products in December 31, 2016. They have been prepared in accordance close to 180 countries. with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and IFRS Interpretations Committee interpretations adopted by the The Company is a French société anonyme incorporated and European Union(1) and applicable or authorized for early adoption domiciled in France. Its registered office is located at 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny – 87000 Limoges (France). from January 1, 2016. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements were approved by the None of the IFRS issued by the International Accounting Standards Board of Directors on February 8, 2017. Board (IASB) that have not been adopted for use in the European Union are applicable to the Group. They should be read in conjunction with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 as set out in The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS the Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF on March 30, 2016 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also under no. D. 16-0232. requires management to exercise judgment in applying the Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a speciﬁc degree All amounts are presented in millions of euros unless otherwise of judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and speciﬁed. Some totals may include rounding differences. estimates are signiﬁcant to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are disclosed in Note 1.2.3. (1) The IFRS adopted by the European Union as of December 31, 2016 can be downloaded from the “IFRS ﬁnancial statements” page on the following website: http://ec.europa.eu/internal_market/accounting/ias/index_en.htm. 216 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared using IFRS 15 sets out the requirements for recognizing revenue the historical cost convention, except for some classes of assets arising from all contracts with customers (except for contracts and liabilities in accordance with IFRS. The classes concerned are that fall within the scope of other standards). In addition, the mentioned in Note 5.1.1.2. standard requires the reporting entity to disclose certain contract information, particularly in the case of contracts that are expected 1.2.1 New standards, amendments and interpretations to extend beyond one year, and to describe the assumptions used that may impact the Group’s financial statements by the entity to calculate the revenue amounts to be reported. 1.2.1.1 New standards, amendments and interpretations with This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after mandatory application from January 1, 2016 that have January 1, 2018. an impact on the Group’s 2016 financial statements IFRS 9 – Financial Instruments Amendment to IFRS 8 – Operating Segments In July 2014, the IASB published the complete version of IFRS 9 This amendment requires disclosing the judgments made by – Financial Instruments, which replaces most of the guidance in management in applying the aggregation criteria to operating IAS 39 – Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. segments. In particular, a brief description of the operating The complete standard covers three main topics: classiﬁcation segments that have been aggregated and the economic indicators and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. that have been assessed in determining that the aggregated operating segments share similar economic characteristics are IFRS 9 introduces a single model for determining whether now disclosed in the notes to the ﬁnancial statements in Note 2.2. ﬁnancial assets should be measured at amortized cost or at fair value. This model supersedes the various models set out in 1.2.1.2 New standards, amendments and interpretations with IAS 39. The IFRS 9 model is dependent on the entity’s business mandatory application from January 1, 2016 that have model objective for managing ﬁnancial assets and the contractual no impact on the Group’s 2016 financial statements cash ﬂow characteristics of the ﬁnancial assets. Amendment to IAS 19 – Employee Benefits As under IAS 39, all ﬁnancial liabilities are eligible for This amendment clariﬁes the recognition of contributions from measurement at amortized cost, except for ﬁnancial liabilities employees when accounting for deﬁned beneﬁt plans, depending held for trading, which must be measured at fair value through on whether the contributions are set out in the formal terms of proﬁt or loss. the plan and whether they are linked to periods of service. In addition, IFRS 9 introduces a single impairment model that The amendment speciﬁes that only contributions set out in the supersedes the various models set out in IAS 39 and also formal terms of the plan that are not linked to periods of service includes a simpliﬁed approach for ﬁnancial assets that fall within do not reduce the service cost. the scope of IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers. This model is based in particular on the notion of expected credit Amendment to IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment losses, which applies regardless of the ﬁnancial assets’ credit This amendment provides guidance on the performance quality. conditions set out in share-based payment plans. Lastly, whereas most of the IAS 39 hedge accounting rules still In particular, any performance condition whose period extends apply, IFRS 9 allows more types of hedge relationships to qualify beyond the period of the service condition is deemed to be a nonfor hedge accounting, in addition to derivatives. vesting condition. Consequently, this type of condition is reﬂected in the estimation of the fair value of the plan at the grant date, This standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. but will have no subsequent impact on the IFRS 2 charge to be recognized over the vesting period. The Group reviewed these standards, to determine their possible impacts on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and related 08 1.2.1.3 New standards, amendments and interpretations disclosures. Their impact on the Group is not expected to be adopted by the European Union not applicable material. to the Group until future periods IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers In May 2014, the IASB issued IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which replaces IAS 18 – Revenue and IAS 11 – Construction Contracts. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 217 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 1.2.1.4 New standards, amendments and interpretations This standard, which has not yet been adopted by the European not yet adopted by the European Union not applicable Union, should be effective for annual periods beginning on or to the Group until future periods after January 1, 2018. Amendment to IAS 7 – Statement of Cash Flows The Group reviewed these amendments, to determine their In January 2016, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 7 – possible impacts on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and Statement of Cash Flows. related disclosures. Their impact on the Group is not expected This amendment requires disclosing in the ﬁnancial statements to be material. an analysis of changes in ﬁnancial liabilities, detailing changes IFRS 16 – Leases impacting cash ﬂows versus changes not impacting cash ﬂows. In January 2016, the IASB issued IFRS 16 – Leases, which This standard, which has not yet been adopted by the European supersedes IAS 17. Union, should be effective for annual periods beginning on or IFRS 16 provides a single lessee accounting model for the after January 1, 2017. majority of leases with a term of more than 12 months. This Amendment to IAS 12 – Income Taxes model requires the lessee to recognize a right-of-use asset and In January 2016, the IASB issued an amendment to IAS 12 – a ﬁnancial liability in the balance sheet when a lease contract Income Taxes. conveys the right to control the use of an identiﬁed asset. This amendment clariﬁes the elements to include in estimated In addition, the standard requires the lessee to recognize the future taxable proﬁts to justify the recognition of deferred tax lease expense partly as a depreciation charge within operating assets resulting from tax losses. expenses and partly as an interest expense within ﬁnancial expenses. This standard, which has not yet been adopted by the European Union, should be effective for annual periods beginning on or This standard, which has not yet been adopted by the European after January 1, 2017. Union, should be effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Amendment to IFRS 15 – Revenue from Contracts with The Group is reviewing this standard, to determine its possible Customers impacts on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and related In April 2016, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 15 – Revenue disclosures. from Contracts with Customers. These amendments clarify in particular the concept of 1.2.2 Basis of consolidation performance obligations that are not considered “distinct Subsidiaries are consolidated if they are controlled by the Group. within the context of the contract”. Revenue resulting from such performance obligations is to be recognized as a single The Group has exclusive control over an entity when it has performance obligation. power over the entity, i.e., it has substantive rights to govern the entity’s key operations, is exposed to variable returns from These amendments, which have not yet been adopted by the its involvement with the entity, and has the ability to affect those European Union, should be effective for annual periods beginning returns. on or after January 1, 2018. Such subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date Amendment to IFRS 2 – Share-based Payment when effective control is transferred to the Group. They are In June 2016, the IASB issued an amendment to IFRS 2 – Sharedeconsolidated from the date on which control ceases. based Payment. Any entity over which the Group has: This amendment speciﬁes in particular that, for cash-settled share-based payment plans, non-market performance conditions W signiﬁcant inﬂuence (a situation that occurs when the Group holds more than 20% of the voting rights without providing it and service conditions must impact the number of granted shares with substantive rights to govern the entity’s key operations); expected to vest but not their fair value. In addition, the amendment outlines that, for equity-settled W joint-control (a situation where the Group’s participation gives it substantive rights to govern the entity’s key operations jointly share-based payment plans, the IFRS 2 charge recognized in with a partner but does not provide exclusive control to the equity does not have to be reduced by any withholding tax to be Group); paid by the entity to tax authorities on behalf of beneﬁciaries. is consolidated using the equity method. 218 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Such subsidiaries are initially recognized at acquisition cost and Discounted cash ﬂow estimates (used for impairment tests on consolidated from the date when effective control is transferred goodwill and trademarks with indeﬁnite useful lives) are based on to the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date on which management’s estimates of key assumptions, especially discount control ceases. rates, long term growth and proﬁtability rates and royalty rates for trademarks with indeﬁnite useful lives. Items included in the ﬁnancial statements of each Group entity are measured using the currency of the primary economic 1.2.3.2 Accounting for income taxes environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented As part of the process of preparing the consolidated ﬁnancial in euros, which is the Company’s functional and presentation statements, the Group is required to estimate income taxes in each currency. of the jurisdictions in which it operates. This involves estimating the actual current tax exposure and assessing temporary 1.2.3 Use of judgments and estimates differences resulting from differing treatment of items such as deferred revenue or prepaid expenses for tax and accounting The preparation of ﬁnancial statements in conformity with IFRS purposes. These differences result in deferred tax assets and requires management to make estimates and assumptions that liabilities, which are reported in the consolidated balance sheet. are reﬂected in the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of The Group must then assess the probability that deferred tax the ﬁnancial statements and the reported amounts of revenues assets will be recovered from future taxable proﬁt. Deferred tax and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results may assets are recognized only when it is probable that sufficient differ from those estimates. taxable proﬁt will be available, based on management-approved taxable proﬁt forecasts. Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated. They are based on historical experience and other factors, including The Group has not recognized all of its deferred tax assets because expectations of future events, and are believed to be reasonable it is not probable that some of them will be recovered before they under the circumstances. expire. The amounts involved mainly concern operating losses carried forward and foreign income tax credits. The assessment 1.2.3.1 Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets is based on estimates of future taxable proﬁt by jurisdiction in Trademarks with indeﬁnite useful lives and goodwill are tested which the Group operates and the period over which the deferred for impairment at least once a year and whenever events or tax assets are recoverable. changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may 1.2.3.3 Other assets and liabilities based on estimates not be recoverable. Other assets and liabilities based on estimates include provisions Intangible assets with ﬁnite useful lives are amortized over their for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts, impairment of estimated useful lives and are tested for impairment when there trade receivables, inventories and ﬁnancial assets, share-based is any indication that their recoverable amount may be less than payments, provisions for contingencies and charges, capitalized their carrying amount. development costs, and any annual volume rebates offered to Future events could cause the Group to conclude that evidence customers. exists that certain intangible assets acquired in a business combination are impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could 1.3 SCOPE OF CONSOLIDATION have a material adverse effect on the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements and in particular on the Group’s operating 1.3.1 List of main consolidated companies proﬁt. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the ﬁnancial statements of Legrand and its 191 subsidiaries. 08 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 219 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 The main operating subsidiaries as of December 31, 2016, all of which being 100% owned and fully consolidated, are as follows: France Pass & Seymour Inc. United States Syracuse Legrand France France Limoges Pinnacle Architectural Lighting Inc. United States Denver Legrand SNC France Limoges Raritan Inc. United States Somerset Italy The WattStopper Inc. United States Santa Clara Bticino Spa Italy Varese The Wiremold Company United States West Hartford Rest of Europe Rest of the world Legrand Group Belgium Belgium Diegem Legrand Group Pty Ltd Australia Sydney Legrand ZRT Hungary Szentes GL Eletro-Eletronicos Ltda Brazil Sao Paulo Legrand Polska Poland Zabkowice HDL Da Amazonia Industria Eletronica Ltda Brazil Manaus Legrand LLC Russia Moscow Electro Andina Ltda Chile Santiago Legrand Group España Spain Madrid DongGuan Rocom Electric China Dongguan Inform Elektronik Turkey Istanbul TCL International Electrical China Huizhou Legrand Elektrik Turkey Gebze TCL Wuxi China Wuxi Legrand Electric United Kingdom Birmingham Legrand Colombia Colombia Bogota North and Central America United Arab Bticino de Mexico SA de CV Mexico Querétaro Legrand SNC FZE Emirates Dubai Cabloﬁl Inc. United States Mascoutah Lastar Inc. United States Dayton Novateur Electrical and Digital Systems India Mumbai Legrand Home Systems Inc. United States Middletown Middle Atlantic Products Inc. United States Fairﬁeld Ortronics Inc. United States New London 1.3.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation The contributions to the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements of companies acquired since January 1, 2015 were as follows: 2015 March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Full consolidation method Valrack Balance sheet only Balance sheet only Balance sheet only 10 months’ proﬁt IME Balance sheet only Balance sheet only 7 months’ proﬁt Raritan Inc. Balance sheet only 3 months’ proﬁt QMotion Balance sheet only 220 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 2016 March 31 June 30 September 30 December 31 Full consolidation method Valrack 3 months’ proﬁt 6 months’ proﬁt 9 months’ proﬁt 12 months’ proﬁt IME 3 months’ proﬁt 6 months’ proﬁt 9 months’ proﬁt 12 months’ proﬁt Raritan Inc. 3 months’ proﬁt 6 months’ proﬁt 9 months’ proﬁt 12 months’ proﬁt QMotion 3 months’ proﬁt 6 months’ proﬁt 9 months’ proﬁt 12 months’ proﬁt Fluxpower Balance sheet only Balance sheet only 8 months’ proﬁt 11 months’ proﬁt Primetech Balance sheet only Balance sheet only 8 months’ proﬁt 11 months’ proﬁt Pinnacle Balance sheet only 5 months’ proﬁt 8 months’ proﬁt Luxul Wireless Balance sheet only 5 months’ proﬁt 8 months’ proﬁt Jontek Balance sheet only 5 months’ proﬁt 8 months’ proﬁt Trias Balance sheet only Balance sheet only 8 months’ proﬁt CP Electronics Balance sheet only Balance sheet only 7 months’ proﬁt Solarfective Balance sheet only 5 months’ proﬁt Equity method TBS(1) 6 months’ proﬁt 9 months’ proﬁt 12 months’ proﬁt (1) Created together with a partner, TBS is to produce and sell transformers and busways in the Middle East. The main acquisitions carried out in 2016 were as follows: W the Group acquired 80% of Trias, an Indonesian specialist in cable management and distribution cabinets. Trias has annual W the Group acquired Fluxpower in Germany and Primetech in sales of around €6 million; Italy, specialized in UPS. These companies have combined annual sales of nearly €9 million; W the Group acquired CP Electronics, the UK leader in energy-efficient lighting control. CP Electronics has annual W the Group acquired Pinnacle Architectural Lighting, one of the sales of around £24 million; US leaders in architectural lighting solutions for non-residential buildings. Pinnacle Architectural Lighting has annual sales of W the Group acquired Solarfective, a Canadian specialist in around $105 million; natural lighting control for commercial buildings. Solarfective has annual sales of around €13 million. W the Group acquired Luxul Wireless, the US leader in audio/ video infrastructure products for residential buildings and In all, acquisitions of subsidiaries (net of cash acquired) came smallto mid-size commercial buildings. Luxul Wireless has to a total of €407.4 million in 2016 (plus €23.4 million for annual sales of over $20 million; acquisitions of ownership interests without gain of control), versus €237.1 million in 2015 (plus €15.8 million for acquisitions W the Group acquired Jontek, specialist in solutions for monitoring of ownership interests without gain of control). assisted living platforms in the UK. Jontek has annual sales of around £3 million; 08 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 221 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 R NOTE 2 RESULTS FOR THE YEAR 2.1 NET SALES Given that Legrand activities are carried out locally, the Group is organized for management purposes by countries or groups of In 2016, the Group’s consolidated net sales came to countries which are allocated for internal reporting purposes into €5,018.9 million, up +4.3% in total compared with 2015 due to ﬁve geographical segments: organic growth (+1.8%), changes in scope of consolidation (+4.7%) and the unfavorable impact of exchange rates (-2.1%). W France; The Group derived the large majority of its revenue from sales to W Italy; generalist and specialist distributors. The two largest distributors W Rest of Europe, mainly including Benelux (including particularly accounted for close to 21% of consolidated net sales. The Group Belgium and the Netherlands), Germany, Iberia (including estimates that no other distributor accounted for more than 5% Portugal and Spain), Poland, Russia, Turkey, and the UK; of consolidated net sales. W North and Central America, including Canada, Mexico, the Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when ownership United States, and other Central American countries; and and liability for loss or damage is transferred to the buyer, which is generally upon shipment. W Rest of the world, mainly including Australia, China, India, Saudi Arabia and South America (including particularly Brazil, Chile The Group offers some sales incentives to customers, consisting and Colombia). primarily of volume rebates and cash discounts. Volume rebates are typically based on three, six, and twelve-month arrangements The ﬁrst four segments are under the responsibility of four with customers, and rarely extend beyond one year. Based on segment managers who are directly accountable to the chief the trade of the current period, such rebates are recognized on operating decision maker of the Group. a monthly basis as a reduction in revenue from the underlying Rest of the world is the only segment subject to an aggregation transactions that reﬂect progress by the customer towards of several operating segments which are under the responsibility earning the rebate, with a corresponding deduction from the of segment managers who are themselves directly accountable customer’s trade receivables balance. to the chief operating decision maker of the Group. The economic Revenue is also presented net of product returns which are strictly models of subsidiaries within these segments are quite similar. limited by sales conditions deﬁned on a country by country basis. Indeed, their sales are made up of electrical and digital building infrastructure products in particular to electrical installers 2.2 SEGMENT INFORMATION mainly through third-party distributors. In accordance with IFRS 8, operating segments are determined On January 1, 2016, the United States/Canada segment became based on the reporting made available to the chief operating the North and Central America segment. This change reﬂects decision maker of the Group and to the Group’s management. the new organization of Legrand’s operations in North America, with the United States, Canada, Mexico and the other countries in Central America now headed by the same segment manager which is in keeping with the region’s market structure. 222 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Geographical segments Europe North and 12 months ended December 31, 2016 Central Rest of (in € millions) France Italy Others America the world Total Net sales to third parties 977.8 529.4 844.6 1,496.7 1,170.4 5,018.9 Cost of sales (360.8) (186.8) (478.3) (701.9) (653.2) (2,381.0) Administrative and selling expenses, R&D costs (386.5) (157.9) (223.0) (513.4) (321.6) (1,602.4) Other operating income (expenses) (24.6) (2.4) (9.5) (20.2) (44.8) (101.5) Operating proﬁt 205.9 182.3 133.8 261.2 150.8 934.0 W of which acquisition-related amortization, expenses and income W accounted for in administrative and selling expenses, R&D costs (3.2) (0.2) (5.0) (22.9) (13.2) (44.5) W accounted for in other operating income (expenses) 0.0 W of which goodwill impairment 0.0 Adjusted operating proﬁt 209.1 182.5 138.8 284.1 164.0 978.5 W of which depreciation expense (26.0) (18.2) (13.8) (12.7) (25.8) (96.5) W of which amortization expense (2.4) (3.6) (0.6) (2.5) (1.0) (10.1) W of which amortization of development costs (21.9) (7.5) (0.6) 0.0 (0.5) (30.5) W of which restructuring costs (8.7) (1.3) (5.7) (0.8) (8.6) (25.1) Capital expenditure (33.1) (30.1) (14.3) (25.3) (23.5) (126.3) Capitalized development costs (21.5) (7.6) (3.5) 0.0 (2.0) (34.6) Net tangible assets 174.3 116.4 86.1 78.6 142.0 597.4 Total current assets 826.3 124.1 327.2 398.2 706.6 2,382.4 Total current liabilities 689.8 173.7 129.2 217.3 354.7 1,564.7 08 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 223 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Geographical segments Europe North and 12 months ended December 31, 2015 Central Rest of (in € millions) France Italy Others America(1) the world(1) Total Net sales to third parties 1,013.1 505.2 808.5 1,278.6 1,204.5 4,809.9 Cost of sales (390.9) (181.1) (461.2) (615.7) (684.6) (2,333.5) Administrative and selling expenses, R&D costs (398.1) (161.5) (211.4) (423.0) (332.4) (1,526.4) Other operating income (expenses) (12.5) (1.3) (14.4) (14.4) (20.7) (63.3) Operating proﬁt 211.6 161.3 121.5 225.5 166.8 886.7 W of which acquisition-related amortization, expenses and income W accounted for in administrative and selling expenses, R&D costs (7.5) (0.1) (2.5) (17.7) (15.9) (43.7) W accounted for in other operating income (expenses) 0.0 W of which goodwill impairment 0.0 Adjusted operating proﬁt 219.1 161.4 124.0 243.2 182.7 930.4 W of which depreciation expense (27.2) (19.5) (15.2) (11.8) (23.1) (96.8) W of which amortization expense (1.5) (3.6) (0.7) (2.2) (1.3) (9.3) W of which amortization of development costs (20.4) (8.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.3) (29.1) W of which restructuring costs (10.2) (1.0) (4.7) (0.3) (11.8) (28.0) Capital expenditure (28.3) (16.0) (17.2) (15.4) (29.1) (106.0) Capitalized development costs (19.2) (6.5) (0.9) 0.0 (0.8) (27.4) Net tangible assets 173.4 108.3 86.1 66.2 128.2 562.2 Total current assets 1,053.3 132.6 295.1 331.6 700.8 2,513.4 Total current liabilities 389.9 175.9 143.7 196.2 341.0 1,246.7 (1) For the 12 month period ended December 31, 2015, the published data have been restated to reﬂect the change in geographical segments starting January 1, 2016. 224 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 2.3 QUARTERLY DATA – NON-AUDITED 2.3.1 Quarterly net sales by geographical segment (billing region) (in € millions) 1st quarter 2016 1st quarter 2015 France 239.3 250.3 Italy 147.5 137.2 Rest of Europe 205.0 200.4 (1) North and Central America 334.5 290.3 (1) Rest of the world 263.3 286.5 TOTAL 1,189.6 1,164.7 (in € millions) 2nd quarter 2016 2nd quarter 2015 France 271.7 274.0 Italy 139.3 131.5 Rest of Europe 207.8 205.0 (1) North and Central America 353.5 330.0 (1) Rest of the world 286.5 306.5 TOTAL 1,258.8 1,247.0 (in € millions) 3rd quarter 2016 3rd quarter 2015 France 218.1 223.2 Italy 119.9 111.1 Rest of Europe 203.1 195.5 (1) North and Central America 423.2 329.1 (1) Rest of the world 291.9 289.7 TOTAL 1,256.2 1,148.6 (in € millions) 4th quarter 2016 4th quarter 2015 France Italy 248.7 122.7 265.6 125.4 08 Rest of Europe 228.7 207.6 North and Central America(1) 385.5 329.2 (1) Rest of the world 328.7 321.8 TOTAL 1,314.3 1,249.6 (1) For each quarter of 2015, the published data have been restated to reﬂect the change in geographical segments starting January 1, 2016. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 225 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 2.3.2 Quarterly income statements (in € millions) 1st quarter 2016 1st quarter 2015 Net sales 1,189.6 1,164.7 Operating expenses Cost of sales (559.4) (565.4) Administrative and selling expenses (335.9) (325.9) Research and development costs (59.0) (53.7) Other operating income (expenses) (19.3) (11.2) Operating proﬁt 216.0 208.5 Financial expenses (24.4) (22.6) Financial income 2.4 3.4 Exchange gains (losses) (3.7) (0.6) Financial proﬁt (loss) (25.7) (19.8) Proﬁt before tax 190.3 188.7 Income tax expense (62.1) (60.7) Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities 0.0 0.0 Proﬁt for the period 128.2 128.0 Of which: W Net income excluding minority interests 127.4 127.4 W Minority interests 0.8 0.6 (in € millions) 2nd quarter 2016 2nd quarter 2015 Net sales 1,258.8 1,247.0 Operating expenses Cost of sales (583.4) (588.0) Administrative and selling expenses (338.6) (338.2) Research and development costs (59.1) (55.6) Other operating income (expenses) (22.9) (17.1) Operating proﬁt 254.8 248.1 Financial expenses (25.6) (23.0) Financial income 2.0 2.5 Exchange gains (losses) 3.5 1.6 Financial proﬁt (loss) (20.1) (18.9) Proﬁt before tax 234.7 229.2 Income tax expense (77.7) (73.1) Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities (0.3) 0.0 Proﬁt for the period 156.7 156.1 Of which: W Net income excluding minority interests 156.1 156.0 W Minority interests 0.6 0.1 226 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 (in € millions) 3rd quarter 2016 3rd quarter 2015 Net sales 1,256.2 1,148.6 Operating expenses Cost of sales (597.9) (561.5) Administrative and selling expenses (342.4) (309.3) Research and development costs (57.4) (49.9) Other operating income (expenses) (21.8) (15.8) Operating proﬁt 236.7 212.1 Financial expenses (24.9) (23.1) Financial income 1.9 2.6 Exchange gains (losses) 0.0 5.7 Financial proﬁt (loss) (23.0) (14.8) Proﬁt before tax 213.7 197.3 Income tax expense (70.3) (64.6) Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities (0.5) 0.0 Proﬁt for the period 142.9 132.7 Of which: W Net income excluding minority interests 142.1 132.8 W Minority interests 0.8 (0.1) (in € millions) 4th quarter 2016 4th quarter 2015 Net sales 1,314.3 1,249.6 Operating expenses Cost of sales (640.3) (618.6) Administrative and selling expenses (347.8) (336.9) Research and development costs (62.2) (56.9) Other operating income (expenses) (37.5) (19.2) Operating proﬁt 226.5 218.0 Financial expenses Financial income (26.4) 4.6 (25.0) 2.5 08 Exchange gains (losses) 6.7 (0.7) Financial proﬁt (loss) (15.1) (23.2) Proﬁt before tax 211.4 194.8 Income tax expense (8.5)* (59.6) Share of proﬁts (losses) of equity-accounted entities (0.5) 0.0 Proﬁt for the period 202.4* 135.2 Of which: W Net income excluding minority interests 202.9* 134.4 W Minority interests (0.5) 0.8 * Adjusted for the €61.2 million tax income, fourth-quarter 2016 income tax expense shall be read €(69.7) million, proﬁt for the period €141.2 million and net income excluding minority interests €141.7 million. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 227 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 2.4 OPERATING EXPENSES Operating expenses include the following main categories of costs: 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Raw materials and component costs (1,592.2) (1,579.5) Personnel costs (1,299.1) (1,256.3) Other external costs (921.7) (857.7) Depreciation and impairment of tangible assets (97.1) (97.4) Amortization and impairment of intangible assets (77.9) (72.3) Restructuring costs (25.1) (28.0) Goodwill impairment 0.0 0.0 Other (71.8) (32.0) OPERATING EXPENSES (4,084.9) (3,923.2) “Other” primarily includes impairment losses and reversals on inventories (Note 3.4), trade receivables (Note 3.5), and provisions for contingencies (Note 4.4). The Group had an average of 35,902 employees in 2016 (versus 36,097 in 2015), of which 28,883 back-office employees and 7,019 frontoffice employees (versus 29,206 and 6,891, respectively, in 2015). 2.5 INCOME TAX EXPENSE Income tax expense consists of the following: 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Current taxes: France (44.9) (70.3) Outside France (205.1) (196.0) TOTAL (250.0) (266.3) Deferred taxes: France 33.6 11.8 Outside France (2.2) (3.5) TOTAL 31.4 8.3 Total income tax expense: France (11.3) (58.5) Outside France (207.3) (199.5) TOTAL (218.6)* (258.0) * For full-year 2016, income tax expense shall be read €(279.8) million, once adjusted for the favorable accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax income, coming from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rates, mainly in France. This tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. 228 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 The reconciliation of total income tax expense for the period to income tax calculated at the standard tax rate in France is as follows, based on proﬁt before tax of €850.1 million in 2016 (versus €810.0 million in 2015): 12 months ended (Tax rate) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Standard French income tax rate 34.43% 34.43% Increases (reductions): W additional contributions in France 0.00% 0.43% W effect of foreign income tax rates (5.07%) (5.28%) W non-taxable items 0.61% (0.23%) W income taxable at speciﬁc rates 0.34% (0.01%) W other 2.88% 2.79% 33.19% 32.13% Impact on deferred taxes of: W changes in tax rates (7.07%)* 0.52% W recognition or non-recognition of deferred tax assets (0.41%) (0.79%) EFFECTIVE TAX RATE 25.71%* 31.86% * For full-year 2016, the impact on deferred taxes of changes in tax rates shall be read 0.12% and the effective tax rate 32.90%, once adjusted for the favorable accounting impact representing a €61.2 million tax income, coming from the announcement of reductions in the corporate income tax rates, mainly in France. This tax income is adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to the Group’s performance. R NOTE 3 DETAILS ON NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT ASSETS 3.1 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Trademarks with indeﬁnite useful lives 1,408.0 1,408.0 Trademarks with ﬁnite useful lives 289.8 258.0 Patents 24.8 2.0 Other intangible assets 157.4 154.0 08 NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 1,880.0 1,822.0 3.1.1 Trademarks with indefinite and finite useful lives Trademarks with ﬁnite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives ranging: The Legrand and Bticino brands represent close to 98% of the total value of trademarks with indeﬁnite useful lives. These W from 10 years when management plans to gradually replace trademarks with indeﬁnite useful lives are used internationally, them by other major trademarks owned by the Group; and therefore contribute to all of the Group’s cash-generating W to 20 years when management plans to replace them by other units. major trademarks owned by the Group only over the long term They should contribute indeﬁnitely to future consolidated cash or when, in the absence of such an intention, management ﬂows because management plans to continue using them considers that the trademarks may be threatened by a major indeﬁnitely. The Group performs periodical reviews of these competitor in the long term. trademarks’ useful lives. Amortization of trademarks is recognized in the income statement under administrative and selling expenses. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 229 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Trademarks can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Gross value at the beginning of the period 1,852.9 1,827.1 W Acquisitions 52.2 4.8 W Adjustments 0.0 0.0 W Disposals 0.0 0.0 W Translation Adjustments 12.7 21.0 Gross value at the end of the period 1,917.8 1,852.9 Accumulated amortization and impairment at the beginning of the period (186.9) (153.3) W Depreciation expense (27.8) (25.5) W Reversals 0.0 0.0 W Translation Adjustments (5.3) (8.1) Accumulated amortization and impairment at the end of the period (220.0) (186.9) NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 1,697.8 1,666.0 To date, no impairment has been recognized for these trademarks. Impairment tests are performed using the relief from royalty method. This method consists of measuring the royalties that the Each trademark with an indeﬁnite useful life is tested for company would have to pay to license the trademark from a third impairment separately, in the fourth quarter of each year and party. The theoretical value of these royalties is then measured whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the by estimating future revenue generated by the trademark over its carrying amount may not be recoverable. useful life, as if the trademark were owned by a third party. The following impairment testing parameters were used in the period ended December 31, 2016: Value in use Carrying amount of trademarks with Discount rate Growth rate Recoverable amount indeﬁnite useful lives (before tax) to perpetuity Value in use 1,408.0 9.2 to 10.0% 2.9 to 3.1% No impairment was recognized in the period ended December 31, 2016. Sensitivity tests were performed on the discount rates and long-term growth rates used for impairment testing purposes. Based on the results of these tests, a 50-basis point change in these rates would not lead to any impairment losses being recognized on trademarks with an indeﬁnite useful life. The following impairment testing parameters were used in the period ended December 31, 2015: Value in use Carrying amount of trademarks with Discount rate Growth rate Recoverable amount indeﬁnite useful lives (before tax) to perpetuity Value in use 1,408.0 9.8 to 10.3% 2.6 to 3.1% No impairment was recognized in the period ended December 31, 2015. 230 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 3.1.2 Patents Patents can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Gross value at the beginning of the period 591.2 585.8 W Acquisitions 25.1 0.0 W Disposals 0.0 0.0 W Translation Adjustments 3.2 5.4 Gross value at the end of the period 619.5 591.2 Accumulated amortization and impairment at the beginning of the period (589.2) (582.5) W Depreciation expense (2.7) (0.6) W Reversals 0.0 0.0 W Translation Adjustments (2.8) (6.1) Accumulated amortization and impairment at the end of the period (594.7) (589.2) NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 24.8 2.0 To date, no impairment has been recognized for these patents. that do not meet the IAS 38 deﬁnition of an intangible asset are recorded in research and development costs for the year in 3.1.3 Other intangible assets which they are incurred; Other intangible assets are recognized at cost less accumulated W software, which is generally purchased from an external amortization and impairment. They include in particular: supplier and amortized over 3 years; W costs incurred for development projects (relating to the design W customer relationships acquired in business combinations. and testing of new or improved products). They are amortized Corresponding to contractual relationships with key customers, from the date of sale of the product on a straight-line basis over they are measured using the discounted cash ﬂow method and the period in which the asset’s future economic beneﬁts are are amortized over a period ranging from 3 to 20 years. consumed, not exceeding 10 years. Costs incurred for projects Other intangible assets can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Capitalized development costs 349.7 313.9 Software 115.0 108.8 Other 84.0 82.7 Gross value at the end of the period Accumulated amortization and impairment at the end of the period 548.7 (391.3) 505.4 (351.4) 08 NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 157.4 154.0 To date, no material impairment has been recognized for these items. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 231 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 3.2 GOODWILL To determine the goodwill for each business combination, the to groups of countries, when they either have similar market Group applies the partial goodwill method whereby goodwill characteristics or are managed as a single unit. is calculated as the difference between the consideration paid Value in use is estimated based on discounted cash ﬂows for the to acquire the business combination and the portion of the next ﬁve years and a terminal value calculated from the ﬁnal acquisition date fair value of the identiﬁable net assets acquired year of the projection period. The cash ﬂow data used for the and liabilities assumed that is attributable to the Group. calculation is taken from the most recent medium-term business Under this method no goodwill is allocated to minority interests. plans approved by Group management. Business plan projections Changes in the percentage of interest held in a controlled entity are based in consistency with the latest available external are recorded directly in equity without recognizing any additional forecasts of trends in the Group’s markets. Cash ﬂows beyond goodwill. the projection period of ﬁve years are estimated by applying a growth rate to perpetuity. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually, in the fourth quarter of each year, and whenever events or changes in circumstances The discount rates applied derive from the capital asset pricing indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. model. They are calculated for each individual country, based on ﬁnancial market and/or valuation services ﬁrm data (average Within the Legrand Group, the level at which goodwill is measured data over the last three years). The cost of debt used in the (cash-generating units) corresponds to individual countries or calculations is the same for all individual countries (being equal to the Group’s cost of debt). Goodwill can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 France 685.8 685.6 Italy 381.5 379.3 Rest of Europe 341.4 265.6 (1) North and Central America 1,038.9 799.5 Rest of the world(1) 674.3 646.3 NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 3,121.9 2,776.3 (1) For the 12 months ended December 31, 2015, the published data have been restated to reﬂect the change in geographical segments starting January 1, 2016. France, Italy and North and Central America are each considered In the Rest of Europe and Rest of the world regions, no ﬁnal to be a single cash-generating unit (CGU), whereas both Rest of amount of goodwill allocated to a CGU represents more than 10% Europe and Rest of the world regions include several CGUs. of total goodwill. Within these two regions, China, India and South America are the largest CGUs. Changes in goodwill can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Gross value at the beginning of the period 2,814.0 2,601.0 W Acquisitions 385.1 174.7 W Adjustments (63.6) (5.0) W Reclassiﬁcations 0.0 1.9 W Translation adjustments 24.4 41.4 Gross value at the end of the period 3,159.9 2,814.0 Impairment value at the beginning of the period (37.7) (37.3) W Impairment losses 0.0 0.0 W Translation adjustments (0.3) (0.4) Impairment value at the end of the period (38.0) (37.7) NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 3,121.9 2,776.3 Adjustments correspond to the difference between provisional and ﬁnal goodwill. 232 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Acquisition price allocations, which are performed within one year of each business combination, are as follows: 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Trademarks 52.2 4.8 Deferred taxes on trademarks (15.6) (0.9) Patents 25.1 0.0 Deferred taxes on patents (7.0) 0.0 Other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 Deferred taxes on other intangible assets 0.0 0.0 Tangible assets 10.6 0.0 Deferred taxes on tangible assets (1.8) 0.0 The following impairment testing parameters were used in the period ended December 31, 2016: Value in use Carrying amount Discount rate Growth rate Recoverable amount of goodwill (before tax) to perpetuity France 685.8 8.2% 2% Italy 381.5 8.8% 2% Rest of Europe Value in use 341.4 7.1 to 17.1% 2 to 5% North and Central America 1,038.9 9.4% 3.2% Rest of the world 674.3 8.5 to 19.1% 2 to 5% NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 3,121.9 No goodwill impairment losses were identiﬁed in the period point unfavorable change in each of these three parameters ended December 31, 2016 including for CGUs facing a difficult or would not lead to any material impairment of goodwill on an uncertain macro-economic environment. individual basis for each CGU. An additional sensitivity test was conducted for the UK CGU, and does not lead to any material Sensitivity tests performed on the discount rates, long-term impairment of goodwill. growth rates and operating margin rates showed that a 50 basis The following impairment testing parameters were used in the period ended December 31, 2015: Recoverable amount Carrying amount of goodwill Value in use Discount rate (before tax) Growth rate to perpetuity 08 France 685.6 8.9% 2% Italy 379.3 10.0% 2% Rest of Europe Value in use 265.6 7.5 to 14.2% 2 to 5% (1) North and Central America 799.5 10.0% 3.2% (1) Rest of the World 646.3 8.5 to 19.5% 2 to 5% NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 2,776.3 (1) For the 12 months ended December 31, 2015, the published data have been restated to reﬂect the change in geographical segments starting January 1, 2016. No goodwill impairment losses were identiﬁed in the period ended December 31, 2015. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 233 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 3.3 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets; the most commonly adopted useful lives are the following: Lightweight buildings 25 years Standard buildings 40 years Machinery and equipment 8 to 10 years Tooling 5 years Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years Assets acquired under lease agreements that transfer minimum lease payments and are depreciated over the shorter of substantially most of the risks and rewards of ownership to the the lease contract period and the asset’s useful life determined in Group are capitalized on the basis of the present value of future accordance with Group policies. 3.3.1 Changes in property, plant and equipment December 31, 2016 Assets under Machinery and construction (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment and other Total Gross value At the beginning of the period 60.3 595.1 1,699.9 272.4 2,627.7 W Acquisitions 0.2 4.0 38.7 70.3 113.2 W Disposals (0.2) (3.8) (60.3) (12.9) (77.2) W Transfers and changes in scope of consolidation (4.0) 22.7 37.6 (32.0) 24.3 W Translation adjustments 0.6 4.5 5.8 2.6 13.5 At the end of the period 56.9 622.5 1,721.7 300.4 2,701.5 Depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the period (9.1) (389.3) (1,479.6) (187.5) (2,065.5) W Depreciation expense (0.2) (16.4) (66.9) (13.6) (97.1) W Reversals 0.0 3.0 59.4 12.0 74.4 W Transfers and changes in scope of consolidation 9.3 (8.1) (6.4) (1.5) (6.7) W Translation adjustments 0.0 (2.4) (4.8) (2.0) (9.2) At the end of the period 0.0 (413.2) (1,498.3) (192.6) (2,104.1) Net value At the beginning of the period 51.2 205.8 220.3 84.9 562.2 W Acquisitions/Depreciation 0.0 (12.4) (28.2) 56.7 16.1 W Disposals/Reversals (0.2) (0.8) (0.9) (0.9) (2.8) W Transfers and changes in scope of consolidation 5.3 14.6 31.2 (33.5) 17.6 W Translation adjustments 0.6 2.1 1.0 0.6 4.3 At the end of the period 56.9 209.3 223.4 107.8 597.4 As of December 31, 2016, total property, plant and equipment includes €10.7 million corresponding to assets held for sale, which are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less disposal costs. 234 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Assets under Machinery and construction (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment and other Total Gross value At the beginning of the period 53.9 582.8 1,644.6 257.8 2,539.1 W Acquisitions 0.0 2.6 30.3 65.6 98.5 W Disposals 0.0 (4.6) (32.0) (8.8) (45.4) W Transfers and changes in scope of consolidation 5.9 11.9 58.7 (49.4) 27.1 W Translation adjustments 0.5 2.4 (1.7) 7.2 8.4 At the end of the period 60.3 595.1 1,699.9 272.4 2,627.7 Depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the period (8.6) (369.4) (1,427.1) (177.4) (1,982.5) W Depreciation expense (0.5) (18.5) (65.6) (12.8) (97.4) W Reversals 0.0 3.9 29.1 7.1 40.1 W Transfers and changes in scope of consolidation 0.0 (3.6) (15.7) 2.8 (16.5) W Translation adjustments 0.0 (1.7) (0.3) (7.2) (9.2) At the end of the period (9.1) (389.3) (1,479.6) (187.5) (2,065.5) Net value At the beginning of the period 45.3 213.4 217.5 80.4 556.6 W Acquisitions/Depreciation (0.5) (15.9) (35.3) 52.8 1.1 W Disposals/Reversals 0.0 (0.7) (2.9) (1.7) (5.3) W Transfers and changes in scope of consolidation 5.9 8.3 43.0 (46.6) 10.6 W Translation adjustments 0.5 0.7 (2.0) 0.0 (0.8) At the end of the period 51.2 205.8 220.3 84.9 562.2 3.3.2 Property, plant and equipment held under finance leases (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Buildings 21.8 21.7 Other 0.9 0.6 Gross value at the end of the period Less accumulated depreciation 22.7 (11.7) 22.3 (10.5) 08 NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 11.0 11.8 3.3.3 Liabilities recorded in the balance sheet arising from finance leases (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Long-term borrowings 9.6 10.8 Short-term borrowings 1.3 1.5 TOTAL 10.9 12.3 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 235 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 3.3.4 Future minimum lease payments under finance leases (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Due in less than one year 1.5 1.7 Due in one to two years 1.5 1.5 Due in two to three years 1.5 1.5 Due in three to four years 1.5 1.5 Due in four to ﬁve years 1.6 1.5 Due beyond ﬁve years 3.5 5.0 Gross value of future minimum lease payments 11.1 12.7 Of which accrued interest (0.2) (0.4) NET PRESENT VALUE OF FUTURE MINIMUM LEASE PAYMENTS 10.9 12.3 3.4 INVENTORIES Inventories are measured at the lower of cost (of acquisition Impairment provisions are recognized when inventories are or production) or net realizable value, with cost determined considered wholly or partially obsolete, and for ﬁnished goods principally on a ﬁrst-in, ﬁrst-out (FIFO) basis. Net realizable value inventories when their net realizable value is lower than their net is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, book value. less applicable variable selling expenses. Inventories are as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Purchased raw materials and components 254.2 238.2 Sub-assemblies, work in progress 85.7 88.1 Finished products 447.4 459.6 Gross value at the end of the period 787.3 785.9 Impairment (116.7) (105.6) NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 670.6 680.3 3.5 TRADE RECEIVABLES Trade receivables are initially recognized at fair value and are W when a debtor has defaulted; or subsequently measured at amortized cost. W when a debtor’s credit rating has been downgraded or its A provision can be recognized in the income statement when business environment has deteriorated. there is objective evidence of impairment such as: W when a debtor is late on payment (allowances are estimated using an aged receivables schedule); Trade receivables can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Trade accounts and notes receivable 640.7 621.1 Impairment (76.5) (75.7) NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 564.2 545.4 The Group uses factoring contracts to reduce the risk of late payments. 236 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 During 2016, a total of €511.3 million in receivables were The factoring contract terms qualify the receivables for transferred under the terms of the factoring contracts. The derecognition under IAS 39. The amount derecognized as of resulting costs were recognized in ﬁnancial proﬁt (loss) for an December 31, 2016 was €102.9 million (€79.7 million as of amount of less than €2.0 million. December 31, 2015). Past-due trade receivables can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Less than 3 months past due receivables 109.6 102.2 From 3 to 12 months past due receivables 30.5 33.2 More than 12 months past due receivables 31.8 29.8 TOTAL 171.9 165.2 Provisions for impairment of past-due trade receivables amounted to €67.3 million as of December 31, 2016 (€67.7 million as of December 31, 2015). These provisions break down as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Provisions for less than 3 months past due receivables 9.6 10.1 Provisions for 3 to 12 months past due receivables 25.9 27.8 Provisions for more than 12 months past due receivables 31.8 29.8 TOTAL 67.3 67.7 3.6 OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Other current assets are as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Employee advances 4.2 3.0 Prepayments 31.4 26.7 Taxes other than income tax 99.6 92.3 Other receivables 29.6 48.0 NET VALUE AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 164.8 170.0 These assets are valued at amortized cost. 3.7 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 08 Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash, short-term deposits subsidiaries facing complex, short-term fund repatriation and all other ﬁnancial assets with an original maturity of less conditions due mainly to regulatory reasons. than three months. The other ﬁnancial assets maturing in less Cash and cash equivalents totaled €940.1 million as of than three months are readily convertible to known amounts of December 31, 2016 (€1,085.9 million as of December 31, 2015) cash and are not subject to any material risk of change in value. and corresponded primarily to deposits with an original maturity Cash and cash equivalents that are unavailable in the short of less than three months. Of this amount, about €10.3 million term for the Group correspond to the bank accounts of certain were not available in the short term to the Group as of December 31, 2016 (€19.2 million as of December 31, 2015). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 237 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 R NOTE 4 DETAILS ON NON-CURRENT AND CURRENT LIABILITIES 4.1 SHARE CAPITAL AND EARNINGS PER SHARE W the transfer of 547,186 shares to employees under performance share plans; Share capital as of December 31, 2016 amounted to €1,069,309,496 represented by 267,327,374 ordinary shares with W the net sale of 1,217 shares under the liquidity contract a par value of €4 each, for 267,327,374 theoretical voting rights (Note 4.1.2.2). and 265,961,813 exercisable voting rights (after subtracting As of December 31, 2016, among the 1,365,561 shares held in shares held in treasury by the Group as of this date). treasury by the Group, 1,305,128 shares have been allocated As of December 31, 2016, the Group held 1,365,561 shares in according to the allocation objectives described in Note 4.1.2.1, treasury, versus 156,595 shares as of December 31, 2015, i.e. and 60,433 shares are held under the liquidity contract. 1,208,966 additional shares corresponding to: W the net acquisition of 1,757,369 shares outside of the liquidity contract; 4.1.1 Changes in share capital Changes in share capital in 2016 were as follows: Number Share capital Premiums of shares Par value (euros) (euros) As of December 31, 2015 266,930,602 4 1,067,722,408 1,055,470,630 Exercise of options under the 2007 plan 72,141 4 288,564 1,515,270 Exercise of options under the 2008 plan 133,772 4 535,088 2,189,370 Exercise of options under the 2009 plan 37,651 4 150,604 338,695 Exercise of options under the 2010 plan 153,208 4 612,832 2,699,387 Repayment of paid-in capital* (112,476,300) As of December 31, 2016 267,327,374 4 1,069,309,496 949,737,052 * Portion of dividends distributed in June 2016 deducted from the premium account. In 2016, 396,772 shares were issued under the 2007 to 2010 W for allocation upon exercise of performance share plans (5,128 stock option plans, resulting in a capital increase representing a shares purchased at a cost of €238,047); and total amount of €8.3 million (premiums included). W for cancellation of 1,300,000 shares acquired at a cost of €62,587,122. 4.1.2 Share buyback program and transactions under the liquidity contract 4.1.2.2 Liquidity contract As of December 31, 2016, the Group held 1,365,561 shares in On May 29, 2007, the Group appointed a ﬁnancial institution treasury (156,595 as of December 31, 2015, out of which 94,945 to maintain a liquid market for its ordinary shares on the under the share buyback program and 61,650 under the liquidity Euronext™ Paris market under a liquidity contract complying contract) which can be detailed as follows: with the Code of Conduct issued by the AMAFI (French Financial Markets Association) approved by the AMF on March 22, 2005. 4.1.2.1 Share buyback program €15.0 million in cash was allocated by the Group to the liquidity During 2016, the Group acquired 1,762,290 shares, at a cost of contract. €83,403,426 and sold 4,921 shares, initially acquired at a cost of As of December 31, 2016, the Group held 60,433 shares under €122,631. this contract, purchased at a total cost of €3,150,945. As of December 31, 2016, the Group held 1,305,128 shares, During 2016, transactions under the liquidity contract led to a acquired at a total cost of €62,825,168. These shares are being cash inﬂow of €1,359,603 corresponding to net sales of 1,217 held for the following purposes: shares. 238 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 4.1.3 Earnings per share holders of Legrand by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, plus the number of Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net proﬁt dilutive potential ordinary shares. The weighted average number attributable to equity holders of Legrand by the weighted number of ordinary shares outstanding used in these calculations is of ordinary shares outstanding during the period. adjusted for the share buybacks and sales carried out during the Diluted earnings per share are calculated according to the period and does not take into account shares held in treasury. treasury stock method, by dividing proﬁt attributable to equity Basic and diluted earnings per share, calculated on the basis of the average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, are as follows: 12 months ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Net income excluding minority interests (in € millions) A 628.5* 550.6 Average number of shares (excluding shares held in treasury) B 266,395,359 266,375,725 Average dilution from: Performance shares 816,291 965,118 Stock options 1,499,504 1,833,063 Average number of shares after dilution (excluding shares held in treasury) C 268,711,154 269,173,906 Number of stock options and performance share grants outstanding at the period end 3,171,684 3,620,509 Sales (buybacks) of shares and transactions under the liquidity contract (net during the period) (1,756,152) (846,650) Shares allocated during the period under performance share plans 547,186 783,861 Basic earnings per share (euros) A/B 2.359** 2.067 Diluted earnings per share (euros) A/C 2.339** 2.046 Dividend per share (euros) 1.150 1.100 Net income excluding minority interests* beneﬁts in 2016 corporate income tax rate, mainly in France. This tax income is from a favorable accounting impact representing an amount adjusted as it has no cash impact, and bears no relationship to of €61.2 million, coming from the tax income generated by the the Group’s performance. The corresponding basic earnings per mechanical revaluation of deferred tax liabilities on trademarks share** and diluted earnings per share** shall be therefore read that resulted from the announcement of reductions in the in the following table: 12 months ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Adjusted net income excluding minority interests (in € millions) Adjusted basic earnings per share (euros) D D/B 567.3 2.130 550.6 2.067 08 Adjusted diluted earnings per share (euros) D/C 2.111 2.046 As mentioned above, during 2016, the Group: These movements were taken into account on an accruals basis in the computation of the average number of ordinary shares W acquired 1,300,000 shares for cancellation; outstanding during the period, in accordance with IAS 33. If the W issued 396,772 shares under stock option plans; shares had been issued and bought back on January 1, 2016, W transferred 547,186 shares under performance share plans, earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would have out of the 462,290 shares bought back in 2016 and 90,024 amounted to €2.363 and €2.338 respectively for the twelve bought back from previous years for this purpose; and months ended December 31, 2016. W sold a net 1.217 shares under the liquidity contract. During 2015, the Group: W issued 972,987 shares under stock option plans; REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 239 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 W transferred 783,861 shares under performance share plans, 4.2 STOCK OPTION PLANS AND PERFORMANCE SHARE out of the 810,000 shares bought back for this purpose; and PLANS W acquired a net 36,650 shares under the liquidity contract. The cost of stock options or performance shares is measured These movements were taken into account on an accruals basis at the fair value of the award on the grant date, using the Black in the computation of the average number of ordinary shares & Scholes option pricing model or the binomial model, and is outstanding during the period, in accordance with IAS 33. If the recognized in the income statement under personel costs on a shares had been issued and bought back on January 1, 2015, straight-line basis over the vesting period with a corresponding basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would adjustment to equity. Changes in the fair value of stock options have amounted to €2.064 and €2.035 respectively for the twelve after the grant date are not taken into account. months ended December 31, 2015. The expense recognized by crediting equity is adjusted at each period-end during the vesting period to take into account changes in the number of shares that are expected to be delivered to employees when the performance shares vest or the stock options are exercised. 4.2.1 Performance share plans 4.2.1.1 2012 performance share plan The following performance share plan was approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in previous years: Plan 2012 Date approved by shareholders May 26, 2011 Grant date March 7, 2012 Total number of performance share rights granted 987,910(1) o/w to Executive Officer 30,710 End of vesting period French tax residents: March 8, 2014 Non-residents: March 8, 2016 End of lock-up period French tax residents: March 9, 2016 Non-residents: March 8, 2016 Number of performance shares acquired as of December 31, 2016 (933,481) Number of performance share rights cancelled or forfeited (54,429) PERFORMANCE SHARE RIGHTS OUTSTANDING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 0 (1) Given the dividend distribution features approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders on May 29, 2015, the number of remaining performance shares was adjusted to take into account the impact of this transaction on the interests of performance share beneﬁciaries in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code. 240 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 4.2.1.2 2015 and 2016 performance share plans The following performance share plans were also approved by the Company’s Board of Directors: Plan 2015 Plan 2016 Date approved by shareholders May 24, 2013 May 24, 2013 Grant date May 29, 2015 May 27, 2016 Total number of performance share rights initially granted 386,150(1) 492,140(1) (1) o/w to Executive Officer 14,487 15,181(1) Total IFRS 2 charge in € millions 16.3(2) 20.3(2) End of vesting period June 17, 2019 June 17, 2020 End of lock-up period June 17, 2019 June 17, 2020 Number of performance shares acquired as of December 31, 2016 0 0 Number of performance share rights cancelled or forfeited (13,343) 0 PERFORMANCE SHARE RIGHTS OUTSTANDING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 372,807 492,140 (1) Given the dividend distribution features approved at the General Meetings of Shareholders on May 29, 2015 and on May 27, 2016, the number of remaining performance shares was adjusted to take into account the impact of these transactions on the interests of performance share beneﬁciaries in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code. Moreover, the number of granted performance shares has been reduced following the Executive Officer’s decision to waive his entitlement to 9,577 performance shares granted under the 2015 plan and 10,122 performance shares granted under the 2016 plan. (2) Total charge estimated at the grant date, which is spread over the 4 year vesting period. The ﬁnal number of shares ultimately granted to beneﬁciaries is determined based on a service condition and several performance criteria. Weight of performance criteria by plan Type of performance Description of criteria performance criteria 2015 2016 Comparison between the arithmetic mean of Legrand’s consolidated EBITDA margin as published in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements “External” ﬁnancial for the three years preceding the date of expiry of the three-year vesting 50% 33⅓% performance criterion period and the arithmetic mean of EBITDA margins achieved by companies forming part of the MSCI World Capital Goods index over the same period. Arithmetic mean of levels of normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage “Internal” ﬁnancial of sales, as published in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the 50% 33⅓% performance criterion three years preceding the date of expiry of the three-year vesting period. Non-ﬁnancial performance Arithmetic mean of average levels of attainment of Group CSR Roadmap criterion priorities over a three-year period. 0% 33⅓% 08 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 241 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 The number of shares ultimately granted to beneﬁciaries is calculated as follows, knowing that the weight of each performance criterion in the determination of the number of shares ﬁnally granted to beneﬁciaries is the same each year for a given plan: “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: Average gap in Legrand’s favour between Legrand 4 points or less 8.3 points 10.5 points or more and the MSCI average 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: over a three-year period 3.5 points or less 7.8 points 10.0 points or more “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: Average normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage 9.4% or less 12.8% 14.5% or more of sales over a three-year 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: period 8.8% or less 12.2% 13.9% or more Non-ﬁnancial performance criterion (applicable to the 2016 performance share plan) Applicable to beneﬁciaries with the exception of the Executive Officer Between 70% Between 100% Between 105% Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 100% and 105% and 150% Capped at 150% Average rate of attainment of Group CSR Between 70% Between 100% Between 125% Below 70% Above 200% Roadmap priorities over and 100% and 125% and 200% a three-year period Applicable to the Executive Officer Between 70% Between 90% Between 97% Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 90% and 97% and 150% Capped at 150% Average rate of attainment of Group CSR Between 70% Between 90% Between 125% Below 70% Above 213% Roadmap priorities over and 90% and 125% and 213% a three-year period (1) For any point between the limits given in the table above, the pay-out rate would be calculated in a linear way. If all these shares from the 2015 and 2016 plans were to vest (i.e., 4.2.2 Stock option plans 864,947 shares), the Company’s capital would be diluted by 0.3% No stock option plans have been implemented since the 2010 as of December 31, 2016. Plan. 242 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 The following stock option plans were approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in previous years: 2007 Plan 2008 Plan 2009 Plan 2010 Plan Date approved by shareholders May 15, 2007 May 15, 2007 May 15, 2007 May 15, 2007 Grant date May 15, 2007 March 5, 2008 March 4, 2009 March 4, 2010 (1) (1) (1) Total number of options granted 1,642,578 2,022,337 1,190,249 3,271,715(1) o/w to Executive Officers 79,871(1) 142,282(1) 94,663(1) 220,212(1) (1) (1) (1) W Gilles Schnepp 40,880 72,824 48,460 135,935(1) W Olivier Bazil 38,991(1) 69,458(1) 46,203(1) 84,277(1) Start of exercise period May 16, 2011 March 6, 2012 March 5, 2013 March 5, 2014 Expiry of exercise period May 15, 2017 March 5, 2018 March 4, 2019 March 4, 2020 (1) (1) (1) €24.91 €20.34 €12.97 €21.57(1) Average closing Average closing Average closing Average closing price over price over price over price over the 20 trading the 20 trading the 20 trading the 20 trading days preceding days preceding days preceding days preceding Exercise price the grant date the grant date the grant date the grant date (2)(3) (2)(3) (2)(3) (2)(3) Exercise terms (plans comprising several tranches) Number of options exercised as of December 31, 2016 (1,244,096) (1,466,477) (781,985) (1,759,586) Number of options cancelled or forfeited (108,448) (122,844) (108,507) (238,401) Stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2016 290,034 433,016 299,757 1,273,728 (1) Given the dividend distribution features approved at the General Meetings of Shareholders on May 29, 2015 and on May 27, 2016, the number and exercise price of stock options was adjusted to take into account the impact of these transactions on the interests of stock option beneﬁciaries, in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code. (2) Options vest after a maximum of four years, except in the event of resignation or termination for willful misconduct. (3) All these plans were subject to performance conditions (see Note 12 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the twelve months ended December 31, 2014). The weighted average market price of the Company stock upon 4.3 RETAINED EARNINGS AND TRANSLATION RESERVES exercise of stock options in 2016 was €51.36. 4.3.1 Retained earnings If all these options were to be exercised (i.e., 2,296,535 options), the Company’s capital would be diluted at most by 0.9% (which is Consolidated retained earnings of the Group as of December 31, a maximum dilution as it does not take into account the exercise 2016 amounted to €3,227.8 million. price of these options) as of December 31, 2016. As of the same date, the Company had retained earnings 4.2.3 Share-based payments: IFRS 2 charges In accordance with IFRS 2, a charge of €7.9 million was recorded including proﬁt for the period of €1,115.3 million available for distribution. Taking into account the 1,300,000 shares held as of December 31, 2016 for cancellation, retained earnings including 08 in 2016 (€6.4 million in 2015) for all of these plans combined. proﬁt for the period available for distribution would amount to See also Note 4.5.2 for cash-settled long-term employee beneﬁt €1,057.9 million. plans implemented from 2013. 4.3.2 Translation reserves Assets and liabilities of Group entities whose functional currency is different from the presentation currency are translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Statements of income are translated using the average exchange rate for the period. Gains or losses arising from the translation of the ﬁnancial statements of foreign subsidiaries are recognized directly in equity, under “Translation reserves”, until such potential time as the Group no longer controls the entity. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 243 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Translation reserves record the impact of ﬂuctuations in the following currencies: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 US dollar 38.0 9.4 Other currencies (278.0) (285.5) TOTAL (240.0) (276.1) The Group operates in more than 90 countries. It is mainly €11.8 million, resulting in a net negative balance of €90.7 million exposed to a dozen currencies other than euro and US dollar, as of December 31, 2016. including the Indian rupee, Chinese yuan, Brazilian real, British In addition, in accordance with IAS 21, translation gains and pound, Russian ruble, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Turkish losses on receivables or payables considered as part of the net lira and Chilean peso. investment in a foreign Group entity are recognized in translation Under IAS 39, non-derivative ﬁnancial instruments may be reserves. Gains recognized in translation reserves in 2016 designated as hedges only when they are used to hedge foreign amounted to €5.2 million, resulting in a net positive balance of currency risk and provided that they qualify for hedge accounting. €9.4 million as of December 31, 2016. Accordingly, in the case of hedges of a net investment in a To hedge a signiﬁcant portion of the foreign currency risk foreign operation, the portion of the gain or loss on the hedging generated by Brexit uncertainty with regard to the Group’s net instrument that is deemed to be an effective hedge is recognized assets denominated in British pounds (which represent less than in equity, as required under paragraph 102 of IAS 39. 5.0% of the Group’s total net assets), the Group has entered into a derivative contract since the end of May 2016. In accordance Consequently, unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses with IAS 39, foreign exchange gains and losses on this derivative on US dollar-denominated 8½% Debentures (Yankee bonds) ﬁnancial instrument are recognized in translation reserves. Gains are recognized in translation reserves. Losses on these bonds on this derivative ﬁnancial instrument recognized in translation recognized in translation reserves in 2016 amounted to reserves amounted to €13.4 million as of December 31, 2016. 4.4 PROVISIONS Changes in provisions in 2016 are as follows: December 31, 2016 Products Claims and Tax and (in € millions) warranties litigation employee risks Restructuring Other Total At beginning of period 18.8 56.4 14.9 12.8 110.7 213.6 Changes in scope of consolidation 0.7 0.0 1.5 0.0 0.0 2.2 Increases 7.3 20.0 10.5 11.4 27.6 76.8 Utilizations (4.5) (12.7) (2.7) (9.4) (42.6) (71.9) Reversals of surplus provisions (1.6) (9.3) 0.0 (1.2) (4.4) (16.5) Reclassiﬁcations 0.4 0.2 0.2 (0.7) 1.1 1.2 Translation adjustments (0.1) 0.8 1.9 0.4 1.4 4.4 AT END OF PERIOD 21.0 55.4 26.3 13.3 93.8 209.8 Of which non-current portion 10.4 36.8 23.0 2.1 55.1 127.4 “Other” includes long-term provisions for employee beneﬁts, “Other” also includes a €9.3 million provision for environmental corresponding mainly to cash-settled long-term employee beneﬁt risks as of December 31, 2016, mainly to cover estimated plans described in Note 4.5.2 for an amount of €59.0 million as of depollution costs related to property assets held for sale. December 31, 2016 (see also consolidated statement of changes in equity for performance share plans described in Note 4.2.1). 244 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Changes in provisions in 2015 were as follows: December 31, 2015 Products Claims and Tax and (in € millions) warranties litigation employee risks Restructuring Other Total At beginning of period 17.6 62.8 11.3 15.6 93.2 200.5 Changes in scope of consolidation 0.6 7.6 0.9 0.2 0.3 9.6 Increases 6.9 15.0 1.9 9.6 42.1 75.5 Utilizations (4.5) (7.6) (3.2) (11.4) (5.0) (31.7) Reversals of surplus provisions (2.5) (16.8) 0.0 (1.5) (5.6) (26.4) Reclassiﬁcations 0.1 (4.4) 4.2 0.0 (7.2) (7.3) Translation adjustments 0.6 (0.2) (0.2) 0.3 (7.1) (6.6) AT END OF PERIOD 18.8 56.4 14.9 12.8 110.7 213.6 Of which non-current portion 8.6 31.3 10.0 1.0 57.9 108.8 “Other” includes long-term provisions for employee beneﬁts, A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a pension plan that deﬁnes an amount corresponding mainly to cash-settled long-term employee of pension beneﬁt that an employee will receive on retirement, beneﬁts plans for an amount of €74.2 million as of December 31, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of 2015. service and end-of-career salary. “Other” also includes a €10.8 million provision for environmental The liability recognized in the balance sheet for deﬁned beneﬁt risks as of December 31, 2015 to cover mainly estimated pension plans is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation depollution costs related to property assets held for sale. at the balance sheet date, less the fair value of plan assets. The past service cost arising from changes to pension beneﬁt plans is expensed in full as incurred. 4.5 PROVISION FOR POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS AND OTHER LONG-TERM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS In accordance with IAS 19, the Group recognizes all actuarial gains and losses outside proﬁt or loss, in the consolidated statement of 4.5.1 Pension and other post-employment benefit comprehensive income. obligations Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are calculated using the projected unit Group companies operate various pension plans. The plans credit method. This method takes into account estimated years are funded through payments to insurance companies or of service at retirement, ﬁnal salaries, life expectancy and staff trustee-administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial turnover, based on actuarial assumptions. The present value of calculations. The Group has both deﬁned contribution and deﬁned the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is determined by discounting the beneﬁt plans. estimated future cash outﬂows using interest rates of investment A deﬁned contribution plan is a pension plan under which the grade corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency Group pays ﬁxed contributions into a separate entity. Contributions are recognized as an expense for the period of payment. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further in which the beneﬁts will be paid and have terms to maturity approximating the period to payment of the related pension liability. 08 contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient assets to pay all Some Group companies provide post-employment healthcare employees the beneﬁts relating to employee service in current beneﬁts to their retirees. Entitlement to these beneﬁts is usually and prior periods. conditional on the employee remaining with one of these Group companies up to retirement age and completion of a minimum service period. These beneﬁts are treated as post-employment beneﬁts under deﬁned beneﬁt plans. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 245 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Pension and other post-employment deﬁned beneﬁt obligations can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 France (Note 4.5.1.2) 87.9 94.7 Italy (Note 4.5.1.3) 39.2 38.6 United Kingdom (Note 4.5.1.4) 17.7 11.9 United States (Note 4.5.1.5) 5.1 11.0 Other countries 24.2 20.9 TOTAL PENSION AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS 174.1 177.1 Of which current portion 8.1 6.5 The total amount of those liabilities is €174.1 million as of each balance sheet date, based on actuarial assumptions, and the December 31, 2016 (€177.1 million as of December 31, 2015) net residual value of the plan assets at that date. and is analyzed in Note 4.5.1.1 which shows total liabilities of €356.8 million as of December 31, 2016 (€361.7 million as of 4.5.1.1 Analysis of pension and other post-employment December 31, 2015) less total assets of €182.7 million as of defined benefit obligations December 31, 2016 (€184.6 million as of December 31, 2015). The total (current and non-current) obligation under the Group’s pension and other post-employment beneﬁt plans, consisting The provisions recorded in the balance sheet correspond to the portion primarily of plans in France, Italy, the United States and United of the total liability remaining payable by the Group; this amount is Kingdom, is as follows: equal to the difference between the total obligation recalculated at (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation Projected beneﬁt obligation at beginning of period 361.7 352.8 Service cost 9.1 9.8 Interest cost 10.4 10.7 Beneﬁts paid or unused (31.5) (36.0) Employee contributions 0.4 0.5 Actuarial losses/(gains) 17.9 4.0 Curtailments, settlements, special termination beneﬁts 0.0 0.6 Translation adjustments (12.7) 16.0 Other 1.5 3.3 PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT END OF PERIOD (I) 356.8 361.7 Fair value of plan assets Fair value of plan assets at beginning of period 184.6 169.1 Expected return on plan assets 6.2 6.5 Employer contributions 10.2 9.7 Employee contributions 0.7 0.8 Beneﬁts paid (13.0) (13.8) Actuarial (losses)/gains 4.1 (1.6) Translation adjustments (10.1) 13.9 Other 0.0 0.0 FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS AT END OF PERIOD (II) 182.7 184.6 LIABILITY RECOGNIZED IN THE BALANCE SHEET (I) (II) 174.1 177.1 Current liability 8.1 6.5 Non-current liability 166.0 170.6 246 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Actuarial losses recognized in equity in 2016 amounted to W United Kingdom: iBoxx £ Corporates AA 15+; €13.8 million (€13.4 million after tax). W United States: Citibank Pension Liability Index. The €13.8 million actuarial losses resulted from: Sensitivity tests were performed on: W €12.3 million in losses from changes in ﬁnancial assumptions; W the discount rate. According to the results of these tests, a W €1.2 million in losses from changes in demographic assumptions; 50-basis point reduction in the rate would lead to the recognition and of additional actuarial losses of around €25.6 million and would increase the liability as of December 31, 2016 by the same amount; W €0.3 million in experience losses. The discount rates used are determined by reference to the yield W the rate of future salary increases. According to the results of on high-quality bonds based on the following benchmark indices: these tests, a 50-basis point increase in the rate would lead to the recognition of additional actuarial losses of around W Euro zone: iBoxx € Corporates AA 10+; €8.7 million and would increase the liability as of December 31, 2016 by the same amount. Discounted future payments for the Group’s pension and other post-employment beneﬁt plans are as follows: (in € millions) 2017 17.6 2018 14.7 2019 14.2 2020 15.0 2021 and beyond 295.3 TOTAL 356.8 The impact of service costs and interest costs on proﬁt before tax for the period is as follows: 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Service cost (9.1) (9.8) Net interest cost* (4.2) (4.2) TOTAL (13.3) (14.0) * The expected return on assets and interest costs are presented as a net amount in ﬁnancial expenses. The weighted average allocation of pension plan assets is as follows as of December 31, 2016: (as a percentage) France United Kingdom United States Weighted total 08 Equity instruments 43.1 65.0 53.7 Debt instruments 50.8 33.8 42.5 Insurance funds 100.0 6.1 1.2 3.8 TOTAL 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 These assets are marked to market. 4.5.1.2 Provisions for retirement benefits and supplementary their retirement, either directly or through payments to insurance pension benefits in France companies in full discharge of the liability. The provisions recorded in the consolidated balance sheet The main deﬁned beneﬁt plan applicable in France concerns concern the unvested entitlements of active employees. The statutory length-of-service awards, under which all retiring Group has no obligation with respect to the vested entitlements employees are eligible for a lump-sum payment calculated of former employees, as the beneﬁts were settled at the time of according to their length of service. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 247 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 This payment is deﬁned either in the collective bargaining The provisions recorded in the consolidated balance sheet agreement to which their company is a party or in a separate amounted to €17.7 million as of December 31, 2016 (€11.9 million company-level agreement, whichever is more advantageous to as of December 31, 2015), corresponding to the difference between the employee. The amount generally varies depending on the the projected beneﬁt obligation of €103.4 million (€104.8 million employee category (manager/non-manager). as of December 31, 2015) and the fair value of the related plan assets of €85.7 million (€92.9 million as of December 31, 2015). In France, provisions recorded in the consolidated balance sheet amount to €87.9 million as of December 31, 2016 (€94.7 million The projected beneﬁt obligation is calculated base on staff as of December 31, 2015) corresponding to the difference turnover and mortality assumptions, estimated rates of salary between the projected beneﬁt obligation of €88.1 million as increases and an estimated discount rate. The calculation in 2016 of December 31, 2016 (€95.4 million as of December 31, 2015) was based on a salary increase rate of 4.3%, a discount rate and and the fair value of the related plan assets of €0.2 million as of an expected return on plan assets of 2.9% (respectively 4.1% and December 31, 2016 (€0.7 million as of December 31, 2015). 3.6% in 2015). The projected beneﬁt obligation is calculated base on staff 4.5.1.5 Provisions for retirement benefits and other turnover and mortality assumptions, estimated rates of salary post-employment benefits in the United States increases and an estimated discount rate. In France, the In the United States, the Group provides pension beneﬁts for calculation in 2016 was based on a salary increase rate of 2.8%, employees and health care and life insurance for certain retired a discount rate and an expected return on plan assets of 1.6% employees. (respectively 2.8% and 2.0% in 2015). The Legrand North America Retirement Plan is covered by a plan 4.5.1.3 Provisions for termination benefits in Italy document in force since January 2002 that was last amended in In Italy, a termination beneﬁt is awarded to employees regardless January 2008. The minimum funding requirement is determined of the reason for their departure. based on Section 430 of the Internal Revenue Code. Since January 1, 2007, such beneﬁts have been paid either into To meet its obligations under the plan, the Group has set up a trust an independently managed pension fund or to the Italian social with Prudential Financial, Inc. The trust assets include several security service (INPS). As from that date, the Italian termination different investment funds. The current trustee is Legrand North beneﬁt plans have been qualiﬁed as deﬁned contribution plans America. The Wiremold Company is the Plan Administrator and under IFRS. the Custodian is Prudential Financial, Inc. Termination beneﬁt obligations arising prior to January 1, 2007 The plan has been closed to new entrants since August 2006 for continue to be accounted for under IFRS as deﬁned beneﬁt plans, salaried employees and since April 2009 for hourly employees. based on revised actuarial estimates that exclude the effect of Active plan participants account for 29.9% of the projected beneﬁt future salary increases. obligation, participants who are no longer accumulating beneﬁt The resulting provisions for termination beneﬁts, which entitlements for 14.5% and retired participants for 55.6%. correspond to the obligation as of December 31, 2006 plus the The funding policy consists of ensuring that the legal minimum ensuing actuarial revisions, amounted to €39.2 million as of funding requirement is met at all times. December 31, 2016 (€38.6 million as of December 31, 2015). The provisions recorded in the consolidated balance sheet The calculation in 2016 was based on a discount rate of 1.3% amounted to €5.1 million as of December 31, 2016 (€11.0 million as (2.0% in 2015). of December 31, 2015), corresponding to the difference between the projected beneﬁt obligation of €86.1 million (€87.8 million 4.5.1.4 Provisions for retirement benefits and other as of December 31, 2015) and the fair value of the related plan post-employment benefits in the United Kingdom assets of €81.0 million (€76.8 million as of December 31, 2015). The UK plan is a trustee-administered plan governed by article 153 of the 2004 Finance Act, and is managed in a legal The projected beneﬁt obligation is calculated based on staff entity outside of the Group. turnover and mortality assumptions, estimated rates of salary increases and an estimated discount rate. The calculation in 2016 Beneﬁts are paid directly out of funds consisting of contributions was based on a salary increase rate of 3.5%, a discount rate and paid by the company and by plan participants. an expected return on plan assets of 3.9% (respectively 3.5% and The plan has been closed to new entrants since May 2004. 4.0% in 2015). Active plan participants account for 2.4% of the projected beneﬁt obligation, participants who are no longer accumulating beneﬁt entitlements for 45.1% and retired participants for 52.5%. 248 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 4.5.2 Other long-term employee benefits In December 2015, the Group carried out a €300.0 million 1.875% twelve-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity The Group implemented cash-settled long-term employee beneﬁt on December 16, 2027. plans for employees deemed to be key for the Group, subject to the grantees’ continued presence within the Group after a vesting 8½% Debentures (Yankee bonds) period of three years. On February 14, 1995, Legrand France issued $400.0 million In addition to the grantee being still present within the Group, the worth of 8½% debentures due February 15, 2025, through a plans can, in certain cases, depend on the Group’s achievement public placement in the United States. Interest on the debentures of future economic performance conditions which may or may not is payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each be indexed to the share price. year, beginning August 15, 1995. Plans indexed to the share price are cash-settled and thus, in In December 2013, a number of debenture holders offered to accordance with IFRS 2, the corresponding liability has been sell their securities to the Group. Acting on this offer, the Group recorded in the balance sheet and will be remeasured at each decided to acquire Yankee bonds with an aggregate face value period-end until the transaction is settled. The other plans qualify of $6.5 million. The acquired debentures were subsequently as long-term employee beneﬁt plans, with a corresponding cancelled. provision recognized in compliance with IAS 19. 2011 Credit Facility During 2016, a net expense of €20.6 million was recognized In October 2011, the Group signed an agreement with six banks in operating proﬁt in respect to these plans. As mentioned in to set up a €900.0 million revolving multicurrency facility (2011 Note 4.4, the resulting provision amounted to €59.0 million as of Credit Facility) utilizable through drawdowns. The ﬁve-year December 31, 2016 (including payroll taxes). facility may be extended for two successive one-year periods. See also Notes 4.2.1 for performance share plans and Note 4.2.3 In July 2014, the Group signed an agreement that amends and for IFRS 2 charges accounted for in the period. extends the Credit Facility ﬁnalized in October 2011 with all banks party to this contract. This agreement extends the maximum 4.6 LONG-TERM AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS maturity of the €900.0 million revolving credit line by three years, i.e., up to July 2021, including two successive one-year period The Group actively manages its debt through diversiﬁed sources extension options, and at improved ﬁnancing terms compared of ﬁnancing available to support its medium-term business with October 2011. growth while guaranteeing a robust ﬁnancial position over the long term. Drawndowns are subject to an interest rate equivalent to Euribor/ Libor plus a margin determined on the basis of the Group’s credit Bonds rating. In February 2010, the Group carried out a €300.0 million 4.25% In addition, the 2011 Credit Facility does not contain any covenants. seven-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity on February 24, 2017. As of December 31, 2016, the Credit Facility had not been drawn down. In March 2011, the Group carried out a €400.0 million 4.375% seven-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity 4.6.1 Long-term borrowings on March 21, 2018. Long-term borrowings are initially recognized at fair value, In April 2012, the Group carried out a €400.0 million 3.375% tentaking into account any transaction costs directly attributable year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity on April 19, 2022. to the issue, and are subsequently measured at amortized cost, using the effective interest rate method. 08 Long-term borrowings can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Bonds 1,100.0 1,400.0 8 ½% debentures 368.8 356.6 Other borrowings 88.5 75.6 1,557.3 1,832.2 Debt issuance costs (6.6) (9.0) TOTAL 1,550.7 1,823.2 No guarantees have been given with respect to these borrowings. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 249 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Long-term borrowings (excluding debt issuance costs) break down by currency as follows, after hedging (see Note 5.1.2.2): (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Euro 934.1 1,440.9 US dollar 485.0 357.6 Other currencies 138.2 33.7 TOTAL 1,557.3 1,832.2 Long-term borrowings (excluding debt issuance costs) as of December 31, 2016 can be analyzed by maturity as follows: (in € millions) Bonds 8½% debentures Other borrowings Due in one to two years 400.0 0.0 48.8 Due in two to three years 0.0 0.0 16.4 Due in three to four years 0.0 0.0 9.3 Due in four to ﬁve years 0.0 0.0 10.5 Due beyond ﬁve years 700.0 368.8 3.5 TOTAL 1,100.0 368.8 88.5 Long-term borrowings (excluding debt issuance costs) as of December 31, 2015 can be analyzed by maturity as follows: (in € millions) Bonds 8½% debentures Other borrowings Due in one to two years 300.0 0.0 19.7 Due in two to three years 400.0 0.0 31.2 Due in three to four years 0.0 0.0 9.7 Due in four to ﬁve years 0.0 0.0 9.1 Due beyond ﬁve years 700.0 356.6 5.9 TOTAL 1,400.0 356.6 75.6 Average interest rates on borrowings are as follows: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Bonds 3.33% 3.95% 8 ½% debentures 8.50% 8.50% Other borrowings 2.62% 2.74% 4.6.2 Short -term borrowings Short-term borrowings can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Bonds 300.0 0.0 Commercial paper 15.0 15.0 Other borrowings 31.4 52.9 TOTAL 346.4 67.9 250 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 4.7 DEFERRED TAXES In accordance with IAS 12, deferred taxes are recognized for Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and that future taxable proﬁt will be available against which the liabilities and their carrying amount in the consolidated balance temporary differences can be utilized. The recognized deferred sheet. tax assets are expected to be utilized no later than ﬁve years from the period-end. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realized Deferred taxes recorded in the balance sheet result from or the liability is settled. temporary differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base and can be analyzed as follows: Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when the entity has a legally enforceable right of offset and they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority. (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deferred taxes recorded by French companies (254.9) (289.8) Deferred taxes recorded by foreign companies (278.8) (251.7) TOTAL (533.7) (541.5) Origin of deferred taxes: W impairment losses on inventories and receivables 53.0 56.1 W margin on inventories 21.8 21.8 W recognized operating losses carried forward 8.0 5.2 W ﬁnance leases (3.4) (3.4) W ﬁxed assets (175.2) (158.7) W trademarks* (480.6) (530.2) W patents (7.0) (0.7) W other provisions 28.0 39.8 W pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts 39.7 45.1 W fair value adjustments to derivative instruments (1.8) (1.6) W other (16.2) (14.9) TOTAL (533.7) (541.5) W of which deferred tax assets 102.5 114.9 W of which deferred tax liabilities * See the references to the tables in Note 2.5. (636.2) (656.4) 08 Shortand long-term deferred taxes can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Deferred taxes – short-term 83.1 94.8 Deferred taxes – long-term (616.8) (636.3) TOTAL (533.7) (541.5) REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 251 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Tax losses carried forward break down as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Recognized operating losses carried forward 38.4 19.2 Recognized deferred tax assets 8.0 5.2 Unrecognized operating losses carried forward 121.0 159.0 Unrecognized deferred tax assets 27.8 32.7 Total net operating losses carried forward 159.4 178.2 4.8 OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES Other current liabilities can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Taxes other than income tax 70.6 68.3 Accrued employee beneﬁts expense 235.4 215.1 Statutory and discretionary proﬁt-sharing reserve 30.9 26.0 Payables related to ﬁxed asset purchases 19.6 14.9 Accrued expenses 88.2 78.9 Accrued interest 48.5 48.2 Deferred revenue 16.5 13.9 Pension and other post-employment beneﬁt obligations 8.0 6.5 Other current liabilities 28.5 29.5 TOTAL 546.2 501.3 R NOTE 5 OTHER INFORMATION 5.1 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL RISKS 5.1.1 Financial instruments 5.1.1.1 Impact of financial instruments 12 months ended December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Impact on equity Impact on Impact on ﬁnancial proﬁt Translation ﬁnancial proﬁt Impact on (in € millions) (loss) Fair value adjustment Other (loss) equity Trade receivables (1.2) (1.2) Trade payables Borrowings (83.4) (11.8) (77.0) (37.2) Derivatives (19.3) 13.4 16.8 0.0 TOTAL (103.9) 1.6 (64.6) (37.2) Debentures denominated in US dollars (“Yankee bonds”) and the derivative ﬁnancial instrument denominated in British pounds are treated as net investment hedges (see Note 4.3.2). 252 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 5.1.1.2 Breakdown of balance sheet items by type of financial instrument December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Type of ﬁnancial instrument Receivables, payables and Carrying borrowings at (in € millions) amount Fair value amortized cost Derivatives Carrying amount ASSETS Current assets Trade receivables 564.2 564.2 564.2 545.4 Other current ﬁnancial assets 1.6 1.6 1.6 0.7 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 565.8 565.8 564.2 1.6 546.1 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 346.4 348.4 346.4 67.9 Trade payables 558.3 558.3 558.3 531.3 Other current ﬁnancial liabilities 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.4 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 905.3 907.3 904.7 0.6 599.6 Non-current liabilities Long-term borrowings 1,550.7 1,662.8 1,550.7 1,823.2 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,550.7 1,662.8 1,550.7 0.0 1,823.2 Only items classiﬁed as “Other current ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial instruments are conducted with the sole purpose of liabilities” are measured at fair value. In accordance with IFRS 13, managing interest rate, exchange rate and commodity risks and fair value measurement of other current ﬁnancial assets takes as such are limited in duration and value. counterparty default risk into account. This strategy is centralized at Group level. Its implementation In light of the Group’s credit rating, the measurement of other is deployed by the Financing and Treasury Department which current ﬁnancial liabilities is subject to insigniﬁcant credit risk. recommends appropriate measures and implements them after they have been validated by the Corporate Finance Department 5.1.2 Management of financial risks and Group management. A detailed reporting system has been The Group’s cash management strategy is based on overall set up to enable permanent close tracking of the Group’s positions ﬁnancial risk management principles and involves taking and effective oversight of the management of the ﬁnancial risks speciﬁc measures to manage the risks associated with interest described in this note. rates, exchange rates, commodity prices and the investment of available cash. The Group does not conduct any trading in 5.1.2.1 Interest rate risk 08 ﬁnancial instruments, in line with its policy of not carrying out As part of an interest rate risk management policy aimed mainly any speculative transactions. All transactions involving derivative at managing the risk of a rate increase, the Group has structured its debt into a combination of ﬁxed and variable rate ﬁnancing. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 253 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 Net debt (excluding debt issuance costs) breaks down as follows between ﬁxed and variable interest rates before the effect of hedging instruments: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Due within Due in 1 Due in 2 Due in 3 Due in 4 Due beyond (in € millions) 1 year to 2 years to 3 years to 4 years to 5 years 5 years Total Total Financial assets* Fixed rate 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Variable rate 940.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 940.1 1,088.4 Financial liabilities** Fixed rate (313.1) (411.9) (8.5) (7.9) (9.0) (1,068.8) (1,819.2) (1,807.7) Variable rate (33.3) (36.9) (7.9) (1.4) (1.5) (3.5) (84.5) (92.4) Net exposure Fixed rate (313.1) (411.9) (8.5) (7.9) (9.0) (1,068.8) (1,819.2) (1,807.7) Variable rate 906.8 (36.9) (7.9) (1.4) (1.5) (3.5) 855.6 996.0 * Financial assets: cash and marketable securities. ** Financial liabilities: borrowings (excluding debt issuance costs). The following table shows the sensitivity of net debt costs to changes in interest rates, before hedging instruments: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Impact on proﬁt Impact on equity Impact on proﬁt Impact on equity (in € millions) before tax before tax before tax before tax Impact of a 100-bps increase in interest rates 8.1 8.1 6.4 6.4 Impact of a 100-bps decrease in interest rates (10.9) (10.9) (6.9) (6.9) The impact of a 100-basis point increase in interest rates would “Natural” hedges are preferred, in particular by balancing result in a gain of €8.1 million due to a net positive variable-rate the breakdown by currency of net debt with the breakdown by exposure. Conversely, the impact of a 100-basis point decrease in currency of operating proﬁt. If required, when the acquisition of interest rates would result in a loss of €10.9 million. an asset is ﬁnanced using a currency other than the functional currency of the country concerned, the Group may enter into 5.1.2.2 Foreign currency risk forward contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. The Group operates in international markets and is therefore As of December 31, 2016 the Group has set up forward contracts exposed to risks through its use of several different currencies. in US dollars, British pounds, and Canadian dollars which are accounted for in the balance sheet at their fair value. The following table shows the breakdown of net debt (excluding debt issuance costs) by reporting currency: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Financial Financial Net exposure Net exposure Net exposure (in € millions) assets* liabilities** before hedging Hedging after hedging after hedging Euro 601.5 (1,501.3) (899.8) 237.6 (662.2) (763.9) US dollar 28.9 (374.6) (345.7) (115.1) (460.8) (182.8) Other currencies 309.7 (27.8) 281.9 (122.5) 159.4 135.0 TOTAL 940.1 (1,903.7) (963.6) 0.0 (963.6) (811.7) * Financial assets: cash and marketable securities. ** Financial liabilities: borrowings (excluding debt issuance costs). 254 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 The following table shows the sensitivity of gross debt to changes in the exchange rate of the euro against other currencies, before hedging instruments: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Impact on proﬁt Impact on equity Impact on proﬁt Impact on equity before tax before tax before tax before tax (in € millions) 10% increase 10% increase US dollar 0.0 37.0 0.2 35.9 Other currencies 0.2 2.6 2.7 7.1 December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Impact on proﬁt Impact on equity Impact on proﬁt Impact on equity before tax before tax before tax before tax (in € millions) 10% decrease 10% decrease US dollar (0.0) (33.6) (0.2) (32.6) Other currencies (0.2) (2.3) (2.4) (6.5) Operating assets and liabilities break down as follows by reporting currency: December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Current Current operating assets operating liabilities Net Net (in € millions) excluding taxes excluding taxes exposure exposure Euro 410.7 574.6 (163.9) (147.8) US dollar 356.9 221.9 135.0 147.5 Other currencies 632.0 390.4 241.6 258.6 TOTAL 1,399.6 1,186.9 212.7 258.3 The table below presents the breakdown of net sales and operating expenses by reporting currency as of December 31, 2016: (in € millions) Net sales Operating expenses Euro 1,884.5 37.6% (1,465.9) 35.9% US dollar 1,492.2 29.7% (1,255.0) 30.7% Other currencies 1,642.2 32.7% (1,364.0) 33.4% 08 TOTAL 5,018.9 100.0% (4,084.9) 100.0% As shown in the above table, natural hedges are also set up by resulted in 2016 in an increase in net revenue of approximately matching costs and revenues in each of the Group’s operating €313.4 million (€293.3 million in 2015) and an increase in currencies. operating proﬁt of approximately €51.5 million (€48.4 million in 2015). Residual amounts are hedged by options to limit the Group’s exposure to ﬂuctuations in the main currencies concerned. These 5.1.2.3 Commodity risk hedges are for periods of less than 18 months. The Group is exposed to commodity risk arising from changes in The Group estimates that, all other things being equal, a 10% the price of raw materials. Raw materials consumption (except increase in the exchange rate of the euro against all other components) amounted to around €432.0 million in 2016. currencies would have resulted in 2016 in a decrease in net revenue of approximately €284.9 million (€266.6 million in 2015) A 10% increase in the price of the above-mentioned consumption and a decrease in operating proﬁt of approximately €46.9 million would theoretically feed through to around a €43.2 million (€44.0 million in 2015), while a 10% decrease would have increase in annual purchasing costs. The Group believes that it REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 255 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 could, circumstances permitting, raise the prices of its products 5.1.2.5 Counterparty risk in the short term to offset the overall adverse impact of any such Financial instruments that may potentially expose the Group to increases. counterparty risk are principally cash equivalents, short-term Additionally, the Group can set up speciﬁc derivative ﬁnancial investments and hedging instruments. These assets are placed instruments (options) for limited amounts and periods to hedge with well-rated ﬁnancial institutions or corporates with the aim part of the risk of an unfavorable change in copper and certain of fragmenting the exposure to these counterparties. Those other raw material prices. The Group did not set up any such strategies are decided and monitored by the Corporate Finance hedging contracts in 2016. Department, which ensures a weekly follow up of ratings and credit default swap rates of these main counterparties. 5.1.2.4 Credit risk As explained in Note 2.1, a substantial portion of Group revenue 5.1.2.6 Liquidity risk is generated with two major distributors. Other revenue is The Group considers that managing liquidity risk depends essentially derived from distributors of electrical products but primarily on having access to diversiﬁed sources of ﬁnancing as sales are diversiﬁed due to the large number of customers and to their origin and maturity. This approach represents the basis of their geographic dispersion. The Group actively manages its credit the Group’s ﬁnancing policy. risk by establishing regularly reviewed individual credit limits for The total amount of net debt (€957.0 million as of December 31, each customer, constantly monitoring collection of its outstanding 2016) is fully ﬁnanced by ﬁnancing facilities expiring at the receivables and systematically chasing up past due receivables. earliest in 2017 and at the latest in 2027. The average maturity of In addition, the situation is reviewed regularly with the Corporate gross debt is 5.5 years. Finance Department. When the Group is in a position to do so, it can resort to either credit insurance or factoring. Legrand is rated AStable Outlook by Standard & Poor’s, attesting to the strength of the Group’s business model and balance sheet. Rating agency Long-term debt Outlook S&P AStable 5.2 RELATED-PARTY INFORMATION The only individuals qualifying as related parties within the meaning of IAS 24 are the corporate officers who serve on the Executive Committee. Compensation and beneﬁts provided to the members of the Executive Committee for their services are detailed in the following table: 12 months ended (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Compensation (amounts paid during the period) Fixed compensation 3.7 3.9 Variable compensation 2.7 2.0 (1) Other short-term beneﬁts 0.1 0.1 Pension and other post-employment beneﬁts(2) (11.8) (8.3) Other long-term beneﬁts (charge for the period)(3) 2.0 4.3 Termination beneﬁts (charge for the period) 0.0 0.0 Share-based payments (charge for the period)(4) 2.3 0.8 (1) Other short-term beneﬁts include beneﬁts in kind. (2) Change in the obligation’s present value (in accordance with IAS 19). (3) As per the long-term employee beneﬁt plans described in Note 4.5.2. (4) As per the performance share plans described in Note 4.2.1. 256 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 5.3 OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES 5.3.1 Specific transactions Speciﬁc commitments and their expiry dates are discussed in the following notes: W Note 3.3: Property, plant and equipment; W Note 4.5.1: Pension and other post-employment beneﬁt obligations. 5.3.2 Routine transactions 5.3.2.1 Financial guarantees (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Guarantees given to banks 163.3 164.3 Guarantees given to other organizations 56.0 59.9 TOTAL 219.3 224.2 Most of these guarantees are given by the Company to banks for Group subsidiaries located outside of France. 5.3.2.2 Operating leases The Group uses certain facilities under lease agreements and leases certain equipment. There are no special restrictions related to these operating leases. Future minimum rental commitments under leases are detailed below: (in € millions) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Due within one year 49.0 45.4 Due in one to two years 42.8 38.9 Due in two to three years 31.4 30.5 Due in three to four years 25.1 21.9 Due in four to ﬁve years 20.3 17.1 Due beyond ﬁve years 34.8 36.2 TOTAL 203.4 190.0 5.3.2.3 Commitments to purchase property, plant management, all such matters have been adequately provided and equipment for or are without merit, and are of such nature that, should the outcome nevertheless be unfavorable to the Group, they should Commitments to purchase property, plant and equipment amounted to €12.4 million as of December 31, 2016. not have a material adverse effect on the Group’s consolidated ﬁnancial position or results of operations. 08 5.3.3 Contingent liabilities The Group is involved in a number of claims and legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business. In the opinion of REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 257 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 5.4 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES The total amount of the Company’s statutory auditors’ fees included in the Group’s consolidated statement of income in 2016 can be detailed as follows: (in euros excluding taxes) PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit SAS Deloitte & Associés Statutory audit and certiﬁcation 494,084 88% 488,017 87% Other work than statutory audit and certiﬁcation 66,486 12% 70,000 13% TOTAL 560,570 100% 558,017 100% 5.5 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS On February 1, 2017, the Group announced the acquisition of OCL, specialized in architectural lighting solutions for commercial and highend residential buildings in the United States. OCL reports annual sales of about $15 million. 258 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in accordance with IFRS for the year ended December 31, 2016 8.2 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS IN ACCORDANCE WITH IFRS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information speciﬁcally required by French law in such reports, whether modiﬁed or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain signiﬁcant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, or disclosures. This report also includes information relating to the speciﬁc veriﬁcation of information given in the Group’s management report. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meetings, we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2016, on: W the audit of the accompanying consolidated ﬁnancial statements of Legrand; W the justiﬁcation of our assessments; W the speciﬁc veriﬁcation required by law. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated ﬁnancial statements based on our audit. R I. OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France; those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the ﬁnancial position of the Group as at December 31, 2016 and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. R II. JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of article L. 823-9 of the French commercial code (Code de commerce) relating to the justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: Goodwill and intangible assets represent respectively € 3.121,9 million and € 1.880,0 million of the total consolidated assets of your 08 Company and have been recorded as a result of the acquisition of Legrand France in 2002 and of other subsidiaries since 2005. As mentioned in notes 3.1 and 3.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, your Company performs, each year, an impairment test of the value of goodwill and intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives; and assesses whether changes or circumstances relating to long term assets, which could lead to an impairment loss, have occurred during the year. We have reviewed the methods by which the impairment tests are performed as well as the projected cash ﬂow and assumptions used for these impairment tests and veriﬁed that information disclosed in notes 3.1 and 3.2 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements is appropriate. These assessments were made as part of our audit of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. R III. SPECIFIC VERIFICATION As required by law, we also veriﬁed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the information presented in the Group’s management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 8, 2017 The Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Deloitte & Associés Edouard Sattler Jean-François Viat REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 259 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Statutory auditors’ fees 8.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ FEES PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Deloitte & Associés Amount in Euros Amount in Euros (excluding taxes) % (excluding taxes) % 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Audit services Statutory audit, certiﬁcation and review of the parent company and consolidated ﬁnancial statements 1,793,610 1,798,267 58% 65% 2,321,139 2,051,394 82% 72% Of which W Issuer 273,948 273,948 9% 10% 273,948 273,948 10% 10% W Fully consolidated subsidiaries 1,519,662 1,524,319 49% 55% 2,047,191 1,777,446 72% 62% Other work and services directly related to the audit assignment* 263,832 337,881 8% 12% 448,411 756,894 16% 26% Of which W Issuer 0 15,000 0% 1% 65,800 65,800 2% 2% W Fully consolidated subsidiaries 263,832 322,881 8% 12% 382,611 691,094 14% 24% SUB-TOTAL, AUDIT 2,057,442 2,136,148 66% 77% 2,769,550 2,808,288 98% 98% Other services provided by networks to fully consolidated subsidiaries Legal, tax, social security 975,372 630,315 31% 23% 53,448 49,512 2% 2% Other 78,500 0 3% 0% 0 0 0% 0% SUB-TOTAL, OTHER 1,053,872 630,315 34% 23% 53,448 49,512 2% 2% TOTAL 3,111,314 2,766,463 100% 100% 2,822,998 2,857,800 100% 100% * These services mainly correspond to work conducted in the course of certain acquisitions. 260 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Legal proceedings and arbitration 8.4 DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTION POLICY The Company may decide to distribute dividends at the W the interests of the Company’s shareholders; recommendation of the Board of Directors and following a decision W the general conditions of the Company’s operations; and; of its shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders. However, the Company is under no obligation to distribute dividends W any other factor that the Company’s Board of Directors deems and the decision on whether or not to recommend the distribution relevant. of a dividend and the amount of that dividend will depend on: Notwithstanding the factors listed above, there is no formula for W the Company’s results and cash ﬂows; determining the amount of dividend to be distributed. In addition, the French Commercial Code and the Company’s Articles of W the Company’s ﬁnancial position; Association limit the Company’s right to distribute dividends in W the Company’s forecasts; certain circumstances. Dividends distributed in respect of the ﬁnancial years 2013, 2014 and 2015 were as follows: Earnings distributed per share Eligible for the 40% income tax Not eligible for the 40% income exemption mentioned at sub tax exemption mentioned at Number of shares paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 of sub paragraph 2 of paragraph 3 Financial year entitled to dividends Dividend per share article 158 of the French Tax Code of article 158 of the Tax Code* 265,956,606 shares with a par 2013 value of €4 €1.05 €1.05 €0 266,480,956 shares with a par 2014 value of €4 €1.10* €0.93 €0 267,006,775 shares with a par 2015 value of €4 €1.15** €0.72 €0 * Since part of €0.17 of the dividend distributed for the ﬁnancial year 2014 has the ﬁscal form of a repayment of paid-in capital as deﬁned by article 112(1) of the French Tax Code, this sum is not considered as distributed income for tax purposes. ** Since part of €0.43 of the dividend distributed for the ﬁnancial year 2015 has the ﬁscal form of a repayment of paid-in capital as deﬁned by article 112(1) of the French Tax Code, this sum is not considered as distributed income for tax purposes. Subject to the approval by the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 31, 2017, the Company will distribute a dividend of €1.19 per share(1) for the 2016 ﬁnancial year, on June 6, 2017. 8.5 LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND ARBITRATION 08 With regard to the environment, and mainly due to the prior Legrand is also involved in various other legal proceedings operations of the Group or of companies taken over by the Group, related to the day-to-day running of its operations. The Group Legrand is the subject of a number of disputes similar to those does not expect the outcome of these proceedings to have a affecting other industrial groups operating in the manufacturing material adverse impact on its business, ﬁnancial position or industry. These include complaints and requests for remedial cash ﬂows, either individually or in aggregate. action for groundwater and soil pollution related to emissions The Company is not aware of any government, legal or arbitration and the discharge of hazardous substances and waste. New proceedings (or any proceedings of which the Company is aware information or future developments, such as amendments that are pending or threatened) during the last twelve months that to the law (or to its interpretation), environmental conditions, have recently had or are likely to have a material impact on the or Legrand’s operations could, however, result in increased ﬁnancial position or proﬁtability of the Company and/or Group. environmental costs and liabilities which could have a material impact on Legrand’s results or ﬁnancial position. (1) For more information on the makeup of the dividend, please refer to resolution 3 of the draft resolutions and to the related explanatory statement in annex 4 of this document. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 261 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Material changes in the company’s ﬁnancial or trading position 8.6 MATERIAL CHANGES IN THE COMPANY’S FINANCIAL OR TRADING POSITION At the date of publication of this Registration Document, there position since the publication of the 2016 annual ﬁnancial have been no material changes in Legrand’s ﬁnancial or trading statements. 8.7 MATERIAL AGREEMENTS To the Group’s knowledge, other than the agreements entered However, under certain agreements, signiﬁcant commitments into in the normal course of business, including those relative to and guarantees have been granted by Legrand or its subsidiaries. acquisitions, disposals or ﬁnancing operations mentioned in this Thus, in its current operations, the Group is committed to the Registration Document (for example, the amended 2011 credit payment of rents spread over several years, under the terms facility described in Note 4.6.1.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial of operating leases amounting to a total of €203.4 million at statements mentioned in chapter 8 of this Registration Document), December 31, 2016. All these off-balance sheet commitments are there are no other material agreements signed by the companies set out in note 5.3 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements in this in the Group in the two years preceding the date of this document, Registration Document. still in force on that date, and which include terms giving rise to an obligation or commitment that could have a material impact on the Group’s business, ﬁnancial position or cash ﬂow. 8.8 INVESTMENTS 8.8.1 Capital expenditure and capitalized development costs Capital expenditure and capitalized development costs totaled (2.8% in 2015 and 2014). See sections 5.5.1.2 and 5.6 of this €160.9 million in 2016 (€133.4 million in 2015 and €125.3 million Registration Document for further details on these items. in 2014), representing 3.2% of the Group’s consolidated sales 262 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Investments 8.8.2 Investments in equity interests: the Group’s primary acquisitions R 8.8.2.1 THE GROUP’S PRIMARY ACQUISITIONS IN 2016 R 8.8.2.2 THE GROUP’S PRIMARY ACQUISITIONS IN 2015 AND 2014 Acquisitions are one of the Group’s two growth drivers. In 2016, During the 2015 ﬁnancial year, Legrand made the following four Legrand therefore announced eight new acquisitions with total acquisitions: annual sales of more than €170 million: W Legrand strengthened its international presence in the area W the Group acquired Fluxpower in Germany and Primetech in of digital infrastructure with the acquisitions of Raritan Inc. Italy, both specializing in UPSs. These two companies have (acquired sales of about US$114 million) a leading North combined annual sales of close to €9 million; American player in the smart PDU(1) and KVM(2) switch segment, and of Valrack (acquired sales of less than €10 million), an W the Group acquired Pinnacle Architectural Lighting, a leading Indian player specialized in racks, VDI cabinets and related supplier of architectural lighting solutions for commercial products for data centers; buildings in the United States. Pinnacle Architectural Lighting has annual sales of about $105 million; W the Group also continued its development in the high-potential energy efficiency market with the acquisition of the IME group W the Group acquired Luxul Wireless, America’s leading supplier (acquired sales of about €23 million), a leading Italian player of audio/video infrastructure products for residential buildings and European specialist in the measurement of the parameters and small and medium-sized commercial buildings. Luxul of electrical systems; and Wireless has annual sales of more than $20 million; W the Group acquired Jontek, specializing in management W Legrand complemented its lighting control offering in the United States with the acquisition of QMotion (acquired sales solutions for assisted living platforms in the UK. Jontek has of about US$16 million), a specialist in lighting control for annual sales of about £3 million; residential buildings. W the Group took an 80% stake in Trias, an Indonesian specialist During the 2014 ﬁnancial year, Legrand made three acquisitions. in cable management and distribution cabinets. Trias has Below are extracts from related press releases: annual sales of about €6 million; W the Group acquired CP Electronics, the market leader in energyW Lastar Inc., a market leader in pre-terminated solutions for Voice-Data-Image (VDI) and audio-video (A/V) networks in the efficient lighting control in the UK. CP Electronics has annual United States. With facilities based primarily in the United sales of about £24 million; States and in China, Lastar Inc. has annual sales of around W the Group acquired Solarfective, the Canadian specialist $130 million; in natural lighting management for commercial buildings. Solarfective has annual sales of about €13 million. W Neat, Spain’s leader in assisted living systems and a major player in this market in Europe. Based in Madrid, Neat generates annual sales of more than €15 million; W SJ Manufacturing, Singapore’s leading manufacturer of racks, Voice-Data-Image cabinets and related products for data centers. SJ Manufacturing’s annual sales total approximately €10 million. 08 (1) PDU: Power Distribution Unit. (2) KVM: a KVM switch makes it possible to control several computers from a single screen console, keyboard or mouse. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 263 08 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE GROUP’S ASSETS, LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND RESULTS Investments 8.8.3 The Group’s primary acquisitions in 2017 and principal investments in process In 2017, the Group plans to continue its value-driving strategy of targeted growth through acquisitions and, as at the date of publication of this Registration Document, has already acquired OCL, specializing in architectural lighting management solutions for commercial and luxury residential buildings in the United States. OCL has annual sales of about $15 million. 264 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 09 9.1 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 266 9.1.1 Company’s name 266 9.1.2 Place of registration and registration number 266 9.1.3 Date and duration of incorporation 266 9.1.4 Registered office 266 9.1.5 Legal form and applicable law 266 9.1.6 Simpliﬁed organizational chart 267 9.1.7 Subsidiaries 267 9.2 SHARE CAPITAL 269 9.2.1 Subscribed share capital and share capital authorized but not issued 269 9.2.2 Acquisition by the Company of its own shares 271 9.2.3 Other securities convertible to equity 271 9.2.4 Changes in share capital 272 9.2.5 Pledges, guarantees and security interests 273 9.2.6 Number of voting rights 273 9.3 MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 274 9.3.1 Corporate purpose 274 9.3.2 Administration and management 274 9.3.3 Rights, privileges and restrictions attached to shares 274 9.3.4 Amendment of the rights attached to shares 275 9.3.5 Shareholders’ General Meeting 275 9.3.6 Provisions of a nature to delay, defer, or prevent a change of control 276 9.3.7 Crossing of statutory thresholds 276 9.3.8 Changes to the share capital 276 9.4 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND STATUTORY AUDITORS 277 9.4.1 Person responsible for the registration document 277 9.4.2 Statutory auditors 278 9.4.3 Financial information 279 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 265 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Information about the Company 9.1 INFORMATION ABOUT THE COMPANY 9.1.1 Company’s name The Company’s name is “Legrand”. 9.1.2 Place of registration and registration number The Company is registered in the Registre du commerce et des sociétés de Limoges (Limoges Trade and Companies Register) under number 421 259 615. 9.1.3 Date and duration of incorporation The Company was initially incorporated on December 22, 1998 in the form of a société anonyme (French stock corporation). It was transformed into a société par actions simpliﬁée (French simpliﬁed stock corporation) by an Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on December 5, 2001. The Company was transformed again into a société anonyme by unanimous decision of the shareholders on November 4, 2002. The Company’s life has been extended until February 24, 2105, unless the Company is dissolved early, or this term is once again extended. 9.1.4 Registered office The Company’s registered office is at 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny, 87000 Limoges, France. The telephone number of the registered office is +33 (0)5 55 06 87 87. 9.1.5 Legal form and applicable law The Company is a société anonyme with a Board of Directors. The Company is mainly governed by the provisions of Book II of the French Commercial Code. 266 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Information about the Company 9.1.6 Simpliﬁed organizational chart Legrand (France) 100% Legrand France (France) 96% 100% Legrand Legrand SNC Nederland BV Other operating Other operating (France) (Netherlands) subsidiaries subsidiaries located in the located in the 100% 25% Rest of Europe Rest of the World 75% Other operating Bticino SpA PB Finelectric BV subsidiaries (Italy) (Netherlands) located in France 100% Legrand Holding Inc. (Delaware, United States) Other operating 100% subsidiaries located in the Rest of Europe Pass & Seymour Inc. and the Rest (New-York, United States) of the World 45% Bticino de Mexico 55% Inversiones GL SA de CV Limitada (Mexico) (Chile) 09 9.1.7 Subsidiaries The Group is made up of the Company and the 191 subsidiaries The Company is the parent company of the Legrand Group. Its that it controls; the main subsidiaries are mentioned in the main business consists in providing general management and consolidated ﬁnancial statements presented in chapter 8 ﬁnancial services to manage the Group’s operations. Please see (Note 1.3.1) of this Registration Document. All Legrand Group (i) section 7.4 of this Registration Document for a description of subsidiaries are fully consolidated. related party transactions, and (ii) the Management Report in Appendix 2 below for the list of offices held by the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in the Group’s subsidiaries. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 267 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Information about the Company The payment of dividends by Legrand’s main subsidiaries is decided by their respective general meetings of shareholders, R LEGRAND HOLDING INC. (UNITED STATES) Legrand Holding Inc. is incorporated under US law, registered in and is subject to the local laws and regulations applicable to them. At the date of this Registration Document, Legrand had not Delaware and has its registered offices at 60 Woodlawn Street, identiﬁed any restrictions that would signiﬁcantly limit its access West Hartford, CT 06110. The primary purpose of Legrand to its subsidiaries’ cash ﬂows, or to the payment of the dividends Holding Inc. is to take equity stakes in other companies. Legrand distributed by the same. Holding Inc. was formed on July 18, 1984 and entered the Group’s scope of consolidation on October 31, 1984. Legrand Holding Inc. The main subsidiaries that hold interests in the Group are: is wholly owned by PB Finelectric BV. R BTICINO DE MEXICO SA DE CV (MEXICO) Bticino de Mexico SA de CV is a variable capital joint stock R LEGRAND NEDERLAND BV (NETHERLANDS) Legrand Nederland BV is a simpliﬁed joint stock company formed company formed under Mexican law, with its registered office under Dutch law, with its registered office at Van Salmstraat 76, at Carretera 57, Qro a S.L.P Km 22.7, Santa Rosa de Jauregui, 5281 RS Boxtel. The primary purpose of Legrand Nederland BV 76220 Queretaro. The primary purpose of Bticino de Mexico SA is the manufacture and marketing of metal cable trays. Legrand de CV is the design, manufacture and marketing of electrical Nederland BV was formed and entered the Group’s scope of products and systems. Bticino de Mexico SA de CV was formed on consolidation on December 27, 1972. Legrand Nederland BV is January 30, 1952 and entered the Group’s scope of consolidation wholly owned by Legrand France. on August 15, 1989. Bticino de Mexico SA de CV is 45% owned by Bticino SpA and 55% owned by Inversiones GL Limitada. R LEGRAND SNC (FRANCE) R BTICINO SPA (ITALY) Bticino SpA is a joint stock company formed under Italian law, Legrand SNC is a general partnership formed under French law, registered in the Registre du commerce et des sociétés (Commercial Register) of Limoges under number 389 290 586, with its registered office at Viale Borri 231, 21100 Varese. The and has its registered office at 128 avenue du Maréchal de Lattre primary purpose of Bticino SpA is the design, manufacture de Tassigny, 87000 Limoges. The primary purpose of Legrand and marketing of electrical products and systems. Bticino SpA SNC is the marketing and distribution of Legrand brand products. entered the Group’s scope on July 1, 1989 and is wholly owned by Legrand SNC was formed and entered the Group’s scope of Legrand Nederland BV. consolidation on December 8, 1992. Legrand SNC is 96% owned by Legrand France; the remainder is held by three of the Group’s French companies. R INVERSIONES GL LIMITADA (CHILE) Inversiones GL Limitada is a limited liability company formed under Chilean law, with its registered office at Avenida Vicuña Mackenna 1292, Nuñoa, Santiago. The primary purpose of R PASS & SEYMOUR INC. (UNITED STATES) Pass & Seymour Inc. is incorporated under United States law, Inversiones GL Limitada is to take equity stakes in other registered in New York and has its registered offices at 50 Boyd companies. Inversiones GL Limitada was formed and entered the Avenue, Syracuse, NY 13221. The primary purpose of Pass Group’s scope of consolidation on December 26, 2001. Inversiones & Seymour Inc. is the design, manufacture and marketing of GL Limitada is owned by two Chilean companies. electrical wiring devices. Pass & Seymour Inc. was formed on July 23, 1984 and entered the Group’s scope on October 31, 1984. Pass & Seymour Inc. is wholly owned by Legrand Holding Inc. R LEGRAND FRANCE (FRANCE) Formerly known as Legrand SA, Legrand France is the Group’s In addition, Pass & Seymour holds equity stakes in other Group operating companies located in the United States. main operating subsidiary in France. Legrand France is a société anonyme under French law, registered in the Trade and Companies Register of Limoges under number 758 501 001, and has its registered office at 128 avenue du Maréchal de Lattre R PB FINELECTRIC BV (NETHERLANDS) PB Finelectric BV is a simpliﬁed joint stock company formed de Tassigny, 87000 Limoges. The primary purpose of Legrand under Dutch law, with its registered office at Van Salmstraat France is the design and manufacture of products and systems 76, 5281 RS Boxtel. The primary purpose of PB Finelectric BV for electrical installations and their components. Legrand is to take equity stakes in other companies. PB Finelectric BV France was formed on July 21, 1953, and is wholly owned by the was formed and entered the Group’s scope of consolidation on Company. Legrand France holds interests in some of the Group’s December 19, 1991. PB Finelectric BV is 75% owned by Bticino other operating companies, located in France, the rest of Europe SpA with the remaining 25% held by Legrand France. and the rest of the world. 268 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share Capital 9.2 SHARE CAPITAL Unless otherwise indicated, the information presented in this section is dated December 31, 2016. 9.2.1 Subscribed share capital and share capital authorized but not issued Taking into account the number of shares as at December 31, 2016, The shares may be held in registered or bearer form, at the the Company’s share capital amounts to €1,069,309,496, divided option of the shareholder. They may be registered on individual into 267,327,374 shares with a par value of €4 each. shareholder accounts in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. The Company’s shares are fully paid up and all of the same class. R 9.2.1.1 DELEGATIONS AND FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS CURRENTLY IN FORCE At the date of this Registration Document, the Company’s Board of Directors was granted the following ﬁnancial authorizations by the shareholders at the General Meetings of Shareholders: Authorizations and delegations Duration Use of the delegation granted by the General Meeting of the delegation Terms and conditions during the 2016 of Shareholders Expiry date of the delegation ﬁnancial year General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016 Authorization for the purpose 18 months Limit: 10% of the share capital at May 27, 2016 €104,603,462 of allowing the Company to trade November 27, Maximum amount allocated: €1,000 million its own shares (resolution 11) 2017 Maximum purchase price per share: €75 Authorization to reduce the share 18 months Limit: 10% of the share capital at May 27, 2016, per period of None capital by cancellation of shares November 27, 24 months (resolution 12) 2017 Authorization for the free 38 months Limit: 1.5% of the share capital at the date of the allotment decision None allotment of existing or new July 27, 2019 shares to employees and/or corporate officers (resolution 13) Issues of shares or complex 26 months Total nominal amount of capital increases pursuant to this None securities, with shareholders’ July 27, 2018 delegation: may not exceed €200 million (this amount is included in preemptive rights the overall nominal limit for capital increases through the issuance (resolution 14) of shares or securities convertible to equity of €200 million (the “Overall Capital Increase Limit”) Overall nominal amount of bonds and other debt securities likely to be issued pursuant to this delegation: may not exceed €2 billion Issues, by public offering, of 26 months (this amount is included in the overall nominal limit for debt securities of €2 billion (the “Overall Debt Securities Limit”) Total nominal amount of capital increases pursuant to this None 09 shares or complex securities, July 27, 2018 delegation: may not exceed €100 million (this nominal amount is without shareholders’ included in the nominal limit of €100 million set by Resolution 16 preemptive rights and in the Overall Capital Increase Limit) (resolution 15) Total nominal amount of debt securities (including bonds) issued pursuant to this delegation: may not exceed €1 billion (this amount is included in the limit of €1 billion set by Resolution 16 and in the Overall Debt Securities Limit) REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 269 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share Capital Authorizations and delegations Duration Use of the delegation granted by the General Meeting of the delegation during the 2016 of Shareholders Expiry date Terms and conditions of the delegation ﬁnancial year Issue, by means of an offer 26 months Total nominal amount of capital increases pursuant to this None within the scope of article July 27, 2018 delegation: may not exceed €100 million or the legal limit, i.e. 20% L. 411-2 II of the French Monetary of the Company’s share capital (this nominal amount is included in and Financial Code (private the nominal limit of €100 million set by Resolution 15 and in the placement), of shares or complex Overall Capital Increase Limit) securities, without shareholders’ Total nominal amount of debt securities (including bonds) issued preemptive rights (resolution 16) pursuant to this delegation: may not exceed €1 billion (this total nominal amount is included in the limit of €1 billion set by Resolution 15 and in the Overall Debt Securities Limit) Increase in the issue amounts, 26 months Deadline: within thirty days from the closing date for subscriptions None with or without shareholders’ July 27, 2018 Limit: 15% of the initial offering preemptive rights in the event of Price: same price as that determined for the initial offering excess demand (resolution 17) Compliance with the upper limits applicable to each type of issue decided pursuant to Resolutions 14, 15 or 16 Capital increase through 26 months Total nominal amount of capital increases pursuant to this None incorporation of reserves, July 27, 2018 delegation: may not exceed €100 million, it being noted that this proﬁts, premiums or other items limit is independent of any of the other limits on issuance of shares (resolution 18) and other securities pursuant to delegations or authorizations conferred by the General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016 Issue of shares or complex 26 months Total nominal amount of capital increases pursuant to this None securities for members of a July 27, 2018 delegation: may not exceed €25 million (this amount is included in Company or Group employee the nominal limit of €100 million set by Resolutions 15 and 16 and share-ownership program, in the Overall Capital Increase Limit) without shareholders’ preemptive rights (resolution 19) Issue of shares or complex 26 months 5% of the share capital at the issue date None securities as consideration July 27, 2018 Total nominal amount of capital increases pursuant to this for contributions in kind to the delegation: included in the nominal limit of €100 million set by Company without shareholders’ Resolutions 15 and 16 and in the Overall Capital Increase Limit preemptive rights (resolution 20) Total nominal amount of debt securities issued pursuant to this delegation: may not exceed €1 billion (this total nominal amount is included in the limit of €1 billion set by Resolutions 15 and 16 and in the Overall Debt Securities Limit) R 9.2.1.2 DELEGATIONS AND FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS SUBMITTED TO THE COMBINED ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 31, 2017 At the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 31, 2017, shareholders will be asked to renew the following authorizations and ﬁnancial delegations (see the draft resolutions in Appendix 4 of this Registration Document): Terms and conditions of the delegation Authorization/delegation Duration and expiration date Maximum nominal amount Limit: 10% of the share capital at May 31, 2017 Authorization for the purpose of allowing the 18 months Maximum amount allocated: €1,000 million Company to trade its own shares (Resolution 9) November 30, 2018 Maximum purchase price per share: €75 Authorization for the purpose of reducing the share 18 months Limit: 10% of the share capital at May 31, 2017 capital by cancellation of shares (Resolution 10) November 30, 2018 per period of 24 months 270 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share Capital 9.2.2 Acquisition by the Company of its own shares R 9.2.2.1 CURRENT SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM Use of the authorization granted at the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016 The Company implemented a share buyback program pursuant to the authorization described below and granted to the Board of Directors at the General Meeting of Shareholders on May 27, 2016: Duration of authorization Maximum amount Transaction and expiration date (in millions of euros) Maximum number of shares 18 months 10% of the Company’s share Share buyback program (resolution 11) November 27, 2017 1,000 capital at May 27, 2016 The Company purchased a certain number of its shares pursuant At December 31, 2016, the Company held 1,365,561 shares with to this share buyback program and previous programs. a par value of €4 each, for a total of €5,462,244, or 0.51% of its share capital. Assessed at the purchase price, the total value of During 2016, the Company purchased a total of 1,637,926 shares these shares is €65,976,114. at a total cost of €79,976,133 (€37,959,793 under the share buyback program implemented pursuant to the authorization granted by the Board of Directors at the General Meeting of Description of the current share buyback program Shareholders on May 29, 2015, and €42,016,340 under the share The full description of the current share buyback program is buyback program implemented pursuant to the authorization available on the Company’s website (www.legrand.com). granted to the Board of Directors at the General Meeting of Shareholders on May 27, 2016), and sold 1,639,143 shares for a total of €81,335,736, under the liquidity agreement entered into with Kepler Cheuvreux on May 29, 2007. The terms of this R 9.2.2.2 NEW SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM TO BE SUBMITTED FOR APPROVAL agreement comply with the Charter of Ethics adopted by the AT THE GENERAL MEETING Association Française des Marchés Financiers (AMAFI) as approved OF SHAREHOLDERS by the French Financial Markets Authority (AMF) in its decision of The draft resolutions adopted by the Company’s Board of March 22, 2005. Directors on March 15, 2017 for submission to shareholders at At December 31, 2016, the balance on the liquidity agreement the General Meeting of Shareholders on May 31, 2017 provide for stood at 60,433 shares. the renewal of the authorization for the share buyback program, subject to a limit of 10% of the share capital and a total amount of Excluding the liquidity agreement, the Company bought back €1,000 million, with a maximum purchase price of €75 per share. 1,762,290 shares at a cost of €83,150,500, with trading costs of €252,926. Draft resolutions are listed in Appendix 4 to this Registration Document. The Company transferred 547,186 shares to employees under performance share plans. 9.2.3 Other securities convertible to equity 09 At the date of registration of this Registration Document, there are no securities other than shares providing access to the Company’s share capital. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 271 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share Capital 9.2.4 Changes in share capital In 2016, the Company’s share capital increased by a total nominal amount of €1,587,088 by the issue of 396,772 shares following the exercise of options for the subscription of shares. Changes in the share capital since the Company’s incorporation are summarized in the table below: Date of Board/ Number of Nominal Issue Nominal General shares issued/ value premium Share capital Number of value Transaction Meeting cancelled (in euros) (in euros) (in euros) shares (in euros) Incorporation 12/22/1998 40,000 40,000 0 40,000 40,000 1 Capital increase 12/08/2002 759,310,900 759,310,900 0 759,350,900 759,350,900 1 Reverse split, increase in nominal value, and reduction in the number of shares 02/24/2006 569,513,175 0 0 759,350,900 189,837,725 4 Capital increase by way of a public offering 04/11/2006 43,689,298 174,757,192 688,106,444 934,108,092 233,527,023 4 Capital increase reserved for GP Financière New Sub 1 04/11/2006 33,862,914 135,451,656 533,340,895 1,069,559,748 267,389,937 4 (1) Capital increase reserved for employees 05/02/2006 2,303,439 9,213,756 36,279,164 1,078,773,504 269,693,376 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 11/07/2007 1,282,363 5,129,452 0 1,083,902,956 270,975,739 4 Cancellation of shares 03/05/2008 9,138,395 36,553,580 (188,280,771) 1,047,349,376 261,837,344 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 11/05/2008 977,784 3,911,136 0 1,051,260,512 262,815,128 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 05/05/2009 281,551 1,126,204 185,334 1,052,386,716 263,096,679 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 05/05/2010 57,916 231,664 92,665 1,052,618,380 263,154,595 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/09/2011 6,751 27,004 107,568 1,052,645,384 263,161,346 4 Recognition of capital increase on acquisition of performance shares 03/30/2011 120,635 482,540 0 1,053,127,924 263,281,981 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/08/2012 107,014(2) 428,056 2,239,881 1,053,555,980 263,388,995 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/13/2013 985,880(3) 3,943,520 17,963,560 1,057,499,500 264,374,875 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/12/2014 1,215,642(4) 4,862,568 18,523,223 1,062,362,068 265,590,517 4 Cancellation of shares 05/27/2014 800,000 3,200,000 (34,262,266) 1,059,162,068 264,790,517 4 272 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share Capital Date of Board/ Number of Nominal Issue Nominal General shares issued/ value premium Share capital Number of value Transaction Meeting cancelled (in euros) (in euros) (in euros) shares (in euros) Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/11/2015 1,567,098(5) 6,268,392 27,316,941 1,065,430,460 266,357,615 4 Cancellation of shares 05/06/2015 400,000 1,600,000 (16,810,653) 1,063,830,460 265,957,615 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/10/2016 972,987(6) 3,891,948 16,181,903 1,067,722,408 266,930,602 4 Recognition of capital increase by issuance of shares resulting from the exercise of options for the subscription of shares 02/08/2017 396,772(7) 1,587,088 6,742,723 1,069,309,496 267,327,374 4 (1) The amount of the discount, i.e. €9.1 million, was recognized as other operating expenses in the ﬁnancial statements presented in accordance with IFRS. (2) These 107,014 new shares were actually issued in 2011 following the exercise of stock warrants, which explains why they are not included in the 985,880 shares issued in 2012, mentioned above. (3) These 985,880 new shares were actually issued in 2012 following the exercise of options for the subscription of shares. (4) These 1,215,642 new shares were actually issued in 2013 following the exercise of options for the subscription of shares. (5) These 1,567,098 new shares were actually issued in 2014 following the exercise of options for the subscription of shares. (6) These 972,987 new shares were actually issued in 2015 following the exercise of options for the subscription of shares. New issue premium of €45,030,719.46 was also distributed in 2015. (7) These 396,772 new shares were actually issued in 2016 following the exercise of options for the subscription of shares. New issue premium of €112,476,299.54 was also distributed in 2016. 9.2.5 Pledges, guarantees and security interests At the date this Registration Document was ﬁled, and to the Company’s knowledge, no pledges, guarantees, or security interests had been granted on the Company’s shares. 9.2.6 Number of voting rights At December 31, 2016, the Company’s share capital consisted of 267,327,374 shares corresponding to 267,327,374 theoretical voting rights and 265,961,813 exercisable voting rights, excluding treasury stock, which are stripped of voting rights. 09 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 273 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Memorandum and articles of association 9.3 MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION 9.3.1 Corporate purpose The Company’s direct or indirect corporate purpose in all W and, in general, all ﬁnancial, commercial, industrial, civil, real countries, as deﬁned in article 2 of the Articles of Association, is estate or movable asset transactions that may be directly or as follows: indirectly connected with the above corporate purpose, or with any similar or related purposes, or that are likely to support the W the purchase, subscription, disposal, holding, or contribution of goal pursued by the Company, its growth, its development, and shares or other securities in any company; its corporate assets, either directly or indirectly. W providing any services, particularly in connection with human resources, IT, management, communications, ﬁnance, legal affairs, marketing and purchasing to its subsidiaries and to companies in which it has a direct or indirect interest; 9.3.2 Administration and management For a description of the rules governing the composition, organization, and operation of the Company’s administrative and management bodies, please refer to chapter 6.1 of this Registration Document (Corporate governance). 9.3.3 Rights, privileges and restrictions attached to shares Company shares are freely negotiable and are transferred from Each share grants the right to ownership of the corporate assets, account to account in accordance with applicable legislation and to the distribution of proﬁts, and to the liquidation premium, regulations. subject to the creation of preferred shares. Subject to the applicable legal and regulatory provisions, each The shares are indivisible with regard to the Company, which only member of the General Meeting of Shareholders is entitled to the recognizes one owner for each share. Joint and several owners same number of votes as the number of shares that they own or are required to be represented to the Company by a single represent. In line with the option provided for under section 3 of representative. In the event of the division of share ownership, article L. 225-123 of the French Commercial Code, fully paid-up the voting rights attached to shares belong to the beneﬁciary shares that have been registered for at least two years in the at Ordinary General Meetings of Shareholders, and to the bare name of the same shareholder are not eligible for double voting owner at Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders. rights. The heirs, creditors, trustees, and assignees of a shareholder Where any new shares are not fully paid up on issuance, the may not place liens on the property or securities of the Company, payment calls, at the dates determined by the Board of Directors, nor request their division, nor interfere in the administration of will be made by way of notices inserted, two weeks prior to the Company in any way on any grounds whatsoever. the payment call, in one of the official gazettes published in In exercising their rights, they are required to refer to the the place where the registered office is located, or will be sent corporate records and to the decisions of the General Meeting of by registered mail with acknowledgment of receipt. Every Shareholders. payment on a subscribed share will be recorded by an entry on the registered account opened in the name of the subscriber. Whenever more than one share is required to exercise a particular All late payments shall automatically bear interest in favor of right, speciﬁcally in the event of the exchange or allocation of the Company, starting from the date payment was due, without securities as part of a transaction like a consolidation, or an formal notice or application to a court, at the legal interest rate, increase or decrease in the share capital, either on a cash basis notwithstanding any individual proceedings the Company may or via the incorporation of reserves, or of a merger or any other initiate against the defaulting shareholder, and the compulsory transaction, single shares or an amount of shares that is lower enforcement measures provided for in law. than the one required do not entitle their owner to any rights 274 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Memorandum and articles of association over the Company. In this case, shareholders shall take personal The Company monitors the breakdown of its shareholders under responsibility for purchasing, selling or assembling the number the conditions speciﬁed in law. In this respect, the Company may of shares or voting rights required. avail itself of all legal provisions providing for the identiﬁcation of the holders of shares conferring immediate or future voting rights at the Company’s Shareholder Meetings. 9.3.4 Amendment of the rights attached to shares Where the Company’s Article of Association do not speciﬁcally provide otherwise, any amendment of the rights attached to shares is subject to the provisions of applicable law. 9.3.5 Shareholders’ General Meeting R PARTICIPATION AT GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS R CONVENING OF GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS Subject to legal and regulatory restrictions, any shareholder General Meetings of Shareholders are convened in accordance has the right to attend General Meetings of Shareholders and to with the conditions laid down by law. Meetings are held at the participate in deliberations, either personally or through a proxy, registered office or at any other location in France or abroad, regardless of the number of shares held. speciﬁed in the notice of meeting. The right to attend General Meetings of Shareholders, in any form whatsoever, is conditional upon the accounting registration or book-entry transfer in the name of the shareholder or the authorized intermediary registered on his or her behalf, under R CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS the conditions and within the time limits provided for in current General Meetings of Shareholders are chaired by the Chairman legislation. of the Board of Directors or, in his or her absence, by the ViceChairman or by a Director speciﬁcally appointed for this purpose Any shareholder wishing to vote by post or by proxy must have by the Board of Directors. Otherwise, the Meeting elects its own ﬁled a proxy voting form, postal voting form or equivalent single Chairman. document at the registered office or at any other place indicated in the notice of meeting within the time limits and according to Any shareholder may, if the Board of Directors allows them to do so the conditions provided for in current legislation. The Board of in the notice of meeting, participate in a General Meeting via video Directors may, for any General Meeting, shorten this period by conference or other electronic means of telecommunications way of a general decision for the beneﬁt of all shareholders. or transmission, under the conditions determined by law or the regulations in force. Such shareholders are then deemed present In the event of a decision to this effect by the Board of Directors, for the calculation of the quorum and majority. mentioned in the notice of meeting, shareholders may, subject to the conditions and time limits provided by law and regulations, An attendance sheet is kept for each meeting as required by law. send their proxy form and postal voting form by any means of telecommunication, including electronic means, that allow their identiﬁcation and whose nature and conditions are determined R DELIBERATIONS AND POWERS OF GENERAL MEETINGS OF SHAREHOLDERS 09 by current legislation. The Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings of Shareholders, voting with the quorum and majority conditions speciﬁed by the respective provisions that govern them, exercise the powers assigned to them in law. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 275 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Memorandum and articles of association 9.3.6 Provisions of a nature to delay, defer, or prevent a change of control The Company’s Articles of Association contain no provisions of a nature to delay, defer, or prevent a change of control. 9.3.7 Crossing of statutory thresholds In addition to the legal provisions applicable in the matter, any in concert. Notice must be given in the same manner and within natural or legal person who comes to hold, directly or indirectly the same timeframe when a holding falls below this 2% threshold. (including through a company controlled within the meaning Above this 2% threshold, disclosure must be made in the same of article L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code), 2% of the manner when a threshold of 1% in the share capital or voting Company’s share capital or voting rights (the total number of rights is crossed in either direction, under the conditions and in voting rights to be used as the denominator is calculated on the accordance with the procedures speciﬁed above. basis of all shares to which voting rights are attached, including shares where the voting rights have been suspended), acting In the event of non-compliance with the disclosure obligations alone or in concert, and in any way whatsoever, must inform set out above, and at the request of one or more shareholders the Company of this fact by registered letter with a request for owning at least 1% of the share capital or voting rights, which acknowledgment of receipt addressed to the registered office, request shall be recorded in the minutes of a General Meeting within a period of four trading days from the date the threshold of Shareholders, the shares in excess of the amount that should is crossed, independently of the date the shares might have been have been declared shall be stripped of their voting rights, and registered in any account, and must specify the total number of the shareholder at fault shall be able neither to exercise nor shares and securities convertible to equity, and the number of delegate these rights for any General Meeting of Shareholders voting rights that they hold, directly or indirectly, acting alone or held until the expiry of a two-year period following the date when notice was properly served. 9.3.8 Changes to the share capital The Company’s share capital may be increased or reduced under the conditions laid down by law and by the regulations. The Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders may also decide to carry out stock splits or reverse splits. 276 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Responsibility for the registration document and statutory auditors 9.4 RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT AND STATUTORY AUDITORS 9.4.1 Person responsible for the registration document R NAME AND POSITION OF THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT of the Company and of its consolidated businesses, together with a description of the risks and uncertainties to which they are exposed. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Legrand, I have obtained from the Statutory Auditors, upon completion of a French société anonyme whose registered office is located at their work, a letter in which they indicate that they have veriﬁed 128 avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny, 87000 Limoges, the information concerning the ﬁnancial situation and ﬁnancial France, registered in the Limoges Trade and Companies Register statements presented in this Registration Document and that they under number 421 259 615. have read the entire Registration Document. Gilles Schnepp R DECLARATION OF THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE REGISTRATION DOCUMENT INCLUDING THE Chairman and Chief Executive Officer ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT “I hereby certify, having taken all reasonable care in this regard, that R INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE This Registration Document incorporates by reference the the information contained in this Registration Document is, to the Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended best of my knowledge, accurate and that there are no omissions that December 31, 2014 and the related statutory auditors’ report, could materially affect its reliability. as presented on pages 192 to 244 and page 245 of the 2014 I further certify that, to the best of my knowledge, the ﬁnancial Registration Document ﬁled with the AMF on April 15, 2015 statements have been drawn up in accordance with applicable under number D.15-0352, as well as the Company’s consolidated accounting standards and provide a true and fair image of the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2015 and assets, ﬁnancial position and results of the Company and of its the related statutory auditors’ report, as presented on pages 202 consolidated businesses, and that the Management Reports that to 249 and page 250 of the 2015 Registration Document ﬁled with appear in chapter 5 and Appendix 2 provide a true and fair account of the AMF on March 30, 2016, under number D.16-0232. developments in the business, the results and the ﬁnancial position 09 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 277 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Responsibility for the registration document and statutory auditors 9.4.2 Statutory auditors R PRINCIPAL STATUTORY AUDITORS R DEPUTY STATUTORY AUDITORS PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Mr. Jean Christophe Georghiou Member of the Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes Member of the Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes de Versailles (Versailles Regional Body of Statutory Auditors) de Versailles (Versailles Regional Body of Statutory Auditors) Represented by Édouard Sattler Crystal Park, 63, rue de Villiers Crystal Park, 63, rue de Villiers 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France Appointed Deputy Statutory Auditor at the General Meeting of Appointed Deputy Statutory Auditors by the General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2016, for a term of six years. This appointment Shareholders of June 6, 2003, they became Principal Statutory expires at the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders convened to Auditors following the merger between Pricewaterhouse and Coopers vote on the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2021. & Lybrand Audit, and were re-appointed as Principal Statutory Auditors by the General Meeting of Shareholders of May 27, 2010 (for a term of six years) and by the General Meeting of Shareholders BEAS of May 27, 2016. This appointment expires at the end of the General Member of the Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes Meeting of Shareholders convened to vote on the ﬁnancial statements de Versailles (Versailles Regional Body of Statutory Auditors) for the year ended December 31, 2021. 195, avenue Charles-de-Gaulle 92200 Neuilly-sur-Seine, France Deloitte & Associés Appointed Deputy Statutory Auditor at the General Meeting Member of the Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes of Shareholders of December 21, 2005, and re-appointed Deputy de Versailles (Versailles Regional Body of Statutory Auditors) Statutory Auditor at the General Meeting of Shareholders of May 26, 2011, for a term of six years. This appointment expires Represented by Jean-François Viat at the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders convened to vote 185, avenue Charles-de-Gaulle on the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016. 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine Cedex, France Please refer to Appendix 4 of this Registration Document for further Appointed Principal Statutory Auditor at the General Meeting of information concerning the non-renewal of the term of office of the Shareholders of December 21, 2005, and re-appointed Principal Deputy Statutory Auditor. Statutory Auditor at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders of May 26, 2011, for a term of six ﬁnancial years. This appointment expires at the end of the General Meeting of Shareholders convened to vote on the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2016. Please refer to Appendix 4 of this Registration Document for further information concerning the reappointment of the Principal Statutory Auditor. 278 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Responsibility for the registration document and statutory auditors 9.4.3 Financial information R PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION R INDICATIVE FINANCIAL REPORTING SCHEDULE The 2017 ﬁnancial information to be disclosed to the public by Mr. Antoine Burel the Company will be available from the Company’s website (www.legrand.com). Chief Financial Officer As an indication only, the Company’s timetable for the publication Address: 82, rue Robespierre, 93170 Bagnolet of ﬁnancial information up to December 31, 2017, is expected to Telephone: + 33 (0)1 49 72 52 00 be as follows: Fax: + 33 (0)1 43 60 54 92 W 2017 ﬁrst-quarter results: May 10, 2017 “Quiet period(1)” starts April 10, 2017 R PUBLICALLY AVAILABLE DOCUMENTS The legal documents pertaining to the Company that must be W General Meeting of Shareholders: May 31, 2017 W Ex-dividend date: June 2, 2017 made available to shareholders in accordance with the applicable regulations, and its ﬁnancial records, may be consulted at the W Dividend payment: June 6, 2017 Company’s registered office. W 2017 ﬁrst-half results: July 31, 2017 “Quiet period(1)” starts July 3, 2017 W 2017 nine-month results: November 7, 2017 “Quiet period(1)” starts October 7, 2017 09 (1) Period of time when all communication is suspended in the run-up to publication of results. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 279 09 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 280 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT – (ARTICLE 222-3 OF THE AMF’S GENERAL REGULATION 282 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – EUROPEAN COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) 809/2004 OF APRIL 29, 2004 282 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – MANAGEMENT REPORT (ARTICLE L. 225-100 ET SEQ. OF THE COMMERCIAL CODE) 287 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – MANAGEMENT REPORT (ARTICLE L. 225-100 ET SEQ. OF THE COMMERCIAL CODE) 289 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 281 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – Annual ﬁnancial report – (Article 222-3 of the AMF’s General Regulation R CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT – (ARTICLE 222-3 OF THE AMF’S GENERAL REGULATION General Regulation of the French Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des marchés financiers) – article 222-3 Annual Financial Report No. Item Reference Page(s) I.1 Annual ﬁnancial statements Appendix 1 294-309 I.2 Consolidated ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation (EC) No1606/2002 8.1 209-258 of July 19, 2002, on the application of international accounting standards I.3 Management Report containing at least the information referred to in articles L. 225-100, Appendix 2 310-324 L. 255-100-3 and the second sub-paragraph of article L. 225-211 of the French Commercial Code Management Report containing information referred to in article L. 225-100-2 of the French Chapter 5 131-151 Commercial Code I.4 Statement made by the natural persons taking responsibility for the Annual Financial Report 9.4.1 277 I.5 Statutory Auditors’ reports on the annual ﬁnancial statements Appendix 3 325 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements 8.2 259 R CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – EUROPEAN COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) 809/2004 OF APRIL 29, 2004 European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 – Appendix I Registration Document No. Item Reference Page(s) 1 Persons responsible 1.1 Persons responsible for the information given in the Registration Document 9.4.1 277 1.2 Statement of the persons responsible for the Registration Document 9.4.1 277 2 Statutory Auditors 2.1 Names and addresses of the issuer’s Statutory Auditors 9.4.2 278 2.2 Statutory Auditors having resigned, been removed or not been re-appointed Not applicable during the period covered 3 Selected ﬁnancial information 3.1 Selected historical ﬁnancial information Chapter 1 12-14 3.2 Selected ﬁnancial information for interim periods Not applicable 4 Risk factors Chapter 3 37-58 5 Information about the issuer 5.1 History and development of the Company 5.1.1 Legal and commercial name of the issuer 9.1.1 266 5.1.2 Place of registration of the issuer and its registration number 9.1.2 266 5.1.3 Date of incorporation and lifetime of the issuer 9.1.3 266 5.1.4 Registered offices and legal form of the issuer, legislation under which the issuer operates, 9.1.4 and 9.1.5 266 country of incorporation, and address and telephone number of its registered office 282 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 – Appendix I Registration Document No. Item Reference Page(s) 5.1.5 Important events in the development of the issuer’s business 2.1.2 21 5.2 Capital expenditure 5.2.1 Description of the issuer’s principal investments for each ﬁnancial year for the period 5.6, 8.8.1 and 8.8.2 144, 262-263 covered by the historical ﬁnancial information up to the date of the Registration Document 5.2.2 Description of the issuer’s principal current investments 8.8.3 264 5.2.3 Information concerning the issuer’s principal future investments on 2.2.2.2 25-26 which its management bodies have already made ﬁrm commitments 6 Business overview 6.1 Principal activities 6.1.1 Nature of the issuer’s operations and its principal activities 2.1 16-22 6.1.2 Signiﬁcant new product or service launched 2.1.1.3 19-21 6.2 Principal markets 2.1 and 2.2.2 16-22 and 24-26 6.3 Exceptional events that have inﬂuenced information given in accordance with items 6.1 and 6.2 Not applicable 6.4 The issuer’s level of dependence on patents or licenses, industrial, 2.2.1.3, 2.2.2.1.1 23, 24-25 and 33 commercial or ﬁnancial contracts or new manufacturing processes and 2.4.1 6.5 Basis for any statements made by the issuer regarding its competitive position 2.2.2 24-26 7 Organizational structure 7.1 Description of the Group and the issuer’s position 9.1.6 and 9.1.7 267-268 7.2 List of the issuer’s signiﬁcant subsidiaries 9.1.6, 9.1.7 and 267-268 8.1.7 (note 1.3) and 219-221 8 Property, plant and equipment 8.1 Information regarding existing or planned property, plant and equipment 2.4.2 34-35 8.2 Environmental questions that may affect the issuer’s utilization of property, plant and equipment 3.1 and 4.5 39-42 and 104-112 9 Review of the ﬁnancial position and results 9.1 Financial position of the issuer, changes in the ﬁnancial position 5.3 and 5.4 134-137 and proﬁt or loss from transactions in each ﬁnancial year and 137-143 and interim period for which historical ﬁnancial information is required 9.2 Operating proﬁt 9.2.1 Signiﬁcant factors, including unusual or infrequent events or new developments, 5.3 and 5.4 134-137 materially affecting the issuer’s operating income and 137-143 9.2.2 Reasons for material changes in net sales or revenues 5.3 and 5.4 134-137 and 137-143 9.2.3 Governmental, economic, ﬁscal, monetary or political strategies or factors that have materially 2.2, chapter 3, 22-28, 37-58 affected, or could materially affect, directly or indirectly, the issuer’s operations 5.9 and 5.10 and 145-146 10 Cash and capital resources 10.1 Information concerning the issuer’s capital resources 5.5 143-144 10.2 Sources, amounts and description of the issuer’s cash ﬂows 5.5.1 and 8.1.5 143-144 and 214 10.3 10.4 Information on the issuer’s borrowing conditions and ﬁnancing structure Information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources that have materially affected, or could materially affect, directly or indirectly, the issuer’s operations 5.5.2 5.5 144 143-144 T 10.5 Information regarding the anticipated sources of funds needed Not applicable to fulﬁll the commitments referred to in items 5.2.3 and 8.1 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 283 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 – Appendix I Registration Document No. Item Reference Page(s) 11 Research and development, patents and licenses 2.2.3.1, 5.3.2.5 26-27, 136-137 and 5.4.4 and 140-141 12 Trend information 12.1 The most signiﬁcant recent in production, sales and inventory, and costs and selling prices 5.13 147 since the end of the last ﬁnancial year to the date of the Registration Document 12.2 Information on any known trends, uncertainties, demands, commitments or events Not applicable that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the issuer’s prospects for at least the current ﬁnancial year 13 Proﬁt forecasts or estimates 13.1 Statement setting out the principal assumptions upon Not applicable which the issuer has based its forecast or estimate 13.2 Report prepared by independent accountants or Statutory Auditors Not applicable 13.3 Proﬁt forecast or estimate prepared on a basis comparable Not applicable with the historical ﬁnancial information 13.4 Statement setting out whether or not proﬁt forecast is still correct as at the date of the Registration Not applicable Document, and, if it is not, an explanation of why such forecast is no longer valid 14 Administrative, Management, and Supervisory Bodies and Senior Management 14.1 Name, business address, function and main activities outside the issuing company 6.1.1 and 154-167 of (a) members of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies, Appendix 3 to and 319-324 (b) partners with unlimited liability, in the case of a company limited by shares the management report (c) founders, for a company formed fewer than ﬁve years previously and (d) corporate officers whose name can be given to prove that the issuing company has sufficient expertise and the experience to manage its own affairs. The nature of any family relationship between any of those persons. For each member of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies and for each person mentioned in points (b) and (d), details of that person’s relevant management expertise and experience and (a) the names of all companies and partnerships of which such person has been a member of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies or partner at any time in the previous ﬁve years, (b) any convictions in relation to fraudulent offenses for at least the previous ﬁve years, (c) details of any bankruptcies, receiverships or liquidations for at least the previous ﬁve years and, (d) details of any official public incrimination and/or sanctions of such person by statutory or regulatory authorities and whether such person has ever been disqualiﬁed by a court from acting as a member of the administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer or from acting in the management or conduct of the affairs of any issuer for at least the previous ﬁve years. Statement that no information should be disclosed 14.2 Administrative, management and supervisory bodies and senior management conﬂicts of interest 6.1.1.2 160-165 15 Compensation and beneﬁts 15.1 Compensation paid and beneﬁts in kind granted by the issuer and its subsidiaries 6.2 179-200 15.2 Total provisioned aside or accrued by the issuer or its subsidiaries 8.1.7 (note 5.2) 256 to provide pension, retirement or similar beneﬁts 16 Functioning of the administrative bodies and senior management 16.1 Expiration date of the current term of office, and the period during 6.1.1 154-167 which the person served in that office 16.2 Information about service contracts binding members of the administrative, management 6.1.5 178 or supervisory bodies to the issuer or any of its subsidiaries, which provide for beneﬁts, or an appropriate negative statement 16.3 Information about the issuer’s Audit Committee and Compensation Committee 6.1.3 169-175 16.4 Statement as to whether or not the issuer complies with its country of incorporation’s corporate 6.1 154-178 governance regime 284 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 – Appendix I Registration Document No. Item Reference Page(s) 17 Employees 17.1 Number of employees at the end of the period or the average for each ﬁnancial year 4.6.2.2 115-118 for the period covered by the historical ﬁnancial information and breakdown of persons employed by main category of activity and by site 17.2 Shareholdings and stock options 6.1.1, 6.2.2.1 154-167, 185-193 and 7.2 and 205-206 17.3 Agreements stipulating an employee stake in the issuer’s equity 7.2, 7.3 and 4.1.2 205-208 and 62-63 18 Principal shareholders 18.1 The name of any person who is not a member of the administrative, management or supervisory 7.1.1 202 bodies who, directly or indirectly, holds a percentage of the issuer’s share capital or voting rights which is notiﬁable under the issuer’s national law, together with the amount of each person’s stake or, if there are no such persons, an appropriate negative statement 18.2 Different voting rights, or an appropriate negative statement 9.3.3 274-275 18.3 Direct or indirect ownership or control of the issuer 7.1 202-204 18.4 Description of any arrangements, known to the issuer, which may at a subsequent date result 7.1.4 204 in a change in control of the issuer 19 Related party transactions 7.4 and 8.1.7 208 and 256 (note 5.2) 20 Financial information concerning the issuer’s assets, ﬁnancial position and proﬁts and losses 20.1 Historical ﬁnancial information 8.1 210-258 20.2 Pro forma ﬁnancial information Not applicable 20.3 Financial statements 8.1 210-258 20.4 Audit of the historical annual ﬁnancial information 20.4.1 Statement that the historical ﬁnancial information has been audited 8.2 259 20.4.2 Other information in the Registration Document that has been reviewed by the Statutory Auditors Not applicable 20.4.3 Where ﬁnancial data in the Registration Document is not extracted from the issuer’s audited Not applicable ﬁnancial statements, state the source of the data and that the data is unaudited 20.5 Date of latest audited ﬁnancial information (ﬁscal year ended 12/31/2016) 8.1 210-258 20.6 Interim and other ﬁnancial information 20.6.1 Quarterly or half-yearly ﬁnancial information published since the date of the last ﬁnancial Not applicable statements and (if applicable) the audit or review report 20.6.2 Interim ﬁnancial information, which may be unaudited, covering at least the ﬁrst six months Not applicable of the ﬁnancial year if the Registration Document is dated more than nine months after the end of the last audited ﬁnancial year 20.7 Dividend policy 8.4 261 20.7.1 Dividend per share 8.1.7 (note 4.1) 238-240 and 261 and 8.4 20.8 Legal proceedings and arbitration 8.5 261 20.9 Material changes in ﬁnancial or trading position 8.6 262 T REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 285 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 European Commission Regulation (EC) 809/2004 of April 29, 2004 – Appendix I Registration Document No. Item Reference Page(s) 21 Additional information 21.1 Share capital 21.1.1 Subscribed capital, number of shares authorized, number of shares issued and fully paid 9.2.1 269-270 and issued but not fully paid, nominal value per share and reconciliation of the number of shares issued and outstanding at the beginning and end of the ﬁnancial year 21.1.2 Shares not representing capital Not applicable 21.1.3 Number, carrying value and face value of shares held by the issuer, 9.2.2 271 on its behalf or by its subsidiaries 21.1.4 Convertible securities, exchangeable securities or securities with warrants 7.2 and 7.3 205-208 21.1.5 Information about and terms of any acquisition rights and or obligations oversubscribed 7.2 205-206 but unpaid capital or an undertaking to increase the capital 21.1.6 Information about any capital of any member of the Group which is under option Not applicable or agreed conditionally or unconditionally to be put under option 21.1.7 History of share capital for the period covered by the historical ﬁnancial information 9.2.4 272-273 21.2 Memorandum and Articles of Association 21.2.1 Corporate purpose 9.3.1 274 21.2.2 Members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies 6.1 154-178 21.2.3 Rights, preferences and restrictions attached to each class of existing shares 9.3.3 274-275 21.2.4 Action necessary to change shareholder rights 9.3.4 275 21.2.5 Conditions governing the manner in which annual Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings 9.3.5 275 of Shareholders are called, including the conditions of admission 21.2.6 Provisions of the issuer’s Articles of Association, statutes, charter or bylaws 9.3.6 276 that would have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change in its control 21.2.7 Provisions of the Articles of association, statutes, charter or bylaws, if any, governing 9.3.7 276 the ownership threshold above which shareholder ownership must be disclosed 21.2.8 Conditions imposed by the memorandum and Articles of Association, charter or bylaw governing 9.3.8 276 changes in equity, where such conditions are more stringent than required by law 22 Material agreements 8.7 262 23 Third party information and statement by experts and declarations of interest 23.1 Information relating to the experts having drawn up a statement or report Not applicable 23.2 Conﬁrmation that information has been accurately reproduced and that no facts have been omitted Not applicable which would render the reproduced information inaccurate or misleading 24 Documents available to the public 9.4.3 279 25 Information on holdings 9.1.7 267-268 286 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – Management Report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) R CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – MANAGEMENT REPORT (ARTICLE L. 225-100 ET SEQ. OF THE COMMERCIAL CODE) Management report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) No. Item Reference Page(s) Management 310 Situation and business activities of the Company during the year report (1.2) Operating results of the Company, its subsidiaries and companies it controls Chapter 5 131-151 Management 310 Analysis of changes in the Company’s and the Group’s business, report (1) 131-151 revenue, ﬁnancial position and borrowings Chapter 5 Signiﬁcant events between the reporting date and the date of preparation Management 310 of the management report report (5) Management 310 Changes and outlook report (6) Management Description of existing branches report (7) 310 Management 310 Research and development report (3) Management 316 Supplier payment terms report (25) Changes in the presentation of the annual ﬁnancial statements and accounting policies Not applicable Management 310 Description of the Principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company report (2) Information on plants categorized as upper-tier under the Seveso Directive Not applicable Information on the use of ﬁnancial instruments by the Company, including the Company’s Appendix 1 308 and the Group’s ﬁnancial risks and their price, credit, liquidity and cash ﬂow risks (Note 10.2) Signiﬁcant new shareholdings or controlling interests acquired Management 312 during the ﬁscal year in companies whose registered office is in France report (14) Information about the Company’s CSR 4.1.1 61-62 Information on how the Company takes into account the social and environmental consequences 4.1.2 62-63 of its business, including its business’s impact on climate change and the use of goods 4.1.3 64-66 and services that the Company produces, as well as its social commitments towards 4.4 92-103 sustainable development, the circular economy, the ﬁght against food waste, anti-discrimination, 4.4.3 97-103 and the promotion of diversity; policies specifying any actions or programs implemented 4.5 104-112 Key non-ﬁnancial indicators (environmental and employee-related) 4.6 113-126 Information about the Company’s corporate governance system Management bodies 6.1.4 176-178 List of appointments and positions held in any company by each of the corporate officers during the Management report 319-324 ﬁnancial year Total compensation and beneﬁts of any kind paid to each corporate officer during the ﬁnancial year (Appendix 3) 6.2.2 6.2.4 185-195 196 T Any kinds of commitment made by the Company to its corporate officers concerning compensation, 6.2.5 197-200 allowances or beneﬁts payable or likely to be payable as a result of, or subsequent to, taking up or leaving office, including pensions and other lifetime beneﬁts REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 287 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – Management Report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) Management report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) No. Item Reference Page(s) Agreements between a corporate officer or shareholder holding more than 10% of the voting rights Management 313 and a subsidiary (excluding standard agreements) report (19) Precise methods for calculating pension commitments and other lifetime beneﬁts, Not applicable as well as an estimate of the annuities potentially payable to each corporate officer in respect of such commitments and the related costs Stock options or warrants awarded during the ﬁnancial year to corporate officers 7.2 205-206 and to the ten highest-earning non-executive employees of the Company, and options awarded to all eligible employees, by category Obligation to retain the shares issued under stock option and restricted stock plans 7.2 205-206 offered to the senior executives 7.3 207 Transactions in the Company’s shares executed by senior executives Management 314 and persons closely related them report (23) Shareholding structure and changes during the year 7.1.1 202-203 Statement of employee share ownership at year-end and portion of the share capital Management represented by shares held by employees under the employee share ownership program report (15 b) 312 and by current and former employees through a company mutual fund 7.1.1 202-203 Details of purchases and sales of treasury shares during the ﬁnancial year Management report (22) 313 9.2.2 271 Names of controlled companies and share capital held Management report (14) 312 9.1.6 267 9.1.7 267-268 Share disposals to regularize reciprocal shareholdings Not applicable Total dividends and other income distributed over the last three ﬁnancial years Management report (10) 311-312 8.4 261 Factors likely to affect the outcome of a public offer Management 314-315 report (24) Other legal, ﬁnancial and tax information concerning the Company Expenses referred to in articles 39-4 and 223-quater of the French General Tax Code Management 312 report (11) Earnings over the past ﬁve years Management report 318 (Appendix 2) Loans with a maturity of less than two years granted by the Company on an ancillary basis Not applicable to microenterprises, SMEs or medium-sized companies with which it has economic links Bonds, sureties and guarantees given and other security provided Management 313 report (21) Injunctions or ﬁnes for anti-competitive practices Not applicable Information on stock options granted to corporate officers and employees 7.2 205-206 Information on restricted stock awards to corporate officers and employees 7.3 207-208 Summary of extant authorization to increase the share capital and use 9.2.1.1 269-270 made of such authorization during the year 288 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – Management Report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) R CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE – MANAGEMENT REPORT (ARTICLE L. 225-100 ET SEQ. OF THE COMMERCIAL CODE) No. Item Reference Page(s) Information on social, environmental and related societal commitments in favor of sustainable development pursuant to articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code Employment Total workforce 4.6.2 113-119 Breakdown of employees by gender, age, and geographic area 4.6.2 113-119 Employee compensation and salary progression 4.4.3 97-103 4.6.2 113-119 Work organization Working hours 4.4 92-103 4.6.2 113-119 Absenteeism 4.4 92-103 4.6.2 113-119 Labor relations Organization of labor relations 4.4.1 92-94 Collective bargaining agreements 4.4.1 92-94 Health and safety Health and safety conditions 4.4.2 94-97 4.6.2 113-119 Outcome of the health and safety agreements signed with the unions or employee representatives 4.4.2 94-97 4.6.2 113-119 Workplace accidents, particularly their frequency and severity, as well as occupational illnesses 4.4.2 94-97 4.6.2 113-119 Education Training policies 4.4.3 97-103 Total hours of training 4.4.3 97-103 4.6.2 113-119 Equal treatment Measures taken to promote gender equality 4.4.3 97-103 4.6.2 113-119 Measures taken to promote the employment and integration of people with disabilities 4.4.3 97-103 4.6.2 113-119 Anti-discrimination policy 4.4.3 97-103 4.6.2 113-119 Promotion of and compliance with the fundamental conventions of the International Labor Organization Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining 4.4.1 92-94 Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation 4.4.1 92-94 4.4.3 97-103 Elimination of forced or compulsory labor 4.4.1 92-94 T Effective abolition of child labor 4.4.1 92-94 4.3.2 84-88 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 289 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – Management Report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) No. Item Reference Page(s) Information on social, environmental and related societal commitments in favor of sustainable development pursuant to articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code Environmental aspects General environmental policy How the Company takes into account environmental issues and, 4.5 104-112 where applicable, environmental assessment and certiﬁcation procedures Actions to train and educate employees about environmental protection 4.5 104-112 4.6.3 119-120 Resources devoted to preventing environmental risks and pollution 4.5 104-112 4.5.1 104-109 Amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks 4.6.3 119-120 Pollution Measures to prevent, reduce, or compensate for air, water, and soil emissions severely 4.5.1 104-109 affecting the environment 4.6.3 119-120 Measures to tackle noise pollution and any other sources of pollution speciﬁc to an activity 4.5.1 104-109 4.5.2 109-112 4.6.3 119-120 Pollution and waste management Measures to prevent, recycle, and dispose of waste 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 Actions to prevent food waste 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 Use of resources Water consumption and water supply according to local constraints 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 Consumption of raw materials and measures to improve their efficient use 4.5.1 104-109 4.5.2 109-112 4.6.3 119-120 Energy consumption, measures to improve energy efficiency 4.2.1 67-73 and the use of renewable energy sources 4.2.2 74-79 4.5.1 104-109 4.5.2 109-112 4.6.3 119-120 Circular economy Land use 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 Climate change Greenhouse gas emissions 4.2.1 67-73 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 Adapting to the impacts of climate change 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 Protection of biodiversity Measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity 4.5.1 104-109 4.6.3 119-120 290 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES Cross-reference table – Management Report (article L. 225-100 et seq. of the Commercial Code) No. Item Reference Page(s) Information on social, environmental and related societal commitments in favor of sustainable development pursuant to articles L. 225-102-1 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code Information on societal commitments in favor of sustainable development Regional, economic and social impact of the Company’s activity Employment and regional development 4.3.3 88-91 On neighboring or local populations 4.3.3 88-91 Relations with individuals or organizations that have a stake in the Company’s activities, namely job placement associations, educational establishments, environmental protection bodies, consumer associations and local residents Conditions of dialogue with such individuals or organizations 4.1.2 62-63 Partnership or corporate philanthropy 4.3.3 88-91 Subcontracting and suppliers Including social and environmental challenges in purchasing policies 4.3.2 84-88 The extent of subcontracting and the incorporation of social and environmental responsibility in relations with suppliers and subcontractors 4.3.2 84-88 Fair practices Actions taken to prevent corruption 4.3.1 80-84 Measures to promote consumer health and safety 4.2.1 67-73 Other actions to promote human rights 4.4.1 92-94 T REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 291 T CROSS-REFERENCE TABLES 292 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX A APPENDIX 1 294 Financial statements December 31, 2016 294 Notes to the financial statements 297 APPENDIX 2 310 Management report of the Board of Directors on March 15, 2017 to the Annual General Meeting scheduled on May 31, 2017 310 APPENDIX 3 325 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements Year ended December 31, 2016 325 APPENDIX 4 326 Presentation of the Agenda for the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 31, 2017 326 Resolutions for the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 31, 2017 339 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 293 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 APPENDIX 1 Financial statements December 31, 2016 Statement of income (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Operating income Revenue 15,470 19,728 Other operating income 3,400 4,100 TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 18,870 23,828 Operating expenses Change in goods inventory 0 0 Change in supplies inventory 0 0 Purchases and external charges (4,298) (5,056) Taxes other than on income (1,129) (826) Employee beneﬁts expense (8,222) (10,943) Amortization and provision expense (2,332) (5,473) Other operating expenses (559) (532) TOTAL OPERATING EXPENSES (16,540) (22,830) Operating proﬁt 2,330 998 Financial income Dividend income 249,851 249,851 Interest income from marketable securities and receivables, net 4 0 Provision reversals and expense transfers 0 0 Exchange gains 3 1 Other ﬁnancial income 3 2 TOTAL FINANCIAL INCOME 249,861 249,854 Financial expense Amortization and provision expense (840) (840) Exchange losses (1) (4) Finance costs and other (49,375) (44,719) TOTAL FINANCIAL EXPENSE (50,216) (45,563) Financial income and expense, net 199,645 204,291 Recurring proﬁt before tax 201,975 205,289 Non-recurring income and expense, net (4,194) (17,044) Proﬁt before tax and employee proﬁt-sharing 197,781 188,245 Employee proﬁt-sharing (125) (84) Income tax beneﬁt 10,228 10,121 PROFIT FOR THE PERIOD 207,884 198,282 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 294 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 Balance sheet ASSETS (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Non-current assets Intangible assets 0 0 Property and equipment 0 0 Investments 3,857,936 3,820,180 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,857,936 3,820,180 Current assets Inventories 0 0 Receivables 16,024 13,087 Marketable securities 238 3,109 Cash 288 137 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 16,550 16,333 Accruals 5,368 6,944 TOTAL ASSETS 3,879,854 3,843,457 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Equity Share capital 1,069,309 1,067,722 Additional paid-in capital, reserves and retained earnings 1,020,648 1,122,681 Proﬁt for the period 207,884 198,282 Untaxed provisions and government grants 0 0 TOTAL EQUITY 2,297,841 2,388,685 Provisions 6,861 7,901 Debt Other debt 1,558,508 1,434,350 TOTAL DEBT 1,558,508 1,434,350 Other liabilities 16,644 12,521 Accruals 0 0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,879,854 3,843,457 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 295 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 Statement of cash ﬂows 12 months ended (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Proﬁt for the period 207,884 198,282 Adjustments for non-cash movements in assets and liabilities: Changes in depreciation, amortization and impairment of ﬁxed assets Amortization of deferred charges 1,524 2,354 Changes in provisions for contingencies and charges (1,040) 2,802 Changes in untaxed provisions Net (gain)/loss on sales of assets Other non-cash items (3,349) CASH FLOW 208,368 200,089 Changes in working capital requirement: Inventories Trade and other receivables (2,937) 29,829 Trade and other payables 4,124 (42,052) Other operating assets and liabilities 52 (55) NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES 209,607 187,811 Net proceeds from sales of ﬁxed and ﬁnancial assets Decreases in ﬁnancial assets Acquisitions of ﬁxed assets Acquisitions of ﬁnancial assets NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES 0 0 Proceeds from issues of share capital and premium 8,330 1,722 Net sales (buybacks, cancellation) of treasury shares and transactions under the liquidity contract (60,986) 15,411 Dividends paid to equity holders of Legrand (307,058) (293,129) Increase (decrease) in borrowings, including intragroup loans and borrowings 150,255 88,268 NET CASH FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (209,459) (187,728) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 148 83 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 115 32 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 263 115 The accompanying Notes are an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 296 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements Detailed table of contents NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT NOTE 7 PROVISIONS 306 ACCOUNTING POLICIES 297 NOTE 8 DEBT AND OTHER LIABILITIES 306 NOTE 2 ASSETS 299 NOTE 9 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF INCOME 307 NOTE 3 RECEIVABLES 300 NOTE 10 OTHER INFORMATION 308 NOTE 4 MARKETABLE SECURITIES 300 NOTE 11 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR 309 NOTE 5 ACCRUALS 301 NOTE 12 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 309 NOTE 6 EQUITY 301 R NOTE 1 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.1 ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES W shares acquired for cancellation or for any other purpose are classiﬁed under “Other investments” as “Treasury shares held The ﬁnancial statements have been prepared in accordance for cancellation” or “Treasury shares”; with French generally accepted accounting principles, applied consistently from one year to the next, under the historical cost W shares purchased in connection with a liquidity contract are convention. also recorded under “Other investments” as “Treasury shares”; W cash and short-term investments held in the liquidity account 1.2 INTANGIBLE ASSETS are classiﬁed under “Other investments” as “Other long-term receivables”. Intangible assets correspond to software, which is amortized over 3 years. 1.4.2 Impairment of treasury shares The difference between book amortization and amortization Treasury shares held for cancellation are stated at cost. calculated over 12 months for tax purposes is recorded in equity under “Untaxed provisions”. Treasury shares held for other purposes are stated at the lower of cost and fair value, with fair value corresponding to the average share price for the last month of the ﬁscal year. A provision is 1.3 INVESTMENTS recorded for any unrealized losses. Investments correspond primarily to investments in subsidiaries The loss incurred when treasury shares are sold to employees is and affiliates, which are stated at the lower of cost and fair value. recorded under non-recurring expense. Fair value is determined by reference to Legrand’s equity in the A provision is recorded for shares purchased and allocated investee’s revalued net assets, as adjusted to reﬂect its earnings on exercise of stock options or for performance shares on the performance and growth outlook. share purchase date, to cover the difference between the price of performance shares and stock options granted to employees and 1.4 SHARE BUYBACKS AND LIQUIDITY CONTRACT the shares’ carrying amount. This provision is recorded for stock options only if it is probable that the options will be exercised and 1.4.1 Accounting registration for performance shares when the Board of Directors decides to Legrand shares acquired under share buyback programs are purchase the shares underlying the plan concerned. classiﬁed in accordance with recommendation 98-D released by the Urgent Issues Task Force of the French National Accounting Board (Comité d’Urgence du Conseil National de la Comptabilité), based on the purpose for which they were purchased: W shares acquired speciﬁcally for allocation to employees are classiﬁed under “Marketable securities” as “Treasury shares”; A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 297 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 In both cases, the provision is recognized on a straight-line basis iBoxx € Corporates AA 10+ index, which is commonly used as a over the vesting periods of the performance shares or stock benchmark. options concerned. The provisions recorded in the balance sheet concern the unvested entitlements of active employees. The Company has no obligation 1.5 MARKETABLE SECURITIES with respect to the vested entitlements of former employees, as the beneﬁts were settled at the time of their retirement, either This item includes Legrand shares purchased for allocation to directly or through payments to insurance companies in full employees as described in note 1.4 above. discharge of the liability. The main deﬁned beneﬁt plan applicable in France concerns 1.6 RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES statutory length-of-service awards, under which all retiring Receivables and payables are stated at nominal value. employees are eligible for a lump-sum payment calculated A provision for doubtful accounts is recorded when necessary, to according to their length of service. write down receivables to their estimated recoverable amount. This payment is deﬁned either in the collective bargaining agreement to which their company is a party or in a separate 1.7 FOREIGN CURRENCY RECEIVABLES AND PAYABLES company-level agreement, whichever is more advantageous to the employee. The amount generally varies depending on the Foreign currency receivables and payables are converted into employee category (manager/non-manager). euros at the exchange rate on the reporting date. 1.11 PROVISIONS FOR STATUTORY AND DISCRETIONARY 1.8 DEFERRED CHARGES PROFIT-SHARING Deferred charges correspond to debt issuance costs, which are Legrand’s statutory proﬁt-sharing agreement is an “accord written off to the statement of income over the life of the debt. dérogatoire”. Under this type of agreement, the Company applies a more generous proﬁt-sharing formula in exchange for the right 1.9 BOND REDEMPTION PREMIUMS to record a tax-deductible “investment provision” covering future investment costs. The latest agreement was signed on June 17, The redemption premium reported in the balance sheet 2015 and applies for the calculation of the special statutory proﬁtcorresponds to the 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2015 bond issues, sharing reserve for the three years from 2015 to 2017. The plan described in note 8.2 below. It is amortized over the life of the covers employees of Legrand and also those of Legrand France, issues. Legrand SNC, Alpes Technologies, Cofrel, Ura, Planet-Wattohm, ICM Group, Intervox Systèmes, Legrand Cable Management, S2S 1.10 PROVISIONS FOR RETIREMENT BENEFITS and Minkels Products France. AND SUPPLEMENTARY PENSION BENEFITS A three-year discretionary proﬁt-sharing agreement was signed A deﬁned beneﬁt plan is a pension plan that deﬁnes an amount on June 17, 2015 covering the years 2015 to 2017. It applies to of pension beneﬁt that an employee will receive on retirement, employees of the same companies as the statutory proﬁt-sharing usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of agreement. service and end-of-career salary. The liability recognized in the balance sheet for deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the balance sheet date, 1.12 FORWARD PURCHASES AND SALES OF FOREIGN less the fair value of plan assets. The past service cost arising CURRENCIES from changes to pension beneﬁt plans is expensed (or recognized A provision is booked at each year-end for the difference between in income) in full as incurred. Actuarial gains and losses are the forward purchase or sale price of the foreign currencies always recognized directly in the statement of income. and their exchange rate at the reporting date, when this is an unrealized loss. Unrealized gains are not recognized in the Deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are calculated using the projected unit accounts, but are added back to proﬁt for tax purposes. credit method. This method takes into account estimated years of service at retirement, ﬁnal salaries, life expectancy and staff turnover, based on actuarial assumptions. 1.13 STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS The present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is calculated In the statement of cash ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents include by discounting estimated future cash ﬂows, using the interest all cash equivalents and bank overdrafts (classiﬁed under debt) rates determined by reference to the yield on high-quality bonds. with an original maturity of less than three months. The discount rate is determined on the basis of the external 298 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 R NOTE 2 ASSETS 2.1 INTANGIBLE ASSETS December 31, 2016 Gross value at Additions Disposals Gross value at (in € thousands) beginning of period for the year for the year end of period Software at cost 479 479 Amortization of software (479) (479) INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET 0 0 2.2 INVESTMENTS December 31, 2016 Gross value at Changes Gross value at (in € thousands) beginning of period during the year end of period Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates Legrand France SA 3,773,659 3,773,659 3,773,659 3,773,659 Receivables from subsidiaries and affiliates Loan to Legrand France SA 26,101 (26,101) 0 26,101 (26,101) 0 Other investments Treasury shares held for cancellation 0 62,587 62,587 Other treasury shares 3,240 (89) 3,151 Other long-term receivables 17,180 1,359 18,539 Deposits and guarantees 0 0 0 20,420 63,857 84,277 Provisions for impairment Impairment of other treasury shares 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL INVESTMENTS, NET 3,820,180 37,756 3,857,936 For other treasury shares, changes during the year correspond to cash and short-term investments held in the liquidity account net sales (sales net of purchases) for the period. (see note 1.4). During the year, the Company acquired 1,300,000 treasury shares 2.2.1 Shares in subsidiaries and affiliates held for cancellation for an amount of €62,587,122. No impairment provision has been recorded on these shares. Moreover, on May 29, 2007, Legrand appointed a ﬁnancial 2.2.2 Receivables from subsidiaries and affiliates institution to maintain a liquid market for its ordinary shares on the Euronext Paris market under a liquidity contract complying The current account balance of the Company with Legrand with the Code of Conduct issued by the AMAFI (French Financial France SA stood at €26,101 thousand as of December 31, 2015 Markets Association) approved by the AMF on March 22, 2005. and was repaid during 2016. €15.0 million in cash was allocated by the Company to the This current account is governed by a cash pooling agreement liquidity contract. signed with Legrand France SA on January 25, 2006. As of December 31, 2016, Legrand held 60,433 shares (61,650 as of December 31, 2015) acquired under this contract at a total cost 2.2.3 Other investments of €3,150,945, which are recorded under “Other treasury shares”. This item includes shares acquired under share buyback programs, shares purchased under the liquidity contract and the No impairment was recognized on these shares at that date. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 299 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 During 2016, transactions under the liquidity contract led to a Cash and short-term investments held in the liquidity account cash inﬂow of €1,359,603 corresponding to net sales of 1,217 amounted to €18,539,454 as of December 31, 2016, recorded shares. under “Other long-term receivables”. Details of shares purchased for allocation to employees are provided in note 4 on marketable securities. R NOTE 3 RECEIVABLES Current receivables are as follows: Cost Maturity December 31, 2016 (in € thousands) Net value Within one year Beyond one year Trade account receivables 298 298 Prepaid and recoverable taxes 10,209 10,209 Recoverable value-added tax 651 651 Group relief receivables 4,866 4,866 Other receivables 0 0 TOTAL AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 16,024 16,024 0 TOTAL AT THE BEGINNING OF THE PERIOD 13,087 13,087 0 R NOTE 4 MARKETABLE SECURITIES In 2016 and 2015, this item exclusively comprised Legrand shares purchased for allocation to employees. December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 (in € thousands) Cost Impairment Net Net Performance share plans 238 0 238 2,986 Corporate mutual fund 0 0 0 123 TOTAL 238 0 238 3,109 Details of the objectives and terms of the current share buyback During 2016, the Company acquired 462,290 shares, at a cost of program, which represents a maximum of €1 billion, are provided €20,563,378. It also sold the 4,921 shares held in the corporate in the program description published on May 27, 2016. mutual fund, which were initially acquired at a cost of €122,631. A breakdown of shares held in treasury for allocation to employees is provided in note 6.1. 300 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 R NOTE 5 ACCRUALS (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Prepaid expenses 99 151 Deferred charges 1,866 2,550 Bond redemption premium 3,403 4,243 TOTAL 5,368 6,944 R NOTE 6 EQUITY 6.1 SHARE CAPITAL W the net sale of 1,217 shares under the liquidity contract (see note 2.2.3). Share capital as of December 31, 2016 amounted to €1,069,309,496 represented by 267,327,374 ordinary shares with At December 31, 2016, the Company held 1,365,561 shares, a par value of €4 each, for 267,327,374 theoretical voting rights acquired at a cost of €65,976,114 and allocated as follows: and 265,961,813 exercisable voting rights (after subtracting W 5,128 shares purchased at a cost of €238,047 and available for shares held in treasury by the Company as of this date). allocation upon exercise of performance share plans; As of December 31, 2016, the Company held 1,365,561 shares W 1,300,000 shares acquired at a cost of €62,587,122 and held for in treasury, versus 156,595 shares as of December 31, 2015, i.e. cancellation (see note 2.2.3) ; and 1,208,966 additional shares corresponding to: W 60,433 shares purchased at a cost of €3,150,945 and held W the net acquisition of 1,757,369 shares outside of the liquidity under the liquidity contract (see note 2.2.3). contract (see note 2.2.3 and note 4); W the transfer of 547,186 shares to employees under performance share plans; Changes in share capital in 2016 were as follows: Share capital Premiums Number of shares Par value (in euros) (in euros) As of December 31, 2015 266,930,602 4 1,067,722,408 1,046,466,867 Exercise of options under 2007 plan 72,141 4 288,564 1,515,270 Exercise of options under 2008 plan 133,772 4 535,088 2,189,370 Exercise of options under 2009 plan 37,651 4 150,604 338,695 Exercise of options under 2010 plan 153,208 4 612,832 2,699,387 Repayment of paid-in-capital* (112,476,300) As of December 31, 2016 267,327,374 4 1,069,309,496 940,733,289 * Portion of dividends distributed in June 2016 deducted from the premium account. In 2016, 396,772 shares were issued under the 2007 to 2010 stock option plans, resulting in a capital increase representing a total amount of €8,329,811 (premium included). A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 301 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 6.2 ADDITIONAL PAID-IN CAPITAL, RESERVES AND RETAINED EARNINGS (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Before appropriation of proﬁt Additional paid-in capital 940,733 1,046,467 IPO costs charged to additional paid-in capital (33,206) (33,206) Legal reserve 106,772 106,543 Non-distributable reserves 6,349 2,877 Other reserves and retained earnings 0 0 TOTAL 1,020,648 1,122,681 Non-distributable reserves correspond to share buybacks, excluding shares held for cancellation. 6.3 CHANGES IN EQUITY December 31, 2016 (in € thousands) Equity at the beginning of the period after appropriation of proﬁt 2,388,685 Movements for the year: W Share capital 1,587 W Additional paid-in capital 6,743 W Reserves and retained earnings 0 W Non-distributable reserves 0 W Dividends paid* (307,058) W Untaxed provisions and government grants 0 W Proﬁt for the period 207,884 W Other 0 EQUITY AT THE END OF THE PERIOD BEFORE APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT 2,297,841 * The dividend was distributed by reducing: W distributable earnings in an amount of €194,582 thousand representing €0.729 per share; and W premium account in an amount of €112,476 thousand representing €0.421 per share. The General Meeting of Shareholders held on May 27, 2016 approved the payment of a total dividend of €307,058 thousand representing €1.15 per share. 302 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 6.4 PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS AND STOCK OPTION PLANS 6.4.1 Performance share plans 6.4.1.1 2012 performance share plan The following performance share plan was approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in previous years: 2012 Plan Date approved by shareholders May 26, 2011 Grant date March 7, 2012 Total number of performance share rights granted 987,910(1) o/w to Executive Officer 30,710 French tax residents: March 8, 2014 Non residents: End of vesting period March 8, 2016 French tax residents: March 9, 2016 Non-residents: End of lock-up period March 8, 2016 Number of performance shares acquired as of December 31, 2016 (933,481) Number of performance share rights cancelled or forfeited (54,429) PERFORMANCE SHARE RIGHTS OUTSTANDING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 0 (1) Given the dividend distribution features approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders on May 29, 2015, the number of remaining performance shares was adjusted to take into account the impact of this transaction on the interests of performance share beneﬁciaries, in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code. 6.4.1.2 2015 and 2016 performance share plans The following performance share plans were also approved by the Company’s Board of Directors: 2015 Plan 2016 Plan Date approved by shareholders May 24, 2013 May 24, 2013 Grant date May 29, 2015 May 27, 2016 (1) Total number of performance share rights initially granted 386,150 492,140(1) o/w to Executive Officer 14,487(1) 15,181(1) End of vesting period June 17, 2019 June 17, 2020 End of lock-up period June 17, 2019 June 17, 2020 Number of performance shares acquired as of December 31, 2016 0 0 Number of performance share rights cancelled or forfeited (13,343) 0 PERFORMANCE SHARE RIGHTS OUTSTANDING AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2016 372,807 492,140 (1) Given the dividend distribution features approved at the General Meetings of Shareholders on May 29, 2015 and on May 27, 2016, the number of remaining performance shares was adjusted to take into account the impact of these transactions on the interests of performance share beneﬁciaries in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code. Moreover, the number of granted performance shares has been reduced following the Executive Officer’s decision to waive his entitlement to 9,577 performance shares granted under the 2015 plan and 10,122 performance shares granted under the 2016 plan. The ﬁnal number of shares ultimately granted to beneﬁciaries is determined based on a service condition and several performance criteria. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 303 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 Weight of performance criteria by plan Type of performance Description of criteria performance criteria 2015 2016 Comparison between the arithmetic mean of Legrand’s consolidated EBITDA margin as published in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements “External” ﬁnancial for the three years preceding the date of expiry of the three-year vesting performance criterion period and the arithmetic mean of EBITDA margins achieved by companies forming part of the MSCI World Capital Goods index over the same period. 50% 331/3% Arithmetic mean of levels of normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage “Internal” ﬁnancial of sales, as published in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the performance criterion three years preceding the date of expiry of the three-year vesting period. 50% 331/3% Non-ﬁnancial Arithmetic mean of average levels of attainment of Group CSR Roadmap performance criterion priorities over a three-year period. 0% 331/3% The number of shares ultimately granted to beneﬁciaries is calculated as follows, knowing that the weight of each performance criterion in the determination of the number of shares ﬁnally granted to beneﬁciaries is the same each year for a given plan: “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% Average gap in 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: Legrand’s favour 4 points or less 8.3 points 10.5 points or more betweenLegrand and the MSCI average over 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: a three-year period 3.5 points or less 7.8 points 10.0 points or more “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate(1) 0% 100% 150% 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: 2015 Plan: Average normalized free cash ﬂow as 9.4% or less 12.8% 14.5% or more a percentage of sales 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: 2016 Plan: over a three-year period 8.8% or less 12.2% 13.9% or more Non-ﬁnancial performance criterion (applicable to the 2016 performance share plan) Applicable to beneﬁciaries with the exception of the Executive Officer Between 70% Between 100% Between 105% Capped Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 100% and 105% and 150% at 150% Average rate of attainment of Below Between 70% Between 100% Between 125% Group CSR Roadmap priorities Above 200% 70% and 100% and 125% and 200% over a three-year period Applicable to the Executive Officer Between 70% Between 90% Between 97% Capped Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 90% and 97% and 150% at 150% Average rate of attainment of Below Between 70% Between 90% Between 125% Group CSR Roadmap priorities Above 213% 70% and 90% and 125% and 213% over a three-year period (1) For any point between the limits given in the table above, the pay-out rate would be calculated in a linear way. If all the shares from the 2015 and 2016 plans were to vest (i.e., 864,947 shares), the Company’s capital would be diluted by 0.3% as of December 31, 2016. 304 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 6.4.2 Stock option plans No stock option plans have been implemented since the 2010 Plan. The following stock option plans were approved by the Company’s Board of Directors in previous years: 2007 Plan 2008 Plan 2009 Plan 2010 Plan Date approved by shareholders May 15, 2007 May 15, 2007 May 15, 2007 May 15, 2007 Grant date May 15, 2007 March 5, 2008 March 4, 2009 March 4, 2010 (1) (1) (1) Total number of options granted 1,642,578 2,022,337 1,190,249 3,271,715(1) o/w to Executive Officers 79,871(1) 142,282(1) 94,663(1) 220,212(1) (1) (1) (1) W Gilles Schnepp 40,880 72,824 48,460 135,935(1) W Olivier Bazil 38,991(1) 69,458(1) 46,203(1) 84,277(1) Start of exercise period May 16, 2011 March 6, 2012 March 5, 2013 March 5, 2014 Expiry of exercise period May 15, 2017 March 5, 2018 March 4, 2019 March 4, 2020 (1) (1) (1) €24.91 €20.34 €12.97 €21.57(1) Average closing Average closing Average closing Average closing price over price over price over price over the 20 trading the 20 trading the 20 trading the 20 trading days preceding days preceding days preceding days preceding Exercise price the grant date the grant date the grant date the grant date (2)(3) (2)(3) (2)(3) (2)(3) Exercise terms (plans comprising several tranches) Number of options exercised as of December 31, 2016 (1,244,096) (1,466,477) (781,985) (1,759,586) Number of options cancelled or forfeited (108,448) (122,844) (108,507) (238,401) Stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2016 290,034 433,016 299,757 1,273,728 (1) Given the dividend distribution features approved at the General Meetings of Shareholders on May 29, 2015 and on May 27, 2016, the number and exercise price of stock options was adjusted to take into account the impact of these transactions on the interests of stock option beneﬁciaries, in accordance with article L. 228-99 of the French Commercial Code. (2) Options vest after a maximum of four years, except in the event of resignation or termination for willful misconduct. (3) All these plans were subject to performance conditions (see note 6 to the ﬁnancial statements for the 12 months ended December 31, 2014). The weighted average market price of the Company stock upon exercises of stock options in 2016 was €51.36. If all these options were to be exercised (i.e., 2,296,535 options), the Company’s capital would be diluted at most by 0.9% (which is a maximum dilution as it does not take into account the exercise price of these options) as of December 31, 2016. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 305 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 R NOTE 7 PROVISIONS December 31, 2016 At the beginning Charges Reversals At the end (in € thousands) of the period for the year for the year of the period Pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁt obligations 1,523 203 (1,119) 607 Other 6,378 1,445 (1,569) 6,254 Provisions 7,901 1,648 (2,688) 6,861 Impairment on investments 0 0 0 0 Impairment on marketable securities 0 0 0 0 Provisions for impairment 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 7,901 1,648 (2,688) 6,861 Charges to and reversals from provisions recorded under the following income statement captions: W operating income and expense 1,648 (2,688) W ﬁnancial income and expense W non-recurring income and expense TOTAL 1,648 (2,688) The Company implemented cash-settled long-term employee Plans indexed to the share price are cash-settled. The corresponding beneﬁts plans for employees deemed to be key for the Company, liability has been recorded in the balance sheet and will be subject to the grantee’s continued presence within the Company remeasured at each period-end until the transaction is settled. after a vesting period of three years. For the 12 months ended December 31, 2016, a net expense of In addition to the grantee still being present within the Company, €1,351 thousand was recognized in operating proﬁt in respect the plans can, in certain cases, depend on the Group’s achievement of these plans. The corresponding liability amounted to €5,860 of future economic performance conditions which may or may not thousand as of December 31, 2016 (including payroll taxes). be indexed to the share price. See also note 6.4.1 for performance share plans R NOTE 8 DEBT AND OTHER LIABILITIES Maturity December 31, 2016 Due within Due in one Due beyond (in € thousands) Net value one year to ﬁve years ﬁve years Bonds Bank borrowings with original maturities: 1,434,328 334,328 400,000 700,000 W of less than one year 25 25 W of more than one year Other borrowings 124,155 124,155 TOTAL DEBT 1,558,508 458,508 400,000 700,000 Trade payables 1,601 1,601 Accrued taxes and employee beneﬁt expense 4,457 4,457 Other 10,586 10,586 TOTAL OTHER LIABILITIES 16,644 16,644 TOTAL AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 1,575,152 475,152 400,000 700,000 TOTAL AT THE BEGINNING OF THE PERIOD 1,446,871 46,871 700,000 700,000 306 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 8.1 CREDIT FACILITY In March 2011, the Company carried out a €400.0 million 4.375% seven-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity In October 2011, the Company signed an agreement with six on March 21, 2018. banks to set up a €900.0 million revolving multicurrency facility (2011 Credit Facility) utilizable through drawdowns. The ﬁve-year In April 2012, the Company carried out a €400.0 million 3.375% facility could be extended for two successive one-year periods. ten-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity on April 19, 2022. In July 2014, the Company signed an agreement that amended and extended the Credit Facility ﬁnalized in October 2011 with all In December 2015, the Company carried out a €300.0 million banks party to this contract. 1.875% twelve-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity on December 16, 2027. The agreement extended the maximum maturity of the €900.0 million revolving credit line by three years, i.e., up to July 2021, including two successive one-year period extension 8.3 OTHER BORROWINGS options, and at improved ﬁnancing terms compared with The current account balance of the Company with Legrand October 2011. France SA represented a liability of €124,155 thousand as of Drawdowns are subject to an interest rate equivalent to Euribor/ December 31, 2016. This current account is governed by the cash Libor plus a margin determined on the basis of the Group’s credit pooling agreement signed with Legrand France on January 25, rating. 2006. In addition, the 2011 Credit Facility does not contain any covenants. As of December 31, 2016, the Credit Facility had not been drawn 8.4 OTHER DEBT down. Other debt consists of the €10,583 thousand due to subsidiaries under the group relief agreement (corresponding to the tax beneﬁts derived from the Company’s use of their tax losses that 8.2 BONDS they will recover when they return to proﬁt). In February 2010, the Company carried out a €300.0 million 4.25% seven-year bond issue. The bonds will be redeemable at maturity on February 24, 2017. R NOTE 9 NOTES TO THE STATEMENT OF INCOME Non-recurring income and expense is as follows: (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Revenue transactions 171 66 Capital transactions 1,478 1,656 Provision reversals and expense transfers 17,651 19,170 TOTAL NON-RECURRING INCOME 19,300 20,892 Revenue transactions (183) (1) Capital transactions (23,311) (37,935) Amortization and provision expense 0 0 TOTAL NON-RECURRING EXPENSE (23,494) (37,936) NON-RECURRING INCOME AND EXPENSE, NET (4,194) (17,044) Non-recurring income and expenses on capital transactions The non-recurring provision reversals and expense transfers correspond to income and expense generated on sales and account includes, in addition to the provisions presented in purchases of treasury shares in connection with (i) the liquidity note 7, income of €17,651 thousand from the rebilling of losses contract (income of €1,270 thousand) and (ii) the transfer of incurred or provided for at Company level following the transfer performance shares to grantees under the plans (expense of of performance shares to employees of the Group’s different €23,311 thousand). subsidiaries. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 307 A APPENDIX Appendix 1 R NOTE 10 OTHER INFORMATION 10.1 INCOME TAXES 10.1.1 Unrecognized deferred tax assets and liabilities Base: income Unrecognized deferred tax beneﬁt (or expense) (charge)* Movements for the period Jan. 1, (in € thousands) 2016 Increase Decrease 12/31/2016 01/01/2016 Change 12/31/2016 Timing difference between the recognition of income and expenses for ﬁnancial reporting and tax purposes Taxed income not yet recognized in the income statement Unrealized exchange gains Expenses recognized in the income statement that are deductible in future years Employee proﬁt-sharing (105) (37) 0 (142) 36 13 49 Provisions for pensions and other post-retirement beneﬁt costs (1,514) (201) 1,119 (596) 521 (348) 173 Other provisions (4,260) (1,203) 0 (5,463) 1,467 409 (1,876) Taxes and other (189) 0 189 0 65 (65) 0 TOTAL (6,068) (1,441) 1,308 (6,201) 2,089 9 2,098 * Determined by the liability method, taking into account the contribution sociale de solidarité surtax introduced with effect from January 1, 2000 at the enacted rate of 3.3% for 2016. 10.1.2 Group relief with its policy of not carrying out any speculative transactions. All transactions involving derivative ﬁnancial instruments are The Company is the parent of the tax group comprising all conducted with the sole purpose of managing interest rate, qualifying French subsidiaries of the Legrand Group. The tax exchange rate and commodity risks and as such are limited in group was set up on January 1, 2003. duration and value. Market risk is the risk of losses resulting from Under the terms of the group relief agreement, each subsidiary unfavorable changes in interest rates and exchange rates. calculates its income tax expense on a stand-alone basis and As of December 31, 2016, no hedges were in place at Company level. pays the tax due to the parent company of the group, which is responsible for paying tax for the entire tax group. 10.2.2 Concentration of credit risks Income tax in Legrand’s statement of income corresponds to the Credit risks correspond to counterparty risks with ﬁnancial difference between the tax due by the proﬁtable companies in the institutions. tax group and the beneﬁt arising from the use of the tax losses of loss-making companies, plus the tax on distributed earnings. Financial instruments that may potentially expose the Group to counterparty risk are principally cash equivalents, bank deposits, In 2016, Legrand recognized a net income tax beneﬁt of €10,228 short-term investments and hedging instruments. These assets are thousand (after deducting €5,253 thousand in tax on distributed placed with various leading ﬁnancial institutions and corporates earnings). with the aim of limiting exposure to any single counterparty. The related strategies are deﬁned and monitored by the Corporate 10.2 EXPOSURE TO MARKET RISKS (INTEREST RATE, Finance Department, which tracks the credit default swap ratings CURRENCY AND CREDIT RISKS) and rates of the Group’s counterparties on a regular basis. 10.2.1 Management of financial risks 10.2.3 Liquidity risk The Group’s cash management strategy is based on overall risk Legrand considers that managing liquidity risk depends primarily management principles and involves taking speciﬁc measures to on having access to diversiﬁed sources of ﬁnancing across a wide manage the risks associated with interest rates, exchange rates, range of maturities. This principle forms the basis of the Group’s commodity prices and the investment of available cash. The Group ﬁnancing strategy. does not conduct any trading in ﬁnancial instruments, in line 308 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 1 10.3 CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS Financial commitments given by the Company as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 were as follows: (in € thousands) December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Guarantees given to banks 0 0 Guarantees given to other organizations 63 63 TOTAL COMMITMENTS GIVEN 63 63 10.4 EMPLOYEES December 31, 2016 December 31, 2015 Average number of employees Management 27 27 Administrative staff 5 5 Apprentices 1 1 TOTAL 33 33 10.5 EXECUTIVE OFFICER COMPENSATION Compensation paid to the Executive Officer for 2016 amounted to €1,160 thousand (€1,161 thousand for 2015). 10.6 SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Carrying amount Dividends Share capital Reserves of the Shares paid by and 2016 Legrand retained Guarantees 2016 proﬁt France in (in € thousands) Currency Euros earnings % interest Cost Net given revenue (loss) 2016 French companies Legrand France EUR 54,913 995,879 100 3,773,659 3,773,659 63 792,654 139,633 249,851 R NOTE 11 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF THE YEAR None. R NOTE 12 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS None. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 309 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 APPENDIX 2 Management report of the Board of Directors on March 15, 2017 to the Annual General Meeting scheduled on May 31, 2017 R 1BUSINESS IN THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016 1.5 Business of the Group Information on the business of the Group is presented in chapter 5 of the Company’s Registration Document. 1.1 Highlights of the year Nil. 1.6 Employment competitiveness tax credit Amounts received in 2016 in respect of the 2015 employment 1.2 Revenues and earnings in 2016 competitiveness tax credit scheme (CICE) were allocated to Revenues amounted to €15.5 million, for providing services funding costs related to prospecting for new markets. within the Group. Other operating income amounted to €3.4 million in the year to December 31, 2016. R 2PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Risks and related Group policies are presented in chapter 3 of the Operating expense amounted to €16.5 million in the year to Company’s Registration Document. December 31, 2016, compared with €22.8 million in the year to December 31, 2015. At December 31, 2016, operating proﬁt was €2.3 million, compared with €1.0 million in the year to December 31, 2015. R Nil. 3RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Net interest and other ﬁnancial items for 2016 represented income amounting to €199.6 million, compared with €204.3 million in the year to December 31, 2015. This variation resulted primarily R 4SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT Information on the Group’s labour policy, environmental policy from the interest related to the new bond issue launched on December 9, 2015. and social responsibility commitments is presented in chapter 4 of the Company’s Registration Document. Net exceptional items represented a loss of €4.2 million at December 31, 2016, compared with a loss of €17.0 million in the year to December 31, 2015. This variation in net exceptional items resulted mainly from a lesser buyback of shares in the context of R 5SIGNIFICANT EVENTS SUBSEQUENT TO THE CLOSE OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR performance share allocation plans beneﬁting employees based Nil. outside France. Tax income booked in an amount of €10.2 million represents the surplus of tax paid by subsidiaries within the tax consolidation group and of dividend withholding tax amounting to €5.2 million. R 6FORESEEABLE DEVELOPMENTS AND OUTLOOK Net income for the year to December 31, 2016 amounted to Operating conditions and ﬁnances should be much the same in €207.9 million. 2017 as in 2016. 1.3 Debt The Company’s debt position is summarized in appendix 1. R Nil. 7EXISTING BRANCHES The Company’s external debt in 2016 was globally stable compared to 2015. 1.4 Management of ﬁnancial risk Management of these risks is described in chapter 3 of the Company’s Registration Document and in note 5.1 to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, which appear in chapter 8 of this Registration Document. 310 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 R 8APPROPRIATION OF EARNINGS We propose that the Company’s earnings of €207,884,117.59 2017 ﬁscal year. However, under article 117 (iv) of the French tax code, “natural persons belonging to a tax household whose reference ﬁscal income for the penultimate year, as deﬁned in in respect of the ﬁnancial year to December 31, 2016 be article 1417, section 4, sub-section 1, is less than €50,000 for appropriated as follows: taxpayers who are single, divorced or widowed or less than W appropriation to legal reserve in an amount of €158,708.80; €75,000 for taxpayers subject to joint taxation, may request exemption from this levy”. Such persons should, on their own W in the absence of any retained earnings, distributable income initiative, submit a request for exemption according to the would therefore amount to €207,725,408.79; conditions set out in article 242 (iv) of the French tax code. This W reserves unavailable for treasury shares to be reduced by an portion of dividend is also subject to a withholding tax of 15.5% amount of €2,959,832.71 to €3,388,991.52; for social security contributions. W the amount thus deducted from reserves unavailable for W in the amount of €0.40(1), the dividend payment deducted treasury shares to be appropriated to “other reserves”. from the “issue premium” account would be considered as a In view of the above, we propose to distribute a dividend to repayment of paid-in capital within the meaning of article 112-1 shareholders amounting to €1.19 per share, making a total of the French tax code, therefore non-taxable for individual amount of €316,494,557.47 on the basis of the number of shares shareholders residing in France; it would however reduce the making up capital stock at December 31, 2016 and after deduction ﬁscal share price by the amount of €0.40 per share. of treasury shares held at this date, it being speciﬁed that the The tax-related items of information presented here are those share of the amount thus distributed exceeding the amount of applicable at the time of drafting this report. In the event of a distributable income shall be deducted from “other reserves” in signiﬁcant change in the relative portions per share of the amount an amount of €2,959,832.71 with the remainder being deducted considered as taxable income subject to sliding-scale income tax from the “issue premium” account, i.e. €105,809,315.97. and the amount considered as repayment of paid-in capital, for In the event of a change before the dividend payment date instance due to a change in the number of treasury shares held at in the number of shares entitling holders to a dividend, the the ex-dividend date, additional information will be issued by the overall amount of dividend and the amount deducted from issue Company. As a general rule, shareholders are invited to consult premiums would both be adjusted accordingly. their usual advisers as to applicable taxation schemes. No dividends will be due on any shares that may be held by the Company itself or that have been cancelled before the dividend payment date. R 9EARNINGS OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS In accordance with article R. 225-102 of the French Commercial The dividend of €1.19 per share would be subject to two separate Code (Code de commerce), we inform you of the Company’s taxation schemes for individual shareholders residing in France: earnings over the past ﬁve years. W in the amount of €0.79(1) the dividend paid would be considered For the sake of clarity, this information is presented in a table as taxable income subject to sliding-scale income tax and (appendix 2). eligible, for individual shareholders residing in France, for the 40% exemption provided for under article 158-3-2 of the French tax code (Code général des impôts). This portion of dividend is, in principle, subject to a compulsory withholding tax of 21% on its R 10 DIVIDENDS In accordance with the provisions of article 243 bis of the French gross amount, excluding social security contributions, said levy Tax Code, we inform you of the dividends made payable over the being attributable to income tax on revenue received during the past three years. (1) This breakdown is given for information purposes only and may be modiﬁed according to the number of shares entitling to dividend between now and the dividend payment date. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 311 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 Dividends distributed in respect of 2013, 2014 and 2015 ﬁnancial years were as follows: Earnings distributed per share Eligible for the 40% income-tax Not eligible for the 40% income-tax Shares with dividend Net dividend exemption provided for under exemption provided for under Financial year entitlement per share article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code 265,956,606 shares 2013 with a par value of €4 €1.05 €1.05 €0 266,480,956 shares 2014 with a par value of €4 €1.10* €0.93 €0 267,006,775 shares 2015 with a par value of €4 €1.15** €0.72 €0 * A share of €0.17 of the dividend distributed in respect of the 2014 ﬁnancial year being considered for tax purposes as a repayment of paid-in capital according to the terms of article 112-1-1 of the French Tax Code, this amount is not considered as distributed earnings. ** A share of €0.43 of the dividend distributed in respect of the 2015 ﬁnancial year being considered for tax purposes as a repayment of paid-in capital according to the terms of article 112-1-1 of the French Tax Code, this amount is not considered as distributed earnings. R 11 NON-TAX-DEDUCTIBLE EXPENSES Non-deductible expenses for ﬁnancial year 2016, excluding items b) Employee share ownership At December 31, 2016, Group employees held a total of 634,829 carried over from prior years, came to €36,985, including €13,440 shares in the “Actions Legrand” investment fund, one compartment related to the tax on corporate vehicles (Taxe sur les Véhicules de of the Group’s employee share ownership program. These shares Tourisme et Société) and €23,545 related to rental income and vehicle represented 0.24% of the Company’s capital and of its voting depreciation, with the corresponding tax in an amount of €12,734. rights. At December 31, 2016, Group employees held a total of 10,771,429 shares in application of article L. 225-197-1 of the R 12 MANDATES AND OTHER FUNCTIONS EXERCISED BY EACH DIRECTOR French Commercial Code. These shares represented 4% of the Company’s capital and of its voting rights. This information is provided in appendix 3. R 13 MANAGEMENT R 16 COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS Information on compensation of Executive Officers is presented At December 31, 2016, Gilles Schnepp held the position of in paragraph 6.2.2 of the Company’s Registration Document. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. R 14 SUBSIDIARIES AND ACQUISITIONS R 17 INGREDIENTS OF PAY DUE OR ATTRIBUTED IN RESPECT OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED OF EQUITY INTERESTS OR CONTROL DECEMBER 31, 2016 TO MR GILLES SCHNEPP, For subsidiaries and equity interests, an organizational chart CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, and a description of their business are given in paragraphs 9.1.6 SUBJECT TO SHAREHOLDERS’ OPINION and 9.1.7 of the Company’s Registration Document, which also Informations on the ingredients of pay due or attributed in describes their business. respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman There were no signiﬁcant acquisitions by the Company of equity and Chief Executive Officer, subject to shareholders’ opinion, is interests in or control of any companies headquartered in France presented in paragraph 6.2.5 of the Company’s Registration during ﬁnancial year 2016. Document. R 15 SHAREHOLDERS AND ATTAINMENT OF LEGAL THRESHOLDS R 18 STOCK OPTION PLANS AND PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS Information on the Company’s stock option plans and a) Overview performance share plans is presented in paragraphs 7.2 and 7.3 of the Company’s Registration Document. The shareholding structure of the Company and information about the attainment of legal thresholds is presented in paragraph 7.1 of the Company’s Registration Document. For more information on shareholders and share ownership thresholds, please consult paragraphs 7.1.1.2 to 7.1.4 of the Company’s Registration Document. 312 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 In compliance with articles L. 225-184 and L. 225-197-4 of the French Commercial Code, special reports on this subject will be R 20 DELEGATION IN CONNECTION WITH CAPITAL INCREASES presented to the General Meeting of Shareholders on May 31, 2017. This information is presented in paragraph 9.2.1.1 of the Company’s Registration Document. In compliance with article L. 225-181 of the French Commercial Code, the terms of dividend payment decided upon by the Combined Shareholders Meeting on May 27, 2016 required adjusting the number and price of share options in the process R 21 AUTHORIZATION OF GUARANTEES, ENDORSEMENTS AND BONDS of vesting as well as the number of performance shares not yet At its meeting on March 15, 2017, the Board of Directors, acting deﬁnitively allocated, according to applicable legal conditions, so in accordance with avrticle R. 225-28 of the French Commercial as to acknowledge the impact of this operation on the interests Code, authorized the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to of recipients. grant guarantees, endorsements and bonds in the name of and In view of dividend amounting to €1.15 per share in respect of on behalf of the Company, up to a limit of €100,000,000. However, the 2015 ﬁnancial year, with (i) €0.72 per share coming from this limit does not apply to guarantees, endorsements and bonds distributable income and (ii) €0.43 from the ‘issue premiums’ granted to tax or customs authorities, which are not subject to account, the latter payment being considered as a repayment of any limit. This authorization was granted for a term of one year. paid-in capital and representing around 0.84% of the share price on the ex-coupon date, the following adjustments were made: W for share options, the number of shares was increased by 0.84% and the exercise price lowered by 0.84%; R 22 SHARE BUYBACKS In the course of 2016, the Company purchased a total of 1,637,926 shares at a a total cost of €79,976,133 and sold 1,639,143 shares W for performance shares and performance units, the number of for a total of €81,335,736, under the liquidity contract entered securities was increased by 0.84%. into with Kepler Cheuvreux on May 29, 2007. The terms of For the purposes of this adjustment, the rule of rounding up to the this contract comply with the Charter of Ethics adopted by the next highest whole number was used, to the beneﬁt of recipients. Association Française des Marchés Financiers (AMAFI) and were After adjustment, the share option exercise prices are the approved by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (French Financial following: Markets Authority) in its decision of March 22, 2005. The average purchase price was €48.83 per share and the W 2007 plan: €24.91; average sale price was €49.62 per share. There were no trading W 2008 plan: €20.338; costs associated with these transactions. W 2009 plan: €12.97; At December 31, 2016, the balance on the liquidity contract stood W 2010 plan: €21.568. at 60,433 shares. On the date of the securities transaction, the number of share Outside the scope of the liquidity contract, the Company bought options in circulation was increased by 22,314 securities and the back 1,762,290 shares for a total of €83,150,500, with trading number of performance shares in the process of allocation was costs amounting to €252,926 (including the amount of ﬁnancial increased by 7,856. transaction tax). Out of this total of 1,762,290 shares, the Company transferred 547,186 shares to employees under performance share plans. R 19 AGREEMENTS ENTERED INTO BETWEEN COMPANY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS At December 31, 2016, the Company held 1,365,561 shares with OR SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS a nominal value of €4 each, for a total of €5,462,244 or 0.51% of AND COMPANY SUBSIDIARIES capital stock. Valued at cost at the time of purchase, these shares totalled €65,976,114. As stated in paragraph 6.1.1.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, none of the members of the Company’s Board of Directors Outside the scope of the liquidity contract, at December 31, 2016 are engaged in any business relationships with the Company the Company held 1,305,128 shares, representing a total value at or its subsidiaries, with the sole exception of Mr. Dongsheng Li. cost of €62,825,169. These shares were appropriated as follows: As far as the latter is concerned, two of the Company’s Chinese W 5,128 shares with an acquisition cost of €238,047, representing subsidiaries are parties to a trademark licensing agreement with 0.002% of the Company’s capital and a nominal value of €20,512, TCL, and a technology agreement exists between the Legrand were appropriated for implementation of such performance Chinese subsidiary Legrand (Shanghai) Management Co. Ltd. and share plans as necessary; the TCL subsidiary TCL Smart Home Technologies Co. Ltd. aimed at enhancing compatibility and communication between their W 1,300,000 shares with an acquisition cost of €62,587,122, respective products and applications. The ﬁnancial stakes involved representing 0.49% of the Company’s capital and a nominal are signiﬁcant neither for Legrand nor for TCL, as they represented value of €5,200,000 were cancelled. less than 1/2 per mil of both groups’ respective sales in 2016. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 313 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 R 23 TRANSACTIONS BY COMPANY EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND SIMILAR PERSONS IN COMPANY SHARES (ARTICLE L. 621-18-2 OF THE FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE) Transactions reported by the Company’s Executive Officers and similar persons to the French Financial Markets Authority during ﬁnancial year 2016 were as follows: Nature of Description Number of Total amount Declarer transaction of securities transactions (in euros) Christel Bories Purchase Shares 1 (36,755.78) Annalisa Loustau Elia Purchase Shares 1 (26,965.95) 1 (20,419.07) Isabelle Boccon Gibod Purchase Shares 1 (32,424.00) R 24 FACTORS THAT MAY BE RELEVANT IN THE EVENT OF A TENDER OFFER Ownership of capital The ownership of Legrand shares is presented in paragraph 7.1.1 of the Company’s Registration Document Restrictions on the exercise of voting rights Nil. and transfers of shares provided for in Company articles or agreements brought to the notice of the Company pursuant to article L. 233-11 of the French Commercial Code Direct and indirect equity interests of which Changes in the ownership of Legrand shares during ﬁnancial year 2016 are presented in paragraph 7.1.1.2 the Company has been apprised by virtue of the Company’s Registration Document. of articles L. 233-7 and L. 233-12 of the French Commercial Code Owners of any securities conferring special Nil. rights of control and description of these securities Control procedures provided for employee As provided in the regulations for the “Actions Legrand” investment fund, the voting rights attached to share-ownership plans when the Company shares are exercised by the Supervisory Board of the fund. employees do not exercise this control themselves Shareholders’ agreements of which the Nil. Company is aware and that are of a nature to restrict transfers of shares and exercise of voting rights 314 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 Ownership of capital The ownership of Legrand shares is presented in paragraph 7.1.1 of the Company’s Registration Document Appointment and replacement of members In accordance with its Articles of Association, the Company is managed by a Board of Directors made up of the Board of Directors and amendment of of a minimum of three members and a maximum of eighteen members, except as provided by law in the the Company’s Articles of Association event of a merger. Except as provided by law, each Director must hold (in registered form) at least 500 shares of the Company throughout his or her term as Director. Beyond this statutory requirement, the Board of Directors regulations recommend that each Director gradually acquire, in the course of their term of office, a number of shares equivalent to the amount of one year’s director’s fees, the latter being calculated on the basis of an assumption of participation, throughout the year, in every meeting of the Board and of any committees the Director is a part of, with the Legrand share unit value being set at the average share price over the previous terminated ﬁnancial year. Directors are appointed to serve four-year terms, which expire at the end of the ordinary General Meeting of shareholders called to consider ﬁnancial statements for the previous ﬁnancial year and held in the year in which their term of office expires. Directors may be reappointed for consecutive terms without limit. When the legal conditions are met, the Board of Directors may appoint provisional members of the Board for the remaining term of office of their predecessor. As provided by law, provisional appointments are subject to ratiﬁcation at the ﬁrst shareholders’ meeting after the appointment is made. No individual over the age of 70 may be appointed to the Board of Directors if his/her appointment results in more than one-third of the number of members of the Board of Directors having exceeded such age. If, during their term of office, the number of members of the Board of Directors over the age of 70 exceeds one-third of their total number, the oldest member will be deemed to have resigned at the end of the ordinary General Meeting of shareholders called to consider the accounts for the previous ﬁnancial year and held during the year in which the age limit is reached. Where the Company’s Articles of Association do not speciﬁcally provide otherwise, amendments to the articles are subject to the provisions of applicable law. Powers of the Board of Directors, in This information is presented in paragraphs 9.2.1.1 and 9.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document. particular concerning share issuance and The Company can only repurchase its own shares outside of periods during which shares are made repurchase available through public offerings. Agreements entered into by the Company The following contracts may be amended or lapse if control of the Company changes: which would be amended or lapse in the W contract for the issuance of bonds on the US market by the Company’s subsidiary Legrand France in an event of a change of control of the Company, amount of $393.5 million, in the event of a change in control due to a hostile takeover; except (unless disclosure is required by W the bond issue made on February 24, 2010 in a nominal amount of €300 million; law) where disclosure would seriously W the bond issue made on March 10, 2011 in a nominal amount of €400 million; harm its interests W the loan contract in an amount of €900 million entered into with French ﬁnancial institutions on October 20, 2011 and amended on July 25, 2014; W the bond issue made on April 11, 2012 in a nominal amount of €400 million; W the bond issue made on December 9, 2015 in a nominal amount of €300 million. Agreements providing for payment of Nil with respect to the Executive Officer and members of the Board of Directors. compensation to employees or members of the Board of Directors in the event of resignation, dismissal without real and serious cause, or termination of employment due to a tender offer A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 315 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 R 25 DUE DATES OF ACCOUNTS PAYABLE In accordance with article L. 441-6-1 of the French Commercial Code, the table below presents the balance of trade payables by due date: (in thousands of euros) No due date(1) Total trade Due dates (D = invoice date) < D+60 days > 60 days if applicable accounts payable Trade payables at December 31, 2016 262 0 1,339 1,601 Trade payables at December 31, 2015 361 0 1,421 1,782 (1) Includes invoices that have not yet reached the Company. R 26 APPOINTMENT OF STATUTORY AUDITORS Information on renewal of appointment of principal and replacement Statutory Auditors is given in section 9.4.2 of the Company’s Registration Document. March 15, 2017 The Board of Directors 316 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 Appendix 1 to the Management Report Debt position (in € millions) 12/31/2016 12/31/2015 EXTERNAL DEBT Debt Bonds 1,400.0 1,400.0 Bank borrowings Credit Facility TOTAL EXTERNAL DEBT 1,400.0 1,400.0 Accrued interest 34.3 34.3 Finance costs Bonds 49.4 44.0 Bank borrowings Credit Facility TOTAL FINANCE COSTS ON EXTERNAL DEBT 49.4 44.0 % 3.5% 3.1% INTRA-GROUP DEBT Debt Advance from Legrand France 124.2 Finance costs Advance from Legrand France 0.7 % TOTAL DEBT 1,558.5 1,434.3 Equity 2,297.8 2,388.7 DEBT-TO-EQUITY RATIO 68% 60% A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 317 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 Appendix 2 to the Management Report Five-year ﬁnancial summary (in € thousands) 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 12/31/2014 12/31/2015 12/31/2016 Capital at December 31 Share capital 1,057,500 1,062,362 1,065,430 1,067,722 1,069,309 Number of common shares 264,374,875 265,590,517 266,357,615 266,930,602 267,327,374 Total shares outstanding 264,374,875 265,590,517 266,357,615 266,930,602 267,327,374 Of which, treasury stock* 151,584 170,527 493,806 156,595 1,365,561 Results of operations Net revenue 18,475 22,821 18,453 19,728 15,470 Proﬁt before tax, employee proﬁt-sharing, amortization and provisions 70,067 207,488 216,126 193,401 198,266 Income tax beneﬁt (expense) 14,025 7,381 2,606 10,121 10,228 Employee proﬁt-sharing (76) (79) (97) (84) (125) Net proﬁt 86,732 211,074 215,924 198,282 207,884 Total dividend 245,008 265,131 279,254 293,129 307,058 Per share data Earnings per share after tax, employee proﬁt-sharing but before amortization and provisions 0.32 0.81 0.82 0.76 0.78 Earnings per share 0.33 0.79 0.81 0.74 0.78 Dividend per share 0.93 1.00 1.05 1.10 1.15 Employee data Average number of employees at December 31 36 34 33 33 33 Total payroll 5,212 5,511 5,792 6,786 5,735 Total beneﬁts 5,581 9,952 5,624 4,157 2,487 * No dividend entitlement or voting rights can be attached to own shares held by the Company 318 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 Appendix 3 to the Management Report Appointments and positions Previous appointments currently held in French and positions held Director or foreign companies in the past ﬁve years GILLES SCHNEPP – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Legrand* (since 2006) Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 58(1) W Member of the Board W Mandates in various A French national of Directors of Legrand* subsidiaries 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2002): Outside the Legrand Group Education W Member of the Strategy W Nil Gilles Schnepp graduated from the École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC). and Social Responsibility Committee Professional Background W Executive appointments Gilles Schnepp’s career began at Merrill Lynch France where he became Viceheld in various President. He then joined Legrand in 1989 as Deputy Chief Financial Officer. He subsidiaries(2) became Company Secretary of Legrand France in 1993, Chief Financial Officer in 1996 W Representative and Chief Operating Officer in 2000. of Legrand SNC, Gilles Schnepp has been a Director of the Company since 2002, and Chairman of the Chairman of Legrand Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer since 2006. Gilles Schnepp has also Paciﬁc been President of the French Federation of Electric, Electronic and Communication W Director of Legrand Industries (FIEEC) since July 2013 and Director of Saint-Gobain* (since 2009). Kazakstan Gilles Schnepp holds 2,262,835 Legrand shares. W Director of PT Supreme Electro Kontak W Director and Managing Director of Legrand SLV d.o.o. W Chairman of Legrand Holding Inc Outside the Legrand Group W Member of the Board of Directors of Saint-Gobain* (since 2009) * Listed company. (1) The age has been ﬁxed as on the 15th of March 2017, date on which the Board of Directors approves the annex 3 of the Management Report which contains the directors’ biography. (2) No compensation in the form of attendance fees or similar is paid or due in respect of executive appointments held in Legrand or in Group subsidiaries. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 319 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 Appointments and positions Previous appointments currently held in French and positions held Director or foreign companies in the past ﬁve years OLIVIER BAZIL – Companies Director Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 70(1) W Member of the Board W Vice-Chairman and A French national of Directors of Legrand* Chief Operating 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2002): Officer of Legrand* Education W Member of the (until May 2011) Olivier Bazil graduated from the École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC) and Nominating W Mandates in various Group holds an MBA (Master of Business Administration) from Harvard Business School. and Governance subsidiaries Committee Outside the Legrand Group Professional Background W Member of the Strategy W Director of Firmenich Olivier Bazil joined Legrand in 1973 as Deputy Company Secretary, in charge of and Social Responsibility International SA (until ﬁnancial communication and development of the Group’s growth strategy. He became Committee October 2016) Chief Financial Officer of Legrand Group in 1979, Deputy Chief Operating Officer Outside the Legrand Group in 1993, then held the position of Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer from W Member of the Supervisory 2000 until the General Meeting on May 26, 2011. Board of Michelin* Olivier Bazil also holds the following positions: Member of the Supervisory Board of (since 2013) Michelin*, Vallourec* and Société Civile du Château Palmer, Chairman of Fritz SAS. W Member of the Supervisory Olivier Bazil holds 2,009,085 Legrand shares. Board of Vallourec* (since 2012) W Chairman of Fritz SAS (since 2009) W Member of the Supervisory Board of Société Civile du Château Palmer (since 2009) ISABELLE BOCCON-GIBOD – Companies Director Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 48(1) W Member of the Board W Nil. A French national of Directors of Legrand* Outside the Legrand Group 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2016): W ViceExecutive President Education W Member of the of Sequana* group Isabelle Boccon-Gibod holds a degree from l’Ecole Centrale de Paris and from Audit Committee (until 2013) Columbia University in the United States. Outside the Legrand Group W Executive Officer of W Director of Arkema* Arjowiggings (until 2013) Professional Background (since 2014) W Member of the executive Isabelle Boccon-Gibod started her career in 1991 in the International Paper Group W Director of Paprec Committee of Altavia (until as industrial activities Manager of the cardboard division in the United States, then (since 2014) 2016) in the United Kingdom from 1997 to 2001, before becoming Head of the strategic W Director of Sequana* development for Europe until 2004. (since 2016) She joined the Sequana* Group in 2006 as Special Advisor to General Management. She was nominated as Vice-Executive President of the Sequana* Group in 2008 and Executive Officer of the Arjowiggings Group in 2009. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod is also a photographer and an author. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod is a Director of Arkema*, of Sequana* and of the Paprec Group. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod holds 1,000 Legrand shares. * Listed company. (1) The age has been ﬁxed as on the 15th of March 2017, date on which the Board of Directors approves the annex 3 of the Management Report which contains the directors’ biography. 320 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 Appointments and positions Previous appointments currently held in French and positions held Director or foreign companies in the past ﬁve years CHRISTEL BORIES – Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Eramet* Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 52(1) W Member of the Board W Nil. A French national of Directors of Legrand* Outside the Legrand Group 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2012) W Deputy Chief Executive Education W Chairman of the Strategy Officer of Ipsen* (until Christel Bories graduated from the École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC). and Social Responsibility March 2016) Committee W Director of Natixis* Professional Background W Member of the Audit (until May 2014) Christel Bories began her career in 1986 as a strategy consultant with Booz-Allen Committee W Director of Cercle de & Hamilton before moving to Corporate Value Associates. She subsequently held Outside the Legrand Group l’Industrie (until May 2013) several executive positions with Umicore, then Pechiney Group. Following Pechiney’s W Director of Smurﬁt Kappa* W Chief Executive integration into the Alcan Group, Christel Bories was appointed Chairman and Chief (since 2012) Officer of Constellium Executive Officer of Alcan Packaging, then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of W Member of the Audit (until December 2011) Alcan Engineered Products and ﬁnally Chief Executive Officer of Constellium (ex Alcan), Committee and the W Director of ATLAS which she left in December 2011. Christel Bories was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Compensation Committee CopCo AB*, Sweden Officer of Ipsen* on February 27, 2013, a position she held until March 2016. W Deputy Chief Executive (until 2011) Christel Bories also serves on the Board of Directors of Smurﬁt Kappa* and is Deputy Officer of Eramet* Chief Executive Officer of Eramet since 2017. (since 2017) Christel Bories holds 2,190 Legrand shares ANGELES GARCIA-POVEDA – EMEA Co-Managing Director of Spencer Stuart Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 46(1) W Member of the Board W Nil. A Spanish national of Directors of Legrand* Outside the Legrand Group 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2012): W Managing Director of Education W Lead Director Spencer Stuart France Angeles Garcia-Poveda graduated from ICADE in Madrid. She also attended the W Chairman of the Business Case Study Program at Harvard University. Compensation Committee W Chairman of Professional Background the Nominating Before joining Spencer Stuart in 2008, Angeles Garcia-Poveda spent 14 years with The and Governance Boston Consulting Group (BCG). She worked as a strategy consultant at BCG in Madrid Committee and Paris before taking different recruiting roles at local and international level. As W Member of the Strategy BCG global recruiting manager, she has worked on cross-border recruiting projects. and Social Responsibility Having managed the Spencer Stuart France office for ﬁve years, Angeles GarciaCommittee Poveda currently co-leads the EMEA region, and is directly in charge of France, Outside the Legrand Group Germany, Austria, Spain, Italy, Switzerland, and Turkey. She is a member of the global W EMEA Co-Managing Director Executive Committee. She deploys her expertise in recruitment and assessment of of Spencer Stuart senior executives and Board members and in governance advisory work, mainly in the ﬁelds of Consumer goods and Private equity. Angeles Garcia-Poveda holds 2,300 Legrand shares * Listed company. (1) The age has been ﬁxed as on the 15th of March 2017, date on which the Board of Directors approves the annex 3 of the Management Report which contains the directors’ biography. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 321 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 Appointments and positions Previous appointments currently held in French and positions held Director or foreign companies in the past ﬁve years FRANÇOIS GRAPPOTTE – Companies Director Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 80(1) W Member of the Board W Director of Legrand France A French national of Directors of Legrand* (until 2012) 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2002) and Outside the Legrand Group Education Honorary Chairman W Member of the François Grappotte is a graduate of the Institut d’Études Politiques de Paris and of the Board of Directors Supervisory former student of the École Nationale d’Administration (ENA); he also holds a law of Legrand*(since 2006) Board of Michelin* degree and graduate degrees in political economy and economic and ﬁnancial Outside the Legrand Group (until May 2013) sciences from the Faculty of Law of Paris. W Nil W Director of BNP Paribas* (until May 2011) Professional Background François Grappotte began his career at the Ministry of Industry and Treasury Department of the Ministry of the Economy and Finance. In 1970, he joined Banque Rothschild, serving successively as Assistant Director, Deputy Director and Director. In 1973, he moved to Compagnie Électro Mécanique as Company Secretary, before being appointed Chief Executive Officer and later Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. François Grappotte joined Legrand in 1983 as Chief Executive Officer, and was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 1988, a position he held until the end of 2003. He was then Chairman of Legrand France until 2006. Since 2006, François Grappotte is Honorary Chairman of the Board of Directors of Legrand*. François Grappotte has also held positions as member of the Supervisory Board of Michelin*, Director of BNP Paribas*, and member of the Consultative Board of the Banque de France. François Grappotte holds 1,616,000 Legrand shares. * Listed company. (1) The age has been ﬁxed as on the 15th of March 2017, date on which the Board of Directors approves the annex 3 of the Management Report which contains the directors’ biography. 322 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 2 Director Appointments and positions Previous appointments currently held in French and positions held or foreign companies in the past ﬁve years THIERRY DE LA TOUR D’ARTAISE Legrand Group Legrand Group Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of SEB SA* (since 2000) W Member of the Board W Nil. Age 62(1) of Directors of Legrand* Outside the Legrand Group A French national (since 2006): W Director of 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges W Member of the Plastic Omnium* Education Nominating (until October 2012) Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise is a graduate of the ESCP business school and a chartered and Governance W Director of Club accountant. Committee Mediterranée* Outside the Legrand Group (until April 2015) Professional Background W SEB: Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise began his career in the United States in 1976 as a W Chairman and Chief Financial Controller at Allendale Insurance. After two years in Boston, he joined the Executive Officer of SEB audit ﬁrm Coopers & Lybrand in Paris. He then joined the Chargeurs Group in 1983, S.A* (since 2000) ﬁrstly as Head of Internal Audit, then as Chief Administrative and Financial Officer W Director of Zhejiang (1984-85), and ﬁnally as Chief Executive Officer of Croisières Paquet (1986-93). SUPOR* (China) Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise became Chief Executive Officer of the SEB Group in (since 2008) 1994, before being appointed as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Calor SA. In W Chairman of SEB 1998, he was named Chairman of the Group’s “Home Appliances” division. In 1999, Internationale (SAS) he was appointed Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Group, becoming (since 2000) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in 2000. W Other: Thierry De La Tour d’Artaise holds 1,250 Legrand shares. W Permanent representative of Soﬁnaction W Director of La Lyonnaise de Banque (since 2001) DONGSHENG LI – Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and founder of TCL Legrand Group Legrand Group Corporation* W Director of Legrand* W Nil Age 59(1) (since 2012) Outside the Legrand Group A Chinese national Outside the Legrand Group W Nil 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges W TCL: Education W Chairman of TCL In 1982, Dongsheng Li graduated from the Department of Radio Technology at South Multimedia Technology China University. Holdings Ltd* (since 2007) W Other: Professional Background W Director of Tencent* As a “Model Worker of the Nation” and holder of the “1st of May National Work Medal”, (since 2004) Dongsheng Li was an elected delegate of the 16th Party Congress in China, as well as a delegate at the 10th, 11th and 12th editions of the National People’s Congress. Dongsheng Li holds several prestigious positions, including: Chairman of China Video Industry Association, Vice Chairman of China Chamber of International Commerce, Executive Committee member of All-China Federation of Industry & Commerce, and Vice Chairman of Guangdong Federation of Industry & Commerce. In China, Dongsheng Li was named “Man of the year in the Chinese Economy” in 2002 and 2004. In 2009, Dongsheng Li was awarded “Economic Leader of the Decade” by the Chinese business channel CCTV. In the international arena, in 2004, Dongsheng Li was selected as “Asia Businessman of the Year” by Fortune Magazine and one of the “Top 25 Global Business Leaders” by Time Magazine and CNN. Moreover, Dongsheng Li received the Officier de la Légion d’Honneur (French national honor) from President Jacques Chirac in the same year. In 2013, Dongsheng Li was deservedly selected as one of the “2013 Best Chief Executive Officers of Listed Companies in China” by Forbes magazine. Dongsheng Li also holds the following positions: Chairman of Hong Kong listed company TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings Limited*, as well as being an Independent Director of Tencent*. Dongsheng Li holds 1,000 Legrand shares. * Listed company. A (1) The age has been ﬁxed as on the 15th of March 2017, date on which the Board of Directors approves the annex 3 of the Management Report which contains the directors’ biography. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 323 A APPENDIX Appendix 2 Director Appointments and positions Previous appointments currently held in French or and positions held foreign companies in the past ﬁve years ANNALISA LOUSTAU ELIA – Chief Marketing Officer of Printemps Legrand Group Legrand Group and member of its Executive Committee (since 2008) W Member of the Board W Nil Age 51(1) of Directors of Legrand* Outside the Legrand Group A Italian national (since 2013): W Nil 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges W Member of Education the Compensation Annalisa Loustau Elia graduated in law from La Sapienza University in Rome. Committee Outside the Legrand Group Professional Background W Director of Campari* Annalisa Loustau Elia worked for four years at Cartier in Geneva and Paris, for two (since 2016) years at L’Oréal’s Luxury Product Division in Paris and for thirteen years at Procter & Gamble in Geneva as well as in the Paris and Rome offices. Her rich and varied professional career has provided her with solid experience of marketing and product development in the luxury, retail and consumer goods sectors. Annalisa Loustau Elia is Chief Marketing Officer of Printemps and has been a member of its Executive Committee since 2008. Annalisa also serves on the Board of Directors of Campari* since 2016. Annalisa Loustau Elia holds 1,340 Legrand shares. ÉLIANE ROUYER-CHEVALIER – Companies Director Legrand Group Legrand Group Age 64(1) W Member of the Board W Nil A French national of Directors of Legrand* Outside the Legrand Group 128, avenue du Maréchal de Lattre de Tassigny 87000 Limoges (since 2011): W Member of the Executive Education W Chairman of the Audit Committee of Edenred* Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier holds a Masters in Economics from Université Paris II Committee (until 2012) Assas. W Member of the W Chairman of CLIFF Compensation Committee (until 2014) Professional Background Outside the Legrand Group W Director of the Institut Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier joined Accor in 1983, taking responsibility for international W Chairman of ERC Consulting Français du Tourisme ﬁnancing and cash currency management before becoming Director of Investor (since 2013) (until 2016) Relations and Financial Communication in 1992. From 2010 to 2012, she was a W Consultant for the World member of the Executive Committee of Edenred*, a company created when the Accor Bank (IFC) (since 2016) Group was split up, as Vice President, Corporate and Financial Communications & Outside the Legrand GroupSocial Responsibility. She is President of ERC Consulting since 2013 and Consultant outside companies for the World Bank (IFC) since 2016. W Director of the Cercle de la Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier is the Honorary Chairman of the French Association for Compliance (since 2015) Investor Relations (CLIFF) after having chaired it from 2004 to 2014 and is ViceW Vice-President of President of the Observatoire de la Communication Financière since 2005. She the Observatoire de la has been a Director of the Federation of Individual Investors and Investment Clubs Communication Financière (F2IC) since 2014 and of the Cercle de la Compliance since 2015. She is Director (since 2005) of Time2Start, an organization that helps young individuals from the suburbs W Director of the F2IC in starting their own business, since 2016. She has been Director of the Institut (since 2014) Français du Tourisme from 2013 to 2016. W Director of Time2Start Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier holds 1,350 Legrand shares. (since 2016) * Listed company. (1) The age has been ﬁxed as on the 15th of March 2017, date on which the Board of Directors approves the annex 3 of the Management Report which contains the directors’ biography. 324 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 3 APPENDIX 3 Statutory Auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements Year ended December 31, 2016 This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. The statutory auditors’ report includes information speciﬁcally required by French law in such reports, whether modiﬁed or not. This information is presented below the audit opinion on the Company ﬁnancial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain signiﬁcant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the Company ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account balances, transactions, disclosures, or on information taken outside of the Company ﬁnancial statements. This report also includes information relating to the speciﬁc veriﬁcation of information given in the management report and in the documents addressed to shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction and construed in accordance with French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meetings, we hereby report to you for the year ended December 31, 2016 on: W the audit of the accompanying ﬁnancial statements of Legrand (the “Company”); W the justiﬁcation of our assessments; W the speciﬁc procedures and disclosures required by law. The ﬁnancial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these ﬁnancial statements, based on our audit. R I. OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. These standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the ﬁnancial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures, using sampling techniques or other methods of selection, to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made, as well as the overall presentation of the ﬁnancial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a reasonable basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the ﬁnancial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of ﬁnancial position of the Company as at December 31, 2016 and the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with French accounting principles. R II. JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) relating to the justiﬁcation of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matter: W note 1.3 to the ﬁnancial statements sets forth the accounting policies related to the valuation of investments in participating interests. As part of our assessment of the accounting policies implemented by your Company, we have veriﬁed the appropriateness of the abovementioned accounting methods and of the information given in the notes; W these assessments were made as part of our audit of the ﬁnancial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the ﬁrst part of this report. R III. SPECIFIC PROCEDURES AND DISCLOSURES We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the speciﬁc veriﬁcations required by French law. We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and consistency with the ﬁnancial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the documents addressed to shareholders with respect to the ﬁnancial position and the ﬁnancial statements. Concerning the information given in accordance with the requirements of article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) relating to remunerations and beneﬁts received by the Directors and any other commitments made in their favor, we have veriﬁed its consistency with the ﬁnancial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these ﬁnancial statements and, where applicable, with the information obtained by your Company from companies controlling your Company or controlled by it. Based on this work, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of this information. In accordance with French law, we have veriﬁed that the required information concerning the identity of the shareholders or holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. Neuilly sur Seine, March 15, 2017 The Statutory Auditors French Original signed by PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Deloitte & Associés A Edouard Sattler Jean-François Viat REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 325 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 APPENDIX 4 Board of Directors Report Presentation of the Agenda for the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 31, 2017 This document outlines the key issues in the draft resolutions Appropriation of earnings and determination of submitted by your Board of Directors to the General Meeting of dividend (3rd resolution) Shareholders called for May 31, 2017. As a result, it is not exhaustive In the third resolution, you will vote on appropriating the and cannot replace a careful review of the draft resolutions before Company’s earnings and determining a dividend. you exercise your voting rights at the Meeting. The proposal before you is as follows: For your information, no new agreement falling within the scope of article L. 225-38 of the French Code of Commerce (Code de W after you have observed that the Company’s net book proﬁt Commerce) was entered into during the ﬁnancial year ended for the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2016 amounts to December 31, 2016. The statutory auditors’ special report on €207,884,117.59; regulated agreements and commitments is at your disposal in W €158,708.80 of this net proﬁt would be appropriated to the section 7.4.2 of the Company’s Registration Document. legal reserve; The Board of Directors has resolved to call a Combined Ordinary W in the absence of any retained earnings, distributable income and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 31, would therefore amount to €207,725,408.79; 2017 to consider the following agenda: W the amount of reserves unavailable for treasury shares would be reduced by €2,959,832.71 to €3,388,991.52; R I – RESOLUTIONS FOR THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING W the sum thus deducted from reserves unavailable for treasury shares would be appropriated to “other reserves”. Your Board has therefore proposed that you distribute a dividend Approval of the ﬁnancial statements for ﬁnancial year amounting to €1.19 per share, for a total of €316,494,557.47, 2016 (1st and 2nd resolutions) based on the number of shares making up the capital stock at The ﬁrst two resolutions give you the opportunity, after having December 31, 2016, minus the treasury shares held by the reviewed the reports of the Board of Directors and the Statutory Company at that date. It may be noted that the share of the Auditors, to vote on approval of the Company and consolidated amount thus distributed exceeding the amount of distributable ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, income would be deducted from “other reserves” in the amount 2016 and on the transactions reﬂected in the ﬁnancial statements of €2,959,832.71 with the remainder being deducted from the or summarized in these reports. “issue premium” account. At December 31, 2016: In the event of a change before the dividend payment date in the number of shares entitling holders to a dividend, the total W the Company’s ﬁnancial statements show a net proﬁt of €207.9 million; dividend amount would be adjusted accordingly. No dividends would be due on any shares held by the Company W the Company’s consolidated ﬁnancial statements show a net proﬁt excluding minority interests of €628.5 million. itself or cancelled before the payment date. More particularly, the ﬁrst resolution allows you to decide on the In terms of taxation schemes applicable to individual shareholders overall amount of costs and expenses referred to in article 39-4 residing in France, the distribution of an amount of €1.19 per of the French tax code (Code général des impôts), i.e. costs and share, for which your approval is being sought, would be subject expenses excluded from costs deductible for tax purposes. to the following conditions: W in the amount of €0.79(1) the dividend paid would be considered as taxable income subject to sliding-scale income tax and eligible, for individual shareholders residing in France, for the 40% exemption provided for under article 158-3-2 of (1) This breakdown is given for information purposes only and may be modiﬁed according to the number of shares entitling to dividend between now and the dividend payment date. 326 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 the French tax code. This portion of dividend is, in principle, the ex-dividend date, additional information will be issued by the subject to a compulsory withholding tax of 21% on its gross Company. As a general rule, shareholders are invited to consult amount, excluding social security contributions, said levy being their usual advisers as to applicable taxation schemes. attributable to income tax on revenue received during the 2017 If this resolution is adopted, the ex-dividend date would be June 2, ﬁscal year. However, under article 117 (iv) of the French tax 2017, and the dividend would be paid to shareholders on June 6, code, “natural persons belonging to a tax household whose 2017. reference ﬁscal income for the penultimate year, as deﬁned in article 1417, section 4, sub-section 1, is less than €50,000 for taxpayers who are single, divorced or widowed or less than Opinion on compensation components due or allocated €75,000 for taxpayers subject to joint taxation, may request to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive exemption from this levy”. Such persons should, on their own Officer, in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended December initiative, submit a request for exemption according to the 31, 2016 (4th resolution) conditions set out in article 242 (iv) of the French tax code. This In line with the recommendations of the Afep-Medef Code of portion of dividend is also subject to a withholding tax of 15.5% Corporate Governance, to which the Company makes reference for social security contributions. pursuant to article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, the compensation components due or allocated to the Executive W in the amount of €0.40(1) the dividend payment deducted Officer in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year are submitted to your from the “issue premium” account would be considered as a opinion. repayment of paid-in capital within the meaning of article 112-1 of the French tax code, therefore non-taxable for individual Consequently, the fourth resolution asks that you issue a shareholders residing in France; it would however reduce the favourable opinion on the compensation components listed below ﬁscal share price by the amount of €0.40 per share. due or allocated in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The tax-related items of information presented here are those applicable at the time of drafting this report. In the event of a signiﬁcant change in the relative portions per share of the amount considered as taxable income subject to sliding-scale income tax and the amount considered as repayment of paid-in capital, for instance due to a change in the number of treasury shares held at (1) This breakdown is given for information purposes only and may be modiﬁed according to the number of shares entitling to dividend between now and the A dividend payment date. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 327 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Compensation components due or allocated in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, submitted to shareholders’ opinion Compensation components due or Amounts or allocated for the year accounting valuation ended December 31, submitted 2016 for vote Details Fixed compensation €625,000 Gross ﬁxed annual compensation approved by the Board of Directors on March 3, 2011, and unchanged since that date. Annual variable €535,000 The Board of Directors decided that the variable compensation paid to Mr. Gilles Schnepp in respect of the compensation 2016 ﬁnancial year could vary between 0% and 120% of ﬁxed annual compensation (with a target value set at 80% of ﬁxed annual compensation) and would be determined as follows: W from 0% to 90% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 60%) depending on a quantiﬁable portion (representing ¾ of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) achievement of a certain level of “economic income,” i.e. adjusted operating income less the cost of capital employed, (ii) 2016 organic growth in revenue, (iii) 2016 revenue growth by consolidation scope impact, and (iv) Legrand’s inclusion in benchmark CSR indices; and W from 0% to 30% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 20%) depending on a qualitative portion (representing ¼ of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) revenue growth (increased market share, new products, sales policies, access to new markets, partnerships (including outside France), expansion in the new economies), (ii) the acquisition strategy (adherence to set priorities, emphasis on multiples, quality of docking processes for acquisitions already made), and (iii) other general criteria, particularly risk management, labour issues, and succession plans. Based on the work and proposals of the Compensation Committee, the Board, at its meeting on March 15, 2017, set: W the amount of the 2016 variable portion due in respect of meeting quantiﬁable targets at 73.4% of annual ﬁxed compensation; and W the amount of the 2016 variable portion due in respect of meeting qualitative targets at 29% of annual ﬁxed compensation, corresponding to a rate of achievement of 85.3% of the maximum annual bonus and 128% of the target, i.e. €640,000. (details of the rate of achievement of the quantiﬁable and qualitative criteria are presented in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document). However, it should be noted that Mr. Gilles Schnepp chose, on its own initiative, to waive a portion of this variable compensation in respect of 2016 so as to keep it at the same level as 2015, i.e. €535,000. Deferred variable Not applicable There are no plans to allocate any deferred variable compensation. compensation Long term cash Not applicable There was no grant during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. incentive It may be noted that the vesting period of the 2013 Future Performance Units Plan expired on March 7, 2016, with a rate of achievement of future performance conditions of 100.2%. The amount corresponding to these Future Performance Units, which will be paid to Mr. Gilles Schnepp at the end of an additional two-year period, is not currently known as it is indexed on the Legrand share closing price on NYSE Euronext Paris on the day of the beneﬁciary’s decision to exercise the Future Performance Units. Said amount shall be submitted to the vote of shareholders once it is known. These plans (especially the performance conditions applicable to performance units allocated) are described in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, pages 191-193. 328 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 Compensation components due or Amounts or allocated for the year accounting valuation ended December 31, submitted 2016 for vote Details Stock options, Stock options: There was no grant during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. performance shares Not applicable or any other longPerformance On a recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors on May 27, 2016 decided to term compensation shares: set up a 2016 Performance Share Plan. This plan (especially the performance conditions applicable to the component valuation €659,375 allocation of shares) is described in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, on page 190, and in chapter 7.3 of the Company’s Registration Document, on page 207. The allocation beneﬁting Mr. Gilles Schnepp in respect of this plan amounted to 3.08% of the overall allocation*. The number of performance shares allocated to Mr. Gilles Schnepp is 15,181. This number may subsequently vary in a range between 0% and 150% of the number of shares initially allocated, according to the level of attainment of “external” and “internal” ﬁnancial performance conditions and an extraﬁnancial performance condition. As stated previously, the Board of Directors took its decision on May 27, 2016 on the basis of an authorization granted by the General Meeting on May 24, 2013, in its ninth resolution (Authorization to allocate existing shares or shares to be issued beneﬁting Company personnel and/or corporate officers). Other securities: There was no grant during the 2016 ﬁnancial year. Not applicable Extraordinary compensation Not applicable There are no plans to allocate any extraordinary compensation. Mr. Gilles Schnepp does not receive attendance fees in respect of his office within the Company or its Attendance fees Not applicable subsidiaries. Valuation of all types Not applicable of beneﬁt * This calculation takes into account (i) the adjustment in the number of performance shares made in view of the conditions of dividend payment decided upon by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 27, 2016, to acknowledge the impact of this operation on the interests of beneﬁciaries of performance shares (for details please refer to chapter 7.3 of the Company’s Registration Document), and (ii) Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s decision to waive part of his entitlement to shares allocated during the 2016 ﬁnancial year (for details please refer to table 6, “Performance shares freely awarded by the General Shareholders’ Meeting during the ﬁnancial year to the Executive Officer by the Company and by any Group company”, on page 189 of the Company’s Registration Document). Compensation components having been submitted to the shareholders’ approval in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Amounts Details Severance payment Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Non-compete compensation Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. Supplementary pension plan Not applicable There is no commitment in this regard. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 329 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Summary table of criteria for determining the Executive Officer’s 2016 annual bonus Mr. Gilles Schnepp’s annual bonus in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year was determined by application of the criteria given hereafter: Min Target Max Actual Quantiﬁable portion: Economic income Adjusted operating As a % of ﬁxed 0% 40% 60% 50.0% ¾ of variable total income less the cost of compensation 60% of ﬁxed capital employed, in € Indicator value 649 749 849 799 compensation millions (as a target) Organic growth Organic revenue As a % of ﬁxed 0% 8% 12% 11.6% growth as a % of 2016 compensation revenue Indicator value -2% 0% 2% 1.8% Acquisitions 2016 revenue As a % of ﬁxed 0% 4% 6% 3.8% growth by scope of compensation consolidation effect Indicator value 0% 5% 10% 4.7% Corporate Social Inclusion of Legrand As a % of ﬁxed 0% 8% 12% 8.0% Responsibility (CSR) in benchmark CSR compensation indices Indicator value 5 11 14 11 QUANTITATIVE TOTAL 0% 60% 90% 73.4% Qualitative portion: Revenue growth Increased market share, new products, 0% 8% 12% 12% ¼ of variable total sales policies, access to new markets, 20% of ﬁxed partnerships (including outside France), compensation expansion in the new economies (as a target) Acquisition strategy Adherence to set priorities, emphasis on 0% 8% 12% 11% multiples, quality of docking process for acquisitions already made General criteria Risk management, labour issues, succession 0% 4% 6% 6% plans QUALITATIVE TOTAL 0% 20% 30% 29% VARIABLE TOTAL AS A % OF FIXED COMPENSATION 0% 80% 120% 102.4% 330 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 Executive Officer’s 2016 long-term compensation The long-term compensation allocated to Mr. Gilles Schnepp in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year takes the form of a performance share plan (the “2016 Performance Share Plan”), approved by your Board of Directors on May 27, 2016, on a recommendation from the Compensation Committee. The number of performance ﬁnally allocated to Mr. Gilles Schnepp in respect of this plan will fall in a range between 0% and 150% of the initial allocation, after enforcement of a service condition and several performance criteria: “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate (1) 0% 100% 150% EBITDA margin average gap over 3 years in Legrand’s favour between Legrand and the MSCI average 3.5 points or less 7.8 points 10.0 points or more “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate (1) 0% 100% 150% 3-year average in normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales 8.8% or less 12.2% 13.9% or more Extra-ﬁnancial performance criterion Applicable to the Executive Officer Between 90% Between 97% Pay-out rate (1) 0% Between 70% and 97% and 150% Capped at 150% 3-year average achievement rate of the Group’s CSR Roadmap Between 90% Between 90% Between 125% priorities Below 70% and 97% and 125 and 213% Above 213% (1) Linear calculation of pay-out rate for any result between the limits indicated above. For your information, the precise nature of the performance Officer in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year, which make up the criteria applicable to shares allocated in the framework of this compensation policy applicable to him. plan is detailed in section 6.2.1.1 of the Company’s Registration The amounts that would result from the enforcement of these Document. principles and criteria will also be submitted for your opinion at the next General Meeting called to consider ﬁnancial statements Compensation policy applicable to the Chairman and Chief for the 2017 ﬁnancial year, it being speciﬁed that payment of Executive Officer, in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year (5th resolution) variable and exceptional compensation components is conditional upon approval at the next General Meeting. In line with article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code, you are asked to approve the principles and criteria for Consequently, the ﬁfth resolution asks that you issue a favourable determining, distributing and allocating ﬁxed, variable and opinion on the components listed below of the compensation exceptional components of overall compensation and any policy applicable to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in beneﬁts attributable to the Chairman and Chief Executive respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 331 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Amount/Weighting as % Component Strategic purpose Operation of ﬁxed salary Retaining and Determined by the Board of Directors upon a recommendation from the €625,000 motivating highCompensation Committee, according to: Unchanged since 2011 FIXED performing senior W level of responsibility; COMPENSATION executives W experience; W market practice; W where applicable, any changes in role and responsibilities. Encouraging the The Board of Directors upon a recommendation from the Compensation Minimum value: 0% of ﬁxed achievement of the Committee, according to strategic priorities, determines the following: compensation Company’s ﬁnancial W annual objectives; Target value: 80% of ﬁxed and extra-ﬁnancial W type and weighting of performance criteria; compensation annual targets W relative share of quantiﬁable and qualitative portions. Maximum value: 120% of ﬁxed compensation Quantiﬁable portion (predominant): structured so as to take account of 3/4 of annual variable the year’s growth rate, according to the attainment of speciﬁc, ambitious compensation ANNUAL VARIABLE performance criteria: i.e. 60% of ﬁxed W ﬁnancial criteria (adjusted operating margin excluding acquisitions, compensation as the target organic growth, external growth); value W extra-ﬁnancial criteria (Legrand’s inclusion in benchmark CSR indices). Qualitative portion: structured so as to take account of the year’s initiatives 1/4 of annual variable deployed to support long-term growth compensation i.e. 20% of ﬁxed compensation as the target value Incentivising longThe Board of Directors upon a recommendation from the Compensation Target value: 120% of ﬁxed term ﬁnancial and Committee, determines the following: compensation, converted extra-ﬁnancial W annual objectives; into shares performance W type and weighting of future performance criteria. Variation in a range and rewarding between 0% and 150% outperformance of the number of shares initially allocated according to achievement of future LONG-TERM performance conditions Determined after application of a service condition and 3 demanding 1/3 for each criterion performance criteria tested over three years: W External ﬁnancial criterion (EBITDA margin average gap over 3 years in Legrand’s favour between Legrand and the MSCI average); W Internal ﬁnancial criterion (3-year average in normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales); W Extra-ﬁnancial criterion (3-year average achievement rate of the Group’s CSR Roadmap priorities). 332 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 Compensation policy in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year applicable to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, submitted to shareholders’ opinion Compensation components due Amounts or or allocated in weighting as a respect of the 2017 percentage of ﬁxed ﬁnancial year compensation Details Fixed compensation €625,000 Gross ﬁxed annual compensation approved by the Board of Directors on March 3, 2011, and unchanged since that date Annual variable Min.: 0% The Board of Directors decided that the variable compensation paid to the Chairman and Chief Executive compensation Target: 80% Officer in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year could vary between 0% and 120% of ﬁxed annual compensation Max: 120% (with a target value set at 80% of ﬁxed annual compensation) and would be determined as follows: W from 0% to 90% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 60%) depending on a quantiﬁable portion (representing ¾ of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) achievement of a certain level of “adjusted operating margin”, (ii) 2017 organic growth in revenue, (iii) 2017 revenue growth by consolidation scope impact, and (iv) Legrand’s inclusion in benchmark CSR indices; and W from 0% to 30% of annual ﬁxed compensation (with a target value set at 20%) depending on a qualitative portion (representing ¼ of annual variable compensation) calculated on the basis of criteria linked to (i) revenue growth (increased market share, new products, sales policies, access to new markets, partnerships (including outside France), expansion in the new economies), (ii) the acquisition strategy (adherence to set priorities, emphasis on multiples, quality of docking processes for acquisitions already made), and (iii) other general criteria, particularly risk management, labour issues, and succession plans. These quantiﬁable and qualitative criteria, as well as the targets set, are described in detail in section 6.2.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document. Deferred variable Not applicable There are no plans to allocate any deferred variable compensation. compensation Not applicable Not applicable No grant is planned in respect of 2017. Stock options, Stock options: No grant is planned in respect of 2017. performance shares Not applicable or any other longterm compensation Performance On a recommendation from the Compensation Committee, the Board of Directors on March 15, 2017 component shares decided to set up a 2017 Performance Share Plan. This plan is described (especially the performance conditions applicable to the allocation of shares and the calculation method for determining the number of shares ultimately allocated) in section 6.2.1.1 of the Company’s Registration Document, on pages 182-184. The target value of this plan has been set at 120% of the ﬁxed compensation and will be converted into shares. The number of performance shares ﬁnally allocated may vary in a range between 0% and 150% of the initial allocation, according to the level of attainment of “external” and “internal” ﬁnancial performance conditions and an extra-ﬁnancial performance condition. As stated previously, the Board of Directors took its decision on March 15, 2017 on the basis of an authorization granted by the General Meeting on May 27, 2016, in its thirteenth resolution (Authorization to allocate existing shares or shares to be issued beneﬁting Company personnel and/or corporate officers). Other securities: No grant is planned in respect of 2017. Not applicable Extraordinary Not applicable There are no plans to allocate any extraordinary compensation. compensation Attendance fees Not applicable The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer does not receive attendance fees in respect of his office within the Company or its subsidiaries. Valuation of Not applicable all types of beneﬁt A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 333 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Compensation components to be submitted to shareholders’ approval in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Compensation components to be submitted to shareholders’ approval in accordance with the procedure relating to regulated agreements and commitments Amounts Details There is no commitment in Severance payment Not applicable this regard. There is no commitment in Non-compete compensation Not applicable this regard. There is no commitment in Supplementary pension plan Not applicable this regard. Signing bonus in the event of arrival of a new executive weighting as indicated in the table below, were determined by officer in the course of 2017 your Board of Directors on March 15, 2017, on a recommendation There is no provision for any signing bonus intended to by the Compensation Committee. compensate loss of beneﬁts in the event of arrival of a new The following changes may be noted in relation to the 2016 executive officer in the course of the 2017 ﬁnancial year. ﬁnancial year: (i) replacement of the economic income criterion by an adjusted operating margin criterion, and (ii) increased Principles and criteria for determining 2017 annual variable weighting of organic and external growth criteria. While in no way compensation attributable to the Chairman and Chief altering the degree of stringency of the criteria, these changes Executive Officer enable complete consistency between the quantiﬁable targets The calculation principles for variable compensation in respect and the Company’s publicly released objectives. of the 2017 ﬁnancial year, including applicable criteria and their Min Target Max Quantiﬁable portion: Operating margin 2017 adjusted operating As a % of ﬁxed ¾ of variable total margin (at 2016 scope) compensation 0% 32% 48% 60% of ﬁxed compensation Indicator value 19.3% 19.7% 20.1% (as a target) Organic growth Organic revenue growth As a % of ﬁxed as a% of 2017 revenue compensation 0% 12% 18% Indicator value 0% 1.5% 3% Acquisitions 2017 revenue growth by As a % of ﬁxed scope of consolidation compensation 0% 8% 12% effect Indicator value 0% 5% 10% Corporate Social Inclusion of Legrand in As a % of ﬁxed Responsibility (CSR) benchmark CSR indices compensation 0% 8% 12% Indicator value 7 12 14 QUANTIFIABLE TOTAL 0% 60% 90% Qualitative portion: Revenue growth Increased market share, new products, sales policies, 0% 8% 12% ¼ of variable total access to new markets, partnerships (including 20% of ﬁxed compensation outside France), expansion in the new economies (as a target) Acquisition strategy Adherence to set priorities, emphasis on multiples, quality of docking process for acquisitions already made 0% 8% 12% General criteria Risk management, labour issues, successions plans 0% 4% 6% QUALITATIVE TOTAL 0% 20% 30% VARIABLE TOTAL AS A % OF FIXED COMPENSATION 0% 80% 120% 334 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 Principles and criteria for determining long-term variable Meeting, and would, if approved, correspond to 120% of ﬁxed compensation attributable to the Chairman and Chief salary as a target value. Executive Officer in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year As in 2016, the number of performance shares ultimately The long-term variable compensation attributable to the allocated to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer after a Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in respect of the 2017 period of slightly over four years could vary in a range between ﬁnancial year would take the form of a performance share plan 0% and 150% of the initial allocation and would be determined (the “2017 Performance Share Plan”). This allocation would be after application of a service condition and of three performance converted into shares at the Board of Directors meeting due to criteria, both ﬁnancial and extra-ﬁnancial, each of which would take place on May 31, 2017, immediately after the 2017 General determine one third of the ﬁnal allocation: Type of performance Weighting of criteria Description of performance criteria performance criteria “External” ﬁnancial Comparison between the arithmetic mean of Legrand consolidated EBITDA margin as shown performance criterion in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the three years preceding the day of expiry of the 1/3 three-year vesting period and the arithmetic mean of EBITDA margins achieved by companies forming part of the MSCI World Capital Goods index over the same period. “Internal” ﬁnancial Arithmetic mean of levels of normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales, as shown in the performance criterion consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the three years preceding the day of expiry of the three-year 1/3 vesting period, compared to the target level. Extra-ﬁnancial performance Arithmetic mean over a three-year period of the average annual rates of achievement of the 1/3 criterion Group’s CSR Roadmap priorities. It is thus envisaged to test these performance criteria over a three-year period and to calculate the number of performance shares ultimately allocated according to the following method: 1) “External” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate (1) 0% 100% 150% EBITDA margin average gap over 3 years in Legrand’s favour between Legrand and the MSCI average 3.5(2) points or less 7.8 points(2) 10(2) points or more 2) “Internal” ﬁnancial performance criterion Pay-out rate (1) 0% 100% 150% 3-year average in normalized free cash ﬂow as a percentage of sales 8.6% or less 12.0% 13.7% or more 3) Extra-ﬁnancial performance criterion Between 70% Between 90% Between 97% Capped at Pay-out rate(1) 0% and 90% and 97% and 150% 150% 3-year average achievement rate of the Group’s CSR Roadmap Between 70% Between 90% Between 125% priorities Below 70% and 90% and 125% and 213% Above 213% (1) Linear calculation of pay-out rate for any result between the limits indicated above. (2) The values of these limits stated in the table above are given as examples only, to illustrate the calculation method applicable to the criterion. For the purpose of the allocation of performance shares which will take place on May 31, 2017, the values referred to will be the following: W Mid-point: gap between Legrand and the MSCI average seen in 2016 (data available in June 2017) W Lower limit: mid-point minus 4.3 points W Upper limit: mid-point plus 2.2 points. For more information about Company policy on the compensation and beneﬁts of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in respect of 2017, please refer to section 6.2.1 of the Company’s Registration Document. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 335 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Renewal of the Director’s mandate of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia Elia (6th resolution) Ms. Annalisa Loustau is Chief Marketing Officer of Printemps and The Director’s mandate of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia is expiring at has been a member of its Executive Committee since 2008. Her the end of today’s General Meeting. Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia has rich and varied professional career has provided her with solid expressed her intention to apply for renewal of her term of office. experience of marketing and product development in the luxury Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia has been a Director of the Company and consumer goods sectors. She worked for four years at Cartier since 2013 and is also a member of the Compensation Committee. in Geneva and Paris, for two years at L’Oréal’s Luxury Products Division in Paris, and for thirteen years at Procter & Gamble By virtue of her experience in marketing and product development in Geneva and in subsidiaries in Paris and Rome. Ms Annalisa in the luxury goods, retail sales and mass distribution markets, Loustau is a graduate in law from La Sapienza University in Rome. Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia provides the Company with a perspective that complements the considerations speciﬁc to its Ms. Annalisa Loustau is aged 51 and an Italian national. ﬁeld of business and enables it to beneﬁt from her expertise She holds 1340 Company shares. on aspects of strategic leverage. Her Italian nationality further Subject to your approval of the renewal of the term of office of contributes a valuable perspective in view of the Group’s Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia as a Company Director, the Board of historically strong presence in Italy. Directors at the conclusion of the General Meeting on May 31, The Nominating and Governance Committee and the Board of 2017 will thus comprise ten members, including: Directors are both favourable to the renewal of the terms as Director and Committee member of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia. W ﬁve female members, that is to say a share of 50%, beyond the requirements of the French Commercial Code (40% as of 2017) Recognizing that her varied and extensive skills are a major asset and the recommendation of the Code of Corporate Governance to the Company, the Nominating and Governance Committee and (40% as of 2016); the Board of Directors also point out that Board membership is regularly distinguished, especially in the context of the Corporate W four different nationalities, with one Chinese member, one Governance Awards (Grands Prix des Gouvernements d’Entreprise) Spanish member, one Italian member, and seven French organised by AGEFI: members; W On the occasion of the eleventh edition of the AGEFI Corporate W seven independent members, that is to say a share of 70%, Governance Awards, on September 24, 2014, Legrand was beyond the 50% minimum level recommended by the Code of awarded the Silver Governance Award for Board of Directors Corporate Governance. Membership. This award reﬂected recognition of several characteristics of Legrand’s Board, including the percentage of female members, the number of different nationalities among members, the provision of detailed information about Board members, the duration of their term of office, and their independence. On the same occasion, Legrand was also awarded the 2014 Corporate Governance Grand Prix and the Golden Governance Trophy for Dynamic Governance; W On the occasion of the twelfth edition of the AGEFI Corporate Governance Awards, on September 16, 2015, Legrand once again won an award for Board membership. At its meeting on March 15, 2017, the Board of Directors, acting on a recommendation from the Nominating and Governance Committee, conﬁrmed its assessment that (i) there is no signiﬁcant business relationship between Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia and Legrand and that (ii) Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia may be considered an independent director. A summary biography of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia is given below. 336 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 For information purposes, should you decide to vote in favour of the renewal put before you, the terms of each of the Company’s ten Directors’ mandates would run as follows: Administrateurs 2018 2019 2020 2021 Mr. Gilles Schnepp X Mr. François Grappotte X Mr. Olivier Bazil X Ms. Christel Bories X Ms. Angeles Garcia-Poveda X Mr. Thierry de La Tour d’Artaise X Mr. Dongsheng Li X Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia X Ms. Éliane Rouyer-Chevalier X Ms. Isabelle Boccon-Gibod X NUMBER OF RENEWALS PER YEAR 4 1 4 1 Statutory Auditors’ terms of office (7th and 8th resolutions) called on May 31, 2017. The Company’s Statutory Auditors are tasked with a duty of The situation of your Statutory Auditors has been carefully control and supervision vested in them by law. In particular, their examined by the Audit Committee. In view of the quality and role is to certify independently that the Company and consolidated efficiency of Deloitte’s contribution to Legrand, especially on ﬁnancial statements for the previous ﬁnancial year, which are a technical level, which is highly appreciated both inside and submitted for your approval, are regular, accurate and truthful. outside the Company, and of its in-depth knowledge of the Group, As a société anonyme publishing consolidated ﬁnancial the Audit Committee has declared itself favourable to renewing statements, the Company is required to have at least two its term of office as principal Statutory Auditor. mutually independent principal Statutory Auditors. Until the entry In support of this proposition, your Board recommends that you into force of French law No. 2016-1691 of December 9, 2016 on renew the term of office of this principal Statutory Auditor, for transparency, anti-corruption and economic modernization, a term of six ﬁnancial years as provided for by law, until the known as the “Sapin II Act”, the Company was also required to have General Meeting called in 2023 to approve ﬁnancial statements substitute Statutory Auditors to replace the principal Statutory for the year ended December 31, 2022. Auditors in the event of refusal, unavailability or resignation of For your information, fees paid to Deloitte in 2016 amounted to the latter. €2,822,998 in total, of which (i) €2,769,550 in respect of audit Since the entry into force of the Sapin II Act on December 11, 2016, assignments, certiﬁcation of ﬁnancial statements, review of the appointment of a substitute Statutory Auditor is required only individual and consolidated ﬁnancial statements, and other work if the designated principal Statutory Auditor is a natural person or and services directly related to the Statutory Auditors’ assignment a single-member company. As the Company’s Statutory Auditors (the latter covering mainly audits performed in the context of are neither natural persons nor single-member companies, acquisition projects) and (ii) €53 448 in respect of other services the Company is no longer required to have substitute Statutory provided by the network to integrated subsidiaries worldwide Auditors. (the latter being mainly assignments to provide assistance with Currently, the principal Statutory Auditors are Deloitte & Associés tax declarations and, occasionally, “tax compliance” services; and PricewaterhouseCoopers; substitute Statutory Auditors are it being pointed out that these services are usually provided in Mr. Jean-Christophe Georghiou and BEAS. countries where Deloitte does not fulﬁl the role of local Statutory Auditor). Renewal of one of the principal Statutory Auditors’ term of office (7th resolution) Non-renewal of one of the substitute Statutory Auditors’ term of office (8th resolution) Initially appointed principal Statutory Auditor by the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on December 21, 2005, Deloitte The term of office of BEAS as substitute Statutory Auditor is had its term of office as principal Statutory Auditor renewed by expiring at the end of the General Meeting called on May 31, 2017. the Ordinary General Meeting on May 26, 2011 for six ﬁnancial Pursuant to the Sapin II Act amending article L. 823-1-2 of the years. This term is expiring at the end of the General Meeting French Commercial Code, this resolution proposes not renewing the term of office of BEAS as substitute Statutory Auditor. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 337 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Renewal of share buyback program (9th resolution) €75 (excluding acquisition fees and adjustment events) and limit This resolution asks that you grant your Board of Directors a new the total amount appropriated for the share buyback program to authorization to repurchase Company shares, with concomitant €1 billion. cancellation of the previous authorization, granted by the The authorization granted by this resolution would be valid for Combined General Meeting on May 27, 2016. 18 months from the date of the General Meeting called for May 31, The goals of the buyback program would be: 2017. It could not be used during any period during which shares are made available through public offerings. W to ensure liquidity and active trading of Company shares; For reference, at December 31, 2016, the Board of Directors had W to (i) implement, in accordance with applicable legislation, used the previous authorization as follows: (a) any and all plans relating to options to purchase new or existing shares, (b) any and all employee share-ownership W the total amount of buybacks implemented by the Company transactions, and (c) any and all free allocations of shares was €104.6 million; and share allotments for the purpose of proﬁt-sharing, and (ii) W the Company held 1,365,561 shares with a par value of €4, for undertake hedging transactions relating to these transactions; a total of €5,462,244, representing 0.51% of the Company’s capital (of which 1,305,128 shares excluding liquidity W to hold and subsequently deliver shares by way of exchange or payment in connection with external growth operations; contracts, purchased at a total cost of €65,976,114, to hedge its commitments towards beneﬁciaries of options or performance W to grant shares upon the exercise of rights attached to securities shares, and to an FCPE employee share-ownership fund under providing access, either immediately or at some later date, to a proﬁt-sharing program); the Company’s share capital; W the balance of the liquidity contract, entered into with Kepler W to cancel some or all of the shares thus repurchased, Cheuvreux on May 29, 2007 and subsequently amended, stood provided that the resolution authorizing cancellation of shares at 60,433 shares. repurchased under buyback programs is adopted, or W to allow any other practice permitted or recognized by law or by II Resolutions for the Extraordinary General Meeting the French Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers), or for any other purpose consistent with applicable Renewal of authorization to cancel shares repurchased regulations. under the share buyback programs (10th resolution) This resolution presents the same features as the one approved Adoption of this resolution would enable the Company to by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of reduce its share capital by cancelling some or all of the shares May 27, 2016. purchased under the share buyback programs authorized and implemented by the Company, thereby producing an accretive The share buyback program is limited to 10% of the Company’s effect for shareholders. share capital at the date of the General Meeting called for May 31, 2017, minus the number of shares resold under a liquidity In any 24-month period, these shares could be cancelled up to contract during the term of the authorization. a limit of 10% of the Company’s share capital at the date of the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 31, In any event, at no time would this authorization raise the number 2017. of shares held directly or indirectly by the Company to more than 10% of the total number of shares making up the Company’s This resolution presents the same features as the one approved share capital at that time. by the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of May 27, 2016. The shares repurchased and held by the Company would have no voting rights and would not be entitled to dividends. If approved, this authorization would invalidate all authorizations previously granted by the shareholders to the extent not used. We propose that you set the maximum purchase price per share at Overview of limits on ﬁnancial authorizations submitted for approval to the General Meeting on May 31, 2017 Nature of authorization Resolution Limit Duration Expiry date Renewal of the share buyback program 9th resolution 10% of share capital 18 months November 30, (i.e. around €106.41 million) 2018 10% of share capital November 30, Reduction in capital stock by cancellation of shares 10th resolution per 24-month period 18 months 2018 338 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 A complete recapitulation of authorizations and delegations Powers to effect formalities (11th resolution) granted to the Board of Directors by the General Meeting and This resolution is customary and would allow your Board of still applicable, and of their use during the 2016 ﬁnancial year Directors to proceed with all legally required ﬁlings, formalities is provided in section 10.2.1.1 of the Company’s Registration and publications after the General Meeting of Shareholders Document. called for May 31, 2017. Executed on March 15, 2017 by the Board of Directors Resolutions for the Combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders on May 31, 2017 RESOLUTIONS FOR THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Third Resolution (Appropriation of earnings and determination of dividend) First Resolution (Approval of the Company’s ﬁnancial Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and statements of the year 2016) requisite majority for ordinary general meetings and being Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and apprised of the Board of Directors’ and auditors’ reports on the requisite majority for ordinary general meetings, and being annual ﬁnancial statements, shareholders: apprised of the Board of Directors’ management report on the 1. observe that the net book proﬁt for the ﬁnancial year ended activity and general situation of the Company in the 2016 ﬁnancial December 31, 2016 amounts to €207,884,117.59; year, of the Chairman of the Board’s report as appended to the management report, of the auditors’ report on the annual ﬁnancial 2. resolve to appropriate €158,708.80 of this net proﬁt to the statements, and of the auditors’ report on the Chairman’s report, legal reserve; shareholders approve the Company’s ﬁnancial statements 3. observe that, in the absence of any retained earnings, in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2016 as distributable income therefore amounts to €207,725,408.79; presented, which show a net proﬁt of €207,884,117.59, together with the transactions reﬂected in these ﬁnancial statements or 4. resolve to reduce the amount of reserves unavailable for summarized in the reports referred to. treasury shares by €2,959,832.71 in order to reduce it to €3,388,991.52; Moreover, in accordance with the provisions of article 223 (iv) of the French general tax code (Code général des impôts), shareholders 5. resolve to appropriate the sum thus deducted from reserves approve the total amount of expenses and charges referred to unavailable for treasury shares to “other reserves”; in article 39-4 of the French General Tax Code, amounting to 6. resolve to distribute a dividend to shareholders amounting to €36,985 in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year, and the tax incurred €1.19 per share, making a total amount of €316,494,557.47 in respect of said expenses and charges, amounting to €12,734. on the basis of the number of shares making up capital stock at December 31, 2016 and after deduction of treasury Second Resolution (Approval of the consolidated ﬁnancial shares held at this date, it being stipulated that the share statements of the year 2016) of the amount thus distributed exceeding the amount of Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and distributable income is to be deducted from “other reserves” requisite majority for ordinary general meetings, and being in an amount of €2,959,832.71 with the remainder being apprised of the Board of Directors’ management report on the deducted from the issue premiums account. activity and general situation of the Group in the 2016 ﬁnancial In the event of a change before the dividend payment date in year together with the auditors’ report on the consolidated the number of shares entitling holders to a dividend from the ﬁnancial statements, shareholders approve the Company’s 265,961,813 shares making up capital stock at December 31, consolidated ﬁnancial statements in respect of the ﬁnancial 2016, and after deduction of treasury shares held at this date, year ended December 31, 2016 as presented, which show a net the total amount of dividend and the amount deducted from issue proﬁt excluding minority interests of €628,5 million, together premiums will be adjusted accordingly. with the transactions reﬂected in these ﬁnancial statements or summarized in the reports referred to. The ex-dividend date is June 2, 2017 and the dividend will be made payable from June 6, 2017. No dividends will be due on any shares that may be held by the Company itself or that have been cancelled before the dividend payment date. A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 339 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Shareholders grant the Board of Directors all necessary powers scale income tax and eligible, for individual shareholders to determine, considering in particular the number of treasury residing in France, for the 40% exemption provided for under shares held by the Company at the dividend payment date and the article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code (Code Général des number of shares issued or cancelled before that date, the total Impôts); amount of the dividend and, by the same token, the amount to be W in the amount of €0.40 deducted from the ‘issue premiums’ deducted from the issue premiums account. account, as a repayment of paid-in capital within the meaning Concerning the tax treatment of the €1.19 dividend per share of article 112-1 of the French Tax Code, therefore non-taxable proposed to Company shareholders, it is stipulated, subject to for individual shareholders residing in France but reducing the any adjustments related to potential variations referred to in the ﬁscal share price. previous section, that this distribution will be considered, for tax purposes: W in the amount of €0.79, as taxable income subject to slidingShareholders note that, in respect of 2013, 2014 and 2015 ﬁnancial years, the amounts of dividend paid and income distributed eligible for the 40% income-tax exemption provided for under article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code were as follows: Earnings distributed per share Eligible for the 40% income-tax Not eligible for the 40% incomeFinancial Shares with dividend Net dividend exemption provided for under tax exemption provided for under year entitlement per share article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code article 158-3-2 of the French Tax Code 265,956,606 shares 2013 with a par value of €4 €1.05 €1.05 €0 266,480,956 shares 2014 with a par value of €4 €1.10* €0.93 €0 267,006,775 shares with a par 2015 value of €4 €1.15** €0.72 0€ * A share of €0.17 of the dividend distributed in respect of the 2014 ﬁnancial year being considered for tax purposes as a repayment of paid-in capital according to the terms of article 112-1-1 of the French Tax Code, this amount is not considered as distributed earnings. ** A share of €0.43 of the dividend distributed in respect of the 2015 ﬁnancial year being considered for tax purposes as a repayment of paid-in capital according to the terms of article 112-1-1 of the French Tax Code, this amount is not considered as distributed earnings. Fourth Resolution (Opinion on the compensation Fifth Resolution (Compensation policy applicable components due or allocated to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in respect of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in respect 2017 ﬁnancial year: approval of principles and criteria for of the ﬁnancial year ended December 31, 2016) determining, distributing and allocating ﬁxed, variable and Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and exceptional components of overall compensation and any requisite majority for ordinary general meetings, shareholders, beneﬁts attributable to the Chairman and Chief Executive consulted in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF code of corporate Officer in respect of his mandate) governance, which constitutes the Company’s code of reference Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and requisite pursuant to article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, majority for ordinary general meetings, and apprised of the report issue a favourable opinion on the compensation components due provided for in article L. 225-37-2 of the French Commercial Code or allocated in respect of the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles (Code de commerce) as set out in the 2016 Registration Document, Schnepp, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, as set out in Appendix 4 “Board of Directors” report: Presentation of the agenda the 2016 Registration Document, Appendix 2 “Management for the combined Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting report of the Board of Directors on March 15, 2017 to the Annual of May 31, 2017”, in the section entitled “Compensation policy General Meeting scheduled on May 31, 2017”, in the section applicable to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, in respect entitled “Compensation components due or allocated in respect of the 2017 ﬁnancial year”, shareholders approve the principles of the 2016 ﬁnancial year to Mr. Gilles Schnepp, Chairman and and criteria for determining, distributing and allocating ﬁxed, Chief Executive Officer, subject to the opinion of shareholders”, variable and exceptional components of overall compensation presented by the Board of Directors in respect of the ﬁnancial and any beneﬁts attributable to the Chairman and Chief Executive year ended December 31, 2016. Officer in respect of his mandate. 340 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND APPENDIX Appendix 4 Sixth Resolution (Renewal of the Director’s mandate of Ms. General Meeting, it being noted that, when shares are bought Annalisa Loustau Elia) to ensure the market liquidity of Legrand shares under the Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and conditions described below, the number taken into account requisite majority for ordinary general meetings, and apprised of for the calculation of this limit of 10% will be the number of the Board of Directors’ report, shareholders note that the term shares bought less the number of shares resold during the of Ms. Annalisa Loustau Elia expires at the close of this General term of this authorization; Meeting and decide, as proposed by the Board of Directors, to 2. provide that shares may be bought, sold or transferred for the renew her mandate as Director for a term of four years, ending purposes of: at the date of the General Meeting of shareholders called in 2021 W ensuring the liquidity and active operation of the market to consider ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year ending in Company shares by the intermediary of an investment December 31, 2020. services provider, acting independently under a liquidity Seventh Resolution (Renewal of the mandate of Deloitte as contract in compliance with the Code of Practice recognized principal statury auditor) by France’s Financial Markets Authority (Autorité des marchés ﬁnanciers); Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and requisite majority for ordinary general meetings, and apprised of W implementing (i) any and all Company stock options plans the Board of Directors’ report, shareholders note that the mandate in accordance with articles L. 225-177 et seq. of the French of Deloitte as principal statutory auditor expires this date. Commercial Code or any similar plan, (ii) any and all Group employee share-ownership programs in accordance with Shareholders decide to renew the mandate as principal statutory articles L. 3332-1 et seq. of the French Labour Code (Code auditor of Deloitte, domiciled at 185, avenue Charles-de-Gaulle, du travail) or to provide for share allocations for employee 92524 Neuilly-sur-Seine, for a term of six years from this date, proﬁt-sharing and/or in lieu of discount according to ending at the date of the General Meeting of shareholders called applicable laws and regulations, (iii) any and all free share in 2023 to consider ﬁnancial statements for the ﬁnancial year allocations pursuant to articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the ending December 31, 2022. French Commercial Code, as well as providing cover for such transactions at such times as the Board of Directors Eighth Resolution (Non-renewal of the mandate of BEAS as deputy statutory auditor) or the person acting on its behalf takes action, (iv) any and all allocation of shares to the beneﬁt of employees and/or Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and executive officers of the Company or the Group, according to requisite majority for ordinary general meetings, and apprised applicable laws and regulations, of the Board of Directors’ report, shareholders note that the mandate of BEAS as deputy statutory auditor expires this date. W holding and subsequently transferring shares by way of exchange or payment relating to a business acquisition, Shareholders decide not to renew the mandate as deputy merger, demerger, or transfer of assets, it being stipulated statutory auditor of BEAS, domiciled at 195, avenue Charles-dethat the number of shares acquired by the Company with a Gaulle, 92220 Neuilly-sur-Seine. view to holding these and employing them at a later date as payment for or in exchange for a merger, demerger, or transfer Ninth Resolution (Authorization granted to the Board of of assets may not exceed 5% of the Company’s capital stock, Directors to allow the Company to trade in its own shares) Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and W delivering shares on the exercise of rights attached to requisite majority for ordinary general meetings and being securities providing immediate or future access to the equity apprised of the Board of Directors’ report, shareholders: of the Company, through redemption, conversion, exchange, presentation of a warrant, or in any other way, 1. authorize the Board of Directors, with the right of subdelegation as provided by law and by the Company’s W cancelling all or some of the shares so purchased, pursuant Articles of Association, in accordance with article L. 225-209 to the tenth resolution below, or et seq. of the French Commercial Code and with the terms of W carrying out such other practices as may be permitted or Regulation No. 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of recognized by law or by the Financial Markets Authority, or the Council of April 16, 2014 on market abuse, to purchase, pursuing any other objective complying with applicable laws or to have purchased, Company shares representing at and regulations. most 10% of the Company’s capital stock at the date of this A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 341 A APPENDIX Appendix 4 Shares may be purchased, sold, transferred or exchanged, This authorization is valid for eighteen months from the date of directly or indirectly, in particular by any third party acting on this General Meeting of shareholders and, from this day, deprives behalf of the Company under the conditions provided by the last previous authorizations for the same purpose of their effect to section of article L. 225-206 of the French Commercial Code, at the extent not used. any time within the limits authorized by laws and regulations, except at such times as Company shares may be the object of a RESOLUTIONS FOR THE EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL tender offer, in one or more instalments, by any means, on or off MEETING any market, including via systematic internalisers or through OTC transactions, trading in blocks of shares or public tender offers, Tenth Resolution (Authorization granted to the Board of or through the use of any ﬁnancial instruments or derivatives, Directors to reduce the capital stock by cancellation of including option-based mechanisms such as purchases and treasury shares) sales of put and call options or by delivery of shares arising Meeting in accordance with the conditions as to quorum and from the issuance of securities giving access to the Company’s requisite majority for extraordinary general meetings and being capital by conversion, exchange, redemption, presentation of a apprised of the Board of Directors’ report and the auditors’ warrant or any other means, either directly or indirectly through special report, the shareholders authorize the Board of Directors, an investment service provider. in accordance with articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French The maximum price paid for purchases may not exceed €75 per Commercial Code, to cancel, at its sole initiative and on one or share (excluding acquisition expenses) or the equivalent value several occasions, in such proportion and at such times as it of this amount in another currency or any other monetary unit deems appropriate, all or some of the Company shares purchased established with reference to several currencies on the same under share buyback programs authorized and deployed by the date, it being noted that this price will be adjusted as necessary Company, and to reduce the capital stock of the Company by the to reﬂect capital transactions, in particular incorporation of total nominal amount of the shares thus cancelled, within a limit reserves or free share allocations and/or share splits or reverse of 10% of the share capital at the date of this General Meeting in splits. any period of twenty-four months. The maximum amount allowed for implementation of the The difference between the carrying amount of the cancelled share buy-back program is €1 billion, or the equivalent value shares and their nominal amount shall be allocated to reserves of this amount in another currency or any other monetary unit or premiums. established with reference to several currencies on the same Shareholders grant the Board of Directors full powers, with the date. right of sub-delegation as provided by law and the Company’s The application of this resolution may not at any time result in Articles of Association, to set the terms for cancellation of the the number of treasury shares held by the Company, directly or shares, to effect and recognize such cancellations and the indirectly, rising above 10% of the total number making up capital corresponding capital reductions, to allocate the difference stock at that time. between the price paid for the cancelled shares and their nominal value to any reserves or premiums, to make the necessary The shares purchased and held by the Company will be deprived amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association, to make all of voting rights and will carry no entitlement to payment of a necessary declarations to the French Financial Markets Authority, dividend. to effect all other formalities and in general to do all that may be Shareholders grant the Board of Directors all powers, with the useful or necessary for the purposes of this resolution. right of subdelegation as provided by law and by the Company’s This authorization is granted for a period of eighteen months Articles of Association, to decide on the use and deployment of from the date of this General Meeting of shareholders and, from this authorization, and in particular to determine the conditions this day, deprives previous authorizations for the same purpose of such use, to place orders on or off any markets, to enter into of their effect to the extent not used. any agreements, to allocate or re-allocate shares acquired for the purposes allowed in compliance with law and regulations, to Eleventh Resolution (Powers to effect formalities) make any declarations to the Financial Markets Authority or any Shareholders confer on holders of a copy or official extract of the other body, to effect any formalities, and in general to do all that minutes of this General Meeting all powers necessary to effect all may be useful or necessary for the purposes of this resolution. legally required ﬁlings, formalities and publications. 342 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND A REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND 343 344 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2016 LEGRAND This document is printed in compliance with ISO 14001.2004 for an environmental management system. COMPANY HEADQUARTERS 128, avenue de Lattre de Tassigny 87045 Limoges Cedex, France +33 (0) 5 55 06 87 87 www.legrand.com
