ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 1 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 2 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 58 4 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGEMENT 64 INNOVATION 10 ABOUT THE REPORT 80 STAKEHOLDERS 16 RESPONSIBILITY TO THE ENVIRONMENT CHESF 89 32 GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 102 42 CORPORATE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND RESULTS 103 CREDITS 3 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF (G4-1, G4-2) 4 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF ANOTHER YEAR OF CHALLENGES OVERCOME 2016 was a challenging year for the Francisco river basin continued to Brazilian economy and inevitably influence Chesf’s system as a result the repercussions were felt at of changes to the flow rate affecting Chesf. It was a daily exercise during the operations of its hydroelectric this period to review our business power plants along the river. structure, seeking to maintain the Meanwhile, construction began on same efficiency and quality at a two wind farms, both of which are lower cost – a process that brought scheduled for completion by early us many challenges but also many 2018. A solar generation project opportunities. Actions included the was initiated for deployment at the evaluation of internal processes Company´s substations, principally efficiency, including personnel, those supplied by distributors, services, administrative expenses, and which could potentially provide the maintenance. In the area of personnel Company with estimated savings of management, the Company carried eight million Brazilian reais per year. out a study to map its activities with The pilot project has already been the aim of scaling staff requirements installed at the Abreu and Lima (PE) in relation to what our business activities actually involve and, as a result, adjust the total number of employees. This meant that another phase of the Voluntary Resignation Incentive Plan (PIDV) could be launched, a process that should continue throughout 2017. The reason for all of this business planning is to help Chesf adapt to the new conditions arising from Law No. 12,783/2013, which brought forward the renewal of generation and transmission concessions and resulted in a sharp drop in revenue for the Company. The initiatives are challenging and laborious, yet fundamental for us to move forward and ensure the continuity and substation warehouse and a second sustainability of the business. With has already been approved for the the support of the Ministry of Mines SE Messias substation (AL). Another and Energy and Eletrobras, Chesf was important initiative to report was the able to finish 2016 having delivered signing of an agreement between a set of priority works, carried out the Company and the National improvement and modernization Education and Research Network of substations and participated in (RNP), which will greatly increase the generation and transmission projects data and information transmission in partnership with private initiative. capacity through the expansion and modernization of the optical fiber In 2016, the problems associated cable system, along transmission with the lack of rainfall in the São lines and at an extremely competitive 5 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF cost. At the same time it will provide The year was also marked by the high-speed internet to education and dedication of our employees in the research institutions across almost elaboration of our Business and the entire Northeast region via the Management Plan 2017-2021, based CHESF system. on the Eletrobras Business and Management Master Plan, detailing ANEEL’s decision regarding actions to increase efficiency, the transmission assets of the compliance, risk management and infrastructure known as the Basic integrity, as well as establishing Network of the Existing System shortand medium-term goals for (RBSE), calculated an amount of R$ all of our organizational units. The 5.09 billion for the Company (2013 purpose is to strengthen the control prices), which should be received by mechanisms for our operations, mid-2017. This positively influenced not only in relation to financial the economic result of 2016, which management, but also in the recorded a profit of R$ 3,985.4 billion, operational area, with a focus on an increase of R$ 4,461.4 billion over reducing environmental and safety the previous year. risks. In addition, a Conformity and Risk Management Coordination It is important to emphasize that area was created linked directly to Chesf has worked single-mindedly the Presidency demonstrating the on projects and processes that help level of importance attributed to the bring balance to our economicissue by Chesf, which seeks to work financial health, opening up the ethically and with compliance and possibility of new investments with integrity in its operations. the diversification of our energy matrix and the modernization of In addition, the Sustainable our operations. The Northeast Development Goals (SDG) became Energy Fund (FEN), created by even more strategic for Chesf with the Federal Government in 2015 the integration of the Sustainability to compensate for the gradual area into the Planning and Innovation reduction of Chesf’s contracts area. It is worth mentioning that with large industrial consumers in the sustainability guidelines were the Northeast, represents a great also considered in the Company’s investment opportunity for the Strategic Map (2017-2021), as well Company, as this funding will finance as the management of opportunities energy generation and transmission and threats associated with the projects in which Chesf can create strategic planning and innovation partnerships with private companies, processes. with a shareholding of up to 49%. We are already carrying out studies and Chesf will continue to work tirelessly analyses to define which projects to to position itself as a benchmark for invest in, based on profitability and sustainability in the energy sector success in meeting the construction in the medium and long term. We deadlines. Within the Engineering understand that we are on the right and Construction Department, we track by taking this reorganizational also created a planning center, which approach, working from within to has already brought important build a company that grows ever results for the Company in 2016 stronger and more capable of with a 70% increase in the average creating value for society. number of completed projects and a 43% reduction in the construction delay time. José Carlos Miranda de Farias CEO/President (2015-2016 management) 6 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF FOCUS ON RESULTS, WITH ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY The year 2016 featured major We believe that CHESF is a significant challenges for Chesf and all of the asset for Brazil and we are aware that Eletrobras companies, marked by a by implementing the changes that significant change in the company’s we have planned throughout this management and business activities. important year 2016 and following our values focus on results; ethics As part of this new trajectory we and transparency; appreciation of and approved the Chesf Business and commitment to people; entrepreneurship Management Plan 2017-2021, part and innovation; and sustainability we of the deployment of the Eletrobras can continue to be one of the main Business and Management Plan drivers of sustainable development in 2017-2021 launched by the Holding our country. with the title “Challenge 21 Sustainable Excellence”, within the strategic planning for 2015-2030. The name embodies the concern for sustainability inherent in a structural business such as Chesf´s. The Chesf Business and Management Plan is based on three pillars, which we have identified as the Company´s key requirements operational excellence, corporate governance and financial discipline and includes eleven premises relating to the Company’s performance in the segments of generation; transmission; protection, automation and telecommunication; and business management and marketing, which will help to put the company on the road towards more efficient and sustainable management. Wilson Ferreira Junior We are signatories to the commitments Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Global Compact and play an important role in achieving the UN Sustainable Development Goals for 2030, with which we have been aligned since their launch. In recognition of this commitment to contemporary society´s demands for sustainable development and ethical responsibility, Chesf, through Eletrobras, participated for the tenth consecutive year in the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) of the São Paulo Stock Exchange Bovespa. 7 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF OUTLOOK FOR THE FUTURE A scenario of an economic downturn It was in the middle of this period coupled with political instability and of overcoming that I assumed, in a crisis in the electricity sector has January 2017, fully motivated, the made 2016 a difficult and overcoming Presidency of the Company. This year for Chesf. The challenges were year, we will continue with the overcome because the Company planning started in the previous year reacted with measures capable of and focus on restoring cash flow, ensuring quality operations, even prioritizing projects with their bidding in an environment presenting such processes already approved for adversities, and also looked to the revenue generation, sale of assets and future by preparing and planning reductions to expenditure. the next steps towards the goal of returning the company to growth. In parallel, with the integration of the The Company has suffered a reduction Sustainability area into the Planning in revenues since 2012 as a result of and Inovation area, regulatory changes in the electricity we will strengthen the sector. In addition, in 2016 it had to issues related to this deal with a legal block of almost half theme. a billion Brazilian reais called “Factor I would like to reiterate K” resulting from a lawsuit filed in our commitment to the the 12th Civil Court of Recife, further Principles of the Global impacting on cash availability. Compact, the National Pact for the Eradication This situation motivated Chesf of Slave Labor, the to readapt itself structurally. The Principles of Women’s Company’s Governance has acted to Empowerment, the promote streamlining of processes Pro-Equity Gender and reduction of operating costs; and Race Program created a Compliance, Internal and the Declaration Controls and Risk Management of Commitment to Coordination area; and implemented Confront Sexual the “Eletrobras 5 Dimensions Violence Against Program” to improve integrity Children and Adolescents. The practices in the working environment, development of our business is only among other actions that will be valid based on ethical values and detailed throughout this report. principles and full respect for human rights in all of their forms. Also in 2016, the Company updated its Business and Management Plan I believe that 2017 will be the year in and revised the Strategic Map, which we emerge from the level of both for the five-year period, 2017economic discomfort experienced in 2021, redirecting its activities by recent years. With significant support establishing financial, operational from Eletrobras and the Ministry and socio-environmental targets. of Mines and Energy our actions These new targets challenge us to become even more strategic and continually improve and contribute assertive, contributing to achieving to advancing along the path we the sustainability and operational are taking to a responsible and efficiency that we aim for. sustainable growth. Sinval Zaidan Gama CEO/President (2016 present) 8 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Chapada I Wind Park 9 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF (G4-28, G4-29, G4-30) 10 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Published for the seventh consecutive These indicators, designated during year and following the GRI-G4 the materiality process, reflect the version of the Global Reporting work of Chesf with regards to its Initiative (GRI) for the fourth year, this strategies and the challenges faced in report describes Chesf´s financial2016 from the perspective of its key economic and socio-environmental stakeholders. performance in 2016 and covers all of the company’s operations in the This publication is available in Northeast region of Brazil, including Portuguese and English in print and 13 hydroelectric plants and one online versions. The GRI Content Index biofuel-powered thermal plant. presents the indicators reported, indicating the pages where they Following the Core version of the can be found. The other indicators methodology, the materiality process considered material to the business for this report selected 85 indicators: can be seen in the Annex: 27 referring to organizational www.chesf.gov.br > Sustentabilidade profile, 40 to performance and 18 to the sector-specific supplement. To find out more about the guidelines and indicators used in this report, access www.globalreporting.org Transmission line 11 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF MATERIALITY PROCESS The process for defining the material of involving professionals who topics followed the methodology do not frequently participate in recommended in the G4 version of discussions on sustainability, allowing the GRI, which comprises the stages for new visions of how Chesf can of Identification, Prioritization, integrate good practices into dayValidation and Analysis, as well as the to-day operations. As a result of the inclusion of key stakeholders and the prioritization process, six topics were context of sustainability for business. flagged as very important, eight Based on studies of the energy as important and six as potentially sector, benchmarking and Chesf´s material. internal documents, 20 issues considered essential to the business Based on these results it was possible were identified. Thereafter, a to create a materiality matrix to questionnaire was presented to a correlate the degree of importance group of internal leaders and to of certain issues for Chesf and its another group representing the stakeholders, assessing impacts key stakeholders of the company: (positive and negative) for both. The employees, customers, suppliers, material topics, approved by the government, regulators, society, Executive Board, were correlated shareholders, media, partners, with the organization´s main and market analysts. In addition, sustainability and performance the company held a face-to-face indicators and are marked in the event with multi-area and regional report, in the Annex and in the representatives with the objective Content Index. (G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-48) MATERIAL TOPICS 2016 RANKING TOPIC RELEVANCE 1 Compliance Issues Very important 2 Operational Performance (Supply) Very important 3 Employees and Employment Very important 4 Risk and Crisis Management Very important 5 Water Very important 6 Corruption, Management and Ethics Very important 7 Biodiversity Important 8 Energy Matrix Important 9 Energy Efficiency Important 10 Quantity of Assets Important 12 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF G4-18, G4-19, G4-27 HIGHER Operational Performance Compliance Issues Employees and Employment IMPORTANCE FOR THE VARIOUS STAKEHOLDERS Water Risk and Crisis Economic Management (emergencies) Environmental Social Corruption and Ethics Management LOWER IMPACT ON CHESF´S BUSINESS HIGHER RANKING TOPIC RELEVANCE 11 Satisfaction Important 12 Communities Important 13 Climate change Important 14 Health and safety Important 15 Innovation, Diversification and R & D Potentially material 16 Special Purpose Entities Potentially material 17 Supplier management Potentially material 18 Participation in Integrated Committees and Studies Potentially material 19 Waste Potentially material 20 Human Rights Potentially material 13 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF WHO ARE CHESF´S STAKEHOLDERS? (G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27) All parties directly and indirectly affected by Chesf´s results and actions are considered to be stakeholders. The mapping of these parties is guided by the Eletrobras Policy for Communication and Engagement with Stakeholders and the guidelines of the Strategic Plan and follows the assessment of the key issues to be addressed by the company in each period. Public Audience in PA 14 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF ENGAGEMENT PRACTICES (G4-18, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-37) Chesf defines a set of practices Through these engagement throughout the year to engage with practices and communication its stakeholders. Many of them are channels it is possible to identify applicable to all of the stakeholder the perceptions, suggestions and groups and involve meetings, concerns of these groups, provide visits, telephone calls, e-mails and responses and appropriately handle newsletters. Among the more each situation. An example of this specific actions are public hearings were the suggestions received from and campaigns involving government universities, research institutions and society, quality of life actions and employees concerning the issues with employees and their relatives, that the Company should be aware sponsorship of social projects, of, including: forecasting of solar contact with suppliers through the radiation for energy generation, supplier service center and customer studies of technology for energy satisfaction surveys. storage and its application on the national level, energy generation from waves and tidal flow, etc. Educação Solidária Programm 15 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 16 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF The clean and efficient generation of energy and the guarantee of its delivery to customers and consumers are commitments that drive Chesf’s day-to-day operations CHESF One of the Eletrobras Companies, of installed capacity. A mixed-capital Chesf (Companhia Hidro Elétrica do limited company headquartered São Francisco) is a concessionaire in Recife (PE), the Company was with one of the largest generation established by the 1st General and transmission systems in Brazil, Meeting in 1948 and operates in the with a generation complex providing generation, transmission and trading more than 10,000 megawatts (MW) of electricity in Brazil. (G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-6, G4-7, G4-8, G4-9, G4-17) Chesf’s power generation processes responsible for 99.9% of its total are concentrated in the Northeast energy production in 2016 and region of Brazil and are influenced by one biofuel-powered thermal the region’s hydrological regime. In plant. Together they provide total all, the Company has 13 hydroelectric production of 10,613.13 MW of plants with 10 reservoirs storing installed capacity. 56.8 billion cubic meters of water (G4-EU1) 17 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CHESF´S INSTALLED CAPACITY POWER PLANTS RIVER INSTALLED CAPACITY (MW) HYDROELECTRIC 10,268.33 Sobradinho São Francisco 1,050.30 Luiz Gonzaga (Itaparica) São Francisco 1,479.60 Apolônio Sales (Moxotó) São Francisco 400.00 Paulo Afonso I São Francisco 180.00 Paulo Afonso II São Francisco 443.00 Paulo Afonso III São Francisco 794.20 Paulo Afonso IV São Francisco 2,462.40 Xingó São Francisco 3,162.00 Funil Rio de Contas 30.00 Pedra Rio de Contas 20.01 Boa Esperança Parnaíba 237.30 Curemas Piancó 3.52 Araras (*) Acaraú 4.00 THERMOELECTRIC 346.80 Camaçari (**) 346.80 TOTAL 10,613.13 (*) Concession awaiting extinction by MME upon the recommendation of ANEEL. (**) In the process of closing the concession. All units with commercial operations suspended. Chesf’s energy production is ensured for the North and Southeast/Midwest regions by means of a transmission system consisting of 20,313.3 km of lines operating at voltage levels ranging from 69 kV to 500 kV and supplies the Interconnected National System (SIN). (G4-EU4) EXTENSION OF CHESF TRANSMISSION LINES BY VOLTAGE LEVEL KV KM 69 311 138 462.6 230 14,167.8 500 5,371.9 Total 20,313.3 18 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF The transmission system is also Chesf diversifies its investments in supported by 1141 substations and other generation and transmission 14 step-up substations from power projects through Special Purpose plants. With 9,815 km of Optical Entities (SPEs). The SPEs in which the Ground Wire (OPGW) cables, the Company has the largest interests Company can send a stable flow of are wind farms (40 in total) and four electricity to the final consumer, with other hydroelectric plants. Chesf has high speed and low losses, providing equivalent installed capacity of 1,015 a reliable, high-quality service. MW and 15,644 MW in these projects, (G4-EU4) respectively. The transmission projects consist of 5,296.5 km of transmission line and 10,650 MVA of equivalent processing capacity. (G4-17) NUMBER OF TRANSMISSION NUMBER OF TRANSFORMER OUTPUT SOURCE PLANTS/ LINES SUBSTATIONS/ CAPACITY (MW) COMPLEXES (KM) CONVERTERS (MVA / MW / MVAR) Own Hydro 10,266.33 13 20,313.3 128 55,947 Facilities * Thermal 346.80 1 JointlyWind 0 owned Hydro 15,644.10 10,650 / 5,306.5 9/2 Facilities 6100/1022 (SPE) ** Wind 918.70 40 * Hydroelectric Generation: Sobradinho; Luiz Gonzaga (Itaparica); Apolônio Sales (Moxotó); Paulo Afonso I; Paulo Afonso II; Paulo Afonso III; Paulo Afonso IV; Xingó; Funil; Pedra; Boa Esperança; Curemas; Araras. Thermal Generation: Camaçari. ** Hydroelectric Generation: Energética Água da Pedra S.A.; ESBR Participações S.A.; Norte Energia S.A.; Companhia Energética SINOP S.A. Windpower Generation: Complexo Eólico Sento Sé I; Complexo Eólico Sento Sé II; Complexo Eólico Sento Sé III; Complexo Eólico Vamcruz; Complexo Eólico Chapada do Piauí I; Complexo Eólico Chapada do Piauí II; Complexo Eólico Pindaí I; Complexo Eólico Pindaí II; Complexo Eólico Pindaí III; Complexo Eólico Serra das Vacas. Transmission: Sistema de Transmissão Nordeste S.A. – STN; Integração Transmissora de Energia S.A. – INTESA; Manaus Transmissora de Energia S.A.; Interligação Elétrica do Madeira S.A.; Transmissora Delmiro Gouveia S.A. – TDG; Interligação Elétrica Guaranhuns S.A. – IEG; Extremoz Transmissora do Nordeste S.A. – ETN. 1 Including substations of other transmission companies in which Chesf has a stake. 19 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PRINCIPLES AND VALUES (G4-56) Mission Chesf’s activities are guided by values, principles, standards and norms of behavior expressed in the Code of Ethics, the Resolution Contribute to the wellbeing of society through the and the Instruction of Disciplinary generation and transmission of electricity Measures and the Company’s Vision Strategic Map. To be efficient and sustainable as a company Values • Safety • Respect for People with fairness and equality • Ethics and Transparency • Innovation and Entrepreneurship • Commitment to Society • Preservation of the Environment The Code of Ethics is delivered to every employee upon arrival at the Company. Its contents are disseminated through the Ethics Committee, the managers and the Human Resources area. An explanatory talk about the document is also foreseen in the Corporate Education Plan. Usina de Xingó 20 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS (G4-15) In line with the Company’s Vision to ensure sustainable growth, Chesf assumes commitments to national and international initiatives for dissemination and development in this area. ENVIRONMENTAL, GROUP OF STAKEHOLDERS INVOLVED CHARTER, PRINCIPLE PARTICIPATION ECONOMIC OR IN THE DEVELOPMENT AND OR OTHER INITIATIVE SOCIAL? GOVERNANCE OF THESE INITIATIVES All three Global Compact 2009 All stakeholders dimensions Declaration of Commitment to Combat Sexual 2014 Social All stakeholders Violence Against Children and Adolescents Network to Combat Sexual Violence Against Children 2016 Social All stakeholders and Adolescents in the State of Pernambuco Commitment to the National Pact for 2015 Social All stakeholders the Eradication of Slave Labor Principles of Women's 2011 Social Employees Empowerment (UN Women) Pro-Equity Gender 2007 Social Employees and Race Program 21 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF The Company also participates strategically in associations and committees that promote forums and discussions on sustainability. (G4-16) SEAT ON THE PARTICIPATION FINANCIAL NAME GOVERNING BOARD IN PROJECTS OR CONTRIBUTION COMMISSIONS Brazilian Association of Large Electricity General Meeting and Yes Yes Transmission Directing Council Companies (ABRATE) Brazilian Association of Electricity General Meeting and Yes Yes Generating Fiscal Council Companies (ABRAGE) Brazilian Association of Technical No Yes Yes Standards (ABNT) Brazilian Committee of the Regional Energy Integration Yes Yes Yes Commission (BRACIER) Brazilian Dams Yes Yes Yes Committee São Francisco River Representative of Basin Committee the Hydroelectricity Yes No (CBHSF) Segment Brazilian National Committee for Executive Board Production and Yes Yes (Financial Board) Transmission of Electricity (CIGRÉ) National Sponsorship Committee of the Presidency of the Republic´s Government No Yes No Communications and Strategic Management Department Public Ethics Commission of the Presidency of the No Yes No Republic´s Executive Secretariat of Public Ethics Council Member for National Water Hydroelectric Generation Resources Council Yes No Concessionaires and (CNRH) Licensees 22 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF GROUP OF CHARTER, STAKEHOLDERS PRINCIPLE OR PARTICIPATION ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENTAL, INVOLVED IN THE OTHER INITIATIVE OR SOCIAL? DEVELOPMENT AND GOVERNANCE OF THESE INITIATIVES Global Compact 2009 All three dimensions All stakeholders Declaration of Commitment to Combat Sexual 2014 Social All stakeholders Violence Against Children and Adolescents Network to Combat Sexual Violence Against Children and 2016 Social All stakeholders Adolescents in the State of Pernambuco Commitment to the National Pact for the 2015 Social All stakeholders Eradication of Slave Labor Principles of Women’s Empowerment (UN 2011 Social Employees Women) Pro-Equity Gender 2007 Social Employees and Race Program Awards and recognition In 2016, Chesf received the following awards and recognition: • Elected to participate in the Code of Good Personnel Management Practices at Federal State Companies Cycle 2016 in recognition of the practice of Allocation, Integration and Monitoring of New Employees at Chesf. This work is conducted by the Department of Coordination and Governance of State-Owned Enterprises (SEST). • Recognition for the significant participation of employees in the Circuito das Estações Spring Stage and Summer Stage, in Recife (PE). 23 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CHESF IN NUMBERS MANAGEMENT • Approval of the Management Business Plan 2017-2021 • Revision of Strategic Mapping 2017-2021 • Incorporation of the Sustainability area into the Planning and Innovation area • Creation of the Compliance, Internal Control and Risk Management Coordination area 24 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF ECONOMIC Profit of Gross operating revenue of Net operating revenue of R$ 3,9854 13,4514 12,7540 billion R$ billion R$ billion EBITDA of AVS R$ 760.4 9,0180 million R$ billion OPERATIONAL Generation of 20,831 5,296.5 10,613.3 of energy GWh of transmission lines km installed capacity MW The average completion of The reduction in projects reached 70 % construction delays 43 % 53,808 traded GWh SOCIAL • Occupational Accident • Participation of employees in • 107 assessments of the Frequency Rate fell to 2.33 the Chesf Volunteer Program labor practices of suppliers (a figure well below the increased from 0.5% to 2.34% conducted tolerable limit established by in various campaigns and Chesf at 3.18) actions in the communities • Customer Satisfaction index of 80.9% • 636 corporate education • Investment of R$ 37,882,188 in actions held, totalling 187,724 social responsibility programs hours and reaching 81.15%of and projects the staff ENVIRONMENTAL • An energy efficiency project • A public meeting was held in Paulo to deploy solar energy at the Afonso (BA) to discuss the renewal substations was initiated process for the licensing of the Paulo Afonso Hydroelectric Complex • 49,000 trees were planted as part of the riparian woodland restoration • Public meetings were held in Canindé program in the Lower São Francisco do São Francisco and Propriá (SE) and region downstream of Xingó in Penedo (AL) to discuss the renewal process for the Operating License of • The volume of energy savings the Xingó Hydroelectric Power Plant. reached 6.4 MWh 25 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CORPORATE STRATEGY Eletrobras created the Business CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY and Management Master Plan for the period 2017-2021, in which it establishes a set of economic and financial guidelines, associated with Operational investment limits, indebtedness Excellence capacity, indication of expansion targets, and capital costs for implementation by the Group companies. The Plan comprises three strategies and 18 initiatives Governance and Financial Compliance Discipline that aim to consolidate corporate sustainability. GOVERNANCE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE AND COMPLIANCE 11. Organizational Restructuring 1. Alignment of Bylaws and approval 12. Retirement Incentive Plan competence 13. Implementation of PRO-ERP 2. Implementation of the Eletrobras 5 14. Shared Services Center Dimension Program 15. Reduction of administrative costs 3. Elimination of material weaknesses 16. Reduction of extra time, hazard 4. Implementation of actions to be and on-call pay listed on indices and obtain GC seals 17. Regulatory Strategy for G and T 18. Integrated energy FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE comercialization 5. Reduce investments 6. Privatization of distributions 7. Sale of administrative real estate 8. Divesture in SPEs 9. Tax Optimization 10. Corporate restructuring aiming at Find out more about the using tax credits implementation of these strategies by visiting the Eletrobras Investor Relations website: ri.eletrobras.com> Results Center 26 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Monitoring meeting Based on Eletrobras’ Business Transmission Works Plan: and Management Master Plan, the Engineering and Construction Chesf prepared its Business and Department prioritized 47 Management Plan for the same transmission projects: 24 with period, addressing issues related completion scheduled for 2017, with to the recent evolution of the Permitted Annual Revenue estimated generation and transmission at R$ 65 million, and 23 for 2018, with businesses, the Company’s expansion Permitted Annual Revenue estimated prospects, the study of opportunities at R$ 62 million. Direct investment and Regulatory issues. of R$ 593 million is required for 2017 In the preparation of the Business and R$ 223 million for 2018. In order and Management Plan, Chesf to realize the planned investment considered the following factors: for the implementation of this Work • Generation Revenue Plan an additional R$ 277 million will • Transmission Revenue need to be found for the investment • Personnel, Material, Outsourcing budget for 2017. and Other Services (PMSO) • Depreciation Generation Works Plan: • Transmission Indemnity (RBSE) includes Casa Nova I, Casa Nova • Generation Indemnity II and Casa Nova III Wind Farm • Servicing of Debts Complexes. In relation to Casa Nova • Investments I, the budgeted amounts refer to • Return of Advances for Future the conclusion of the Transmission Capital Increases Line and Substation that will permit • Sale of assets the outflow of energy from Casa • Potential impacts on results and Nova II and III. In order to realize the organizational performance planned investment of R$ 264 million for the implementation of this Work The Plan also established business Plan it will be necessary to seek an targets that should guide additional R$ 152 million for the management actions for their investment budget for 2017. achievement: 27 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF BUSINESS AND MANAGEMENT PLAN P A D H INPUTS C E F G P B P OUTPUTS UNDERWAY SUBTITLE E – Servicing Debt; A – Revenues (Generation and F – Investments; Transmission); G – Return of Advances for Future B – Personnel, Services and Materials; Capital Increase (AFAC); C – Depreciation; H Sale of assets; D – Indemnity (Generation and P Potential impacts (results and Transmission); performance). In 2016 the Company also approved For preparation of the Strategic the revision of the Strategic Mapping Mapping, management tools such that will guide it over the next five as brainstorming are used, involving years. The new guidelines contain the the organization’s key managers Company’s organizational identity and SWOT3 analysis , performed by (Mission, Vision and Values), the the holding company, considering Strategic Results to be achieved and the regional characteristics and the Strategic Goals that will enable specific features of the Company. these results to be achieved. This The departments also consider the work of updating planning involves work environments in which they are the entire Executive Board and inserted to identify and add other consists of proposing new solutions environmental factors. considering internal and external (G4-2) factors. It is worth mentioning that the strategies are revisited annually Notable focuses for actions in the or whenever the Executive Board 2017-2021 planning include the deems it appropriate. search for increased efficiency, compliance and risk management. (G4-42) 3 Strengths, Opportunities, Weaknesses and Threats Scenario study tool used as a basis for management and strategic planning of a corporation or company. 28 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF STRATEGIC MAPPING 2017-2021 IDENTITY MISSION Contribute to the wellbeing of society through VISION To be efficent and sustainable the generation and transmission of electricity as a company Respect for VALUES Innovation Preservation People with Ethics and Commitment Safety and Entrepreof the fairness and Transparency to Society neurship Environment equality RESULTS Shareholder Customers Society Employees Value for Money, Energy Quality Credibility Sense of Belonging Profitability and and Availability of and Socioand Satisfaction Image Facilities environmental Responsibility STRATEGIC GOALS 1 Apply Best Practices for Management of 2 Increase the Profitability of the Change, Knowledge and Human Resources Organisation 3 Deploy New Expansion and Improvement 4 Execute Operations and Maintenance with Works, Prioritizing increasing Profitability Efficiency and Quality 5 Refine Corporate Governance 29 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Reunião de monitoramento Operation room 30 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF The Strategic Goals are broken down Performance Targets Agreement with into Strategies, Targets, Measures Eletrobras, permitting monitoring and Action Plans, permitting the of shortfalls between the targets involvement and participation of set and the results obtained. The all organizational levels in business Agreement also foresees the planning. Indicators are also defined management of measures for dealing for each strategic goal. with the mapped risks. The indicators are monitored through meetings of the Executive Board The Board of Directors periodically and the management team, with live monitors progress in relation to transmission via the intranet to all the financial, operational and socioemployees, thereby strengthening environmental targets established the transparency of the management and, based on the result, the process. Executive Board is responsible (G4-42) for setting guidelines to improve business performance. These meetings also involve (G4-45, G4-46, G4-47) the indicators of the Corporate COMMITMENTS AND TARGETS The indicators monitored by Chesf in relation to its targets are divided into economic and financial indicators, operational indicators, and management, governance and socio-environmental indicators. Financial Management, Governance and • Reduce operating expenses Socio-environmental (PMSO) in relation to Net • Reduce administrative Operating Revenue consumption of water from mains • Increase % of EBITDA Margin vs. supply network Net Operating Revenue • Reduce fossil fuel consumption • Increase the return on • Reduce electricity consumption Shareholders’ Equity • Implement the Eletrobras 5 • Maintain net debt at levels Dimensions program in alignment compatible with operating cash with the guidelines of the generation Holding • Raise funds for corporate • Increase the favorability rating of investments, including the organizational climate index improvements and contributions • Improve performance of to Special Purpose Entities (SPEs) indicators of the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE/Bovespa) Operational • Deploy portfolio of expansion projects • Implement improvements to Chesf’s transmission assets • Promote greater efficiency in Further information about operating expenses Chesf´s Corporate Strategy can be found on the Company’s website at chesf.gov.br > Governança Corporativa (only available in Portuguese) 31 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 32 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Chesf believes in a model of transparent corporate governance, supported by the commitment to operate effectively and fairly Global Compact SDGs Chesf´s principles of Corporate members. Three other governance Governance are guided by Capital bodies assist the Board of Directors: Markets and existing industry the Executive Board, the Supervisory standards and direct the Company’s Board and the Audit. In 2016, there working strategy. Therefore, a were two meetings of the General culture of good practice is intrinsic Meeting, one regular and one to the business and ensures effective special meeting. There were also 20 and transparent initiatives that meetings of the Board of Directors, continually pursue value creation 14 meetings of the Supervisory opportunities for the organization Board, 66 meetings of the Executive and its stakeholders. Board, 11 meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee and four The Company’s corporate governance meetings of the Corporate Planning structure is directed and represented Committee. by a Board of Directors with six (G4-34, G4-38, G4-39) Further information about Chesf´s Governance can be found at chesf.gov.br > A Empresa. (only available in Portuguese) Paulo Afonso Complex 33 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF GENERAL MEETING SUPERVISORY BOARD BOARD OF DIRECTORS AUDIT PRESIDENCY EXECUTIVE BOARD ECONOMICFINANCIAL DEPARTMENT ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION DEPARTMENT GOVERNANCE AND SUSTAINABILITY The Board of Directors and the Executive Board of Chesf are actively engaged in sustainability issues and the integration of the theme into the Company’s strategy. In 2016, the management bodies approved a number of initiatives pursuing business sustainability in the long run, considering the new levels of income and the importance of maintaining the quality of services. (G4-35, G4-36, G4-42) 34 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PRIORITY ISSUES FOR GOVERNANCE IN 2016 ITEM GOAL STATUS Promote streamlining In the phase of of processes, reduction engagement and training 1. Update the corporate of operating costs and of employees. Expected identity the modernization of the deployment: May 31, organizational structure. 2017. Approved by the Executive Board and 2. Updating of the Corporate sustainability validated by the Board Strategic Map 2017-2021 and efficiency of Directors. Expected deployment: 2017-2021. 3. Creation of Formalize an area the Compliance, responsible for In operation since Internal Control and managing the Integrity October 2016. Risk Management Program within the Coordination Office Company structure 4. Reestablishment of Balance cash flow by the In progress. Cash Flow end of 2017 5. Prioritization of Prioritize developments transmission and with bidding processes Beginning in 2017. generation projects already approved 6. Implementation of the Improve integrity In operation since Eletrobras 5 Dimensions practices in the November 2016. Program corporate environment Integration 7. Cooperation and mutual use of Agreement with the telecommunications National Education infrastructure between Beginning in 2017. and Research Network Chesf and RNP (National (RNP) Education and Research Network) 35 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF The principles of sustainable and Innovation area. Actions for development have become even Sustainability were also strengthened more strategic at Chesf with the by their inclusion on the Strategic integration of the Sustainability Map goals for 2017-2021. area into the Company´s Planning Chesf´s Strategic Guidelines for Sustainability • Prioritize clean and renewable • Respect for human rights energy production • Add value for stakeholders • Rational use of resources • Ensure appropriate working • Act as a fomenting agent for conditions and the well being of energy efficiency employees • Commitment to ethics and transparency Sustainability Committee In 2016, the Sustainability Committee, which meets monthly, consolidated the following initiatives: • Establish a Technical Committee for the Management of Waste, Effluents and Emissions. • Elaborate a pilot project for deployment of solar energy at the Messias substation (AL) and the warehouse in Abreu and Lima (PE). • Revise the existing targets related to socio-environmental parameters water, waste, electricity and fuel for the next four years and the indicators for the ISE/Bovespa. These targets are included in the Corporate Performance Targets Agreement signed with Eletrobras. 36 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF ORGANIZATIONAL RESTRUCTURING At the end of 2016, Chesf´s Executive Board • Increase in the Company’s market initiated a restructuring of the organization competitiveness with the aim of promoting the streamlining • Process optimization. of processes, reducing operating costs and • Agility in decision making. modernizing the organizational structure. The • Opportunity for professional learning and initiative involves several aspects related to the growth. Company’s Organization: processes, hierarchical • Team integration. levels, redistribution of roles and responsibilities, • Reduction of direct and indirect costs rewarded functions, operating costs and • 27.3% reduction in the cost of bonuses. centralization of functions, among others. To support the restructuring of the company, the After evaluation and discussion , the proposal for Human Resources area, in partnership with the the new organizational structure was approved by the Executive Board and the Board of Directors in May 2017. The actions, which are already under way and based on an action plan that establishes deadlines and responsibilities, are being implemented by a Working Group composed of representatives of all of the Departments, under the coordination of the CEO/President’s Office. This restructuring was prompted by the fact that the Company has maintained the same structure for over 25 years, as well as the need for improving performance, productivity gains and operational efficiency and elimination of wastefulness with subsequent cost savings. Moreover, the electricity sector has undergone significant changes, with the creation of new agents, leading to a need Institutional Affairs area, prepared a transition for adjustments in the way that Chesf operates, plan with a focus on training and communication including its role and its responsibilities. actions. The plan is composed of three steps: The proposed new structure provides the following changes: Step 1: Inform about the new cycle by announcing • Removal of two hierarchical levels at the the new structure and the new organization headquarters (divisions and services) and the chart approval, a CEO statement and videos on Regional Offices (services and centers). The TV Chesf with all board members, among other new structure will consist of three levels. actions. • Elimination of Department advisory offices. Step 2: inform, engage and interact through • Creation of rewarded functions for project Management Dialogues and Team Dialogues managers, approved by the Executive Board on the new structure and a seminar about the and included in the Eletrobras Business and changes. Management Master Plan. Step 3: interact, engage and provide training, • Reduce the number of secretaries, adopting through a Processes and Teams Restructuring a pooling system to meet the needs of the Workshop. Offices and internal departments. Specific action plans were also prepared for the The main benefits expected from the restructuring development of the new skills required for the are: employees performance within the new processes. (G4-40, G4-43) 37 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF TRANSPARENCY AND ETHICS The principles of ethics and • Respond to the questionnaire set transparency are explicit in Chesf´s by the Securities and Exchange organizational values and the company Commission (CVM), which covers strengthens this behavior among its issues related to conflicts of employees day-to-day operations, interest. supported by the Unified Code of • Complete the Confidential Ethics and Conduct of the Eletrobras Information Statement, established Companies. by the Public Ethics Commission which, among other topics, The topic is continuously disseminated addresses the issue of conflicts of among all employees, including those interest. at the administrative headquarters and regional offices. In 2016, lectures In addition, the Corporate Governance were given on the Conflict of Interest participates in the Integrity Law and information sheets were Program created by the Compliance distributed internally with examples of Coordination Office, in accordance situations of conflict. with the guidelines of the Holding. To ensure that there is no conflict The Office assesses cases of conflict of interest in its Governance, Chesf of interest directly related to the determines that the members of the Anti-Corruption Law and an Ethics Board of Directors and the Supervisory Commission examines cases of Board, as well as the Executive Board, complaints about conduct received must comply with the following through internal and external channels procedures: (intranet or institutional website) and the Ombudsman. (G4-41, G4-58) CODE OF CONDUCT (G4-41, G4-56, G4-58) In 2016, the Ethics Commission held at the auditorium of the released the updated version of Company´s Center for Development the Code of Ethics and Conduct and of the Human Being (CDSH) and carried out the 2nd edition of the broadcast live to all of the regional online training. The company also offices. All employees received a copy launched the “Ética em Tudo para of the updated Code. Tod@s” (“Ethics in Everything for Everyone”) campaign, which aims to Externally, Chesf’s Ethics Committee strengthen the issue through internal attended the XII Seminar of reports, meetings of committees, the the National Forum of Ethics ombudsman, Internal Commission for Management in State Enterprises and Accident Prevention events and even XVII International Seminar Ethics in through digital signatures. Employees Management, offered by the Public also attended a lecture on Moral and Ethics Commission. Sexual Harassment in the Workplace, 38 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF COMPLIANCE In order to continue with controls more efficient. The program improvements to integrity practices foresees the implementation of in the corporate environment, actions and projects based on the five in 2016 Chesf created the dimensions of the Integrity Program Compliance, Internal Control and model proposed by the Comptroller Risk Management Coordination General of the Union (CGU) and the Office (CCR). Linked directly to guidelines of the COSO (Committee the Presidency, the Coordination of Sponsoring Organizations of the Office reflects Eletrobras actions to Treadway Commission). strengthen its Integrity Program. The dimensions that will be worked The Company also follows the on through the program are: Compliance Manual related to 1. Development of the the Anti-Corruption Policy of the management environment of the Eletrobras Companies, applicable to integrity program all of its employees, and since 2015 2. Periodic risk assessments has been a member of the Anti3. Structuring and deployment of Corruption Program of the Eletrobras the policies and procedures of Companies. the integrity program. 4. Communication and training In addition, in 2016 Chesf joined the 5. Monitoring of the program, “Eletrobras 5 Dimensions” program, measures for remediation and which aims to improve integrity application of penalties practices and make the Company’s COMPLIANCE WITH THE STATE COMPANIES LAW (G4-17, G4-41, G4-56, G4-58) Based on two large groups of Holding. Chesf already complies with standards transparency and the resolutions relating to corporate governance; and bidding and structure, since it is a publiclycontracts the State Companies Law traded mixed-economy corporation No. 13,303/2016 involves significant governed by Law No. 6,404/1976 and changes to the bylaws, to governance is registered with the Securities and practices for special purpose Exchange Commission (CVM). entities in which the companies have shareholdings and to the By determination of the Coordination procurement process for goSDGs and and Governance Office of State services. Owned Companies (SEST), the deadline for the adaptation of the The adaptation of the Eletrobras Bylaws of the Eletrobras companies is Group to the provisions of this November 2017. legislation is being led by the 39 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF RISK MANAGEMENT Following the guidelines of the Risk Regarding internal controls, Chesf Management Policy of the Eletrobras annually participates in the SOX Companies, Chesf has defined a risk certification process to ensure matrix that considers economic, compliance with the requirements of social and environmental aspects the US law known as the Sarbanesand demonstrates the main risks to Oxley Act. The certification involves which the Company is exposed, based an annual review of documentation on the COSO ERM and COSO 2013 related to business processes and methodology and the ISO 31000:2009 governance previously defined in the and ABNT ISO GUIA 73:2009 standards. scope and effectiveness testing of the internal controls, carried out by The Risk Committee is responsible for both the management under the prioritizing risks for analysis, defining responsibility of Chesf´s Internal Audit attempts to mitigate them and and the independent auditor. monitoring the results, after approval by the Executive Board and the Board All of the group companies need to be of Directors. certified for the Eletrobras companies to continue trading their shares on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). (G4-2) RELATIONSHIP CHANNELS Respect for people is explicit in Chesf´s There are also other channels of organizational values and is evident communication available through which through the work of the Ombudsman, stakeholders can request information a management mechanism that aims from the Company, including the to bring the company closer to its Supplier Service Center (CAF) and the stakeholders. The Ombudsman works Customer Service Center (CAC), among impartially and its responsibilities include others. Contact with specific areas of giving advice, providing information Chesf can also be made through the and contributing to the continuous Corporate Website and the Company improvement of the Company’s work offers a 0800 number for dealing processes, in line with current legislation, with Fires and the Environment. All of acting transparently and ethically. these channels can direct questions to different areas and hierarchical levels At Chesf, the responsibility for within the Company, including the Board management of the Citizen Information of Directors. System (SIC) belongs to the Ombudsman. (G4-37) Through the Citizen Information System, requests for information of individual or collective interest are received and the proper management of this system The Ombudsman and the other ensures that the Company complies channels of communication with the Access to Information Act, No. can be reached by emailing 12,527/2011, in force since 2012. ouvidoria@chesf.gov.br or via (G4-57) the Contact Us portal www.chesf.gov.br/page/ faleconosco 40 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF INQUIRIES In 2016, the Company recorded 56 842 communications through its communication channels, with 786 communications received via the Ombudsman and 56 requests for Ombudsman information directed to the Citizen Information System. The deadline for 786 SIC responding to Citizen Information System inquiries is 20 days, extendable by another 10 days. In 2016, all inquiries were responded to on time. 8 48 The communications received are classified by topic as Reports, Email to SIC, Praise, Complaint, Inquiry, 63 SIC, Suggestion and Others. The topics presented included issues 30 172 10 related to complaints about labor practices. In 2016, 230 demands were filed relating to this issue, with four cancelled and 217 receiving appropriate measures. 455 (G4-LA16) Subjects related to impacts on society in 2016 are also represented in the graph above. In total, 163 communications were received, with 128 being resolved. Complaints Praise Inquiries Others (G4-HR12; G4-SO11) Reports Suggestions Email to SIC For additional information, consult the content in the Annex to this report at chesf.gov.br > Sustentabilidade (G4-35, G4-36, G4-38, G4-39, G4-40, G4-42, G4-43, G4-44, G4-45, G4-46, G4-49, G4-52, G4-53, G4-54, G4-55, G4-56, G4-EC6, G4-LA12) 41 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 42 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Even in challenging scenarios, Chesf has worked for almost 70 years to produce, transmit and trade electricity, profitably, sustainably and with quality In 2015, the crisis that hit the United the sale of 21 lots of lines auctioned States and, consequently, many by ANEEL in October, with projected countries around the world had investment of R$ 11.5 billion for 6,000 the impact of reducing electricity km of lines.3 consumption. However, in December 2016 it was observed that the sector Another area that saw growth in 2016 had stabilized with total national was the number of migrations to the consumption of 38,717 GWh: with free energy market in search of cost a 1.4% increase in the residential reductions, increasing 25 times over. sector, and 2.9% and 2.5% decreases This migration scenario is expected in the industrial and commercial to continue throughout 2017. The sectors, respectively. mobility between the Regulated Contracting Environment (ACR) to the Also in 2016, 9,526 MW were added Free Contracting Environment (ACL) to the national electricity system, helped free consumption grow by with the main contributing sources 18.6% in November alone.4 with significant installed capacity being hydroelectric and wind power, The forecast for the years 2017 to contributing to energy surpluses, 2021 is that the consumption of the over-contracting by distribution National Interconnected System (SIN) utilities and price retraction. There will grow at an average rate of 3.5% was also an increase of 4,777 per annum, initiating a reversal of the kilometers of transmission lines, crisis scenario in the electricity sector, providing an excellent year for the even if the trend of falling prices transmission area, as witnessed by cannot yet be reversed.5 3 Ministry of Mines and Energy. Source: http://www.mme.gov.br/web/guest/pagina-inicial/outras-noticas/-/asset_publisher/32hLrOzMKwWb/ content/cmse-analisa-realizacao-de-leilao-de-descontratacao-de-energia-de-reserva 4 Electric Energy Trading Chamber. Source: http://www.ccee.org.br/portal/faces/pages_publico/noticias-opiniao/noticias/ noticialeitura?contentid=CCEE_384293&_afrLoop=426815729551820#%40%3Fcontentid%3DCCEE_384293%26_ afrLoop%3D426815729551820%26_adf.ctrl-state%3D1nlpdr36z_66 5 Technical Bulletin ONS-EPE. Source: http://www.ons.org.br/download/operacao/previsao_carga/Boletim_Tecnico_ONS-EPE_ PlanejamentoAnual_2017-2021.pdf 43 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CHESF´S BUSINESS MODEL Financial Natural Human Social Infrastructure OUR RESOURCES Investiments* Water used by energy Development Investment in social Energy generation Programs programs costs R$ 1.577 millions generation operations 56.8 71 actions R$ 37.9 R$ 1,536 billion m3 and R$ 1.4 million million billion Net Debt invested R$2.063 billions Number of employees 100% ERP 4,547 implemented *Corporate and SPE (Contributions of capital + Advances for Future Capital Increases) OPERATION (ENERGY GENERATION AND TRANSMISSION) Hydroelectric Hydroelectric Wind Farm Wind Farm Power Plant Power Plant 2 projects* 14 projects* 13 plants 40 plants PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION 11,633MW 399MW 10,268MW 919MW Photovoltaic Plant Small Hydroelectic Photovoltaic Plant Small Hydroelectic Plan Plan 2 projects* 0 projects* 1 plant ** 0 plants 8MW 0MW 10MWp 0MW Transmission Lines Thermoelectric Transmission Lines Power Plant 2 projects 1 plant 129 substations 1,408km expansion 1,187km Restoration 346km 20,313km MAIN IMPACTS MAIN IMPACTS Displacement Water Scarcity Conflicts Wind Changes/Intensity Labor Lease Contracts Social Regulation 44 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Potentially Free Free Distributors Traders SALE Consumers Consumers 12 5 45 6 COMPARTILHADO VALUE CREATION Investors / Customers Employees Civil Society Shareholders Investors / Customers Shareholders Energy Generated Employees Civil Society Hours of Training of Labor 20,831 EBITDA RESULTS Training Force MW R$760.4 187,724 636 million Satisfaction hours corporate education 80.9% Profit/Assets Internal Satisfaction actions People Benefitted R$3,9854 71.5% by the Company’s Programs/Projects billion 210,219 people * By 2021; ** Pilot project in Sobradinho (BA) and Balbina (AM) 45 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF MANAGEMENT ASSETS Chesf’s asset management considers dedicated its efforts to completing the maintenance of the generation ongoing projects, seeking to and transmission operations to optimize resources and management guarantee the availability and reliability procedures, and reinforcing compliance of the product, as well as the safety with deadlines. Examples are the of the workers and the populations investments in two wind farms planned located close to the enterprises. for 2018 and the maintenance of the Investments are planned for equipment Transmission Expansion Plan, which and infrastructure, as well as the already includes actions planned for modernization of existing operations the next four years such as priority and new business. investments in the expansion and restoration of lines costing around R$ Faced with difficulties in making 448 million per year. new investments, the Company has SUPPLIERS Relationships with suppliers follow pension contributions, food stamps the Guide to Good Practice for and transport vouchers, and analysis Sustainability in the Supply Chain of the of pay slips, among others. In 2016, the Eletrobras Companies. The Company Company conducted 107 assessments establishes transparent dialogue in the related to the labor practices of its procurement of goSDGs and services, suppliers. requiring suppliers to adopt ethical and (G4-LA15 environmental responsibility standards. All contracts include an attachment With regard to environmental aspects, denominated “Principles and Standards Chesf does not conduct on-the-spot of Business Conduct in Chesf’s assessments. However, in the bidding Relationship with Suppliers”, which lists notice a statement is required from the behaviors expected of contractors. the companies that they did not The communication channels between suffer penalties due to environmental the Company and its suppliers are violations alongside other technical disclosed on the website and include documents relating to the obligations the Ombudsman (ouvidoria@chesf. of contracted suppliers. gov.br) and the Supplier Service Center (G4-EN33) (caf@chesf.gov.br). Human rights clauses are also inserted (G4-SO10) into all contracts. 14 contracts were Chesf performs periodic assessments identified in the year 2016 that could in the supply chain with the aim result in significant real and potential of ensuring the compliance of its impacts on human rights, considering contractors and subcontractors with contracts that are labor-intensive and their labor obligations. The documents of a specified period. that are checked monthly include (G4HR11) receipts of payment of labor and Read more about the performance of supplier management in the Suppliers chapter, on page 58. 46 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PEOPLE The management of Chesf´s human the hours of attendance by employees capital is the responsibility of the with the targets set in the education Human Resources Office, which aims to plan drawn up at the beginning of the follow best practices for relationships year. with all employees. During the year, a working group was dedicated to With regard to health and safety, the the preparation of human resources Company has a Health and Safety at management processes for the Work Policy and other internal rules implementation of e-Social, a Federal that seek to ensure a safe environment Government project that seeks to unify for its employees and meet the the sending of employee information Regulatory Standards of the Ministry of by the employer. Labor and Employment (MTE). Another action for improving human The Health and Safety at Work Portal resources management was the has been consolidated as a source of adoption of a single database to information about the topic. Through standardize the processes in the SAP the System for Reporting of Incidents system that will serve the Eletrobras and Non-Conformities, the recording, Companies. Representatives of monitoring and treatment of incidents Chesf attended meetings with the has now been intensified. Monitoring Holding concerning the planning and of the health and safety issues of deployment of the system in 2017, service providers occurs through the in order to meet the deadline for requirement for Occupational Health Eletrobras of January 1, 2018. and Safety Plans, which relate the work safety and occupational health aspects Information and investments pertaining related to the activities performed. to professional development and Compliance with the requirements of training are generated by the the Safety Plans is also a condition for Integrated Human Resources System the payment of invoices. (RHSin). Corporate education indicators (G4-LA6) are monitored quarterly by comparing Read more about the performance of human resources management in the Employees chapter, page 50. 47 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental management is handled preventive actions in relation to by the Engineering and Construction the environmental impacts of Department, responsible for ensuring its developments. In addition to compliance with environmental the studies already foreseen, the legislation at the local, state and Company has deployed a corporate federal levels and increasing good risk management process, following practice at the projects. Last year, the principles and guidelines set Chesf created a Planning Center in the forth in the Risk Management Engineering Department to minimize Policy of the Eletrobras Companies, risks and unforeseen occurrences and which identified 71 potential risks thereby increase the success rate for in the matrix and prioritized them completing projects on time by fulfilling for analysis by the Sustainability all of the requirements for the licensing Committee. Of these risks, some have of facilities. an environmental focus, including: Environmental Licensing, Climate The management of solid waste, Change, Greenhouse Gas Emissions water and effluents, biodiversity and (GHG) and the Environmental atmospheric emissions at Chesf is Management of Developments. The guided by the Internal Coordination aim is to establish a more integrated Principle of the Environmental Policy process of management of the of the Eletrobras Group, approved environmental risks that could affect and published in 2013 and which the organizational goals, strengthening seeks to “ensure the incorporation of the responsibility of the business the environmental dimension in the areas to define and implement actions company’s processes”. to mitigate those risks. The actions already underway include a task force Chesf also invests in technologies to set up to evaluate the feasibility and improve environmental management implementation of a model to develop processes in all operations, including strategies for adaptation to climate the Reservoir Borders System change and the elaboration of the (SISBORDAS), the Documentation Greenhouse Gas Emissions Inventory System (SISDOC) and the Transmission and Carbon Footprint. Line Service Strips Monitoring System. Importantly, Chesf seeks to adopt (G4-14) Read more about the environmental management performance in the Environmental Responsibility chapter, page 60. 48 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF RESULTS ECONOMIC For Chesf, the year 2016 was marked This ANEEL decision positively by important events with significant influenced the economic result for impacts on the financial result for the 2016, meaning that the Company year. On the one hand, the Company recorded a profit of R$ 3.9854 billion, had to deal with a reduction in working an increase of R$ 4.4614 billion over the capital due to judicial blocks to the previous year. value of R$ 491.1 million, handed down as a result of a lawsuit filed at the 12th As a result, Chesf was able to mitigate Civil Court of Recife (“Factor K”). financial commitments and normalize payments to suppliers. With the On the other hand, it accounted for financial renegotiation of some an input of R$ 5.09 billion as a result contracts, support from the Holding of ANEEL’s homologation referring through the release of resources to the transmission assets of the necessary for new projects, and the infrastructure known as the Existing new revenue level in the second half of System of the Basic Network (RBSE), 2017 associated with the administrative existing in May 2000 and not amortized restructuring process, Chesf aims to and/or not depreciated. The input was balance its cash flow by the end of included in the accounts for 2016 but 2017. the financial resources will only be received by the Company in 2017. NET PROFIT (LOSS) (3,985) R$ millions (466) (1,118) (476) (5,341) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The economic value created by (9.6%); Taxes, fees and contributions the Company in 2016 increased to federal, state and municipal considerably, from R$ 1.3123 billion governments (43.0%); Interest to to R$ 9.0180 billion. The amount was financiers (3.2%) and earnings to distributed as follows: wages, labor shareholders (44.2%). charges and benefits for employees (G4-EC1) 49 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF VALUE ADDED DISTRIBUTION 44.2% 43.0% (3.985) 3,985 3,881 R$ millions 9,6% 3,2% 868 283 Shareholders Employees Financiers Government Value added by segment % Distribution More detailed financial information can be found at chesf.gov.br > Demonstrações Financeiras (Portuguese only) ACQUISITION AND DIVESTITURE The Chesf´s Business Plan (2017-2021) includes projections for the sale of its stake in the wind power projects in which the Company participates through a Special Purpose Entity (SPE). The goal is to enable the transaction to occur in the year 2017 and receive the resulting payment of R$ 734 million. Vam Cruz Wind Farm 50 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF OPERATIONAL In 2016, Chesf´s power generation video-assisted monitoring facilities, was affected by low water availability which permit the remote command of in the Northeast region of Brazil. The substations and power plants, an LCD Sobradinho reservoir, the largest in Video Wall system and a new highthe region, reached 2.82% of its useful performance SCADA server. These storage volume by the end of the year. investments contributed to increasing Faced with this scenario, the Company’s system visibility, reaching the mark of power plants generated 20,831 GWh, a 157,145 supervision points. It is also decrease of 16.9% compared to 2015. worth noting the expansion of the To ensure that energy demands were operations and maintenance support met it was necessary to maximize systems in the areas of Automatic thermal and wind power resources Voltage Regulation, Supervision of in the region, as well as interchange Protection Systems, Power Quality and with other regions of the National Oscilography. Interconnected System (SIN). As a result, the Company is able to The year was also marked by maintain greater control over its investments in the modernization of operations, ensuring the quality of the telecommunication and automation services provided and associated costs systems of the Operating Centers. savings. The centers were equipped with PERFORMANCE In 2016, Chesf recorded the best VARIABLE PORTION – PV Variable Portion result of the last three years. This result is associated with the 4.50 4.21 suspension of the calculation of events 4.00 3.50 for the period from July to December Better Percentage (%) 3.00 by the National Electrical System 2.50 2.24 2.36 Operator (ONS), to allow adaptation to 2.00 1.91 the establishment of new calculation 1.50 1.31 rules set by ANEEL. The calculation for 1.00 these months will be computed in 2017. 0.50 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The Robustness indicator maintained SYSTEM ROBUSTNESS INDICATOR a continuing trend of improvement in recent years. This result demonstrates 92.00 91.00 91.50 the evolution of the Chesf System 90.00 90.00 90.00 (Basic Network) with regard to events Better Percentage (%) 88.00 involving interruptions to electricity supply. 86.00 85.10 84,00 82.00 80.00 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 51 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF NUMBER OF EVENTS WITH POWER OUTAGES IN THE BASIC NETWORK The indicator of the Number of Events 50 with Power Outages in the Basic 45 42 Network (NEIC-RB) showed a slight 40 33 Better 35 31 increase compared to 2015. Events R$ millions 30 26 25 in November and December 2016 25 affected this result, up until the month 20 15 of October it was on track for its best 10 historical result. 5 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The indicator for Operational OPERATIONAL AVAILABILITY Availability of Transmission Lines OF TRANSMISSION LINES showed a value reflecting the good performance in the service provided, with only a slight variation compared 99.95 99.92 99.92 Better 99.91 to previous years. Percentage (%) 99.90 99.88 99.85 99.82 99.80 99.75 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The indicator for Operational OPERATIONAL AVAILABILITY OF GENERATION Availability of Generation improved significantly in 2016 compared to 92 90.67 89.40 2015, reversing a negative sequence 90 88 observed during the previous two 86 85,04 Better Percentage (%) 84.15 years. 84 82 80 78.08 (G4-DMA EUSD EC – EU6, G4-EU30) 78 76 74 72 70 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 52 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF INVESTMENT IN OWN ASSETS Chesf’s investments in its own assets INVESTMENTS IN OWN ASSETS in 2016 totaled R$ 681.4 million. This CAGR 16.3% amount is distributed as follows: R$ 97.4 million for power generation; R$ 1,389 1,365 551.9 million for transmission system 1,132 works; and R$ 32.1 million for other 877 infrastructure spending. In the period 681 2012-2016, the Compound Annual R$ millions Growth Rate (CAGR) was -16.3%. (G4-17) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 GENERATION SYSTEM The following investments were • Completion of the construction made in the generation system: of an oil-separating box at the • R$ 31.8 million on hydroelectric Apolônio Sales Plant. power plants, for maintenance • Completion of the drawingof levels of continuity and up of the basic Project for the availability that are satisfactory renovation of the structures of to meet demand. the Apolônio Sales Plant. • R$ 65.5 million for the • Updating of prices (considering deployment of the Company´s that the Basic Project is from own wind farms Casa Nova II 2012) for deployment of digital (MW 28) and Casa Nova III (MW systems at the Sobradinho Plant, 24), which total 52 MW and are an activity carried out with located in the municipality of internal funding. Casa Nova, in the state of Bahia. • Seismological monitoring of • R$ 0.2 million on the 1 MWp the Boa Esperança, Sobradinho, heliothermal project to be Itaparica and Xingó Plants. deployed in the municipality of Petrolina, in partnership with The Generation Works Plan for Eletrobras Cepel (Electric Power 2017 includes the Casa Nova I, Casa Research Center). Nova II and Casa Nova III Wind Farm Complexes. For Casa Nova I, the Highlights of the actions carried out budgeted figures are related to in 2016 include: the conclusion of the Transmission • Completion of the work of Line and Substation that will permit implementing digital systems in the outflow of energy from Casa the substation and water intake, Nova II and III. In order to realize as well as modernization of backthe investment of R$ 264 million up electrical services at the Boa foreseen in this Work Plan, Chesf Esperança Plant. needs to raise an additional R$ 152 • Completion of the remaining million for the investment budget for outstanding work for the 2017. digitalization of the Paulo Afonso II plant. 53 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF TRANSMISSION SYSTEM Investments in the Transmission System in 2016 were focused on expansion, with the addition of 264.2 km of transmission lines and three new Substations, increasing processing capacity to 2,290 MVA. The following projects were brought online: PROJECT SE KM MVA MVAR SE Lagoa Nova 2º TR 230/69 kV 150 MVA – complement SE Lagoa 150 Nova II SE Bongi 3º TR 230/13,8 kV 40 MVA 40 SE Piripiri 1º Capacitor Bank 230 kV 30 MVAr 30 LT 230 kV Ribeirão/ Recife II C1 – Restoration SE Santa Rita II – Installation of 3º 3-phase transformer 230/69 kV 150 150 MVA and associated connections SE Polo 230/69 kV 100 MVA 1 100 SE Mirueira II 230/69 kV 1 300 SE Milagres 3º single-phase autotransformer bank 500/230 kV, 600 3x200 MVA SE Mossoró II 4º TR 230/69 kV 100 MVA 100 LT 230 kV Banabui ú / Mossoró II C2 – Launch of 2º circuit 177.2 SE Igaporã II – Installation of 3º transformer 230/69 kV 150 MVA 150 and associated connections. SE Ibiapina II 230/69 kV 200 MVA, sectioning of 11 km in LT 230 kV 1 21.6 200 CD and adaptations to the 230 kV ELs of SE Piripiri and SE Sobral II. SE Itabaianinha – Replacement of TR-1 230/69 kV, of 33 MVA, for 100 another with 100 MVA SE Arapiraca III 2º 3-phase transformer 230/69 kV, of 100 MVA, and 100 connections SE Ribeirão 4º tri-phase transformer 230/69 kV 100 MVA 100 SE São João do Piauí CT and IB 500 kV SE Lagoa Nova II 3º TR 230/69 kV 150 MVA 150 SE Campina Grande II – Installation of Metering System for Invoicing SE Tauá II – Static Var Compensator 230 kV -40/+90 Mvar 90 LT 230 kV Paraíso/ Lagoa Nova II and SE Lagoa Nova II 230/69 kV 65.4 SE Currais Novos II – Replacement of TR 138/69 kV 33 MVA with TR 50 138/69 kV 50 MVA Sectioning of LTs Angelin II-Pau Ferro, Recife II-Pau Ferro, C1 164.8 Total 2016 3 429.0 2.290 120 54 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF In 2016, Chesf prioritized the work The Company also brought forward of Installation of Wind-power the completion of three projects: SE Generation Collectors and completed Arapiraca III 2nd 230/69 kV threethe following projects: phase transformer, SE Lagoa Nova II • Substation Ibiapina II will offer 3rd TR 230/69 kV 150 MVA and SE energy from wind farms to be Currais Novos II Replacement of TR installed in the State of Ceará 138/69 kV 33 for TR 138/69 kV MVA (Alternative Sources Auction 50 MVA. LFA-2010), with installed capacity of 150 MW. To connect the new For the coming years, the Engineering substation it was necessary to and Construction Department has construct 11 km of transmission prioritized 47 transmission projects, line at 230 kV, in dual circuit, 24 with completion scheduled for cutting off the old Piripiri/Sobral 2017, with estimated Permitted II line and forming the new Annual Revenue (RAP) of R$ 65 Piripiri/Ibiapina II and Ibiapina II/ million, and 23 for 2018, with Sobral II lines. expected RAP of R$ 62 million. • Work to provide outflow for the wind energy generated in Rio Direct investment required to Grande do Norte to the rest of 2017 totals R$ 593 million and, for Brazil. 2018, R$ 223 million. To go ahead • Implementation of the third with the investment planned for stage of the New SE Lagoa II the implementation of this Work substation, with the connection Plan it will be necessary to raise an of the second 150 MW additional R$ 277 million for the transformer. investment budget for 2017. • Expansion of ICG Lagoa Nova with connection of the 3rd 150 MVA transformer. • Process of connecting the LT 230 kV Paraíso/Lagoa Nova II Transmission Line. INVESTMENT THROUGH SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES (SPE) In 2016, Chesf invested R$ 895.7 INVESTMENT THROUGH million in the projects of Special SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES SPE Purpose Entities (SPEs) through CAGR 1,3% the Payment of capital and the 1,478 1,352 realization of Advances for Future 1,182 Capital Increases. The reduction of 852 896 33.8% compared to the investments of the previous year is due to the R$ millions start of operations of the majority of the SPEs. Over the period 2012-2016 the compound annual growth rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (CAGR) was 1.3%. 55 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Chesf´s investments in Generation through SPEs total 16,616.81 MW, corresponding to 3,125.23 MW equivalents and totaling R$ 895.0 million. Of this amount, R$ 853.1 million was invested in the Special Purpose Entities (SPE) ESBR, Norte Energia and Sinop (Hydroelectric Projects) and R$ 41.9 million in the SPEs Baraúnas I, Morro Branco I and Mussambê (Wind power Projects). For Transmission, Chesf invested R$ 0.7 million in the SPE Interligação Elétrica Garanhuns. The Company reached a total of 5282.0 km of transmission lines, corresponding to 1584.2 kilometers equivalent to its participation in SPEs. MW BEGAN SPES LOCATION MW (*) SHARE EQUIV. OPERATION Energética HYDRO GENERATION Águas da Pedra Aripuanã / MT 261,00 24,5% 63,95 Aug 11 S.A. ESBR Participações Porto Velho / RO 3.750,00 20,0% 750,00 Sep 13 S.A. Norte Energia Altamira / PA 11.233,10 15,0% 1.684,97 Nov 15 S.A. Cia Energética Sinop / MT 400,00 24,5% 98,00 Jan 18 SINOP S.A. Eólico Sento Sé I Sento Sé / BA 90,00 49,0% 44,10 Mar 13 Eólico Sento Sé II Sento Sé / BA 98,70 49,0% 48,36 Sep 15 Eólico Sento Sé Sento Sé / BA 51,30 49,0% 25,14 Apr 16 III Complexo eólico Serra do Mel / 93,00 49,0% 45,57 Dec 15 WIND GENERATION Vamcruz RN Complexo Eólico MArcolândia, Chapada do Caldeirão Grande 205,10 49,0% 100,50 Jul 15 Piauí I and Simões / PI Complexo Eólico MArcolândia, Chapada do Piauí Caldeirão Grande 172,40 49,0% 84,48 Jan 16 II and Simões / PI Complexo Eólico Pindaí / BA 102,00 99,95% 101,95 Oct 16 Pindaí I (*) Complexo Eólico Pindaí / BA 38,00 99,97% 37,99 Oct 16 Pindaí II (*) Complexo Eólico Pindaí / BA 24,00 83,01% 19,92 Oct 16 Pindaí III (*) Complexo Eólico Saloá / PE 90,76 49,0% 44,47 Nov 15 Serra das Vacas Potência Total and Equivalentes da 16.609,36 3.149,39 Chesf em SPEs (*) Plants in the process of reducing installed capacity, awaiting definition by Aneel. Total Capacity of hydroelectric developments in partnerships = 15.644,1 MW Total Capacity of wind developments in partnerships = 965,3 MW 56 RELATÓRIO ANUAL E DE SUSTENTABILIDADE • 2016 • CHESF KM BEGAN PROJECT LOCATION KM SHARE EQUIV. OPERATION LT 500 KV Teresina II Sistema de Sobral III Fortaleza II, SE Transmissão CE/PI 546,0 49% 267,5 Jan-06 Teresina II; SE Sobral III; SE Nordeste S.A. STN Fortaleza II LT 500 KV Colinas Miracema, LT 500 KV Integração Miracema Gurupi; LT 500 Transmissora de KV Gurupi Peixe II, LT; TO/GO 695,0 12% 83,4 May-08 Energia S.A. INTESA LT 500 KV Peixe II Serra da Mesa II; SE Peixe II; SE Serra da Mesa II LT 500 KV Oriximaná Itacotiara; Estação Manaus Transmissora Retificadora 500/600KVPA/AM 559,0 19,5% 109,0 Mar-13 de Energia S.A. 3150MW; Estação Inversora 600KV/500KV 2950MW LT 600KV Porto Velho Araraquara II; Estação Interligação Elétrica RO/MT/ Retificadora 500/600KV 2.275,0 24,5% 581,9 Aug-13 do Madeira S.A. MS/SP 3150 MW; Estação Inversora 2950 MW LT 230 KV São Luiz II São Oct-13 (LT 230KV São Transmissora Delmiro Luís III; SE Aquiraz and SE MA/CE 156,0 49% 76,4 Luís II São Luís III Gouveia S.A IEG Pecém II (em operação) Expected Jul-17) 500KV Luis Gonzaga Garanhuns; LT 500KV Interligação Elétrica Garanhuns Pau Ferro; PE/PB 666,0 49% 326,3 Nov-15 garanhuns S.A. IEG LT 230 KV Garanhuns Angelim I; SE Garanhuns; SE Pau Ferro LT 500 KV Ceará Midim João Câmara II; LT 500KV Ceará Mirim Campina Grande III; LT 230KV Ceará Mirim Extremoz II; LT 230KV Campina Grande Extremoz III Campina Grande II; Transmissora do PB/RN 299,5 49% 146,8 Oct-14 SeccLT 230KV J Camara Nordeste S.A. ETN II Extremoz Ceará Mirim Secc; LT 230 KV Campina Grande II Extremoz II; SE João Camara II, SE Campina Grande III; SE Ceará Mirim Total Transmission Lines in Operation – SPE 4.974,5 1.433,5 Total Transmission Lines under Construction – SPE 322,0 157,8 Overall Total 5.295,5 1.591,3 For further information, (G4-EU12, G4-EU18, G4-EU25, G4-EU26, G4-EU27, G4-EC4, G4-EC5, G4-EN1, refer to the Annex to this report at G4-EN2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN6, G4-EN10, G4-EN25, G4-EN28, G4-EN29, chesf.gov.br > G4-EN32, G4-LA3, G4-LA11, G4-LA14, G4-LA16, G4-HR1 a G4-HR7, G4-HR9 Sustentabilidade a G4-HR11, G4-SO3 a G4-SO9, G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9) 57 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 58 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Growth strategies combined with risk management in a challenging environment are characteristics of Chesf´s performance in the medium term Global Compact SDGs The topic of innovation is considered The basis for the success of this in Chesf´s growth strategy, which innovative vision brings clarity to how envisions future prospects based on Chesf acts on risks and opportunities the understanding of the present in relation to climate change, scenario in the energy sector. Thus, investments in a more diverse energy through its Corporate Planning, matrix, investments in new business it seeks to integrate the various and infrastructure, and investment in different areas of the Company R&D+I. to propose and implement good practices based upon corporate sustainability. ENERGY MATRIX Faced with the water crisis in the main invested in an energy matrix river basins of the interconnected composed of renewable sources, and system, investments in a more in 2016 invested in the construction diversified energy matrix, i.e. less of its own wind farms Casa Nova dependent on hydroelectricity, make II (329 MW) and Casa Nova III (28.2 it possible for the country’s energy MW) – scheduled for completion by needs to be assured. Considering October 2017. In addition, through this scenario for the sector, Chesf Special Purpose Entities (SPEs), has directed investments to wind Chesf participates in 29 wind farms in and thermal generation in the region Northeastern states (BA, PE, RN and of the São Francisco basin, an area PI), already in commercial operation heavily affected by drought. This year and totaling 818.7 MW. It also the water level of the Sobradinho participates as a majority shareholder reservoir reached its lowest volume in in the SPEs of 11 other wind farms history. under construction in Pindaí (BA), with 110 MW to be installed. The Company has increasingly (G4-EU1) 59 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE TELECOMMUNICATIONS In keeping with its Business Plan, The new business is expected to add Chesf is attentive to new business another 925 km of OPGW Cables opportunities. As such, the Company to the Chesf transmission lines planned Investments to structure already in operation through an business in telecommunications infrastructure sharing agreement for the period 2017-2021 to obtain with Telebras, which will be additional revenue or avoid costs responsible for the costs of the while developing infrastructure, project until 2017. in accordance with Eletrobras´s guidelines. In addition to the opportunity to diversify its portfolio of operations, The feasibility of the strategy Chesf is also considering eight other will be ensured by the following projects for the telecommunications considerations: sector, including the insertion of • Prospecting for business 2,358 km of OPGW fiber optic opportunities within the electric cables, 2,077 km along Chesf´s own sector transmission lines and 281 km along • Sharing the telecommunication the lines of third parties, among infrastructure with partner other investments. The Company companies to obtain greater will invest a total of R$ 87,426,704 in capacity to service new demands these initiatives by 2021. • Provision of services to agents or entities in the sector FUNDING FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROJECTS FOR THE PERIOD 2017-2021 Investment in Telecommunications Projects 13% 2017 28% 2018 17% 2019 2020 20% 22% 2021 60 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF MUTUAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT In 2016, Chesf and the National telecommunications infrastructure, Education and Research Network will be to operate the entire system (RNP) signed a CVNE Cooperation and ensure the maintenance of the Agreement with the aim of the equipment installed in the facilities. integrated and mutual use of The partnership will provide a each other’s telecommunications technological upgrade for Chesf’s infrastructure. telecommunications platform, meeting current and future needs The National Education and Research for technical, administrative and Network (RNP) will build a new Dense operational management. For RNP, it Wavelength Division Multiplexing will meet the demand for academic (DWDM) system, provide telecommunications in Brazil and Synchronous Digital Hierarchy their integration with other academic (SDH) equipment, and fine-tune networks in other countries. existing Chesf telecommunications systems, including the essential The project, which foresees the power. The new network will allow inclusion of 70 of the Company´s the deployment of a high-capacity operational facilities, was divided into and reliable telecommunications three phases and covers all of the transport layer, providing an initial regional offices in eight Northeastern capacity of 100 Gbps for Chesf states. Executive work will begin in and RNP. Chesf’s contribution, in May 2017. addition to the availability of the PROTECTION AND AUTOMATION Ensuring the Protection and Investment of approximately Automation of its activities is also R$ 201.5 million is planned for a a concern for Chesf. This segment five-year horizon, involving nine possesses supervisory features projects in the area of Protection and and resources, necessary for the Automation. operation of the Company’s electroenergetic system. Investments in Protection and Automation Chesf already invests in the most advanced technologies available in the market and aims to evolve 20% 19% towards the adoption of international 2017 standards of architecture and functionality, which will meet 2018 the requirements of availability and reliability expected in the 2019 transmission segment. As such, the Company is planning to prepare its facilities to meet current 22% 20% 2020 2021 demands and future expansion. 21% 61 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Innovation is one of Chesf´s the Internal Standard, IN-AS 03 strategies in its business, with the 001 – Management of Research, guideline of creating continuity Development and Innovation Projects through modern, efficient projects and the Research and Development with sustainability criteria. The Management System ( SGPPED). mission is to generate technical and Chesf has been developing solar operational, economic, social and energy projects to compete for sale environmental benefits, adding value at ANEEL auctions. Three projects are for the Company and for the whole underway with this focus; two of society. them refer to R&D: In the face of current challenges the Company seeks to renew itself constantly and in its Strategic Map of Corporate Planning 20172021 it proposes actions targeting investment in research projects in partnership with R & D institutions. To do so it has a structured flow in place for Research, Development and Innovation (R&D+I) Programs, which includes 62 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF • Petrolina Solar platform (3 MW): projects from their conception Project involves the installation through to the arrival on the market, of a photovoltaic plant with with repercussions throughout the commercial operation scheduled productive chain and consequently for 2017 the sector. The project’s is scheduled • Floating Solar Photovoltaic for completion in June 2019. platform on the reservoir of the Sobradinho Dam (5 MW): Project In 2016, the amount invested in in partnership with Eletronorte, R&D+I programs totaled R$ 27 scheduled for commercial million, which includes regulatory operation in 2017 (1 MW) and projects of the Ministry of Mines 2018 (4 MW) and Energy (MME) and projects carried out by CEPEL (Electric Power Another example relates to Research Center). For the ANEEL management, with the development projects, R$ 3.46 million was invested of the project “From idea to market: in 40 initiatives focused on energy Development and implementation efficiency, renewable or alternative of an innovative method to ensure a sources, the environment, quality and systematic and continuous process reliability, planning and operation, of value creation in the development supervision, control and protection, of R & D + I projects for CHESF”. The and new materials and components. main objective is the creation of an In its business plan, Chesf innovative method for Chesf and the established investments in R&D+I of electricity sector that will accompany approximately R$ 30 million in 2017. (G4-DMA EUSD EC – EU8, G4-EN7) R&D Project Sobradinho Photovoltaic Panels 63 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 64 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF It is the right time to review standards and processes to give continuity to the business. And the work begins from within. Global Compact SDGs INTERNAL PUBLIC This year, Chesf began the the Administrative Department restructuring of its management permitting suggestions, criticism model. The Human Resources and praise to reach the senior Office conducted a qualitative and management. quantitative assessment of the staff with a review of the processes and In the last Climate Survey in 2015 skills that are necessary to carry the Favorability Index was 71.48%, out activities according to the new an improvement on the 2013 survey, reality of the Company. One of the which recorded 67.59%. The result actions implemented was a Voluntary is the fruit of the implementation of Redundancy Incentive Plan, which will the Corporate Plan for Improvement continue throughout the year 2017. of Organizational Climate, which involved discussions with the areas To facilitate communication of the responsible for these factors and the changes and ensure the transparency creation of action plans to provide of decisions, Chesf reinforced its adequate handling. The next survey communication channels. It created will occur in 2017 and will also the “Talk to the Administrative evaluate the year 2016. Department”, a direct channel to 65 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF New employees reception PROFILE OF EMPLOYEES Chesf ended the year with 4,547 It is noteworthy that the maximum employees: 923 women and 3,624 limit for Chesf´s own staff is men. In 2016, the turnover rate fixed by the Ministry of Planning, reached 0.59% as a result of 23 Development and Management employees leaving and the admission through the Department of of 31 more, 23 of these through a Coordination and Governance of public service entrance exam and State Companies. eight by judicial determination7. (G4-10 (G4-LA1 TURNOVER RATE (%) NEW HIRING BY GENDER 2015 2016 BY GENDER 2015 2016 Men 0.35 0.54 Men 5 28 Women 0.01 0.05 Women 0 3 Total 0.36 0.59 Total 5 31 7 Complainants are either public entrance exam candidates or former employees. 66 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PREPARING FOR RETIREMENT Chesf is the sponsor of Fachesf plan for retirement by considering (Chesf Foundation for Assistance economic, social and health-related and Social Security), which provides aspects. Through the Retirement a supplementary pension plan for Preparation Program (PPA), employees. Currently the plan´s options alternatives are presented relating to are: Defined Contribution (DC Plan) and entrepreneurship and voluntary work. Settled Benefit (SB Plan). The DC plan, In addition, the 1st Fachesf Health and structured in the variable contribution Pension Week was held in 2016, in modality, is the only one open to new partnership with the Human Resources members and at the end of 2016 Office. The program included lectures covered 4,885 active employees on financial education and pensions, and 1,861 retired employees and and guidance on life projects after pensioners. retirement. Chesf encourages its employees to (G4-EC3, G4-LA10, G4-EU15) NEXT 5 YEARS BETWEEN 6 AND 10 YEARS Positions with university-level requirement 503 (10.8%) 187 (3.9%) Positions without university-level requirement 2,114 (45.1%) 246 (5.2%) Management position 188 (4%) 62 (1.3%) Legend: Considers employees who retire only through Fachesf, regardless of whether they are already retired through the INSS. Considered the workforce on 12.31.2016. Eligibility within five years: up to 12/31/2021; Eligibility within 10 years: from 01.01.2022 until 31.12.2026. World Heart Day Action 67 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF HEALTH AND SAFETY The focus on employee safety remains those specified in the legislation, one of Chesf’s tenets and throughout including the Environmental Risk the year it promoted a series of actions Prevention Program (PPRA) and the to minimize risks at its facilities. The Medical Monitoring of Occupational Company has a Health and Safety at Health Program (PCMSO) with Work Policy and other internal rules occupational medical examinations aimed at ensuring a safe environment beyond what is provided for in NR 078. for its employees and meeting the Regulatory Standards of the Ministry of In their day-to-day activities employees Labor and Employment (MTE). use Collective Protection Equipment (CPE) and Personal Protective Assessments of the hazards and risks Equipment (PPE) to perform certain of activities are conducted periodically, activities. Although the Company does with the main risks considered to be not provide protective equipment to electric shocks and thermal effects of contractors and subcontractors, its use electric arcs, considering that more is a requirement of the Occupational than 50% of employees are exposed to Health and Safety Plan and is inspected these risks. Other risks relate to noise during safety audits. In addition, the from generating operations, chemical Company systematically monitors hazards in laboratories and printing safety indicators relating to the offices, and also biological risks at Accident Frequency and Severity Rate outpatient clinics and the Paulo Afonso and proactive indicators, designed hospital. based on the System of Reporting and Control of Accidents and NonTo protect its workers, Chesf adopts a Conformity. series of procedures above and beyond HEALTH AND SAFETY 2014 2015 2016 OWN EMPLOYEES Frequency Rate of Accidents at Work 2.23 3.00 2.33 Severity Rate of Accidents at Work 64.00 37.00 169.00 Number of deaths (employees) 0 0 0 OUTSOURCED/CONTRACTORS Frequency Rate of Accidents at Work NA NA NA Severity Rate of Accidents at Work NA NA NA Number of deaths (employees) 0 0 NA OWN EMPLOYEES + OUTSOURCED/CONTRACTORS Frequency Rate of Accidents at Work 2.23 3.00 2.33 Severity Rate of Accidents at Work 64.00 37.00 169.00 Rate of Absenteeism due to Sickness 1.35 1.49 1.60 Number of Deaths 0 0 0 8 This Regulatory Standard NR establishes the obligation for all employers and institutions that admit workers as employees to elaborate and implement a Medical Monitoring of Occupational Health Program (PCMSO), with the goal of promoting and preserving the health of all of their workers. 68 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 2nd Literary Afternoon 69 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Importantly, Chesf has certification was a fire on the premises of Chesf´s for its Health and Safety at Work Insulating Oil Treatment Facility, Management System (OSHMS) in located next to the Bongi substation accordance with the requirements in Recife. With the rapid response of the Occupational Health and of the fire department, along with Safety Assessment Services Standard the Chesf team, it was possible to (OHSAS 18001: 2007). The OHSAS isolate and contain the fire, which has contributed to the management did not spread to other facilities and of the accident prevention system, no casualties were reported. After strengthening internal safety the incident inspections and audits culture and bringing results in risk were carried out to identify the assessments and mitigation of causes, resulting in the reviewing of impacts on operations. An example processes and safety infrastructure of this occurred in 2016, when there at all of Chesf´s oil stations. (G4-LA6, G4LA7, G4-DMA EUSD LA – EU16) RESULTS OF THE YEAR (G4-DMA EUSD LA – EU14) In 2016, Chesf intensified educational campaign were conducted to improve initiatives in the area of Health and the quality of life of employees in Safety, with a total of 71 actions the areas of health, vaccinations and involving 2,245 employees. Some wellness activities. of the technical training focused on issues related to the Company’s Preventative initiatives have business, including: Trial Runs, resulted in a fall in the Measurement, Electric and Magnetic Accident Frequency Fields; ISO 9001:2008 / SGMS; Basic Rate in 2016, reaching concepts in substations and their 2.33 (well below the main equipment; Introduction to tolerable limit at Substation Auxiliary Services; and Chesf of 3.18), Replacement of 500kv Isolator Chains which means 22% with TLs connected. lower than the figure obtained Another cycle of the Fique Alerta in 2015. para Segurança Dez (“Stay Alert for Maximum Safety”) corporate program was also held, in order to disseminate a culture of health and safety at work. With the motto “Safety is everyone’s responsibility”, the 2nd Chesf Occupational Health and Safety Knowledge Challenge was held, with the participation of 525 employees and the handover of the 1st Outstanding Health and Safety at Work Award. A series of 70 Transmission tower maintenance ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT Investment in the professional Using creative solutions such as development of its employees the use of multimedia, institutional is one of Chesf’s guidelines that partnerships and the activities of contribute to the growth of the the educator employee, the above Company. Through internal and results are constantly enhanced and external education programs, enable the optimization of financial 636 actions were recorded during resources without reducing the the year, totaling 187,724 hours quality of the actions. An example and representing 81.15% of the of this was the 1st Knowledge workforce. The average number Forum held by videoconference to of hours of training per employee recognize the efforts of employees reached 41.39, exceeding the target participating in long-term courses of 40 hours set by the Company. and the last National Seminar on (G4-LA9) the Production and Transmission of Electricity (SNPTEE). 45 papers were presented on different themes. CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OF PROCESSES AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT IN NUMBERS: • 5226 postgraduate hours taught can contribute to the development (specialization and Masters/ of skills related to the Company’s Doctorates) corporate guidelines. This plan • 8021 hours at conferences, aims to develop the technical seminars and symposia and managerial skills needed for • 2200 hours of actions relating to employees to work to tackle the compliance (Ethics, Compliance, organizational challenges. The Conflict of Interest, Harassment) Plan was prepared considering the Strategic Planning as its main guide A special mention should go to and the total amount invested was R$ Chesf´s Corporate Education Plan, 1.4 million. The average investment which offers scheduled educational per employee was R$ 317.91. opportunities to employees who (G4-DMA EUSD LA – EU14) CONTINUOUS LEARNING INITIATIVES Living and Learning Program Chesf´s 2nd Literary Afternoon (Programa Vivendo and Aprendendo) The second edition of the project involved forming The Living and Learning program, developed partnerships to promote workshops, recreation in partnership with SESI, provides elementary and lectures that, through reading and cultural and school and high school courses at the Company’s artistic expression, encourage the self-development premises during working hours. In 2016, 23 of employees. Another scheme to contribute to the employees had the opportunity to raise their level formation of a critical attitude and improvement of of schooling. the organizational climate at Chesf was the launch of the Reading Corner, with spaces and bookshelves at different locations within the Company to encourage reading and the donation and swapping of books. 71 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF COMMUNITY The relationship and engagement negotiations are adopted with the with the communities surrounding affected communities. All actions Chesf´s operations begins very early are guided by the Guidelines for on, back at the stage of evaluation Resettlement of Populations of projects. In its organizational Affected by Electricity Projects, a structure Chesf has a specialized document drawn up by a working team that works to define the group composed of representatives route of transmission lines and of all of the Eletrobras Companies. the location of developments, With regards to indigenous and reducing socio-environmental quilombola (maroons) populations, impacts. The study undertaken for actions comply with international environmental licensing purposes agreements signed by Brazil and includes the expected socioeconomic specific national legislation and and anthropogenic diagnostics regulations. to understand what the positive and negative impacts on affected Currently, Chesf has two wind farm populations will be and which can projects in the deployment phase, subsequently be considered in the CGE Casa Nova II and CGE Casa Nova action plans. All works consider III. They are located in rural areas and human rights aspects and in 2016 five it was not necessary to displace any operations were subjected to analysis of the local population. It is worth or impact assessments related to the noting in fact that the impacts of topic. these developments are positive, e.g. (G4-HR9) they provide income for the owners of the land where the wind turbines When displacement of the population are installed. is necessary, dialogue, studies and (G4-DMA EUSD SO – EU20, G4-EU22) Voluntary commitments to sustainability Chesf bases its actions on Agenda 2030, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (UN), the Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights and the National Human Rights Program (NHRP 3), acting in an integrated manner with the Holding Eletrobras. The Company follows the Social Donation of the Unserviceable Assets Responsibility Policy of the Eletrobras of the Company, which will enable Companies and the Chesf Guidance compliance with ANEEL Resolution Manual for Social Projects to guide 691/2015. its activities in the vicinity of the operations. Two important rules Participation of employees in Chesf´s were approved in 2016: Normative Corporate Volunteer Program Resolution 02/2016 to ensure increased from 0.5% of employees to adherence to the Eletrobras Policy 2.34%, taking part in various campaigns and a Normative Instruction for the and actions in the communities. The 72 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF program aims to encourage, organize, It is also worth mentioning the support support and recognize voluntary for Fábrica Gepeto, a small sawmill activities involving civic participation by dedicated to manufacturing wooden its employees for the good of society. toys that were distributed to about The actions are defined with a view to 60 children attending two daycare align the interests of the employees, centers. Activities were also held at the the business and community needs. Bongi Daycare Center and the Caxangá Some of the campaigns carried out Daycare Center during Carnival, Easter, were: collecting of food donations; Children’s Day and Christmas. giving blood; donation of kimonos Moreover, Chesf has also lent its for the Judô Cidadão (“Judo Citizen”) facilities for the NGO Citizenship project, promoted by the Child Citizen Committee of Chesf Employees in Beneficent Association (Associação Recife (Comitê de Cidadania dos Beneficente Criança Cidadã ABCC); Chesfianos Recife), which developed Children’s Day celebrations with the Solidarity Education Program, handing out of toys and a recreational preparing 65 young people for the afternoon in the Vietnã community; National High school Examination. Solidarity Christmas activities in the During the year, compulsory investment Roda de Fogo Community territory totaled R$ 561,203.60 and voluntary of Casarão with distribution of toys investment was R$ 37,882,188.68 in for children and food baskets for social responsibility programs and families, as well as distribution of toys projects. to the Esperança, N. S. Auxiliadora and (G4-EC8, G4-SO2) Sementes do Novo Mundo daycare centers and Instituto Filadélfia in the Vietnã community. Volunteer group 73 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF NAIR ALVES DE SOUZA HOSPITAL In 2016, Chesf signed an agreement R$ 40 million per year. It is estimated with the Municipal Government of that the process of transferring Paulo Afonso and the Department administrative and financial of Health from the State of Bahia responsibility to the University (SESAB) defining actions for the should be completed by 2018. implementation of infrastructure improvements and of operational At present the hospital serves activities, after the transfer of 22 surrounding municipalities and ownership of the hospital to the in the future will have an ICU and Federal University of Vale do São increase the number of beds from Francisco (UNIVASF). 105 to 130. During the year there were 102,523 consultancies and As a result, the Municipality installed 2,964 births. An area was also an Emergency Care Unit (UPA) on site ceded to build a university campus, for less complex demands, although which will undoubtedly become a hub funding of the hospital is still the for the development of the city of responsibility of Chesf, costing some Paulo Afonso. (G4-EC7) LUZ PARA TODOS LAGO DE SOBRADINHO PROGRAM (LAKE SOBRADINHO) PROJECT Chesf develops regional projects The Lago de Sobradinho project, executed by EMBRAPA, aligned to social programs of the offers technical expertise to enable small farmers and Federal Government. An example is fishermen living in the vicinity of the Sobradinho dam the National Program for Universal (BA) to develop and improve their family crop and animal Access and Use of Electricity (Luz production systems, agro-industries, beekeeping, fishing para Todos) which involved 27,661 and fish-farming to better deal with drought. hook-ups, serving 110,644 people in the year 2016. The project currently serves five municipalities: (G4-DMA EUSD PR EU23) Sobradinho, Casa Nova, Santo Sé, Remanso and Pilão Arcado, providing technical knowledge and technology and benefiting about 2,000 people. In 2016, R$ 554,039 was invested in the project. For more information about the project visit projetolagodesobradinho. blogspot.com.br 74 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CULTURE With investments to incentivize Eletrobras Companies culture in the Northeast, Chesf Sponsorship Program for democratizes access in different Electric Sector Events 2016 areas and encourages social and • IT Meeting 2016 environmental counterparts to • XIII Symposium on Water reaffirm their commitment to Resources in the Northeast sustainability. In 2016, R$ 311,000 • Wind Energy Socio-Environmental was invested in eight projects related Seminar to the cultural area. Among the most significant were: Rouanet Law • Criança Cidadã Orchestra (Annual Activity Plan 2016) • Virtuosi Programming ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION Through Chesf´s Environmental and sustainability, etc. During Education Program, projects were this first filter stage, a portfolio carried out in communities close of projects was created with 50 to Transmission Lines in order to initiatives that will be monitored raise awareness, clarify doubts by the Community Environmental and mobilize the population and Commissions. Meanwhile, in Xingó employees to participate in the social the actions cover six municipalities actions carried out by the Company. distributed in three states: The Socio-Environmental Action Plan Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia. So far was also implemented in the vicinity the diagnosis and the Work Plan of the Paulo Afonso Hydroelectric have been carried out with the Complex and the Xingó HPP with participation of the population. environmental education, health and education actions. (G4-SO1) The actions of the SocioChesf also carried out environmental Environmental Action Plan for Paulo education activities in 10 public Afonso cover five municipalities in elementary and high schools to three states: Bahia, Pernambuco provide guidance on combating and Alagoas. Workshops were fires. During the year, 1,079 students held with the population and 167 attended and 290 teachers received proposals were catalogued on a training. In total about 7,000 people number of topics: environmental participated, including parents and edu-communication, conservation of residents of the areas in the vicinity natural resources, health, education of the Company’s projects. and art, institutional strengthening 75 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF HPP Sobradinho CUSTOMERS The relationship with customers is In this sense, it considers as a premise managed by the Energy Sales Office, that health and safety issues should responsible for all management be treated with absolute rigor for of energy purchase contracts. This its customers, as well as being an closeness to the customers allows essential criterion of the relationship the company to provide personalized with its employees. There are attention for the handling of specific clauses on the subject in complaints and resolution of pending the contractual agreements, the issues. Thinking of joint growth Transmission System Connection with its customers, the Company is Contract and the Facilities Sharing developing an action plan to further Contract. improve the services and products (G4-PR1) offered. (G4-EU3) PROFILE OF CUSTOMERS 2016 Potentially free industrial consumers (according to Law 13,182) 12 Free industrial consumers 5 Energy distribution utilities 45 Traders 6 Total number of customers 68 76 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CHESF SATISFACTION SURVEY In order to measure the satisfaction services: distributors, free and of its customers, the Company potentially free consumers and conducts periodic surveys such as generators) were surveyed. Using the 2nd Integrated Satisfaction the “Customer Window Quadrant” Survey of Eletrobrás Companies, methodology, it was possible to which involves the participation of all verify the correlation between the Group companies. Customers of the degree of satisfaction and level of businesses of Generation (free and importance and the result shows potentially free consumers, traders that there were no dissatisfied Chesf and distributors) and Transmission customers. (users of connected transmission 1ST INTEGRATED 2ND INTEGRATED SURVEY SURVEY CUSTOMER/BUSINESS TWO-YEAR PERIOD TWO-YEAR PERIOD 2014/2016 2016/2018 Satisfaction index of traders with respect to the generation 85.2% 82.0% business Satisfaction index of distributors in relation to the generation and 90.4% 83.9% transmission businesses Satisfaction Index of industrial customers with respect to the 92.4% 77.2% generation, transmission and trading businesses Satisfaction Index of the accessing users of the transmission 82.3% 80.6% services Overall average customer satisfaction 87.8% 80.9% Also in 2016, Chesf conducted a satisfaction survey with a commercial focus. It surveyed customers in the Trading, Free Consumer, Potentially Free Consumer (Law 13,182) and Generator segments. The satisfaction indices were 79% and 87% for the evaluation of the reliability of service and the guarantee of supply, respectively. (G4-PR5) 77 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF SUPPLIERS The contracting of Chesf’s suppliers of works and services and for the supply is governed by Laws 8,666/93 and of equipment for the generation and 10,520/2002 and by Decree 5,450/2005. transmission of energy. These represent The entire process follows the 75 contracts and a total of R$ 423.6 requirements for public calls and million, representing 29.6% of the total assessment of the criteria of legal contracted suppliers, 27% of the contracts qualification, technical qualification, signed and 79% of the value contracted economic and financial qualification, during the year. tax and labor regularity and compliance with certain legal constraints related For direct contracting, denominated to ensuring respect for human rights Low Value Acquisitions (ABV), of a value and compliance with environmental below R$ 16,000, 572 contracts were legislation. signed with 253 suppliers, totaling R$ 4.7 million. Although the bidding process In 2016, 269 contracts were signed with does not prioritize local contracting, 192 suppliers, totaling R$ 533.8 million. Of currently about 50% of Chesf’s suppliers these suppliers, 57 were considered to be are located close to the Company’s main “essential to the business” because they operation. are suppliers contracted for the execution (G4-12, G4-LA15, G4-EC9) 2014 2015 2016 Total expenses with suppliers (R$) 490,096,373.00 533,788,857.69 Total expenses with local suppliers (R$) 266,983,817.14 129,805,439.04 Percentage of spending on local suppliers 54.5 24.3 by the major operating units (%) Note: 1) The figure indicated represents the values of the contracts signed during the period of 2016, and not financial disbursement in the period. 2) Of the total contracts signed in 2016, those suppliers based in the Northeast region were used to establish the figures and percentages in the above table. SUPPLIERS BY REGION 3% 6% Northeast 0% Southeast For further information, refer to the South content in the Annex to this report at chesf.gov.br > Sustentabilidade 32% 59% Central-West North (G4-LA2, G4-LA4, G4-LA5, G4-LA8, G4-LA12, G4-LA13, G4-EN32, G4-HR1, G4-HR2, G4-HR4, G4-HR5, G4-HR6, G4-HR8, G4-HR10, Foreign formerly EU19, formerly EU23, G4-SO4, G4-PR3) 0% 78 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Recife Headquarte Novembro Azul 79 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 80 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Chesf operates stringently in its developments. Even before operations begin, its actions are planned and monitored so that potential environmental impacts can be avoided. Global Compact SDGs Chesf´s environmental responsibility the average number of completed starts with the feasibility study projects and the reduction of 43% in for the project, which includes the time delay of the works. conducting an impact assessment and preparing environmental impact Today, all of Chesf´s businesses are assessments and reports (EIA/RIMA). already licensed or in the process Following the relevant legislation, the of renewal and regularization. In proposed alternatives are evaluated 2016, Chesf invested R$ 280,050.65 according to the degree of impact in infrastructure through the and, if necessary, changes are made Management Program. Various to the project. licenses, both operating and preliminary, were obtained and Last year, Chesf created the Planning renewed, notably the renewal of Center within the Engineering the Preliminary License for the Department, which further improved Photovoltaic Array in Bom Nome the environmental management (PE), the renewal of the Installation of developments. This efficient License and Single License for the management contributed to the Photovoltaic Array in Petrolina (PE), profitability of the projects, as by and the Special Authorization for 800 minimizing risks and unforeseen and 700 m³/s Flow Testing in the São events it is possible to increase the Francisco River. In addition to these, success rate for completing the five Renewals of Operating Licenses project on time. Some of the results were obtained, two new Operating are noteworthy: the 70% increase in Licenses and four corrections. 81 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PUBLIC MEETINGS With the support of the Brazilian greater transparency and assertiveness Environmental Institute (Ibama), in 2016 in the renewal processes. Chesf held public meetings in the Xingó region and Paulo Afonso (BA) to discuss In addition to local residents, with the public the renewal processes technicians from Chesf and IBAMA´s for the Operating License of the Xingó Environmental Licensing Centers were Hydroelectric Power Plant and renewal also present, alongside representatives of the licensing of the Paulo Afonso of state environmental agencies, the hydroelectric Complex. Environmental São Francisco River Basin Committee, programs were presented before the municipal governments of the opening up for dialogue with the region and Federal and state Public participants, who made suggestions for Prosecutors. improvements. The aim was to provide BIODIVERSITY [G4-EN26] From the moment that Chesf influence to correct any deviation, understands the impacts of its which may result in changes to the operations it can begin work to project. prevent, mitigate and offset the negative impacts. In the knowledge In the case of transmission projects, that hydroelectric power plants for example, the procedure of can cause significant impacts on elevating pylons is adopted alongside the fauna and flora in Permanent implementing selective reforestation Preservation Areas (APP), Chesf uses in the vicinity of the projects and GPS tools during the studies for new fauna and flora rescue programs. projects that allow it to perform Additionally, Chesf operates a fish complex analyses by integrating data farm for restocking the river and from various sources and creating reservoirs and a forest tree nursery databases of GPS data that permit to produce and distribute native the minimization of the impact on plants from the region with a view biodiversity. In addition, during to the recovery of riparian woodland construction and operations it and other degraded areas. carries out monitoring in the area of (G4-EN11, G4-EN12) 82 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF PROTECTING SPECIES In 2016, Chesf continued the that was performed took place program of restoration of riparian in the vicinity of the SE Camaçari woodland in the region of the Lower IV substation where after a year São Francisco, downstream from of planting the return of fauna Xingó, by planting 49,000 seedlings. can already be observed, with At the Pedra and Funil reservoirs in a predominance of parakeets Bahia 6,759 seedlings were planted (Psittacidae sp) and the emergence of across 7.51 hectares of Permanent new shrubs in the vegetation. Preservation Areas (APP). In addition, (G4-EU13) the Company develops a restoration program on 10 hectares of Atlantic No new endangered species of fauna Forest (Mata Atlântica) in the Mata were identified during the year. do Junco Wildlife Refuge (RVS Mata The Company monitors the species do Junco) in the state of Sergipe. present in both the Generation and (G4-EN13) Transmission businesses, performing Fauna and Flora Monitoring Surveys The Recovery Program for every four years. With regard to Degraded Areas was deployed in conservation, the study pointed out degraded areas, after previously the need for future actions to protect being presented to IBAMA. The the Kaempfer´s Woodpecker (Celeus activities were developed with the obrieni), an endemic species present use of bioengineering techniques at the Generation developments. for soils to bring about immediate (G4-EN14) environmental regeneration. A positive example of the work TABLE OF SPECIES ON THE IUCN RED LIST AND NATIONAL LISTS ENDANGERED AND VULNERABLE SPECIES* 2014 2015 2016 Critically Endangered 0 0 0 Endangered 39 39 39 Vulnerable 32 32 32 Near Threatened 0 0 0 Least Concern 236 317 317 * Considers the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature) National List and Red List. 83 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF WATER AND EFFLUENTS Water is an indispensable resource for generation of electricity. Aware of the Chesf’s business, since almost all of importance of this resource, Chesf the energy generated by the Company participates in the São Francisco River comes from hydroelectric power Basin Committee as an active member, plants. In the process of hydroelectric participating in discussions with other generation there is no degradation of representatives of civil society. the resource because all turbine water returns to the water course without The management monitors the any change to its characteristics. rational use of the resource at its facilities and operations, generating Even so, the Company evaluates and monthly information for the regional monitors the water quality of the management areas that considers reservoirs under its responsibility. the particularities of the regions The management of water resources and sets preliminary targets in areas at Chesf follows the Eletrobras already possessing meters. At the Policy, supported by Law 9.433/97, Camaçari Thermal Power Plant cooling which is based on two concepts: is provided by refrigerant oil, with water is a collective asset (a limited no water demand in the productive resource with economic value) and process. is an essential natural resource for TOTAL WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE (M³) WATER MUNICIPAL MAINS GROUNDWATER TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION WATER SUPPLY SOURCE CONSUMPTION PER EMPLOYEE 2014 154,053.0 37,980.0 188,431.0 41.1 2015 94,136.0 35,694.0 126,036.0 27.9 2016* 184,008.5 0.0 184,008.5 * 40.5 * In 2016, measurements were included for the APA Unit (20 new sites that correspond to 32,164 m³), resulting in an increase in consumption in relation to the previous year. Regarding the disposal of effluents from the operational and administrative areas, the developments have their own treatment plants or, in the case of units that do not have a treatment plant, the domestic effluent is disposed of via the public sewage network. (G4-EN8, G4-EN22) 84 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF WASTE [G4-EN23] Waste management is carried out procedures for handling, operation, by the environmental area, which maintenance, transport, storage and controls and monitors compliance disposal of hazardous products (Class with legislation and environmental I and Class II A and B), in compliance requirements for the handling of with the provisions of Article 9 of Law hazardous products and waste. 12305/2010 (National Policy on Solid Waste). In 2016, the volume of waste To this end, the area implements generated reached 993 tons. TOTAL HAZARDOUS AND NON-HAZARDOUS WASTE (TONS) 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous waste Class I 263.46 126.54 38.005 Non-hazardous waste Class II A 1,856.16 680.06 955.08 Non-hazardous waste Class II B 425.64 363.66 Waste from healthcare services 0.07 Reuse Recycling 75.97 30.00 Composting Recovery, including energy recovery 35.65 10.56 Incineration 132.84 0.07 0.00 Underground injection of waste Municipal landfill 1,042.03 Industrial landfill 0.42 938.42 On-site storage 35.4 28.524 Total waste generated 2,545.26 1,170.33 993.085 85 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF ENERGY EFFICIENCY Chesf applies preventive measures, Despite monitoring significant such as accounting for its GHG energy usage and consumption, emissions since 2003, and seeks the Company does not have any to achieve energy savings through methodology in place for measuring energy efficiency programs. In 2016 a energy intensity. The Internal new project began for the production Energy Efficiency Committee of of solar energy at substations, the Eletrobras System (CIEESE), a especially those that are supplied multidisciplinary group formed by by distributors. With the installation companies in the Eletrobras Group, of small solar arrays at substations has discussed the best solution and it is estimated that savings of eight has conducted meetings on the million Brazilian reais could be subject, seeking solutions that cover made. The first was installed on the all of the Group companies. warehouse in Abreu and Lima (PE) (G4-EN5) and the second has already been approved for Messias (AL). The idea For thermoelectric generation at is to install other solar arrays at the Camaçari TPP in particular, an substations over the next year. The average efficiency for projects was total volume of energy savings in adopted, corresponding to 30.5% for 2016 reached 6,346 MWh. operation with natural gas or oil. (G4-EN7) (G4-EU11) CLIMATE CHANGE Climate change management occurs and the monitoring of indicators and through the study and evaluation actions to mitigate risks. of actions within the ambit of a multidisciplinary working group Although climate change represents created by the Holding, in order to a potential threat to Chesf´s business assess the impact of climate change when considering water scarcity, it on business. Furthermore, faced also represents opportunities when with the scenario of reduced water considering investments in other supply, the Climate Strategy working renewable sources such as wind group of the Environment Committee power and photovoltaics -for energy (SCMA), made up of members of all generation during periSDGs of low of the Eletrobras Companies, created water levels in the reservoirs of the a task force to develop alternatives Hydroelectric Power Plants. for adaptation to climate change to be implemented at the generating In the short term, the Company facilities. considers the risk of exposure in relation to international and In addition, Chesf´s corporate voluntary agreements to be low, risk management area performs given that the reduction target set by a periodic assessment of “Climate Brazil at the 2015 Climate Conference Change” risks, together with the (COP 21) reducing GHG emissions other areas involved and based on by 37% by 2015 and 43% by 2030 the methodology defined in the Risk is associated with the freezing of Management Policy of the Eletrobras the expansion of fossil-fuel thermal Companies. It involves a survey of the energy sources. Still, Chesf performs controls implemented by the areas an annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions 86 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Inventory and directs its strategies and are minimized by transparency to the development of programs of information and the sustainability that include the revitalization of its actions adopted by the Company. hydroelectric plants, incentives for These include the publication of the producing new technologies and the Sustainability Report following the development of projects involving guidelines of the Global Reporting alternative energy sources, giving Initiative (GRI) and the Carbon priority to solar and wind power Disclosure Project (CDP), which which have great potential in the demonstrates greenhouse gas Northeast region. Chesf has already emissions and mitigation strategies begun the construction of two wind from year to year. farms scheduled for 2017. (G4-EC2) In the environment of regulatory For the management of contingencies, risks, the Company follows changes Chesf instituted the RN-03/2013 in legislation and is active in AS-10 standard Contingency Plan regulatory forums in the areas of Management for the purpose water resources (Water Resources of establishing principles and Councils, River Basin Committees and guidelines to guide the identification, Agencies) and energy (regulatory assessment, treatment, monitoring agencies and electric utilities and communication of potential associations), as well as participating risks inherent to the Company’s in forums and working groups related activities. All mapped risks are to the topic. As for the management entered into the Basic Contingency of physical risks to which energy Plan, in which they are described generation from hydropower is and classified to determine local and susceptible, a range of actions are external responses as well as those adopted to avoid damage to the responsible. Company. Risks to the reputation and (G4-DMA EUSD SO EU21) image of Chesf are also considered Itaparica Project 87 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF EMISSIONS (G4-EU5, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN20 G4-EN21) Part of the management of climate In its greenhouse gas inventory the change is to draw up plans to reduce Company calculated the emission of emissions of the gases responsible 237,924.84 tons of CO2 equivalents for causing the greenhouse effect from scopes 1, 2 and 3. This from Chesf´s operations. To do represents a reduction of 50.43% so, a database is being set up to over the previous year. monitor the fuel consumption of its This significant reduction is vehicle fleet, with the aim of setting attributable to the operational attainable and measurable targets. downtime of the Camaçari TPP, Other actions towards technical and which in 2016 operated with only operational improvements focus one generating unit (UG3) during on the efficiency of processes, the month of January. In full the planning and control of routes operation this thermal power plant through the use of GPS tools, and is responsible for almost all of the more effective use of equipment Scope 1 GHG emissions. Currently through preventive maintenance, there is a process underway with technological upgrading and ANEEL and the MME to return the replacement with more efficient concession for the cessation of models with lower emissions. activities. In addition, since 2009 Chesf Currently, the solar and wind power annually publishes its GHG Emissions projects developed by Chesf do not Inventory together with the consider technical analysis of the Eletrobras Companies. This is an quantity of CO2 avoided or financial open access document that informs analysis of returns in carbon credits stakeholders about the responsibility because they are not considered of Eletrobras companies with respect as attractive from a cost-benefit to greenhouse gas emissions. perspective due to their small scale. EMISSÕES (TCO2EQ) 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 409,163.81 191,084.55 16,170.69 (direct GHG emissions) Scope 2 316,119.17 277,861.85 220,693.80 (indirect emissions of GHG and Energy) Scope 3 2,018.57 2,815.12 1,060.35 (Other indirect GHG emissions) Total Emissions 727,301.55 471,761.52 237,924.84 For further information, refer to the content of the Annex to this report at chesf.gov.br > Sustentabilidade (G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN26, G4-EN27, G4-EN30, G4-EN31, G4-EN33, G4-EN34, G4-EU21) 88 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF GRI G4 CONTENT INDEX OVERALL General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the G4-1 4, 5, 6, 7 organization G4-2 4, 20, 29 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 13 Name of the organization G4-4 13 Primary brands, products and services G4-5 13 Location of headquarters Countries with significant operations or that are G4-6 13 relevant to sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 13 Nature of ownership and legal form G4-8 13 Markets served G4-9 13 Scale of the organization Global Compact: 6 G4-10 66 Profile of employees (e.g. type of contract and gender) SDGs: 5, 8 100% of employees are Percentage of employees covered by collective G4-11 covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements. G4-12 60, 78 Describe the organization's supply chain There were no significant Significant changes during the reporting period G4-13 changes in relation to topic Global Compact: 6 regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, of this indicator in 2016. or its supply chain, Whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 35, 48 principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental and G4-15 21 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy G4-16 22 organizations in which the organization holds a seat, participates in projects or committees, provides funding or views membership as strategic. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES Entities included in the consolidated financial G4-17 17, 19, 39 statements and entities not covered by the report Process for defining the report content and the Aspect G4-18 12, 13, 15 Boundaries G4-19 12, 13 List the material Aspects identified Annex: G4-20 Report the Aspect Boundary within the organization page 1 Annex: Report the Aspect Boundary outside of the G4-21 page 4 organization There were no restatements Restatements of information provided in previous G4-22 of information from the reports previous cycle. 89 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures There were no changes Significant changes from previous reporting periSDGs G4-23 in scope or boundaries in in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. relation to the previous cycle. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT List of stakeholder groups engaged by the G4-24 12, 14 organization. Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders G4-25 12, 14, 15 with whom to engage. G4-26 12, 14, 15 Approach to stakeholder engagement, Report key topics and concerns that have been raised G4-27 12, 13, 14, 15 through stakeholder engagement, REPORT PROFILE G4-28 9 Reporting period G4-29 9 Date of most recent previous report G4-30 9 Reporting cycle Institutional Relations and Sustainability Coordination: Contact point for questions regarding the report or its G4-31 sustentabilidade@chesf. contents. com.br Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has G4-32 5, 69 chosen. And location of the GRI Content Index GOVERNANCE Global Compact Principles: 8; 10 SDG: 16; 17 This report did not undergo Policy and current practice with regard to seeking G4-33 external assurance. external assurance for the report G4-34 33 Governance structure of the organization Process for delegating authority for economic, G4-35 34, Annex: Page 4 environmental and social topics from the highest governance body Executive-level position or positions with responsibility G4-36 34, Annex: Page 5 for economic, environmental and social topics. Processes for consultation between stakeholders G4-37 12 , 29, 40 and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. Composition of the highest governance body and its G4-38 33, Annex: Page 6 committees G4-39 33, Annex: Page 7 Chair of the highest governance body Nomination and selection processes for the highest G4-40 37, Annex: Page 7 governance body and its committees, Processes to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided G4-41 38, 39 and managed. Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles 28, 31, 34, G4-42 in the definition of strategies, policies, and goals related Annex: Page 10 to economic, environmental and social impacts Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest G4-43 37, Annex: Page 11 governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics Processes of self-assessment of the performance of the G4-44 Annex: Page 12 highest governing body Responsibility for identification and management of G4-45 31, Annex: Page 13 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G4-46 31, Annex: Page 15 processes for economic, environmental and social topics 90 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of G4-47 31 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Conselho de Highest committee or position that formally reviews G4-48 9 Administração and and approves the organization’s sustainability report Diretoria Executiva. and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. Process for communicating critical concerns to the G4-49 Annex: Page 16 highest governance body Nature and total number of critical concerns that were G4-50 Annex: Page 17 communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body G4-51 Annex: Page 18 and senior executives Report whether remuneration consultants are involved G4-52 Annex: Page 20 in determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and G4-53 Annex: Page 21 taken into account regarding remuneration, and their application in the organization´s policies For strategic reasons Ratio of the annual total compensation for the Chesf does not disclose organization’s highest-paid individual to the median G4-54 Annex: Page 22 the remuneration of the annual total compensation for all employees, by highest paid individual at country the Company. Information subject to confidentiality restrictions Ratio of percentage increase in annual total due to security of compensation for the organization’s highest-paid G4-55 Annex: Page 23 operations and personnel, individual to the median percentage increase in annual principally those involved total compensation for all employees, by country in this indicator. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Global Compact Principles: 8; 10 SDGs: 16; 17 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards G4-56 20, 38, 39 and norms of behavior Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on G4-57 29 ethical and lawful behavior Internal and external mechanisms for reporting G4-58 38, 39 concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Information on Management Page Omissions Description Approach and Indicators ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA 49, 67, 87 and Annexs Management method G4-EC1 49 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial implications and other risks and opportunities G4-EC2 87 SDGs: 9, 13 for the organization’s activities due to climate change Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan G4-EC3 67 SDGs: 8 obligations 91 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures Zero. It should be noted that the Company’s Capital Stock, amounting to R$ 9.754 billion, is represented by 55.905 million registered shares, divided into 54.151 million common shares G4-EC4 and 1.754 million preferred Financial assistance received from government shares, all without par value. Of this total, 99.58% belong to Eletrobras, 0.347% to the Ministry of Finance, 0.016% to Light and 0.059% to other shareholders. Annex G4-DMA Annex Management method For purpose of the calculation, the lowest salary Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender at Chesf was divided by the G4-EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant national minimum wage set locations of operation for 2016: R$ 880.00. Annex 100% of managerial positions in the Northeast Proportion of senior management hired from the local G4-EC6 region are hired from the SDGs: 17 community at significant locations of operation local community. Annex INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA 73, 74 Management method Development and impact of infrastructure investments G4-EC7 74 and services supported Significant indirect economic impacts, including the G4-EC8 73 SDGs: 8 extent of impacts PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA 78 Management method Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-EC9 78 locations of operation CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL ENERGY G4-DMA 63, 86 and Annexs Management method G4-EN1 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Materials used by weight or volume Percentage of materials used that are recycled input G4-EN2 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 materials G4-EN3 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Energy consumption within the organization G4-EN4 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Energy consumption outside of the organization Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN5 86 Energy Intensity SDGs: 7 G4-EN6 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Reduction of energy consumption Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Reductions in energy requirements of products and G4-EN7 63, 86 SDGs: 7 services WATER G4-DMA 84 and Annex Management method Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN8 84 Total water withdrawal by source SDGs: 6 92 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General Conteúdos Página Comentários/ Omissões Descrição padrão geral standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures There are no water sources that are significantly Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of G4-EN9 affected by withdrawal of water water. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and G4-EN10 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 reused BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA 82 and 83 Management method Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN11 82 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high SDGs: 13 biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN12 82 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and SDGs: 13 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 83 Habitats protected or restored Total number of IUCN Red List species and national Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN13 83 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected SDGs: 14 by operations, by level of extinction risk Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Número total de espécies incluídas na lista vermelha da G4-EN14 64 IUCN and em outras listas de conservação EMISSIONS G4-DMA 88 Management method Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN15 88 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) SDGs: 13 Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN16 88 SDGs: 13 (Scope 2) Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN17 88 SDGs: 13 (Scope 3) Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN18 88 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity SDGs: 13 Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN19 88 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions SDGs: 13 Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN20 88 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) SDGs: 13 Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN21 88 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions SDGs: 13 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA 82, 84, 86 and Annexs Management method Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 G4-EN22 84 Total water discharge by quality and destination SDGs: 6 G4-EN23 85 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Indicator undergoing process of revision and structuring. Currently Chesf does G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills not have appropriate equipment, monitoring or methodology to obtain this information Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated G4-EN25 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 waste deemed hazardous Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of G4-EN26 82, Annex SDGs: 6 water bodies and related habitats PRODUCTS AND SERVICES G4-DMA Annexs Management method 93 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts G4-EN27 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 of products and services Not applicable, as Chesf Percentage of products sold and their packaging G4-EN28 generates and transmits materials that are reclaimed by category electricity. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number G4-EN29 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting G4-EN30 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations OVERALL G4-DMA Management method Total environmental protection expenditures and G4-EN31 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 investments by type SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 46 and Annex Management method Percentage of new suppliers screened for G4-EN32 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 environmental criteria Significant actual and potential negative environmental G4-EN33 46, Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken ENVIRONMENTAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISM Number of grievances about environmental impacts G4-EN34 Annex Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL – LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA 66 and Annexs Management method Global Compact: 6 Total number and rates of new employee hires and G4-LA1 66 SDGs: 5 employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not G4-LA2 Annex Global Compact: 6 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, G4-LA3 Annex Global Compact: 6 by gender LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA Annex Management method There is no established notice period and this is G4-LA4 Annex specified in the collective Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes agreement. Global Compact: 3, 6 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 47, 70 and Annexs Management method Percentage of total workforce represented in G4-LA5 Annex Global Compact: 6 formal joint management–worker health and safety committees 94 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, Global Compact: 6 G4-LA6 47, 70 lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work SDGs: 3 related fatalities, by region and by gender Global Compact: 6 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases G4-LA7 70 SDGs: 3, 8 related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements G4-LA8 Annex Global Compact: 6 with trade unions TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA 67, 70 and Annex Management method Global Compact: 6 Average hours of training per year per employee by G4-LA9 70 SDGs: 4 gender, and by employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning Global Compact: 6 G4-LA10 67 that support the continued employability of employees SDGs: 4 and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular G4-LA11 Annex Global Compact: 6 performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4-DMA Annex Management method Composition of governance bodies and breakdown Global Compact: 6 of employees per employee category according to G4-LA12 Annex SDGs: 16 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA Annex Management method Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to G4-LA13 Annex Global Compact: 6 men by employee category, by significant locations of operation SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA 46, 78 and Annex Management method Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-LA14 Annex Global Compact: 6 labor practices criteria Global Compact: 6 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for G4-LA15 46, 78 SDGs: 8 labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA 41 and Annex Management method Number of grievances about labor practices filed, Global Compact: 6 G4-LA16 41, Annex addressed, and resolved through formal grievance SDGs: 8 mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL – HUMAN RIGHTS INVESTMENT G4-DMA Annexs Management method Total number and percentage of significant investment G4-HR1 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human G4-HR2 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained 95 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA Annex Management method Total number of incidents of discrimination and G4-HR3 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2, 3, 6 corrective actions taken FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA Annex Management method Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective G4-HR4 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights CHILD LABOR G4-DMA Annex Management method Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures G4-HR5 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2, 5 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR G4-DMA Annex Management method Operations and suppliers identified as having G4-HR6 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2, 4 significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and measures taken SECURITY PRACTICES G4-DMA Annex Management method Percentage of security personnel trained in the G4-HR7 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-DMA Annex Management method Total number of incidents of violations involving rights G4-HR8 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 of indigenous peoples and actions taken ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 72 and Annex Management method Total number and percentage of operations that Global Compact: 1, 2 G4-HR9 72, Annex have been subject to human rights reviews or impact SDGs: 5, 8, 10 assessments SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 46 and Annexs Management method Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-HR10 Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 human rights criteria Significant actual and potential negative human rights G4-HR11 46, Annex Global Compact: 1, 2 impacts in the supply chain and actions taken HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-DMA 41 Management method Number of grievances about human rights impacts G4-HR12 41 Global Compact: 1, 2 filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 96 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures CATEGORY: SOCIAL – SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA 73, 75 Management method Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-SO1 75 community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Operations with significant actual or potential negative G4-SO2 73 impacts on local communities ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA Annex Management method Total number and percentage of operations assessed G4-SO3 Annex Global Compact: 10 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified Communication and training on anti-corruption policies G4-SO4 Annex Global Compact: 10 and procedures G4-SO5 Annex Global Compact: 10 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken PUBLIC POLICY G4-DMA Annex Management method Chesf does not make political contributions to parties or Total value of political contributions by country and G4-SO6 political campaigns. Global Compact: 10 recipient/beneficiary Annex ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR G4-DMA Annex Management method Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive G4-SO7 Annex behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Annex Management method Monetary value of significant fines and total number of G4-SO8 Annex non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using G4-SO9 Annex criteria for impacts on society Significant actual and potential negative impacts on G4-SO10 46 society in the supply chain and actions taken GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-DMA 41 Management method Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, G4-SO11 41 SDGs: 16 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms CATEGORY: SOCIAL – PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 76 and Annex Management method Percentage of significant product and service G4-PR1 76 categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 97 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health G4-PR2 Annex and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA 77 Management method Not applicable. There is no Type of product and service information required by requirement for labeling the organization’s procedures for product and service G4-PR3 information for energy information and labeling, and percentage of significant generation, transmission and product and service categories subject to such commercialization services. information requirements There is no requirement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with for labeling information regulations and voluntary codes concerning product G4-PR4 for energy generation, and service information and labeling, by type of transmission and outcomes commercialization services. G4-PR5 77 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA Annex Management method The only product that Not applicable. Energy Chesf sells is energy, G4-PR6 services are neither banned Sale of banned or disputed products within a highly regulated nor disputed. market. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 Annex communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA Annex Management method Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR8 Annex breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data COMPLIANCE G4-DMA Annex Management method Total number of substantiated complaints regarding G4-PR9 Annex breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data SECTOR SUPPLEMENT ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy G4-EU1 17, 59 SDGs: 7 source and by regulatory regime Net Energy Produced: 18,023 GWh Calculation basis: Net energy output broken down by primary energy G4-EU2 Energy Generated = source and by regulatory regime 20,831GWh (-) Overall Electrical Losses = 2,808 GWh Number of residential, industrial, institutional and G4-EU3 76 commercial customer accounts Length of above and underground transmission and G4-EU4 17, 18, 19 distribution lines by regulatory regime Allocation of co2e emissions allowances or equivalent, G4-EU5 88 SDGs: 13 broken down by carbon trading framework 98 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures CATEGORY: ECONOMIC AVAILABILITY AND RELIABILITY G4-DMA EUSD EC Management approach to ensure short and long-term 52 (formerly EU6) electricity availability and reliability As a generating company of the National Interconnected System (SIN), Chesf has the responsibility to ensure system reliability. Ensuring that demand is met with quality and continuity is Planned capacity against projected electricity demand the responsibility of the G4-EU10 over the long term, broken down by energy source and National System Operator regulatory regime (ONS), to which Chesf offers its production. Ensuring balance of supply and demand is the responsibility of the Granting Authority in the form of the Energy Research Company (EPE/ MME). DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT This information falls under the responsibility of the National System Operator (ONS). Chesf´s industrial Demand-side management programs including G4-DMA EUSD EC customers are electricityresidential, commercial, institutional and industrial (formerly EU7) intensive industries programs connected to the Basic Network, and the load is managed by the National System Operator (ONS). RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research and development activity and expenditure G4-DMA EUSD EC 63 SDGs: 7, 12 aimed at providing reliable electricity and promoting (formerly EU8) sustainable development PLANT DECOMMISSIONING G4-DMA EUSD EC Not applicable Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites (formerly EU9) SYSTEM EFFICIENCY Chesf does not manage this indicator. For the specific case of Camaçari TPP, an average Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by G4-EU11 86 efficiency for projects energy source and by regulatory regime corresponding to 30.5% was adopted, both for operation with natural gas and with oil. Chesf attempts to track the transmission losses of the Basic Network, the Northeast subsystem, in order to Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of G4-EU12 63 subsidize power load studies, total energy in the short, medium and long term. In 2016, this percentage was 3.17%. 99 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL BIODIVERSITY Global Compact: 7, 8, 9 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the G4-EU13 83 SDGs: 13 biodiversity of the affected areas CATEGORY: SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA EUSD LA Programs and processes to ensure the availability of a 70, 71 SDGs: 4 (formerly EU14) skilled workforce Policies and requirements regarding health and safety G4-DMA EUSD LA 70 SDGs: 3 of employees and employees of contractors and (formerly EU16) subcontractors Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next G4-EU15 67 SDGs: 8 5 and 10 years broken down by job category and by region Chesf does not have any permanent and exclusive outsourced employees. I.e., it does not contract outsourced workers. Days worked by contractor and subcontractor G4-EU17 Companies are contracted employees involved in construction, operation & to provide services through maintenance activities bidding processes. For this reason, there is no quantitative control of employees and work times. For contracted and subcontracted outsourced workers: during the contracting process a Work Safety Plan and training of Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees G4-EU18 personnel based on MTE that have undergone relevant health and safety Ordinance No. 3.214/78 is training required, and the Inspection area accompanies the execution of the Plan, which does not include indicators. CATEGORY: SOCIAL – SOCIETY LOCAL COMMUNITIES Chesf favors dialogue and the participation of stakeholders in its activities, but as a public service electricity Stakeholder participation in decision making processes G4-DMA EUSD SO Indicator does not apply utility and publicly to the decision-making related to energy planning and infrastructure (formerly EU19) traded, mixed-economy processes of the Company. development corporation (subsidiary of Eletrobras) the decisionmaking topics are the responsibility of their internal offices G4-DMA EUSD SO 72 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement (formerly EU20) Number of people physically or economically displaced G4-EU22 72 SDGs: 8 and compensation, broken down by type of project 100 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF General standard Page Comment/ Omissions Description disclosures DISASTER/EMERGENCY PLANNING AND RESPONSE Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency G4-DMA EUSD SO 87 SDGs: 9,13 management plan and training programs, and (formerly EU21) recovery/restoration plans CATEGORY: SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY It is not possible to accurately report the number of accidents (with or without deaths) involving the company’s assets, mainly because of the impossibility of Chesf communicating Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving to the general public that G4-EU25 company assets, including legal judgments, settlements any occurrence of this type should be communicated to and pending legal cases of diseases it, especially considering the large number of facilities and wide geographical spread of its operations. In any case, three deaths were reported in 2016. ACCESS Programs, including those in partnership with G4-DMA EUSD PR 74 government, to improve or maintain access to (formerly EU23) electricity and customer support services This indicator only applies to Distribution agents. Chesf Percentage of population unserved in licensed G4-EU26 only generates and transmits distribution or service areas electricity. This indicator only applies to Number of residential disconnections for non-payment, Distribution agents. Chesf G4-EU27 broken down by duration of disconnection and by only generates and transmits electricity. regulatory regime This indicator only applies to Distribution agents. Chesf G4-EU28 Power outage frequency only generates and transmits electricity. This indicator only applies to Distribution agents. Chesf G4-EU29 Average power outage duration only generates and transmits electricity. Average plant availability factor by energy source and G4-EU30 52 by regulatory regime PROVISION OF INFORMATION Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and G4-DMA EUSD PR Chesf does not manage disability related barriers to accessing and safely using (formerly EU24) this indicator yet. electricity and customer support services 101 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CORPORATE INFORMATION HEADQUARTERS Sobradinho Operations Regional Rua Delmiro Gouveia, 333 Management (GRB) San Martin Recife PE Av. Paulo Afonso, s/n CEP 50761-901 Vila São Francisco CEP 48905-000 REGIONAL OFFICES Phone: (74) 3612-2222 Special Coordinator Fax: (74) 3612-2351 of the Brasilia Office (CBR) Setor Bancário Norte Paulo Afonso Operations Regional Ed. Via Capital, Quadra 2 Management (GRP) Lote 12 – Bloco F – Sala 708 Rua Bela Vista, s/n Capuxu CEP 70041-906 Paulo Afonso BA Phone: (61) 3327-7089 CEP 48606-820 Fax: (61) 3328-5881 Phone: (75) 3282-2110 Fax: (75) 3282-2607 Regional Administration Paulo Afonso (APA) Southern Operations Regional Rua do Triunfo, 170 – Alves de Souza Management (GRS) CEP 48607-020 Av. San Rafael, s/n Phone: (75) 3282-2202 São Marcos Fax: (75) 3282-2276 Salvador BA CEP 41253-190 Regional administration Phone: (71) 3281-2200 Salvador (ASV) Fax: (71) 3281-2204 Av. São Rafael, s/n – São Marcos CEP 41253-190 Western Operations Regional Phone: (71) 3281-2100 Management (GRO) Fax: (71) 3281-2104 Avenida Henry Wall de Carvalho, 4282 – Parque São João Eastern Operations CEP 64020-720 Regional Management (GRL) Phone: (86) 3087-2715 Av. General San Martin 1450 Fax: (86) 3087-2624 Anexo 6, Bloco A – Sala 101 San Martin, Recife, PE Chesf Xingó (AL) CEP 50761-000 Rodovia AL 225, km 12 Phone: (81) 3334-4569 Piranhas Fax: (81) 3334-4548 CEP 57460-000 Phone: (82) 3686-2193 Northern Operations Regional Fax: (82) 3686-2185 Management (NRM) Avenida Presidente Costa e Silva, 4677 Prof. José Walter CEP 60750-022 Phone: (85) 3499-2833 Fax: (85) 3499-2370 102 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF CREDITS The publication of this report was only possible as a result of the effort and commitment of the employees of various areas, providing information and accompanying the development of the content to provide transparent accountability of the activities and performance of the Company. We are grateful to all who participated in this process. EDITING AND GENERAL COORDINATION Corporate Planning, Innovation and Sustainability Office (APP) Av. Delmiro Gouveia, 333 San Martin, Recife (PE) – Brazil CEP 50761-901 Email: sustentabilidade@chesf.gov.br Phone: (81) 3229-2229/3254 Fax: (81) 3229-2030 INDICATORS COMPILATION AND EDITORIAL PRODUCTION COORDINATION Keyassociados GRAPHIC DESIGN, LAYOUT AND INFOGRAPHICS Kite Estratégias Digitais PHOTOS Chesf Archives PRINT RUN 400 copies This report is available for download at www.chesf.gov.br 103 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF Angiquinho 104 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 105 ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • 2016 • CHESF 106
