UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participant Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : India Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period Covered : 2016-2017 (Financial Year AprilMarch) Contact Person : Sh. S.S. Yadav, ED (HR) Contact E-mail : ssyadav@kribhco.net Date : 07th November, 2017 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COP 2016-17 KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED (KRIBHCO) 1 KRISHAK BHARATI COOPERATIVE LIMITED (KRIBHCO) – AN OVERVIEW KRIBHCO, a Multi-State Cooperative Society has setup a Fertilizer Complex to manufacture Urea, Ammonia & Bio-fertilizers at Hazira in the State of Gujarat, on the bank of river Tapti, 15 Kms from Surat city on Surat – Hazira State Highway. Hazira Fertiliser Complex consists of 2 x 1350 MTPD Ammonia Plants and 4 x 1100 MTPD Urea Plants each with annual installed capacity of 8.91 Lakh MT Ammonia and 14.52 Lakh MT of Urea. In an endeavour to make constant improvements, KRIBHCO implemented various schemes to enhance its capacity and improve the energy consumption. Capacities of Ammonia & Urea plants were reassessed to 2x1520 MTPD Ammonia and 4x1310 MTPD Urea with annual installed capacity of 10.03 Lakh MT Ammonia and 17.29 Lakh MT of Urea. The Hazira Fertilizer Complex was subsequently revamped in 2013 to increase its capacity by 4.65 LMTPA Urea as well as to infuse new life. After the revamp, the rated capacity has been enhanced to 2x3325 MTPD Urea (21.95 LMTPA) and 2x1890 MTPD Ammonia (12.47 LMTPA). With this, the Hazira Fertilizer Complex has become the largest Single Location Urea Plant in India. Vision: To become a World Class Organization that represent the Farmer’s Community and maximizes their returns through specialization in Agricultural inputs, rural need-based products and other diversified businesses that maximize stakeholders value. Mission: To act as a Catalyst to Agricultural and Rural Development by selecting, financing and managing projects that are both socially desirable and commercially profitable. Objectives:  To strengthen cooperative system  To enhance the urea installed capacity and increasing its market share  To ensure optimum utilization of existing plant and machinery  To diversify into other core sectors like Power, Port, Infrastructure, Rural Retail, etc.  Transfer of technology for modern farming and improving farmers livelihood  To educate and train farmers, provide free testing facilities for soil nutrients and irrigation water KRIBHCO has made remarkable progress in the areas of production, productivity and all other parameters of performance and has made significant strides towards structured community initiatives in line with the overall CSR philosophy. KRIBHCO has an exemplary track record in the areas of Health, Safety and Environment and is consistently upgrading its performance on safety indices and delivering beyond statutory norms. Our community initiatives have contributed positively to the lives of people in the areas where we operate. 2 KRIBHCO strives to:  Be compliant with labour laws of the country we operate in. Uphold human rights aligned with national and international regulations as applicable;  Ensure that our employees including contract employees are fairly and reasonably paid and remuneration structure is compliant with statutory obligations of the jurisdiction we operate in. Our operations will be based on zero tolerance for any form of forced, compulsory or child labour directly or through contracted labour. We recognise and respect employee rights to associate freely and to collective bargaining. We promote fair working conditions as guided by international conventions wherever applicable;  Be an equal opportunity employer and all employees will be treated with respect and dignity and judged solely on their performance irrespective of their race, religion, caste, gender, age, disability, HIV/AIDS status, and any other characteristic;  Respect and preserve the culture and heritage of the local stakeholders including socially vulnerable groups which are impacted by our operations activities and work towards developing a constructive relationship with such groups and local communities, seeking broad-based support for our operations activities;  Respect the social, economic, cultural and human rights of communities stakeholders and will regularly communicate social performance in an accurate, transparent and timely manner;  Work with Government and Regulatory agencies to develop a common understanding and agreement to protect human rights in the event of any unforeseen situations. We will ensure protection of our people, equipment and assets. Our units have Grievance Redressal mechanisms that are accessible, accountable and fair, which let our stakeholders raise concerns without fear of recrimination. Human rights training to all the new joiners and Security personnel. KRIBHCO, being a member of Global Compact Network submits its brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO: 1. HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 : Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2 : Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ACTIVITIES CARRIED OUT FOR DEVELOPMENT OF EMPLOYEES An organization is nothing without human resources. Human Recourse Development is concern with the people dimension in development. Since organization is made up of people, acquiring their services, developing their skills, motivating them to high level of 3 performance and ensuring that they continue to maintain their commitment to the organization are essential to achieving organizational objectives. It is well aware that Training and Development are very vital in organization that aims at progressing inclusive of decision making, thinking creativity and managing workforce like; help in addressing employee weakness, improvement in workers performance, consistency in duty performance, ensuring work satisfaction, increasing productivity, improved quality of services and product, reduced cost etc. On continuous basis, KRIBHCO has made special efforts for development of employees through various HRD activities such as in house, external training programs, lectures etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental and functional training needs of employees and to achieve organizational growth to meet global challenges in the field of Production, Services, Safety, Profit and social growth. The following activities organized by KRIBHCO HRD Department:  Productivity Week Celebration: KRIBHCO had celebrated productivity week from 12th to 18th February-2017. At national level the theme of the productivity week is “From waste to profits through Reduce, Recycle, Reuse”. During this period various competitions like talk competition in Kendriya Vidyalaya and Sun flower school, Essay competition, poster slogan and write-up, Talk competition were organized for employees, their spouses and children. Emphasizing waste management in offices and prizes were distributed to the winners. Businesses are being forced to change the way they manage the waste. Faced with regulation public pressure landfill shortages and the need for increased resource efficiency, companies are moving away from the waste treatment approach and towards waste prevention. A number of waste prevention techniques are available and they are called 4 R’s: Reduction, Reuse, Recycling and Recovery. Reduction, Reuse and Recycling are known in the industry as the 3 R’s. Companies sometime focus only on the first three in resolving waste management problem. In more innovative companies 4 R’s. Solution often emerges as a result of industry benchmarking or technological breakthroughs. At Corporate Office, Noida also various activities were organized during Productivity Week. Training Program, Sharing of thoughts and Talk from an Outside expert was organized to improve awareness about Productivity.  In House Training Programme: Training is learning process and key of progress. As a part of training, KRIBHCO HRD Department has organized 31 Developmental Training Programme during 2016-2017. HRD Department has also organized Training programme on First Aid, Grow More, Design you Destiny, Winning the People, Building your work Culture etc. During the year 2016-17, 227 employees have taken benefit of these Developmental Training Programmes. In this period some Functional Training Programme was also organized like-Training on Siemen PLC, Refresher Training on Siemen Instrumentations and 110 employees have taken benefit of Functional Training Programme. 4 To encourage skill development of employees posted at Plant-Surat, employees have been nominated to attend external/outside training programme at various reputed institutes. HRD at Corporate Office has organized and conducted 17 in house training programs for the development of 504+ employees and 21 Outside Training Programs for the development of over 83+ employees. 24 female employees were sent to Southern India for training program. Program like Employees Financial Well Being, Retirement Planning, Change Management, Science of life-Key of Happiness etc. were also arranged. 5  Focus on Employees Health : On continuous basis KRIBHCO is putting special efforts for taking care of the health of its employees by organizing camps, talks and lectures on Stress Management, Awareness on Yoga, Building Emotional & Physical Health, Heart Problem, Nutrition/Diet-Healthy food & dietary habits, Pranic Healing etc. To reduce the stress of the employees in day to day life Yoga Day was celebrated on International Yoga Day at KRIBHCO with the help of Bhartiya Yog Sansthan. 6  Knowledge Impairing/Summer Training : Knowledge imparting/summer training in various disciplines is also being imparted through HRD Deptt. Corporate Office, to the students sponsored by various Educational/Management/Engineering Institutes.  Induction Training : Induction training programs are being organized time to time for the new joinees.  Plant Visit: It is well known that KRIBHCO Fertilizer complex is largest Urea Plant in Cooperative Sector, So several Cooperative Leaders, Cooperative Society Members, Cooperative Marketing personnel, staff of Farmers College, University level Student and Researchers visited Plant from all over India as well as abroad also.  Technical Library: HRD Department is operating a Technical Library and E-Library. KRIBHCO Technical Library is providing books on Technical, Engineering, Power, Chemical, Production of urea and other fields related to fertilizer industry. 1729 readers have taken benefit of library books. ELibrary is an online library providing various online articles.  Vocational Training: Vocational Training is important part of Industrial Education. KRIBHCO is also providing Vocational/Industrial Training facility to Undergraduates, Postgraduates and Research Students as a part of social responsibility. In addition to above, KRIBHCO imparted training to the local youths under Apprentice Act 1961 and on completion of their successful training; they may be absorbed as trainees for employment.  Visit of RGB Delegates from Madhya Pradesh to KRIBHCO Plant, Hazira, Surat: Two groups of RGB Delegates from MP visited KRIBHCO Plant during April 2017. The delegates were explained the KRIBCHO’s Production performance process of manufacturing of UREA and Bio-fertilizers and shown the manufacturing process of UREA, AMMONIA and Bio-Fertilizers, Bagging Operations, Logistic Arrangement including important fertilizers at Jetty Site. 7  Socio Religious Activity: Two temples & One Mosque exist in our premises, which help the township residents and the nearby villagers for their requirement of religious prayers. Bhandara is being arranged on the occasion of Durga Puja, Bharat Mandir Pattoutsav and SAI Mandir Pattoutsav at mandir situated at KRIBHCO premises, wherein large number of devotees take part in the festival and receive the blessings of God. The villagers from nearby villages are also invited and they participate in the Bhandaras. In order to encourage the National unity and diversity various Cultural programmes, such as Holi, Pongal, Navratri, Onam , Diwali, Makar Sakranti, Baisakhi/Lohri, Chath Puja, Durga Puja, Ayappa Puja, Ganeshotsav, Dusshhera etc, are being celebrated with great pomp & show and people from all walks of life participate actively.  Sai Mandir Patotsav 2017 : A large no. of Sai Devotes from nearby villages had darshan and blessing of Lord Sai Baba. On this occasion Puja-ArchanaAbhishek, Bhajan-Kirtan and Mahaprashad was distributed to the devotees.  Saraswati Pooja 2017: 33rd Saraswati pooja on the occasion of Vasant panchami (Worship Goddess Saraswati to attain enlightenment through knowledge and rid ourselves of lethargy, sluggishness and ignorance) was held at township-Surat, wherein large no. of township residents took part in the pooja and other rituals. 8  Mahashivratri Celebration at Bharat Mandir, KRIBHCO: Mahashivratri was celebrated at Bharat Mandir, KRIBHCO TownshipSurat, wherein various religious programmes like, Bhajan Kirtan Aarti & Prasad distribution was organized by Bharat Mandir Karyalaya Trust.  GANESH UTSAV Ganesh Utsav was celebrated in coordination with Ganesh Yuvak Mandal. Every day Arati of Lord Ganesh was performed and evening was celebrated by conducting variety entertainment programmes and competitions –including Blood Donation camp was held. Large number of township residents participated in daily pooja of Lord Ganesha. On completion of 9 days pooja, a procession with large number of township residents participated for immersion of Ganesh idol.  HOLI & DHULETI CELEBRATION Holika Dahan at open air ground on 12th March 2017 and Dhuleti (exchange of holi greetings) were held at KRIBHCO township with great pomp and show and employees and their family members actively participated.  VISHWAKARMA POOJA To acknowledge that Lord Vishwakarma alone is the creator of all universe and the things within and to offer worship and thankfulness to him on the Vishwakama Day. It was he who created heaven in the Satya Yuga, Sone ki Lanka in the Treta Yuga, the city of Dwarka, the capital of Lord Krishna in the Dwapara Yuga and many other architectural marvels into existence out of thin air and he formed the chariots and various weapons of Gods and gave each its unique divine attributes and revealed the science of industry to us. Lord Vishwakarma is described as the ultimate reality and whose name in Sanskrit 9 means “All Accomplishing“ and is believed to be “Principal Universal Architect“ who gave form to the celestial architecture of all that is in universe with his own hands. As a mark of reverence, he is worshipped as the patron of all the engineers, architects, artisans, craftsmen, weavers, mechanics, smiths, welders, industrial workers and factory workers. On the Day Vishwakarma Pooja, the entire unit-management, employees and workers come together to perform the pooja. Even the tools, particular to each person’s profession, are worshipped in the name of Lord Vishwakarma, but are not put to use until the next day. In KRIBHCO-Plant at Surat, Vishwakarma Pooja was organised wherein senior executives and large number of employees participated in Vishwakarma Pooja and offerings (Prasad) was distributed among everyone.  NAVRATRI CELEBRATION The most popular religious festival of Gujarat “Navratri” was celebrated for ten days in township with great devotion and enthusiasm in coordination with Navratri Mandal with support of the management. The open air ground was decorated with colourful lighting and theme based artistic idol of Goddess Amba was installed and daily puja of nine incarnations of MAA DURGA was carried out and all township residents, with no age bar, participated in Garba program, performed with traditional songs till late night in traditional and colourful dresses.  Ravan Dahan (Dussehra) Ravan Dahan (Dussehra) was also celebrated and a large gathering of township residents and nearby villagers at KRIBHCO township enjoyed fireworks display on the occasion.  CELEBRATION OF MAY DAY (INTERNATIONAL LABOUR DAY) AND GUJARAT FOUNDATION DAY-2017: International Labour Day is being celebrated on a large scale by organizing Labour Day function and cultural programmes to remember the sacrifice and struggle faced by Labour force and to protect them from exploitation by recognizing the importance of their rights which forms an integral part of any establishment. 10 May Day (International Labour Day) as well as Gujarat Establishment Day-2017 was celebrated in KRIBHCO Township at Plant-Surat on 1st May 2017.  REPUBLIC DAY CELEBRATION: The 68th Republic Day was celebrated at KRIBHCO Township with full enthusiasm and national fervour. Chief Guest inspected the Guard of Honour and unfurled the national flag. On this occasion he addressed the township residents and congratulated the team for achieving highest urea production. 31 employees of the plant were presented with exemplary “Performance Awards” to recognise their contribution for sustained plant operation and enhancement in productivity. Moreover, 19 persons including employees and dependent wards were presented sports & games awards for their outstanding performance in various games at District, State & National level. 11 The Republic Day was also celebrated at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA with full enthusiasm and national fervour. Employees in Officer and workmen cadre were awarded for their outstanding performance.  HINDI WEEK During Hindi Week celebration various competitions like; drawing, talk competition, programs were organised at KRIBHCO-Plant-Surat. Hindi Pakhwara was also celebrated at KRIBHCO-Corporate Office, Noida, wherein activities like Essay writing Competition, Hindi Dictation, Hindi Grammar knowledge, Hindi Quiz and Hindi noting and drafting were conducted.  GANDHI JAYANTI Gandhi Jayanti was celebrated in township on 2nd October by organizing a Khadi Mela exhibition cum Sale to promote the message of Gandhiji. 12  VIKRAM SAMVAT (Hindu New Year) Vikram Samvat 2073 (Hindu New Year) was celebrated on 31.10.2016 at Community Hall, KRIBHCO – Plant, Surat. KRIBHCO Management has recognized long association of employees who have completed 30 years’ service and a function was held at Plant Surat and Corporate Office, Noida to honor such employees with Long Service Award.  CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES & RURAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM  Distribution of study materials & school uniform was organized to Kawas Primary School students of Kawas Village, Surat as a part of CSR.  Distribution of Study Materials to Primary School Student of Icchhapore Village was also done as a part of CSR.  Kribhco Karmachari Sahkari Dhiran & Purvata Society Limited, the employee’s credit society has collected warm cloths & blankets from township residents and distributed to poor and needy villages in the tribal district of Dang area. The item was carried to Dang by members of the KKSD & PSL and distributed to the villagers under Rural Development program.  As a part of Corporate Social Responsibility, KRIBHCO has carried out rural development activities in nearby villages such as providing educational aid (Study 13 materials) to primary school students of Kawas and Icchhapore village to encourage parents to send their wards to school and also to promote Girl Child Education under the scheme of “Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao”. Besides, the above school uniforms were also distributed to the students of Primary School, Kawas to the tune of Rs. 3.61 lacs.  An amount of Rs.2,50,000/sponsored for construction of class rooms at Sunrise School for mentally retarded children.  Sponsored Traffic aids (10 Tablets) to the Traffic Education Trust, Surat  Participated in Kala Varso 2016 organized by Hiranyam Sansthan, Surat for promotion and development of traditional arts, handicrafts & performing arts.  Sponsored CCTV Camera Project of Surat Police Commissioner for Surat City to the tune of Rs.5,00,000/ COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES: CSR activity 2016-17: To encourage and promote traditional handicraft and handloom sector and its rural artisans, Hiranyam Vikas Sansthan an NGO based organization in Surat has organized Five Day Charity event –KALAVARSO 2016 for promotion and development of traditional arts and performing arts. Competitions, workshops, seminar, talk shows are being held as a part of national integration and harmony providing guidance to achieve their dreams, interactions with best persons in their filed, opportunity to learn from best mentors awareness and sensitization towards arts, handicrafts and performing arts. In this event KRIBHCO has extended financial assistance of Rs.50,000/-(Rupees Fifty thousand only) under CSR activity 2016-17. Participation in Medical Health Check-up for Tribal & Backward area: KRIBHCO has provided financial assistance of Rs.1.00 Lacs for Medical Health Check-up Camp organized by South Gujarat Samast Chaudhari Samaj Charitable Trust Federation, Taluka Mandvi, Dist Surat. In this camp 565 poor patients from backward class were examined and diagnosed for various health problems and free medicines were distributed. 157 patients were registered in OPD for eye check up and spectacles were distributed to 111 patients after eye examination and cataract operation was also done for 19 patients free of cost. KRIBHCO Mahila Jagruti Club is conducting regular medical check up camps for the labours and their families in nearby labour colony. An amount of Rs.50,000/(Rupees Fifty Thousand only) was spent towards the cost of medicines which was distributed to the poor patients during the medical check up camps. 14 The society continually extends supports to the program that sensitize environment protection and enrichment by way of organizing various campaigns like tree plantation, distribution of saplings and flower buds free of cost, adoption of new technology to reduce minimum pollution level and supporting National Campaign like Celebration of Yoga Day. KRIBHCO also participated in Agricultural fairs/exhibitions and other social cause regarding cleanliness like Swatch Bharat Abhiyan in order to enhance the awareness of the general public to preserve the green environment. Under Swatch Bharat Abhiyan, Toilet blocks were constructed at Labour Colony for the convenience of Labours. Furthermore, the discharged water is retreated and reused for Horticulture purposes thereby reducing the pollution. ‘Science, Maths & Environmental Exhibition’ was organized at Sunflower School, KRIBHCO Township. Total 28 schools with 160 students and 46 teachers were participated from Choryasi Taluka of Surat District. 65 projects on various subjects were placed for exhibition. During the exhibition nearby school students visited the exhibition.  CASHLESS TOWNSHIP CAMPAIGN: As part of the Hon’ble PM’s initiative regarding promoting Cashless Country, KRIBHCO has taken initiative to promote our township at Plant-Surat as cashless township and has under taken various activities for the promotion of cashless campaign in consultation with District Industries Safety and Health department and District Collectorate Surat. To educate the township residents and the shop keepers in our township, the team of 30 students of ITI, Majuragate, Surat along with KRIBHCO team have organized cashless drive by door to door campaign in KRIBHCO township. Through this door to door campaign the team has trained shop keepers, School management, Hospital, Medical store, Cooperative Credit Society (Shopping complex) and residents regarding use of mobile application and explained the importance of cashless drive. The following activities have been carried out at KRIBHCO Township at Plant-Surat for Promotion of Cashless Transaction Drive:  A general circular on Cashless Township is being issued to all employees for 100% use of e-Transitions compulsorily.  Banners and stickers have been displayed at various locations in our township for creating awareness of Cashless Drive.  The team has visited the shop keepers of KRIBHCO Township and explained various options for receiving payment through various gateways like PAYTM, BHIM, SBI BUDDY, FREECHARGE, POS etc.  The team has persuaded shop keepers to Generate and Display QR Code at prominent places for easy access to customers.  The team has visited around 930 Houses, Schools, Hospitals, Guest Houses, Shopping Complex and around 31 shops in the township to make awareness about cashless transactions during cashless campaign. The required data’s are collected from the township residents and also explained the cashless mode of transactions available with the shopkeepers and how the e-wallets gateways are user friendly.  3 POS machines are already in use by Shopkeepers. 15  More than 75 consumers have already installed BHIM application and 85 consumers have installed other E-wallets.  A meeting of township residents was arranged for creating awareness for cashless/less cash township and received positive response from them.  We have taken initiative to buy fruits & vegetables for township residence through online booking. To facilitate the township residence management has provided necessary infrastructure facilities in our premises inviting APMC officials for booking and delivery of fruits & vegetables. And this system is working satisfactorily.  Daily MIS report on cashless campaign was sent.  WIFI Zone has been created at Shopping Complex for convenience of shop keepers and customers.  An advertisement campaign by distributing pamphlets regarding availability of various online payments mode and POS machines at township.  It has also been decided to organize a large gathering of township residents to educate them for use of E-wallet.  Necessary instruction for making Cashless Township is being issued to employees through internal communication.  Advertisement promoting use of E-wallet is being displayed on TV Screen at reception area of administration building of KRIBHCO-Plant, Surat. Besides the above, all the requirement of medicines for employees and their families are sold through Apollo Pharmacy and the cost of all such medicine are reimbursed to Apollo Pharmacy by KRIBHCO through Online transactions. We also provide medicines and hospital services to other than employees who are residing in township and the cost has been deducted through online transaction. Letter received from Dr. Rajiv Kumar Gupta-IAS (Principal Secretary & Managing DirectorGNFC) that our Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Modi has Launched 81 cashless/less cash townships in India and 56 of these townships are from Gujarat). This has been a proud moment for all of us that in a very short span we were able to achieve a difficult target to make cashless/less cash township. Introduction of Meal Card at KKSD&PS Ltd for KRIBHCO employees has been done as part of digitalization initiative.  Public Outreach Program: Agriculture income is the main strength of farmers. A large number of them are members of our member cooperatives; KRIBHCO with its large dedicated team of agriculture professionals continued its significant contribution along with other serious players in latest farm technology transfer and other rural welfare schemes for improving the profitability of farming community. Cooperative Conference in AP 16 KRIBHCO started transferring improved farm technology under the head Benefit to farmers programmes since 1984, two years ahead of Hazira urea plant came into production, indicating a real concern for farmers, their cooperative societies and environment where they resides, i.e., rural areas. In the past 31 years, KRIBHCO has actively reached more than 1.32 crore farmers benefiting them directly by raising their farm income through 89 thousand tailor-made programmes. Seed Growers Conference in UP This makes on an average one programme/day/state. This is the magnitude of our transfer of technology programmes. KRIBHCO has evolved a strong promotional strategy involving about 300 agriculture graduates and post-graduates to uplift farming community through its Farm Advisory Services. KRIBHCO has been organizing technology transfer programmes in more than 16 states through highly trained field force whose skills are updated regularly. Crop Seminar in Rajasthan Over a period of time, it was observed that farmers are hesitant to adopt new farm technology unless their whole system is likely to be benefited economically and socially. Farmers are also deeply attached to their fields, livestock and cooperative societies since these are their lifelines. Cooperative Society Adoption in MP 17 They are also equally concerned about their family welfare including health and children education as well as improvement in rural areas where they spend most of their life time. KRIBHCO carefully considering the above observations adopted the Farming Model which has 5 components, viz., farmers, his fields, livestock, family and cooperative society, all located in rural environment of his village. Since KRIBHCO is a cooperative Identity governed by seven Principles of cooperation. Exhibition in Digidhan Mela in AP During 2016-17, KRIBHCO organized 4799 programmes for our farming community such as Farmers Meetings, Crop Shows, Field Demonstrations, Field Days, Cooperative Conferences, Group Discussions, Soil Testing Campaign, Seed Grower Conference etc. benefiting 6.63 lakh farmers and cooperatives across the country. Human Health Campaign in West Bengal To back up the Agriculture Technology transfer, the Society also made available 13.15 lakh technical folders on KRIBHCO products for the farmers and cooperatives. Sawachh Bharat Abhiyan in Uttrakhand 18 Strengthening cooperatives and rural development always remained a top priority for KRIBHCO. In this direction, 106 Cooperative Societies were adopted, 15,364 cooperative managers were trained through 148 Cooperative Conferences and workshops. Soil Sample campaign in Haryana The society also organized 15 Income Generation Programmes and 20 Health Campaigns for livestock and humans, promoted 8 Water facilities including microirrigation systems for crops in rain fed areas and 13 Rural Sports programmes for integrated rural development. Storage-cum-community centre scheme started on Golden Jubilee celebration of India occasion is still continuing with 192 centers sanctioned and 179 are completed and being used fully. Income Generation Programme in Haryana KRIBHCO Krishi Pramarsh Kendra, a high-tech centre at KRIBHCO Bhawan, NOIDA continued free consultancy to farm-related problems. The centre also propagated efficient and balanced use of fertilizer by testing 7409 soil samples collected scientifically free of cost (4574 for micro-nutrients and 2835 samples for macro-nutrients & irrigation water) from 15 states. Results along with recommendations were forwarded through electronic medium to farmers at their door-steps, apart from using KRIBHCO website for display of results. Drinking water facility in Maharashtra 19 Pramarsh Kendra also provided latest information on weather, like rainfall, temperature, relative humidity, monsoon movement etc. for use in planning farm operations and midterm corrections in the event of crop failure generally through KRIBHCO Kisan Helpline. All States Director of Agriculture were informed about educational programmes conducted and soil samples tested from their states along with district-wise deficiency noticed in various soil samples. Animal Health Campaign in Bihar KRIBHCO also joined hands with ICAR, State Agriculture Universities and State Cooperative Federations for free soil testing and technology transfer which was thankfully acknowledged and appreciated at all platforms. As a step towards modernization, KRIBHCO continued to promote Information Communication Technology (ICT) through KRIBHCO Kisan helpline using e-mail, phone, computer and KRIBHCO website for informing farmers about latest farm technology alongside with traditional tools. Information on monthly farm operations is also made available on website. Farmers Meeting in Odisha  ACHIEVEMENTS & AWARDS :  Public Relations Society of India, Kolkata has organised 38th All India PRSI Conference at ITC Sonar on 16-18 December, 2016 in which KRIBHCO bagged 1st prize for KRIBHCO In-house Journal “ KRIBHCO NEWS ” Volume No. 55. Shri R.P.S. 20 Pundir, Sr. SMM received Trophy from Shri Swami Vedatitananda, Correspondent of Ramakrishna Mission, Belur Math. Dr. Chandan Mitra, Editor & Managing Director of the Pioneer & MP (Rajya Sabha) and Shri Soumyajit Mahapatra, Chairman, Organising Committee, PRSI, Kolkata are also present.  KRIBHCO BAGS SPECIAL AWARD ON BIO-FERTILISERS Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited ( KRIBHCO) , the world’s premier fertilizer producing cooperative, has won Special Award on Biofertilisers 2016 for standing First for the third consecutive year ( 2015-16) in the field of high quality Production, Promotion & Marketing of biofertilisers. The award was received by Sh. R.K. Aggarwal, Operations Director and Sh. V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO from Shri Ananth Kumar, Hon’ble Union Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers, Chief Guest at the inaugural function of FAI Annual Seminar in New Delhi in the presence of Sh. Mansukh L. Mandaviya, State Minister for Chemicals & Fertilizers, Sh Rakesh Kapur, Chairman, Sh.Kapil Mehan, Co-Chairman, FAI and Sh. Satish Chander, Director General, FAI. KRIBHCO has been Producing and Marketing Urea to the tune of 42.58 Lakh MT from its Hazira Plant, KSFL Plant & OMIFCO (Oman) Plant. KRIBHCO has also been Producer and Marketer of quality Bio-fertilisers and Certified Seeds. The other traded products in its Product Basket are Hybrid seeds including BT Cotton, Compost, SSP, DAP, Zinc Sulphate and Water Soluble Fertilizers.. In order to create awareness and enhance knowledge of farmers about the latest agriculture practices, KRIBHCO has been organising promotional activities like Field Demonstrations, Crop Seminars, Kisan Melas, besides distributing literature on Biofertilisers/liquid bio-fertilisers , Compost, Neem Coated Urea, WSF, Zinc Sulphate. KRIBHCO has also been educating farmers through Video Films screening on latest Agriculture Knowhow , Krishi Paramarsh Kendra and Free Soil Testing & Seed Testing Services. The special Award for high quality production, promotion and marketing of Bio-Fertilisers for standing First consecutively for last 3years being received by Shri R.K.Aggarwal, Operations Director and Shri V.S.Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO from Hon’ble Union 21 Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers, GOI, Shri Ananth Kumar in the presence of Hon’ble State Minister of Chemicals & Fertilizers, GOI, Shri Mansukh L. Mandaviya.  Sh. V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO felicitated with most influential MARKETING LEADERS Award Dr.Sanjay Muthal,,ED,RGF Management Search, conferring on Sh. Virendra Singh Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO,the most influential MARKETING LEADERS Listing citation by World Marketing Congress at Mumbai on November 24, 2016 Sh. V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO has been felicitated and conferred with the most influential Marketing Leaders Award citation by World Marketing Congress in a function held at Hotel Taj Lands End in Mumbai on 24th November, 2016. It is significant to mention that Mr. Sirohi, who is Post Graduate from IIM, Ahmedabad, has contributed tremendously in the Agriculture field through Marketing of Agri inputs in various capacities. Prior to joining KRIBHCO, he was associated with GNFC. He has been actively associated with Lions Club of India, National HRD Forum and Executive’s Club. He is also a visiting faculty of FAI and several Management institutions. He is also current Chairman of FAI, Eastern Region Committee. Mr. Sirohi has been spearheading Pan India Marketing network of KRIBHCO, which is a leading Multi-State Cooperative Organisation, having a well diversified basket of agriculture inputs ranging from Chemical fertilizers, BioFertilisers to Seeds. He has done a commendable job in the Marketing discipline.  Navbharat CSR Leadership Summit & Award Programme at Mumbai on 23.06.2017 Navbharat Times organised a Navbharat CSR Leadership Summit & Award Programme at Mumbai on 23.06.2017. Hon’ble C. Vidyasagar Rao, Governor of Maharashtra Innograted Programme. On this occasion KRIBHCO got a Best Performance Award in Best Practices for Performing Agriculture 2016. 22 Shri. R P S Pundir Sr. State Marketing Manager KRIBHCO Mumbai, receiving the award. Mrs. Rajashree Birla (Chairperson Aditya Birla Centre for Community Initiatives & Rural Development), Shri. Neeraj Bajaj (CMS Mukund Ltd., Director of Bajaj Group), Shri. Y M Devaysthali (Ex CMD, L & T Finance, Holding Company) & Dr. Usha Kakare also seen in the Picture.  KRIBHCO Felicitated for “Swachhata Hi Seva” and awarded for Innovative Traditions Krishak Bharati Cooperative Limited (KRIBHCO), the world’s premier fertilizer producing cooperative, has been felicitated for ‘Swachhta Hi Sewa’ and awarded for Innovative Traditions at a function in Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi on 2nd October’2017, being Gandhi Jayanti. The award was received by Sh. N.Sambasiva Rao, Managing Director and Sh. V.S. Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO from Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Hon’ble Union Minister of State (Independent Charge), Housing & Urban Affairs, Govt of India. KRIBHCO has been a high accomplisher in marketing of City Compost made from Urban Waste and contributing in the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission”. KRIBHCO initiated co-marketing of City Compost made from urban waste since December, 2009. In order to popularize Compost, KRIBHCO is constantly educating farmers for its application in addition to chemical fertilizers. On the occasion of “Swachh Bharat Diwas” and the 3rd Anniversary of Swachh Bharat Mission, the Ministry of Drinking Water & Sanitation, Govt. of India, organized a programme, which was inaugurated by Shri Narendra Modi, Hon’ble Prime Minister of India at Vigyan Bhawan, New Delhi, on 2nd October“The Gandhi Jayanti”, who was Chief Guest of the function. Sushri Uma Bharati, Minister of Drinking Water & Sanitation; Shri Hardeep Singh Puri, Minister of State (Independent Charge), Housing & Urban Affairs; Shri S.S. Ahluwalia, Minister of State, Drinking Water & Sanitation and Shri Ramesh Chandappa Jigajinagi, Minister of State, Drinking Water & Sanitation were present during the function. A-2 : Sh N.Sambasiva Rao,Managing Director & Sh V.S.Sirohi, Marketing Director, KRIBHCO receiving Innovative Traditions Award & felicitated for “Swachhata hi Seva” from Sh Hardeep Singh Puri, MOS, Housing & Urban Affairs in the presence of Sh Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Housing & Urban Affairs, GOI. 23  ANNUAL SPORTS & GAMES: Annual Sports & Games of various Indoor & Outdoor games, such as Badminton, Carrom, Chess, Table Tennis, Night Tennis Cricket Tournament, Volleyball (Direct) Tournament and Walkathon for Ladies and Girls were organized at KRIBHCO-Plant, Surat as well as at Corporate Office, Noida and Employees, dependent wards , Ladies & Girls participated in the event.  Run For Tapi, 2017: River tapi is an integral part of Surat city. It was and is the lifeline of residents of Surat but with time the river has been affected not only due to industrial development but also human advancement. People across have neglected the holy river since a long time. Government authorities and the citizens of Surat have realised the importance of Tapi river and started working towards preserving the natural resources. In this direction to create awareness and beginning of small endeavour to save the Tapi river, the residents of Surat along with the Surat future foundation has organised the RUN FOR TAPI marathon. In this marathon many KRIBHCO employees and their families actively participated in different Event categories like 3 KM, 10 KM and 21.1 KM, RUN FOR TAPI 2017. 24 KRIBHCO Staff Club Activities: To provide training to ladies of KRIBHCO Township, Kribhco staff club has started short duration sewing classes. 25 township ladies are enrolled for the classes and benefited form this course. KRIBHCO STAFF CLUB has organized Cycle Race for its members and their families at Bharat Mandir Road, KRIBHCO Township. At about 50 competitors including females and children were participated in various category, On Makar Sankranti day, A “PATANG UTSAV” was organized by KRIBHCO STAFF CLUB for all township residents at KRIBHCO Sports Complex, Surat. The Patang Utsav was continued for the whole day and concluded with garba, dance and cracker show. 2. LABOUR Principle 3 : Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation.  Registered Unions & Associations : We recognize the employees’ right to form associations and to participate in management. In accordance with this principle, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and the same have been recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. The 25 decisions related to the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing since the setting up of the Plant and not a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial unrest.  Compliance to Labour Laws : KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground of gender, place of birth, caste or community.  Women are provided a healthy and safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect of their working, development and growth.  Protection of Women at Workplace at Plant As per the notification published by the Central Government on “The Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013”, an Internal Complaint Committee has been constituted to comply with the provisions of the Act. During the last one year the committee is functioning effectively and no complaint in this regard has been received so far. KRIBHCO ensures that a safe environment is being extended to all female employees. 3. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 : Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.  Environmental Protection Care for environment has always been of paramount importance for KRIBHCO. The society emphasizes to recruit the professionally qualified environmental engineers to take care of the environmental aspect. The society also recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive environmental protection plan based on principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources. In line with our HSE policy, we are committed to the responsible stewardship of natural resources. We recognize that, our business involves critical activities which have the potential to cause significant environmental impact. Therefore, we are evaluating that risk, taking mitigation measures through proper planning, and managing such impacts on an ongoing basis at all stages of our activities -from exploration to development, operation. We are committed to reduce our footprint on environment by judicious use of natural resources like water and energy and exploring alternate use of various wastes. 26 As part of our continuous efforts towards reducing our footprint to environment, every year we set goals for efficient use of water and energy, we strive to meet the goal by creating necessary technological interventions. We also acknowledge the need to care for the ecosystems and biodiversity in area where we operate. 46th NATIONAL SAFETY DAY KRIBHCO has celebrated 46th National safety day on 4th March 2017, the theme for National safety day was “LEADERSHIP IN SAFETY AND HEALTH ENHANCES BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY”. For the safety Day celebration, below mentioned different activities were conducted to spread the safety awareness among the employees and township residents,  Safety Slogan competition was organized in Hindi, English & Gujarati language for employees.  Safety Poster competition for employees.  Safety Quizfor employees and school children’s of Sunflower & Kendriya Vidhyalay-II  Essay writing competition was organized for employees in Hindi, English & Gujarati language.  Competition for Fire Hydrant drill for Employees & Contract workers.  Competition for BA Set Donning (Wearing).  Oath taking ceremony of Safety Pledge Safety Awareness Week: Safety awareness week is being organized at Plant level every year wherein employees were given information regarding safety norms in the Plant premises. Various competitions are being held like essay, paintings, slogans wherein wards of township residents also took part enthusiastically. Mock Drill: To create alertness amongst the employees and nearby villages, periodical mock drill is being conducted in collaboration with Factory Inspectorate, Municipal Corporation, Police Commissionerate nearby Industries so as to assess the preparedness in the event of any major industrial accidents. Meritorious Students Award: Annually awards are distributed on 15th August and 26th January to the wards of employees who have come in merit in 10th and 12th Board examination. To motivate creative, hardworking and sincere employees, Appreciation award is given to acknowledge their vital contribution to the Society. 27 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 : Business should work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. Vigilance Awareness: KRIBHCO considers Vigilance as an integral part of the Management Function. Main stress of the management is on transparency in the Organization and accountability in the day to day functioning/working of the Society. There is a full fledged Vigilance set up being headed by a Chief Vigilance Officer. KRIBHCO management has been emphasizing on the efficacy of preventive vigilance to improve systems and procedures in a way so as to reduce scope of discretion and eliminate corruption. Efforts are on towards sensitization of employees through “Group Discussion and power point presentations” on Vigilance Activities carried out in the organisation. Surprise and regular inspections are carried out by VOs on a regular basis. On the basis of findings of VOs during the inspections, remedial action is taken by the Management whenever adverse findings come to the notice. All officers are required to submit Annul Property Returns of their moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department. Vigilance Awareness Week was celebrated in all the units of KRIBHCO viz. Plant, HO and Field Marketing Offices during 31st October to 5th November, 2016. The theme of this year’s Vigilance Week was “Public participation in promoting Integrity and eradicating Corruption”. Vigilance Awareness Week Celebration was one step towards sensitizing the employees of the organisation to bring more transparency in the working of individual and shouldering the responsibility that each and every employee of the organisation should work as a Vigilance Officer. Besides the above, efforts are also made to sensitize the public/customers/ employees about the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. During Vigilance Awareness Week celebrations, in addition to the Pledge Ceremonies, Group Discussions, Cooperative Conferences, Workshops, Essay writing, Quiz competitions on Moral Values involving employees were organized by the Society to highlight the evil consequences of corruption and ways to prevent it. 28 Individuals indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organisation leads to wastages, losses and economic decline. There is a need to control or restrict such persons’ mis-endeavours and promote organizational interest. Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplication and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision making at all levels is constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (openness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned), and competition amongst vendors, in the interest of the organization. It is the endeavor of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of “Organizational Citizenship” among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. In cases where irregularities are detected ‘Zero Tolerance’ concept is adopted and Punitive Vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the society. Action Plan against Corruption: For achieving the vision of the society, a strategic action plan has been implemented. A. Awareness: Seminars, Workshops, Lectures and Debates, power point presentation on Vigilance; Distribution of in-house pamphlets, articles on Vigilance Awareness; Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. B. Preventive Vigilance: Simplication of Rules and procedures; Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption; Sensitizing employees through Group Discussion’s power point presentation, Dos & Don’ts at various offices about evil consequences of corruption; Increasing Transparency and accountability in day to day working Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints; Regular and surprise Inspections; Ensuring high standard of integrity amongst the employees; Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C. Punitive Vigilance: Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries; Steps to maintain positive discipline. ******** 29
