Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Responsibility 2 98 Report 2016 Table of Contents Foreword 3 Media, Services and Education 54 About this Report 4 Press Freedom 56 Content Responsibility 59 Company Profile 5 Customer Privacy 62 Corporate Management 11 Further Topics 64 Corporate Governance 12 Environment 66 Company Principles 15 Energy and Emissions 69 Risk Management 16 Paper 73 Compliance 17 Other Environmental Data 75 Protection of Human Rights 17 Anti-corruption and Integrity 18 Society 76 Fair Competition 20 Donations, Sponsorship and Projects 77 CR Management 21 Help through Media and Services 81 Promoting Media Literacy 82 Organization 22 Refugee Aid 83 Stakeholder Dialogue 25 CR Topics 28 Additional Information 84 CR Risks 30 List of Relevant CR Topics 85 Employees 32 GRI Content Index 87 Production Credits and Contact 98 Fair Working Conditions 36 Learning 40 Diversity 43 Health 50 ← ← Corporate Responsibility 3 98 Report 2016 Foreword Bertelsmann is always focused on the future. With With approximately 116,000 employees worldwide, our four strategic priorities, we’re steadily becoming Bertelsmann develops new ideas, products and a faster-growing, more digital, more international services every day. Our employees are the most and more diversified company. The high standards important factor for our success in quality, innoof our entrepreneurial activities continue to be vation and growth. Creating a motivational framepioneering. To achieve sustained success in this work governed by partnership, trust and respect spirit, we focus on the intersection of value creation corresponds to our corporate culture and is a key and the expectations of our employees, customers to our company’s future viability. With our sense of and other stakeholders. This also determines the purpose, “To Empower. To Create. To Inspire.” in focus of our corporate responsibility work, about mind, we strive to make a positive contribution to which we provide information here. society every day. The best way for us to do this is to harmonize our commercial goals with social and environmental interests. This report documents our approach and what we’ve already achieved. P.S. As a long-standing participant in the UN Global Thomas Rabe Immanuel Hermreck Compact, Bertelsmann fulfills its commitment to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chief Human Resources Officer of submit an annual Communication on Progress by Bertelsmann Bertelsmann publishing this report. ← ← GRI 102-14 Corporate Responsibility 4 98 Report 2016 About this Report Since 2011, Bertelsmann’s corporate responsi(UNGC) participant, to produce an annual Commureduction in the reported emissions from electricity Foreword bility reporting has followed the guidelines of the nication on Progress. The Group’s corporate responand district heating sourcing. Beginning with this About this Report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the world’s leadsibility reporting is supplemented with sustainability year, Bertelsmann reports the energy-related emising standard for sustainability reporting by internainformation and news on the Bertelsmann corporate sions (Scope 3) separately; emissions figures from Company Profile tional companies and organizations. This CR report website. the previous year were recalculated accordingly. Corporate Management provides information on the basic principles, focus CR Management topics and measures in sustainability management Scope of the Report and Data Collection at Bertelsmann and its companies during the 2016 All fully consolidated subsidiaries were included in Employees financial year. In individually identified cases, the this CR report. You can find a list of these compaMedia, Services and Education description of management approaches and connies on the ↗Bertelsmann corporate website. Devicepts extends to the editorial deadline on July 31, ations from the scope of this report are indicated in Environment 2017. The report’s contents were selected based the text. Society on a relevance analysis of corporate responsibility topics at Bertelsmann. The 2016 report was the first In calculating the staff numbers, changes in definiAdditional Information compiled according to the GRI Standards (2016). tion led to adjustments regarding “headcount” and This sustainability report has been prepared in “number of full-time employees.” In the presenaccordance with the “Core” reporting option of tation of environmental data, the previous year’s the GRI Standards. Bertelsmann’s latest online GRI figures were adjusted to reflect the inclusion of report (“GRI Content Index 2015”), a CR magazine, additional companies in the data collection, and and the Bertelsmann Carbon Footprint were pubbased on new findings from the latest collection of lished in October 2016. Bertelsmann’s GRI reporting data. Changes in the methodology of calculating GRI Content Index also fulfills its obligation, as a UN Global Compact greenhouse gas emissions also led to a significant ← ← GRI 102-45, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-54 Corporate Responsibility 5 98 Report 2016 Company Profile Foreword As a media, services and education company, Bertelsmann stands for About this Report entrepreneurship and creativity. With eight divisions, the Group operates in about 50 countries around the world. €17.0 billion Company Profile Corporate Structure Business Performance Business Model and Value Creation Group revenues Corporate Management €1.14 billion CR Management Employees Media, Services and Education Group profit Environment Society Additional Information 8 Corporate divisions GRI Content Index ← ← Corporate Responsibility 6 98 Report 2016 Company Profile Bertelsmann is a media, services and education comForeword pany that operates in about 50 countries around the About this Report world. It includes the broadcaster RTL Group, the trade book publisher Penguin Random House, the magCompany Profile azine publisher Gruner + Jahr, the music company Corporate Structure BMG, the service provider Arvato, the Bertelsmann Business Performance Printing Group, the Bertelsmann Education Group Business Model and Value Creation and Bertelsmann Investments, an international netCorporate Management work of funds. The company has 116,000 employees and generated revenues of €17.0 billion in the 2016 CR Management financial year. Bertelsmann stands for creativity and Employees entrepreneurship. This combination promotes firstclass media content and innovative service solutions Media, Services and Education that inspire customers around the world. Environment Society Corporate Structure Additional Information Bertelsmann owns 75.1 percent of shares in RTL Group, and is the majority shareholder in www.bertelsmann.com Penguin Random House with a 53 percent stake. Gruner + Jahr, BMG, Arvato, the Bertelsmann GRI Content Index Printing Group and Bertelsmann Investments are You can find an overview of all Bertelsmann’s major subsidiaries and shareholdings on the wholly owned by Bertelsmann. ↗Bertelsmann corporate website. ← ← GRI 102-2, 102-4, 102-7, 102-45 Corporate Responsibility Company Profile 7 98 Report 2016 Business Performance Foreword Revenues by Division in € millions About this Report 2016 2015 (adjusted) Company Profile Germany International Total Germany International Total Corporate Structure RTL Group 2,205 4,032 6,237 2,151 3,878 6,029 Business Performance Penguin Random House 266 3,095 3,361 281 3,436 3,717 Business Model and Value Creation Gruner + Jahr 959 621 1,580 910 701 1,611 BMG 31 385 416 37 334 371 Corporate Management Arvato 1,630 2,208 3,838 1,578 2,205 3,783 CR Management Bertelsmann Printing Group 908 716 1,624 974 770 1,744 Bertelsmann Education Group – 142 142 – 110 110 Employees Bertelsmann Investments – – – 1 – 1 Total divisional revenues 5,999 11,199 17,198 5,932 11,434 17,366 Media, Services and Education Corporate/Consolidation -141 -107 -248 -115 -110 -225 Environment Continuing operations 5,858 11,092 16,950 5,817 11,324 17,141 Society Additional Information Bertelsmann’s geographic core markets are Bertelsmann strives to become a faster growbarriers, and scalability. The education business is Western Europe – especially Germany, France ing, more digital and more international company gradually being built up as a third mainstay of earnand the United Kingdom – and the United States. with a more diversified portfolio. The businesses ings alongside media and services. GRI Content Index Bertelsmann is also strengthening its commitBertelsmann invests in are expected to demonment in growth regions such as China, India and strate long-term stable growth, global reach, stable The Group strategy comprises four strategic priori← ← Brazil. and defensible business models, high market-entry ties: strengthening the core, digital transformation, GRI 102-4, 102-6, 102-7; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Economic Performance; 201-1 Corporate Responsibility Company Profile 8 98 Report 2016 Foreword Consolidated Revenues by Region in percent Revenues by Category in percent About this Report 6.7 (PY: 6.9) 34.6 (PY: 33.9) 34.0 (PY: 25.7) 13.0 (PY: 12.5) Company Profile Other countries Germany Services Rights and licenses Corporate Structure Business Performance 27.1 (PY: 37.1) 20.8 (PY: 21.6) USA Business Model and Value Creation Own products and merchandise Corporate Management 13.2 (PY: 13.2) France CR Management 18.3 (PY: 17.7) 6.4 (PY: 6.7) 25.9 (PY: 24.7) Other European countries UK Advertising Employees Media, Services and Education Environment expansion of growth platforms and expansion in Group strengthened its range of services by acquirSociety growth regions. The following acquisitions in 2016 ing Advanced Practice Strategies (APS), a provider Additional Information were key to putting the strategy into action: Medienof e-learning products for clinical assessments and gruppe RTL Deutschland’s acquisition of Smartclip performance improvement for U.S. hospitals. (March 2016) expanded its opportunities in the field of digital ad sales. The takeover of the digital media GRI Content Index company Groupe Cerise by Gruner + Jahr’s French subsidiary Prisma Media (May 2016) opened new ← ← approaches in video. The Bertelsmann Education GRI 102-7, 102-10; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Economic Performance; M1 Corporate Responsibility Company Profile 9 98 Report 2016 Business Model and Value Creation Bertelsmann’s origins are in the media industry. by the diversity of the content they produce and manufacturers. The most important raw material Foreword Today the company is active in three lines of busidistribute, good networks of creative talent and used in the CD, DVD and Blu-ray replication busiAbout this Report ness: media, services and education. Digitalizacontent producers are a key success factor. ness is polycarbonate. tion plays a central role in the strategic direction Company Profile of the company as a driver of new trends, through Services: A wide variety of industries rely on Education: With its digital education and range of Corporate Structure innovations in production technology, changes Bertelsmann’s portfolio of solutions, including services focusing on the health and technology secBusiness Performance in media consumption and the way people learn. telecommunication providers, energy suppliers, tors, Bertelsmann creates the work-related learning Business Model and Value Creation Bertelsmann has a widely ramified supply chain banks, insurance companies, e-commerce, IT and of the 21st century. Educational activities include the Corporate Management with only a few main suppliers, including paper Internet providers. At the core of this segment are e-learning providers Relias Learning and Udacity, and energy suppliers. Most of the services it purservices Bertelsmann delivers to the end customers as well as participation in the online education serCR Management chases are creative or other services rendered by of its clients (“B2B2C services”). Typical supvice provider HotChalk and in Alliant International Employees humans. port services include CRM solutions, marketing, University. Like our service businesses, the busiIT logistics and financial services. These services ness models in the education segment are based Media, Services and Education Media: Bertelsmann’s media businesses are based combine a variety of resources: staff resources, on the combined deployment of highly qualified Environment on the production or acquisition of high-quality technology, and the use of natural capital in the employees and technology. information and entertainment content – the basis form of energy and materials. While hardware and Society to create books, TV channels, magazines, music standard software are sourced from third-party Example: TV Broadcasting Additional Information products and online services. With the exception suppliers, software solutions for specialized appliRTL Group is a leader across broadcast, content and of books and music, these products contain advercations are mostly developed in-house. In its print digital, with interests in 60 television channels and tising as well as editorial content – an important operations, Bertelsmann processes materials like 31 radio stations, content production throughout source of financing beyond the revenues from paper and ink to produce media and advertising the world, and rapidly growing digital video busiGRI Content Index sales and distribution. All these products are disproducts for business customers – typically books, nesses. The production, aggregation, distribution tributed physically or digitally, directly or through catalogs, magazines and brochures – using offset, and monetization of professionally produced video ← ← service providers. Because media businesses live gravure and digital printing presses by third-party content is the core business of RTL Group. The goal GRI 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9, 102-15 Corporate Responsibility Company Profile 10 98 Report 2016 + others Content Procurement International/Local Studios and Production is to offer content wherever the audience wants to (Own and Third-party Productions) Foreword watch it – on various platforms and devices. With Content About this Report subsidiaries in 31 countries, the worldwide network of Fremantle Media produces around 12,000 hours Company Profile + others of broadcast programming and sells more than Corporate Structure 20,000 hours of content worldwide every year. In Aggregation Business Performance addition, RTL Group’s families of channels produce Business Model and Value Creation or commission local content. The channels develop Corporate Management and structure their program lineup with a wide variAdvertising TV Channels and ety of genre formats, including news, entertainReach Reach Revenues Video on Demand Platform Revenues CR Management ment shows, fictional series, reality TV formats and Satellite Employees live sports broadcasts, to shape their channel brand Cable Digital Distribution and identities. Their main source of income is the sale Monetization Media, Services and Education of advertising airtime, complemented by revenues Advertisers/Media Agencies Distribution Platforms Environment from distribution platforms. Commercials for Products Technical Access and Services to Content Society Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 102-2, 102-6, 102-7, 102-9 Corporate Responsibility 11 98 Report 2016 Corporate Management Foreword In line with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance About this Report Code, Bertelsmann stands for responsible corporate governance. Shared Company Profile values and principles guide the Group’s business conduct. Corporate Management Corporate Governance 80.9% Company Principles Risk Management Compliance CR Management capital shares held by Employees foundations Media, Services and Education Environment 1 of 6 female executive Society board members Additional Information GRI Content Index 6 nationalities on the ← ← Supervisory Board Corporate Responsibility 12 98 Report 2016 Corporate Management In addition to all applicable legal regulations, Legal Form and Statutory Bodies management, and conducting corporate planning Foreword Bertelsmann’s corporate management is based on Bertelsmann’s legal form is that of a partnership and financing. The Executive Board provides the About this Report the recommendations of the German Corporate limited by shares (KGaA). The statutory bodies of respective Supervisory Boards with regular, prompt Governance Code, which sets internationally and Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA are the General Meetand comprehensive reports on all matters relevant Company Profile nationally recognized standards of good and responing, the Supervisory Board and Bertelsmann ­Manageto business development and strategy implementaCorporate Management sible corporate governance. ment SE as a general partner. Bertelsmann SE & tion, planning, financial and earnings position, the Corporate Governance Co. KGaA and Bertelsmann Management SE each have risk situation, and risk management. This ensures Company Principles Corporate Governance their own Supervisory Boards. The duties and responcompliance with the provisions of law and corpoRisk Management sibilities of the individual bodies are clearly defined in rate guidelines within the Group. Compliance The German Corporate Governance Code sets out each case and are strictly separated from each other. key statutory requirements concerning the manageSimultaneous membership on the Executive Board of The members of the Executive Board bear joint CR Management ment and monitoring of German listed companies Bertelsmann Management SE on the one hand, and responsibility for overall management. Matters of Employees and contains relevant standards for good and on the Supervisory Board of Bertelsmann Managefundamental significance and matters concerning responsible corporate management. Its recommenment SE or the Supervisory Board of Bertelsmann SE & the spheres of responsibility of a number of ExecuMedia, Services and Education dations and suggestions, in addition to the applicaCo. KGaA on the other, is not permissible. tive Board members are addressed by the overEnvironment ble provisions of law, form the basis for corporate all Executive Board. Notwithstanding this overall governance at Bertelsmann. Bertelsmann SE & Responsibilities and Committees responsibility, the individual members of the ExecuSociety Co. KGaA is a capital-market-oriented company but The general partner, Bertelsmann Management SE, tive Board manage their departments as part of the Additional Information is unlisted. It is not, therefore, subject to the statrepresented by its Executive Board, is responsible for duties stipulated by the overall Executive Board. utory requirement to issue a formal declaration of independently managing the company. The duties compliance as per section 161 of the German Stock consist of determining the corporate objectives, setIn addition, the Executive Board has established GRI Content Index Corporation Act. ting the strategic direction of the Group, developing the Group Management Committee (GMC), which ← ← GRI 102-1, 102-5, 102-12, 102-18, 102-20, 102-23 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 13 98 Report 2016 Foreword advises the board on important corporate strategy Shareholder Structure and development matters and other issues that About this Report affect the Group. The GMC, which had 16 members in 2016, is comprised of all members of the Executive Board Company Profile ­Executive Board, as well as executives who repreCorporate Management sent key businesses, countries, regions, or importBertelsmann Management SE Corporate Governance ant Group-wide functions. (General partner) Company Principles Risk Management In the 2016 financial year, women composed one19.1% The Mohn Family Compliance sixth (17 percent, previous year: 20 percent) of Capital the Executive Board (one person) and 31 percent CR Management (previous year: 31 percent) of the GMC. The averBertelsmann 100% Verwaltungsage age of the Executive Board was 50 (previous Management Employees Control of gesellschaft year: 49), and the average age of the GMC was voting rights (BVG) Media, Services and Education 53 (previous year: 52). The Executive Board memFoundations Environment bers have worked for the Group for an average (Bertelsmann Stiftung, 80.9% of 17 years (previous year: 20 years) and served on Reinhard Mohn Stiftung, Capital Society BVG Stiftung) the Executive Board for an average of four years Additional Information (previous year: four years). One member of the Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA Executive Board was non-German (17 percent, previous year: 20 percent), and 31 percent (previous GRI Content Index year: 31 percent) of the GMC was non-German. ← ← GRI 102-5, 102-18, 102-20; 405-1 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 14 98 Report 2016 Tasks and Decision-making Processes and Finance Committee and a Working Group of Foreword The Supervisory Board of Bertelsmann SE & Employee and Management Representatives. The About this Report Co. KGaA supervises the management of the busiAudit and Finance Committee of the Supervisory ness by the Bertelsmann Management SE and uses Board of Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA addresses, Company Profile its extensive information and control rights for this among other things, the accounting process and the Corporate Management purpose. In addition, the Supervisory Boards advise effectiveness of the risk monitoring and risk manCorporate Governance the Executive Board on strategic matters and signifagement system, the internal control system, and Company Principles icant transactions. The Executive Board and Superthe internal auditing system. It also addresses matRisk Management visory Board work in close, trusting cooperation ters of compliance, in particular the effectiveness Compliance and are therefore able to reconcile the demands of and proper functioning of the compliance organizaeffective corporate governance with the need for tion and related topics of integrity within the Group. CR Management rapid decision making. Fundamental matters of the Employees corporate strategy and its implementation are disIn the 2016 financial year, women composed cussed openly and voted on in joint sessions. The 20 percent (previous year: 19 percent) of the SuperMedia, Services and Education shareholders of Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA and visory Board. The average age of the Supervisory Environment Bertelsmann Management SE exercise their rights Board was 58 (previous year: 58), and 67 percent and vote at the respective General Meetings. (previous year: 69 percent) of the Supervisory Board Society members were German; 33 percent (previous year: Additional Information The Supervisory Board of Bertelsmann Manage31 percent) were non-German. ment SE has formed an HR Committee and a Program Committee, and the Supervisory Board of GRI Content Index Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA has formed an Audit ← ← GRI 102-18, 102-20, 102-22 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 15 98 Report 2016 Company Principles As stated in the corporate constitution, among The Group also defined the Bertelsmann Sense The company principles are Foreword the prerequisites for a corporate culture in which of Purpose in 2016. Expressed in the triad, available for download: About this Report employees, management and shareholders work “To Empower. To Create. To Inspire.” it is the result together successfully, respectfully and in a spirit of an intensive, worldwide process involving ↗Bertelsmann Essentials Company Profile ↗Bertelsmann Code of Conduct of trust, are common goals and shared values – employees, executives and shareholders, and Corporate Management which are summed up in the Bertelsmann Essenprovides orientation for the company’s staff and Bertelsmann supports the tials: partnership, entrepreneurship, creativity and partners. Corporate Governance UN Global Compact: Company Principles corporate citizenship. To ensure that they reflect Risk Management the changes in our company, its businesses and ↗The 10 Principles of the UNGC Compliance their environments, the Bertelsmann Essentials are subject to constant critical review and develop­ CR Management ment. Employees The Bertelsmann Code of Conduct, a binding Media, Services and Education guideline for law-abiding and ethically responsible Environment conduct in the company, defines standards for responsible conduct toward business partners and Society the public, as well for interpersonal conduct within Additional Information the company. Everyone in the company – including the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board – is obliged to adhere to the principles stipulated in it. GRI Content Index →Compliance, p. 17 ← ← GRI 102-16 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 16 98 Report 2016 Risk Management As a global corporation, Bertelsmann is exposed to risk inventory that lists the significant risks of the bribery – no significant net risks were reported as Foreword a large number of risks, including legal and regulabusiness operations, from profit center level upward. part of the 2016 reporting. For a review of CR risks, About this Report tory risks. The company has set up a risk manageThe assessment of a given risk is the product of see →CR Risks, p. 30. ment system (RMS) for the early identification, its estimated negative impact on the Group’s free Company Profile evaluation of, and handling of internal and extercash flow should the risk occur, and the estimated Corporate Management nal risks. Its aim is to identify material risks to the probability of its occurrence. The time horizon for Corporate Governance Group in good time, so that countermeasures can the assessment of risks is both one year and three Company Principles be taken and the risk can be monitored. Risks are years. The risks are compared against risk manageRisk Management defined as possible future developments or events ment and monitoring measures to determine the Compliance that could lead to a negative economic forecast “net risk.” The RMS, along with its component, the or target deviation for Bertelsmann. In addition, internal control system, is constantly undergoing CR Management risks can negatively affect the achievement of development and is integrated into ongoing reportEmployees the Group’s strategic, operational, reporting and ing to the Bertelsmann Executive Board and Supercompliance-related objectives, and its reputation. visory Board. To ensure compliance with statutory Media, Services and Education and internal requirements, Corporate and Divisional Environment The risk management process is based on the interRisk Management Committee meetings are connationally accepted frameworks of the Committee vened at regular intervals. Society of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Additional Information Commission (COSO), and is structured into the For the non-financial aspects defined in the German sub-processes of identification, assessment, re“CSR¹ Directive Implementation Act” – environsponse, control, communication and monitoring. mental, employee and social concerns, respect for GRI Content Index The key element of risk identification is an annual human rights, and the fight against corruption and ← ← 1) Corporate Social Responsibility. GRI 102-11, 102-12, 102-15; 407-1; 408-1; 409-1 Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 17 98 Report 2016 Compliance To avoid violations of laws and regulations, direcBertelsmann employees, business partners and Bertelsmann sets binding human rights standards Foreword tives, and company guidelines, the Bertelsmann third parties always have the opportunity to ask in the company as well as in the global supply chain, About this Report Executive Board created a compliance orgaquestions, discuss concerns about possible miswhich must be adhered to by all stakeholders. nization. It appointed a Corporate Compliance conduct in confidence and securely, or make Key corporate guidelines that address the issue of Company Profile Committee (CCC) and established an Integrity & suggestions for improving compliance processes. human rights and codify these standards are: Corporate Management Compliance program. The Integrity & Compliance Contact points include the Integrity & Compliance Corporate Governance department is subordinated to the CCC and department, an online whistleblowing system >> The Bertelsmann Code of Conduct is the guideCompany Principles advises and supports it. The head of the Integrity & ↗www.reportconcerns.com, and external ombudsline for legal and ethical conduct. It is binding for Risk Management Compliance department reports to the head of persons appointed by Bertelsmann. All reports subevery employee worldwide, within the company Compliance the Corporate Legal Department and Chair of the mitted are being investigated to ensure adequate and toward business partners and the general CCC. The latter, in turn, reports to the Chairman response to compliance violations. public. Everyone in the company – employees, CR Management and CEO of Bertelsmann, who is responsible for the Executive Board and Supervisory Board – Employees matters of compliance on the Executive Board. Protection of Human Rights is obliged to adhere to the principles stipulated This organization reflects the relevant standards Bertelsmann has declared the protection of human in it. The Code of Conduct is not only a guide Media, Services and Education for compliance management systems that conrights within the company and in the supply chain to to appropriate decision making, but also proEnvironment tribute toward mitigating risks in various ways. be a priority. Bertelsmann is committed to the prinvides information about the options for seeking Its basic elements include the Bertelsmann Code ciples of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights advice in the company, and for confidentially Society of Conduct, the Bertelsmann Supplier Code of and the United Nations Global Compact, the United and securely expressing concerns about possiAdditional Information Conduct, the compliance guidelines, risk analNations Guiding Principles on Business and Human ble misconduct. ysis, consultation, communication and training Rights, and the International Labor Organization (ILO) >> The Bertelsmann Supplier Code of Conduct measures, whistleblowing systems, and case core labor standards. Ensuring fair working conditions obligates business partners that work for, with or GRI Content Index management. is an integral part of Bertelsmann’s corporate culture. on behalf of Bertelsmann to observe minimum ← ← GRI 102-11, 102-12, 102-16, 102-17, 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Anti-corruption; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Anti-competitive Behavior; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Freedom of Association; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Child Labor; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Forced or Compulsory Labor Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 18 98 Report 2016 compliance and ethics standards that corresafeguarding of fair working conditions →Fair modern slavery, coercive and child labor, exploitaForeword spond to the Bertelsmann Code of Conduct. Working Conditions, p. 36. tion, and discrimination, and present measures to About this Report Bertelsmann also requires its business partners prevent these human rights violations. to pass these minimum requirements along their The Code of Conduct and the Supplier Code of Company Profile own value chain to any third parties they may Conduct reaffirm the right to freedom of assoThe Code of Conduct and the Supplier Code of ConCorporate Management use (subcontractors, etc.) to fulfill their contract ciation and the right to engage in collective duct contain a clear prohibition of discrimination Corporate Governance with Bertelsmann. In the event of breaches of the bargaining, in accordance with applicable laws and intimidation. In addition to the aforementioned Company Principles Supplier Code of Conduct, Bertelsmann reserves and regulations, for employees of Bertelsmann reporting channels, AGG contact persons have Risk Management the right to make appropriate responses correcompanies as well as those of business partners. been appointed at all German locations. Employees Compliance sponding to the severity of the breach, which At Bertelsmann violations of this principle may can contact them in the event of suspected may include contract termination. be reported via the aforementioned whistleblowbreaches of Germany’s General Equal Treatment CR Management >> The Executive Board Guideline on Anti-­ ing channels, both by employees and by third Act (AGG). Employees are informed about their rights Employees corruption and Integrity mandates an approparties. under the AGG by means of brochures, posters and priate due diligence process when selecting information provided on the company intranet. In Media, Services and Education business partners, and the incorporation of the Bertelsmann does not tolerate child and forced an international context, the topic of antidiscrimiEnvironment Bertelsmann Supplier Code of Conduct into all labor, and expects its business partners to share nation was addressed in a Group-wide e-learning contracts with third parties. It also requires an this position. The Code of Conduct and the Supplier designed to build employee awareness of the issue Society appropriate monitoring of third parties for the Code of Conduct contain accordingly explicit proand advise them of their rights. Additional Information term of the contract. hibitions. In addition, individual Bertelsmann Group companies as well as Bertelsmann itself have Anti-corruption and Integrity In the following, several specific human rights issued statements in accordance with the UK Corruption and bribery hinder the development GRI Content Index issues are discussed, mainly in connection with Modern Slavery Act that condemn all forms of of the economy, deter investors and contribute to ← ← GRI 102-16, 102-17, 102-41; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Anti-corruption; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Non-discrimination; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Freedom of Association; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Child Labor; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Forced or Compulsory Labor Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 19 98 Report 2016 the persistence of poverty in many countries. For signatory since 2008 →Commitments, p. 24, is for suspected violations and seeking advice, as Foreword this reason, many countries have tightened their decisive action against corruption. By reporting in well as other prevention and control measures. About this Report anti-corruption laws in recent years. In the event of accordance with GRI, Bertelsmann also fulfills its The Bertelsmann Supplier Code of Conduct requires infringement, executives and employees, as well as obligation to state, in an annual Communication on Bertelsmann business partners that work for, with Company Profile the company itself, may face considerable conseProgress, what anti-corruption measures were taken or on behalf of the company to comply with the Corporate Management quences under criminal and civil law, such as impris→About this Report, p. 4. same strict anti-corruption rules. The Executive Corporate Governance onment, fines, confiscation of profits, exclusion Board Guideline for dealing with alleged comCompany Principles from tendering procedures and the revocation of Both the Bertelsmann Code of Conduct and the pliance violations anchors an obligation to report Risk Management permits. Business customers are also increasingly Bertelsmann guidelines expressly prohibit all forms suspected violations of the prohibition against corCompliance demanding evidence of effective anti-corruption of corruption and bribery. This prohibition also ruption to the Bertelsmann Corporate Center. compliance measures as a prerequisite for coopapplies to all third parties that work for, with or on CR Management eration. Responsible management must therefore behalf of Bertelsmann, as stipulated in the Supplier The topic of corruption prevention is globally manEmployees also include measures to prevent corruption. Code of Conduct. aged and further developed by the Integrity & Compliance department. Media, Services and Education Bertelsmann complies with all applicable national The Executive Board Guideline on Anti-corruption Environment and international anti-corruption regulations. Briband Integrity specifies detailed principles and rules Major anti-corruption results in 2016 included: ery and corruption, as well as conduct that could of conduct for complying with applicable regulaSociety harm the company’s assets or those of business tions. Along with instructions for dealing with offi>> Advising executives and employees on the subAdditional Information partners or third parties, is strictly prohibited. cials, and guidelines for the granting or accepting of ject of anti-corruption gifts in the context of business relations, it prescribes >> Anti-corruption e-learning tutorial for executives One of the 10 principles of the United Nations Global appropriate due diligence processes in dealing with and employees who fulfill the nomination criteGRI Content Index Compact, which Bertelsmann has supported as a third parties. It also describes the reporting channels ria for anti-corruption training ← ← GRI 102-11, 102-16, 102-17; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Anti-corruption Corporate Responsibility Corporate Management 20 98 Report 2016 >> Entry into force of the Bertelsmann Supplier Fair Competition “We comply with applicable antiForeword Code of Conduct, which includes a strict prohiBertelsmann is committed to the principle of fair About this Report bition of corruption for business partners, and competition and condemns antitrust violations and trust and competition laws and advises the Group’s companies on how to inteanti-competitive behavior. The company takes action consult expert company counsel on Company Profile grate this in contracts against any contravention. An extensive training antitrust and competition issues.” Corporate Management >> Consultation and coordination regarding the program (face-to-face training, online training for revision of Bertelsmann’s Guideline on Antirefresher courses) is designed to prevent antitrust Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Corporate Governance Company Principles corruption and Integrity violations. Risk Management >> Development of a concept for a new e-learning Compliance tutorial on anti-corruption – based on an analysis of the relevant legal developments in anti-corCR Management ruption legislation for all the countries in which Employees Bertelsmann operates >> Processing reports of suspected violations reMedia, Services and Education lated to anti-corruption Environment >> Reporting of measures taken as well as case indicators to the Executive Board and SuperviSociety sory Board in the Compliance Report Additional Information A quantitative survey of and reporting on e-learning training measures on the topic of anti-corruption is GRI Content Index planned for the 2017 fiscal year. ← ← GRI 102-17; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Anti-corruption; 205-2; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Anti-competitive Behavior Corporate Responsibility 21 98 Report 2016 CR Management Foreword Transparent responsibilities, thematic focuses and cross-divisional About this Report Company Profile networks are the defining hallmarks of Bertelsmann’s Corporate Responsibility Management. 2011 Corporate Management first CR report CR Management according to GRI Organization Stakeholder Dialogue CR Topics CR Risks 2008 7 Employees joined the Media, Services and Education UN Global Compact Environment CR focus topics Society Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 102-20 Corporate Responsibility 22 98 Report 2016 CR Management Responsible conduct – in business, toward em2015, in which international and cross-divisional Finance, Legal, Integrity & Compliance, CommuniForeword ployees, in society and in dealing with the environworkgroups analyzed the requirements and implecations and employee representatives. CR&DM also About this Report ment – is firmly anchored in Bertelsmann’s corporate mentation of relevant CR topics, was further focused handles the Group’s CR reporting, its stakeholder culture. The Bertelsmann Essentials codify citizenand continued in 2016. dialogue on relevant CR topics, in-house networkCompany Profile ship as a core value for all the company’s employees, ing and consulting projects, and environmental Corporate Management executives and shareholders. In its corporate responOrganization and climate protection-related matters across the sibility management, Bertelsmann pursues the goal divisions. In the field of Diversity Management, CR Management of reconciling its commercial interests with social The Bertelsmann CR Council, chaired by the Chief the department works to ensure diversity-friendly Organization and environmental concerns within the Group and Human Resources Officer, regularly brings together framework conditions, and acts as a change agent Stakeholder Dialogue beyond. senior officers from the various corporate divisions. and support resource for the Group’s divisions in CR Topics Together, they work to advance the strategic develpromoting employee diversity →Diversity, p. 43. CR Risks Strategic Development opment of CR at Bertelsmann, and make sure the Employees Bertelsmann is constantly working on the straperspective of the businesses is considered. In In the spirit of the decentralized company structure tegic evolution of its sustainability management. some cases, cross-divisional working groups and that has evolved at Bertelsmann over the decades, Media, Services and Education It focuses on transparency regarding relevant CR networks develop or prepare specific objectives the principle of delegating responsibility applies Environment topics, Group-wide CR objectives in alignment with and measures on certain CR topics. for CR implementation across the Group: Because the corporate strategy, exchange with relevant Bertelsmann’s local Managing Directors know their Society stakeholders, and ways to coordinate and collaboAt the Group level, the Corporate Responsibility & businesses and the social and ecological environAdditional Information rate across the Group’s divisions. In 2016, the spotDiversity Management (CR&DM) department, a ment they operate in best, more specific CR mealight was on further developing CR management central staff function of the Chief HR Officer, coorsures and projects are also locally implemented. approaches and performance indicators and on dinates and supports the work of the CR Council. Bertelsmann’s corporate divisions and companies GRI Content Index defining reporting processes for key CR topics. The It does so in close cooperation with other Group have their own structures and processes in place Advancing CR at Bertelsmann project, launched in functions such as Reporting, Risk Management, for this, in accordance with local requirements. ← ← GRI 102-15, 102-20 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 23 98 Report 2016 Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility Organization Foreword Group Executive Board About this Report CEO Company Profile CHRO CFO Divisional CEOs Corporate Management Group Management Committee Preparation of Decisions CR Management Executive Board and Decisions Senior Executive Advisory Body Organization CR Council Stakeholder Dialogue Lead: CHRO CR Topics Divisional and Board Staff Representative Advisory Board Information Information CR Risks Employees Report Recommendations Communication of Decisions Media, Services and Education Board Staff: Corporate Responsibility & Diversity Management Environment Development of Strategies and Measures Society Collaboration and Consultation Collaboration and Implementation Additional Information Corporate Functions e.g., HR, Legal, Finance, Reporting, Divisions/Businesses GRI Content Index Communications, Employee Representations ← ← GRI 102-20 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 24 98 Report 2016 Commitments An overview of all memberships and collaborations Foreword Bertelsmann has supported the 10 principles of the is available online on the ↗Bertelsmann corporate About this Report United Nations Global Compact as an active parwebsite. ticipant since 2008. The company is committed to Company Profile the objective of working with employees, customCorporate Management ers and suppliers at its international sites to promote ongoing and sustained progress in the areas CR Management of labor standards, human rights, environmental Organization protection and anti-corruption measures. An annual Stakeholder Dialogue Communication on Progress reports on the meaCR Topics sures achieved and planned in these action areas. CR Risks Since 2011, Bertelsmann has based its Corporate Employees Responsibility reporting on the currently valid international guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Media, Services and Education Initiative (GRI). Environment In addition to numerous strategic partnerships and Society collaborations at the Group, divisional and company Additional Information level, Bertelsmann has been a member of econsense, the German business sector’s forum for sustainable development, since 2015. Bertelsmann is GRI Content Index also active at the Group and divisional level in the international Responsible Media Forum network. ← ← GRI 102-12, 102-13 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 25 98 Report 2016 Stakeholder Dialogue Foreword Through its business operations and other activiStakeholders at a Glance ties, Bertelsmann is in active and direct contact with About this Report people inside and outside the company: employees NGOs Company Profile and their representatives, customers, suppliers, Competitors Media journalists, investors, political decision makers, and Corporate Management Science Shareholders representatives of governmental and non-governCR Management mental organizations (NGOs) and associations. Policymakers and regulatory authorities Employees Organization Bertelsmann prioritizes dialogue with stakeholders International organizations CR ratings and certification agencies Stakeholder Dialogue who have a strong influence on the company’s CR Topics business, social or environmental performance, Business partners Media users and customers CR Risks Culture and the arts and regulatory framework that governs its activities. The Group also seeks exchange with stakeholders Capital market Employees Applicants significantly affected by its economic, social or Society Media, Services and Education ecological performance. Environment Interaction with External Stakeholders Society In its day-to-day business, Bertelsmann is in regular the accompanying communications to the pubfinancing strategy, transparency toward the capital Additional Information contact with journalists, investors and customers lication of half-year figures (conference call) and market is of great importance for the company’s through its press offices, investor relations experts quarterly figures (press releases on Q1 and Q3 financial security and independence. Here, regular and service centers. Beyond daily press interacresults) represent proven formats for contact with interaction with investors and analysts is an importGRI Content Index tion and the many events Bertelsmann organizes, media, journalists and investors. Because capital ant contribution. Organizing a systematic dialogue the Annual Press Conference on year-end results, market financing is a major element in the Group’s on selected corporate responsibility topics with ← ← GRI 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 26 98 Report 2016 Foreword external stakeholders is an integral part of the strato the Group’s various business models in the “We maintain proper and tegic development of CR at Bertelsmann in 2017. media, services and education sector. Their activAbout this Report ities include presenting the international media legally irreproachable Dialogue with Policymakers Company Profile The creative industry is an engine for economic group’s new digital businesses and a wide variety of cultural activities to Bertelsmann’s core markets. relations with all government Corporate Management growth and jobs. To be able to continue investing regulators and agencies.” in high-quality creative and professional content, Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA has been entered in CR Management Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Bertelsmann’s political lobbying efforts include the Transparency Register of the European Union, Organization championing strong copyright protection and a and signed its Code of Conduct. Stakeholder Dialogue convergent media order in the digital age. CR Topics Bertelsmann does not donate to political parties CR Risks Bertelsmann’s public affairs managers offer political →Donations, Sponsorship and Projects, p. 77. Employees decision makers access to the company’s expert dialogue partners, communicate the latest positions Internal Dialogue Media, Services and Education and facts, and provide helpful information. Positions In fostering the Group’s internal stakeholder diaEnvironment are developed by in-house working groups, through logue on corporate responsibility, the company idenassociation and other organizational memberships, tifies relevant stakeholder groups. For example, for Society as well as internal and external experts. participation in analyses to determine Group-wide Additional Information CR focus topics based on the criteria of balance Functioning as a discussion forum, think tank, and diversity, representatives from top managedatabase and committee of experts, Bertelsmann’s ment, administrative departments and the operative GRI Content Index liaison offices in Berlin and Brussels, and the divibusinesses are as systematically involved as sharesional public affairs officers, introduce policymakers holders and employee representatives, working to ← ← GRI 102-43; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Public Policy Corporate Responsibility CR Management 27 98 Report 2016 ensure diversity with regard to management, interFormats for Stakeholder Dialogue Foreword nationality, age and gender. These representatives, in (a selection) About this Report turn, interact directly with their businesses’ external Information stakeholders. Company Profile > Group reporting, press relations > Response to requests from customers, Corporate Management Since 2008, Bertelsmann has sought to attract public authorities and ratings agencies up-and-coming talent, especially among students CR Management Dialogue around the world, through career events such as its > Talks with employees and in teams Organization “Talent Meets Bertelsmann.” > Customer service Stakeholder Dialogue > Association work CR Topics > Conferences, panel discussions and Information on the various dialogue formats the CR Risks workshops with science and academia, company regularly carries out to promote exchange policymakers and competitors, etc. Employees with employees and their representatives can be found under →Employees, p. 32. Surveys Media, Services and Education > Bertelsmann Employee Survey > Customer surveys Environment > Strategic stakeholder surveys Society Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 102-43 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 28 98 Report 2016 CR Topics Foreword Bertelsmann strives to ensure sustainable and Matrix of CR Issues responsible conduct where its value creation High About this Report encounters stakeholder expectations: in the company’s business operations, the quality of its media Company Profile and services, toward employees, in society, and Corporate Management toward the environment. Protection of Media CR Management Press Freedom Users and Customers Eco-efficiency/environment What social and environmental topics are particuand diversity were identiOrganization fied as relevant Bertelsmann larly relevant to Bertelsmann and its divisions? In Stakeholder Relevance1 CR topics, mainly due Stakeholder Dialogue a 2014 analysis, more than 130 participating execEducation Fair Working Conditions to increasing reporting CR Topics utives and employee representatives from around Diversity requirements in this conCR Risks Health nection. Other topics such as the world rated 12 issues with more than 30 subEco-Efficiency/Environment Employee Participation anti-corruption, antitrust law, Employees topics on a four-point scale. Two evaluative dimenSupply Chain Responsibility Work-Life Balance foreign trade, business partsions were surveyed: first, the business relevance ner compliance, and intellecMedia, Services and Education Donations and Aid Projects Sustainable Business Models of each topic, based on a qualitative estimation tual property protection were regarding the categories of risk potential, financial not part of this assessment Environment of social and environmental impact, efficiency and optimization potential, differSociety issues. entiation and growth potential, and future orientaAdditional Information tion; and second, stakeholder relevance regarding Relevant Bertelsmann employees, end users and business customers, as CR topics Further Bertelsmann well as – depending on the division – other relevant CR topics GRI Content Index stakeholders. Overall, seven topics were identified Low High as particularly relevant: Business Relevance 1) Internal analysis ← ← GRI 102-15, 102-44, 102-46, 102-49 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 29 98 Report 2016 >> Education – with a focus on learning and external stakeholders, is planned for 2017 Foreword corporate training, social education initiatives, →Stakeholder Dialogue, p. 25. About this Report and the promotion of media literacy >> Press freedom – with a focus on creative, jourCorporate Responsibility, or CR-related issues, Company Profile nalistic and editorial independence, from an including non-financial performance indicators, are Corporate Management internal and external perspective not part of Bertelsmann’s value-oriented manage>> Fair working conditions – with a focus on partment system in a broader sense. Due to limited CR Management nership, job security, fair distribution of benefits measurability, among other things, no directly quanOrganization and treatment of external employees tifiable statements can be made regarding relevant Stakeholder Dialogue >> Protection of media users and customers – interdependencies and value-adds for the Group. CR Topics with a focus on content responsibility (protecFor this reason, non-financial performance indicaCR Risks tion of minors and fair marketing) and protection tors are not used to manage the Group’s businesses. Employees of customer data ↗Bertelsmann Annual Report 2016, p. 8. >> Diversity – with a focus on gender, generations Media, Services and Education and internationality Environment >> Health – with a focus on integrated health management and prevention Society >> Eco-efficiency/environment – with a focus on Additional Information energy, emissions and paper An update of the CR relevance analysis at GRI Content Index Bertelsmann, focusing also on dialogue with ← ← GRI 102-15, 102-44, 102-46, 102-49 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 30 98 Report 2016 CR Risks A number of “non-financial” risks associated with CR risks that may arise from Bertelsmann as a comindirect impact on the well-being of employees, their Foreword CR topics are relevant for Bertelsmann. These risks pany include increasing business customer requireindividual opportunities and their family environAbout this Report can arise from the company’s own business activments stemming from a range of “non-financial” ment. Bertelsmann’s business operations also have ities or from its business relationships, and can topics, the nonfulfillment of which may result in a reciprocal relationship with the local communities Company Profile affect the company or its environment and stakerevenue losses. CR issues are increasingly subject where they operate and with global society. CorrupCorporate Management holders. to statutory regulations, which can lead to noncomtion, for example, can impede economic developpliance penalties linked to loss of trust in various ment, contribute to the continuation and growth CR Management As defined in the German CSR Directive Implemenstakeholder groups. Disruption in business proof poverty, and reduce the equality of opportunity. Organization tation Act, the major “non-financial” aspects where cesses, such as bottlenecking in the procurement Regarding human rights, Bertelsmann’s journalistic Stakeholder Dialogue risks can occur are employee, environmental and of paper or energy, can arise because of a resource conduct and its treatment of data affect the state of CR Topics social issues, respect for human rights, and the fight scarcity. In human resources, risks may arise due to public information, freedom of opinion, self-deterCR Risks against corruption and bribery. At Bertelsmann, inadequate working conditions, with implications mination and democracy. Employees specific product-related topics such as press freesuch as decreased employee motivation and prodom, content responsibility, data protection and ductivity, inadequate skills due to lack of training, Specific to the environment, the use of resources Media, Services and Education the protection of intellectual property can also be increased illness, or increased staff turnover. Developsuch as paper influences the survival, developEnvironment grouped under social issues →CR Topics, p. 28. In ments in media and social policy, such as in the ment and diversity of ecological systems, and with contrast to the net view presented in the company’s area of press freedom, also contain potential risks them, sustainable living conditions. The company Society Risk and Opportunity Report ↗Bertelsmann Annual for Bertelsmann’s businesses. contributes to global warming through the direct and Additional Information Report 2016, p. 29 ff, the following risk description is indirect emission of greenhouse gases. to be considered independently from any counterBy the same token, the way in which Bertelsmann measures that exist in the company; that is, withfulfills its corporate responsibility also has an impact Finally, all risks caused by Bertelsmann – and their GRI Content Index out considering the effect of existing concepts and on the company’s surroundings, environment and possible negative implications – can also cause measures. stakeholders. Working conditions have a direct and risks for the company, affecting such factors as ← ← GRI 102-11, 102-15 Corporate Responsibility CR Management 31 98 Report 2016 reputation, attractiveness as an employer or busiForeword ness partner, litigation, and inclusion in “do-notAbout this Report source” lists and indexes. Company Profile The concepts and measures Bertelsmann uses to Corporate Management counter these risks are described in the following chapters: →Employees, p. 32, →Media, Services CR Management and Education, p. 54, →Environment, p. 66 and Organization →Society, p. 76. Stakeholder Dialogue CR Topics CR Risks Employees Media, Services and Education Environment Society Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 102-11, 102-15 Corporate Responsibility 32 98 Report 2016 Employees Foreword Motivated employees who identify with Bertelsmann and its values are the About this Report driving force behind the company’s quality, innovation and growth. Company Profile Corporate Management 116,434 CR Management Employees 150 employees worldwide nationalities in the Fair Working Conditions Learning workforce Diversity Health Media, Services and Education 54% Environment women in the Society workforce Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Employment Corporate Responsibility 33 98 Report 2016 Employees Foreword Every day, about 116,000 people in more than diversity, creativity and performance in a healthy Employees by Division headcount 50 countries work to ensure Bertelsmann’s success, work environment. While aspiring to this worldAbout this Report growth and continuous development. That’s why, wide, Bertelsmann honors the widely varying cul2016 13,150 2015 for generations, the company has made responsitural, regulatory, economic and social conditions RTL Group Company Profile 12,258 bility toward its employees a priority. Bertelsmann’s where it operates. Basis: employees Corporate Management goal is to create a working environment of partnerPenguin 10,594 on permanent Random House 10,582 and temporary ship for all employees. This aspiration is firmly Increasingly today, employees – of all generations – CR Management contracts, excludanchored in the core values of the Group’s corpowant to do something meaningful with their work10,877 Gruner + Jahr ing trainees, as of Employees rate culture, the Bertelsmann Essentials. ing lives. To attract the best talent, employers are 13,705 December 31 Fair Working Conditions expected to have and convey a greater “sense of 597 BMG Learning Recruiting and Retaining the Best purpose.” Only when employees identify with their 543 Diversity Employees are the key factor in Bertelsmann’s succompany and its values and strategic goals are 68,463 Arvato Health cess. They develop new ideas and offers every day. they able to actively implement and ensure that 67,042 This is equally true for media, services and the new these goals are achieved. This is especially true Bertelsmann 8,138 Media, Services and Education education division. For employees to be creative, in times of change. Following intensive, worldPrinting Group 8,370 Environment innovative and successful, the company must crewide discussions with employees, executives and Bertelsmann 1,488 ate framework conditions that are motivating, and shareholders, Bertelsmann has defined its sense of 1,693 Society Education Group emphasis freedom, trust and respect. purpose with the triad “To Empower. To Create. Bertelsmann 28 Additional Information To Inspire.” Providing employees with orientaInvestments 21 To be an attractive employer, retain employees tion, it also conveys the importance and purpose long-term and remain competitive, Bertelsmann of their daily work. 3,099 Corporate 3,035 GRI Content Index promotes the development of its employees, creating the fair working conditions that allow 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 ← ← GRI 102-16; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Employment; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Labor/Management Relations; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Training and Education; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 34 98 Report 2016 Employee Distribution Worldwide headcount 43,136 (PY: 45,852) Germany Foreword About this Report 13,094 42,884 8,637 (PY: 9,331) (PY: 13,064) (PY: 40,931) Company Profile North America Other European Asia countries Corporate Management CR Management Employees Fair Working Conditions Learning 5,518 Diversity 2,484 (PY: 4,667) (PY: 2,754) Health Central & South America Africa Media, Services and Education 681 (PY: 650) Environment Australia & New Zealand Society Additional Information GRI Content Index Basis: employees on permanent and temporary contracts, excluding trainees, as of December 31. Comparative figures for the prior period have been adjusted accordingly. ← ← GRI 102-8, 102-48 Corporate Responsibility Employees 35 98 Report 2016 Guidelines, Structures and Processes To ensure the coordination of procedures throughHR Country Coordination Meetings are designed Foreword HR work at Bertelsmann is based on the company’s out its decentralized structure, Bertelsmann’s HR for cross-divisional coordination within a region and About this Report identity as codified in the corporate constitution function is organized according to a “dotted line” ensure the implementation of HR Committee and and the Bertelsmann Essentials. Supplementary concept; that is, with complementary reporting Group HR department initiatives across the Group. Company Profile regulations are set out in the Bertelsmann Code as well as supervisory relationships. This allows Its members include the heads of HR of the Group’s Corporate Management of Conduct, which is binding for all employees, as Group-wide HR topics to be implemented in accorlargest companies or those with the largest number well as the Executive Board Guidelines on HR Work dance with the Executive Board’s decisions. Addiof employees in a specified country. CR Management →Compliance, p. 17. tionally, regular dialogue with employees and their Employees ­representatives makes it possible to continually Divisional and Corporate Nomination & CompenFair Working Conditions The Chief HR Officer (CHRO), steers human resources review workplace conditions, identify possible sation Committees decide on the implementation Learning Group-wide. As head of the Corporate HR departimprovements and derive measures →Participation of remuneration and staffing policies in their areas Diversity ment, which supports the coordination of tasks and and Dialogue, p. 37. of responsibility. Health development of relevant HR policy, the CHRO cooperates closely with divisional HR directors. AddiAnother important aspect of Bertelsmann’s HR Media, Services and Education tional main areas of responsibility include developing work is the exchange of information in commitEnvironment the Group’s HR agenda in collaboration with the tees. HR Committee, further developing and promoting Society intracompany partnership, aligning management The HR Committee determines the basic aspects Additional Information development with the Group’s strategic priorities, of HR work in the interest of the entire Group. Its managing staffing and remuneration processes for members include the CHRO, divisional heads of HR key Group positions, and ensuring the standardizaand senior executives from the Group’s Corporate GRI Content Index tion and IT support of important HR processes. HR department. ← ← GRI 102-16, 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Employment; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Labor/Management Relations; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Training and Education; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 36 98 Report 2016 Fair Working Conditions Bertelsmann’s top priority is to provide employees Executive Board Guidelines on certain topics, espeForeword with good framework conditions for working, as well cially those on remuneration and the use of external About this Report as offering them support and orientation. In addiemployees. tion to the protection of human and personal rights Company Profile →Compliance, p. 17; partnership and trustworthy In addition, there are external regulations, such Corporate Management cooperation with employees and their representaas the standards of the International Labor Orgations, workplace safety, fair distribution of benefits, nization, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational CR Management flexible working arrangements, and fair treatment of Enterprises and Bertelsmann’s voluntary commitEmployees freelancers and external employees are key aspects ment in accordance with the UN Global Compact 6.5 years Fair Working Conditions of fair working conditions at Bertelsmann. →Commitments, p. 24. A cross-divisional workLearning ing group also addresses the topic of fair working Diversity Guidelines and Structures conditions. As the central contact for the variHealth Responsibility for ensuring fair working conditions ous committees representing employee interests, Average Duration of Employment is decentralized, meaning it lies with the manBertelsmann’s CHRO heads this working group. with the Group in Years Media, Services and Education agement of the local businesses. Bertelsmann (PY: 6.6 years) Environment develops Group-wide framework conditions that Shaping Change Together enable local businesses to fulfill this responsibility. Digital transformation is changing the work environSociety Basis: employees on permanent and temporary contracts, Beyond statutory requirements, guiding principles ment and every individual’s tasks. At Bertelsmann, excluding trainees, as of December 31. Temporary employees Additional Information include Bertelsmann’s corporate principles (Corthis process also includes the restructuring of sevof RTL Group are not included. porate Constitution and Essentials) and Code of eral traditional businesses. Parallel to this, some Conduct →Compliance, p. 17; collective regulations parts of the company are being dismantled while GRI Content Index (e.g., Group company agreements); and specific others reorganize, expand or newly build. Seeing ← ← GRI 102-12, 102-16; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Employment; 401-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Labor/Management Relations Corporate Responsibility Employees 37 98 Report 2016 Foreword change as both a challenge and an opportunity, Employees by Employment Period in percent the company’s management seeks to shape those About this Report changes together with employees. Company Profile 78% Bertelsmann’s management works to ensure permanent 77% Corporate Management that employees are informed of change pro22% cesses in as timely a manner as possible, and temporary CR Management 23% involves the workforce and employee represenEmployees tatives at an early stage to collaboratively identify 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Fair Working Conditions the best solutions. In many cases, the company Learning exceeds the statutory requirements set out in 2016 Women Men Diversity provisions such as the German Works Consti2015 Women Men Health tution Act. For example, at the end of 2015, HR managers and works councils created the Basis: employee headcount on permanent and temporary contracts, excluding trainees, as of December 31 Media, Services and Education ↗ “BeWege” Project in collaboration with local Environment company managers. The project proactively addresses the firms’ structural change requireParticipation and Dialogue representatives, clear rules and mutual trust. Society ments. For businesses in structural decline with Bertelsmann sees continual dialogue between Employees have five representatives on the SuperAdditional Information jobs at risk, affected employees receive early conemployees and company management as a funvisory Board of Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA: four sultation at a Development and Transfer Center, damental prerequisite to the company’s sucworks council members and one representative where they can also develop additional qualificacess. The company practices a partnership-based from the Bertelsmann Management RepresentaGRI Content Index tions for new positions within the Group. approach. Such a relationship requires strong tive Committee (BMRC). In addition, the general ← ← GRI 102-8, 102-43, 102-44; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Labor/Management Relations; 402-1; 404-2 Corporate Responsibility Employees 38 98 Report 2016 Foreword workforce, managers, employees with disabilitopics including their workplace conditions, work “Ensuring fair working ties, and trainees all have platforms for exchangwith supervisors and on teams, opportunities for About this Report ing ideas, advancing topics and constructively training and development, and the communication conditions is an integral part Company Profile voicing their concerns. Among the successful formats is the Bertelsmann Group Dialogue Conferof strategy and changes in the Group. Based on the respective company and team results, managers of Bertelsmann’s corporate Corporate Management ence, held for the fifth time in 2016. Approximately and employees jointly identify improvement potenculture.” 60 works councils representatives from Bertelsmann, tial and draw up an action plan. CR Management Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland, Prinovis, and Employees Gruner + Jahr met over two days with the ChairRemuneration and Participation in the Fair Working Conditions man and CEO and the CHRO at Bertelsmann’s repCompany’s Success includes all the German operations of the Group’s Learning resentational offices in Berlin. Fairly distributed benefits and fair pay are important fully consolidated companies apart from RTL Group Diversity prerequisites for a practiced partnership between and Gruner + Jahr. These and companies with exterHealth Employees are also involved in the development employers and employees that leads to high-quality nal shareholders have similar success and profit and improvement of working conditions through results. Bertelsmann’s remuneration system is participation models adapted to local requirements. Media, Services and Education standardized HR interview tools (Performance and intended to ensure gender-neutral pay that is in line Environment Development Dialogue, Agreements on Objecwith the market, the job function and the employee’s In 2016, a total of €95 million of the 2015 profits tives and Team Talk), as well as the Bertelsmann performance. Bertelsmann also feels it is importwas distributed as part of such schemes (previous Society Employee Survey. The Employee Survey has been ant to have employees participate in the company’s year: €85 million). Additional Information a key element of Bertelsmann’s corporate culture success. Employee profit participation in Germany of partnership since 1977. In 2016, 89 percent is based on the same key indicators as the bonus Flexibility and Fairness of employees worldwide took advantage of this payments for Executive Board members and execParticipation in decision-making processes and GRI Content Index opportunity to participate and anonymously rated utives. The profit-participation scheme principally allowance for the greatest possible freedom ← ← GRI 102-43; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Labor/Management Relations Corporate Responsibility Employees 39 98 Report 2016 Foreword contribute to employee loyalty and satisfaction. To must be in accordance with the company’s values. Number of Fulland Part-Time Employees support a healthy work-life balance, this also includes The Executive Board guideline on the use of exterGermany in percent About this Report offering employees flexible arrangements about nal partners requires standard processes to ensure where and when they work. Bertelsmann strives to compliance with legal requirements. This is supple29.0 (PY: 33.8) Company Profile offer modern working solutions and develops them mented by the Supplier Code of Conduct, which part-time Corporate Management as site, technical and organizational requirements also obliges service providers. permit. Working-time models that focus on results CR Management rather than physical presence, as well as trust-based 71.0 (PY: 66.2) Employees full-time working hours, are now widespread, and homeFair Working Conditions office guidelines have been successfully introduced. Learning Diversity The flexibility requirements of a rapidly changHealth ing world of work also mean that knowledge and Basis: employee headcount on permanent and temporary expertise need to be sourced from outside the contracts, excluding trainees, as of December 31 Media, Services and Education company to ensure satisfied customers during Environment peak phases. The company relies on staffing agencies and employs external staff in addition to perSociety manent employees where the specifics of the tasks Additional Information allow and require this. Bertelsmann defines external staff as self-employed persons, service providers and consultants, or as agency staff who work for a GRI Content Index Group company. The employment of external staff ← ← GRI 102-8 Corporate Responsibility Employees 40 98 Report 2016 Learning A company’s success is determined by its employees’ ensure employees’ long-term employability by offerand they can choose when and where they want Foreword qualifications: With this belief in mind, Reinhard ing lifelong learning programs is both a committo learn, depending on their individual needs and About this Report Mohn founded the Bertelsmann publishing compament and a challenge for Bertelsmann. The better requirements. ny’s private vocational school more than 50 years this works, the more successful the company can Company Profile ago. This set the cornerstone for the Group’s presbe, and the more attractive it is for its workforce and Bertelsmann University is a main department based Corporate Management ent system of training in Germany and created the for the next generation of employees. Moreover, by at the Corporate Center. It is managed by the Chief impetus for the establishment of a comprehensive doing so, the company contributes to individual job Learning Officer, who reports to the CHRO. The CR Management system of corporate education. Major challenges security and the stability of society. CHRO, Group Management Committee (GMC) Employees such as the Group’s progressive internationalizaand HR Committee regularly discuss and review Fair Working Conditions tion, the digital transformation of the media and Structures and Processes the University’s orientation and activities. They are Learning services landscape, and demographic change can With four different campuses – Strategy, Leadership, supported by the Divisional Learning Committee, Diversity only be tackled with well-trained employees. VocaFunction and Individual – Bertelsmann University which includes Learning and Development repreHealth tional education and training are a long-term investis the central learning organization for employees sentatives from the divisions. ment in the future, for both the company and its and executives. It offers excellent learning content Media, Services and Education employees. and innovative learning formats that systematically Objectives and Results Environment promote and develop the competencies and skills Bertelsmann University has defined three objectives Bertelsmann University: Lifelong Learning of Bertelsmann’s employees and executives, worldin its efforts to support employee performance: to Society In a very dynamic environment, Bertelsmann builds wide and across all divisions. Examples include build employee skills, strengthen the company and Additional Information on dedicated and highly qualified employees and strategy and innovation skills, leadership skills, leadership culture, and develop the digital learning executives. The rapidly changing business environdigital and soft skills, as well as specialist skills and infrastructure. Progress is measured, among other ment constantly gives rise to new challenges for foreign languages. Thanks to digital formats, the things, using the digitalization rate (proportion of GRI Content Index all employees in their workaday routine. Helping to relevant content is available to every employee, digital training hours). In 2016, it increased from ← ← GRI 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Training and Education; 404-2 Corporate Responsibility Employees 41 98 Report 2016 10 percent (2015) to 23 percent. Another indicator is Foreword the number of training hours of all Group employees About this Report worldwide. With the expansion of the range to include courses offered by lynda.com, the number Company Profile rose sharply from 235,585 training hours in 2015 to Corporate Management 405,924 in 2016. Other results for 2016 included: Basis: all training data mainCR Management tained in the system >> A strengthened leadership and learning Employees Fair Working Conditions culture: Development of a Leadership Learning Framework 405,924 23% Basis for employees: employees on permanent and temLearning >> Expanded learning opportunities: New conTotal Training Hours Share of Digital porary contracts, excluding trainees, with access to the Diversity cept and implementation of “Mastering New (PY: 235,585) Learning Hours HR IT platform “peoplenet” Health Challenges” for top managers. Rollout and inter(PY: 10%) as of December 31 nationalization of the “Creativity Bootcamp” Media, Services and Education >> Increased reach through Digital First strategy: Environment Established digital courses in the field of techof vocational training offered at Bertelsmann. In With its nationwide offer, Bertelsmann is one of the nology, and worldwide introduction of online Germany alone, the Group offers young people country’s largest apprentice training companies and Society language training in cooperation with Learnship industrial and commercial training options in more is a protagonist in shaping the vocational training Additional Information than 50 different professions. In addition to tradilandscape. One of the specific challenges that must Training in Germany: A Wide Range of Offers tional apprenticeship programs, this spectrum also be addressed is future-proofing of training proThe diversity of businesses operated by Bertelsmann includes a variety of dual-study programs within grams to prevail in the intensified competition for GRI Content Index companies is matched by the diversity and breadth the Group. highly qualified talent. This requires considering ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Training and Education; 404-1, 404-2 Corporate Responsibility Employees 42 98 Report 2016 changes in the educational landscape, such as the of Science degree. Of these, approximately 200 stuForeword growing tendency toward academic degrees, as dents are undergoing industrial and commercial About this Report well as structural changes such as digitalization of training at the Group’s own vocational school. the Group’s businesses. The better this works, the Company Profile greater the company’s contribution to a future-proof Objectives and Results Corporate Management society and to people’s qualifications. The integraVocational training at Bertelsmann is intended to tion of unemployed teens and young refugees also ensure a supply of well-qualified junior employees CR Management plays a role here. for the company’s various business fields, and to Employees enable vacancies to be filled via the in-house job Fair Working Conditions Structures and Processes market. In 2016, the number of graduates in IT eduLearning The Central Education department in Gütersloh is cation increased by about 10 percent. Other results Diversity responsible for central training measures. It develincluded: Health ops needs-driven offers, ensures that they are in line with the company’s values, and guarantees an opti>> Development of concepts for integrating digital Media, Services and Education mal design of the processes for selecting apprenlearning content into vocational training and the Environment ticeship applicants. It also works closely with the Group’s own degree programs works councils, the managing directors and HR >> Increased offer of in-house academic degree Society managers of the training companies. programs Additional Information >> Launch of a one-year qualification program for In Gütersloh alone, approximately 500 young people young refugees in the Gütersloh region (“Be are taking the opportunity to learn a profession or to Welcome”), in which 11 Syrian young adult refGRI Content Index complete a part-time Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor ugees participated in 2016 →Refugee Aid, p. 83. ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Training and Education Corporate Responsibility Employees 43 98 Report 2016 Diversity Foreword For Bertelsmann, workforce diversity is a prerequisite for innovation and long-term business creativity, innovation and performance, as well as employee motivation. It enhances flexibility and “We are committed to equal About this Report prosperity. With this in mind, Bertelsmann Diversity success in the different markets. With their indiopportunities and encourage Management works to develop framework convidual skills, experience and viewpoints, heterogeCompany Profile ditions and processes that enable all employees neous teams contribute to a diversity of perspectives a respectful and diverse Corporate Management to optimally contribute their abilities, experience in their company – with positive implications for workplace in which each and potential toward the company’s success. For business processes and decisions. Diversity also CR Management the well-being of the company and its workforce, strengthens employer attractiveness. Diversity individual’s unique value is Employees Bertelsmann values not only what people have in management helps to counter the risks resulting recognized and each person Fair Working Conditions common but also the differences that make them from demographic change. Additionally, it addresses Learning unique. the economic risks that arise where contracting is treated with courtesy, Diversity Diversity – the Business Case governmental authorities require statutory quota compliance in public procurement processes, or honesty and dignity.” Health Diversity is defined by the variety of traits, characwith business partners having specific contractual Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Media, Services and Education teristics and attributes that make up an employee’s requirements. Environment identity. It includes sociodemographic factors such as gender, age, ethnicity/nationality and disability, Guidelines, Structures and Processes Society as well as sexual orientation, gender identity, social The Bertelsmann Code of Conduct codifies the Additional Information background, religious affiliation, specific abilities promotion of diversity by mandating a respectful, and ways of thinking. For Bertelsmann, diversity is appreciative treatment of all employees. The same among the keys to its economic success. A varied goes for the Bertelsmann Supplier Code of Conduct. GRI Content Index and diverse workforce has a positive impact on The Executive Board Guideline on Principles of ← ← GRI 102-16; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 44 98 Report 2016 Ratio of Female/Male Staff in percent Foreword About this Report 20 (PY: 19) 17 (PY: 20) 31 (PY: 31) Women Women Women Company Profile Corporate Management Group Supervisory Executive CR Management Management Board Board Committee Employees 80 (PY: 81) 83 (PY: 80) 69 (PY: 69) Fair Working Conditions Men Men Men Learning Diversity As of December 31 Health Media, Services and Education Hiring Policy also serves as a guideline for dealing strategy takes its cue from new legal regulations internationality. Other relevant dimensions are Environment with diversity. Furthermore, some divisions and regarding inclusion and equal opportunity, although disability, sexual identity and gender orientation. companies have additional self-commitments and the company does not necessarily fall within the Society concepts for diversity. For example, RTL Group has scope of required compliance. The Corporate Responsibility & Diversity ManageAdditional Information defined diversity as a key issue in its CR strategy ment (CR&DM) department reports to the CHRO, and has adopted a diversity statement. Penguin The motto of Bertelsmann’s diversity strategy is who has strategic responsibility for diversity. The Random House’s CR strategy also includes diver“Business – Evolution – Focus” and spotlights department is an agent for impetus and change. It GRI Content Index sity as a focal topic. Bertelsmann’s overall diversity three areas of action: gender, generation and provides in-house consulting and is a strategic partner ← ← GRI 102-16, 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 45 98 Report 2016 Ratio of Female/Male Staff in percent Foreword About this Report 16 (PY: n/a) 28 (PY: n/a) 54 (PY: 53) Women Women Women Company Profile Corporate Management Top Senior CR Management Employees Management1 Management1 Employees 84 (PY: n/a) 72 (PY: n/a) 46 (PY: 47) Fair Working Conditions Men Men Men Learning Diversity Basis: employees on permanent and temporary contracts, including trainees, as of December 31 Health 1) Top and senior management are defined as those positions that are of particular importance for corporate talent management because of their success-critical function and their strategic relevance for the Group’s continued Media, Services and Education transformation and the achievement of its strategic targets. Top management positions include the GMC positions, Environment but not the Executive Board positions. Society Additional Information for Bertelsmann’s divisions and companies. CR&DM and the Group Management Committee (GMC) actors and committees at various levels of the Group. is supported by an international Diversity Working regularly address matters of diversity – as do the In line with the Group’s policy of decentralization, Group, with representatives from the divisions and Bertelsmann Management Representative Commitspecific measures are implemented in a division or GRI Content Index Corporate Talent Management. The Executive Board tee (BMRC), employee representatives, and other company as most suitable to the business model. ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 46 98 Report 2016 Gender-neutral Compensation Age Pyramid Foreword The equal treatment of men and women set out Employees worldwide in percent About this Report in the Code of Conduct explicitly applies to compensation. Bertelsmann’s remuneration policy is Company Profile to establish consistent remuneration structures in >65 years Corporate Management the Group. The design of the compensation sys61–65 years tem is intended to ensure that remuneration is CR Management 56–60 years exclusively driven by the market, function and perEmployees formance, taking into account business-specific 51–55 years Fair Working Conditions characteristics – and is therefore gender-neutral. 46–50 years Learning Where explicit employment descriptions or com41–45 years Diversity pensation exist, these are likewise completely 36–40 years Health gender-neutral. Men and women in comparable markets, in comparable positions and delivering 31–35 years Media, Services and Education the same performance have equal earning oppor25–30 years Environment tunities. <25 years Society The Contribution of Corporate Talent 12% 10% 8% 6% 4% 2% 0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12% Additional Information Management Women Men Previous year Talent management is regarded as crucially important in increasing diversity in top and senior manageBasis: employee headcount on permanent and temporary contracts, excluding trainees, as of December 31. Temporary employees of GRI Content Index ment. Employees are defined as “talent,” if they RTL Group are not included. ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 47 98 Report 2016 consistently deliver above-average performance, Objectives and Results Board, which corresponds to 17 percent (previous Foreword have vertical potential and are willing to take on Diversity Management at Bertelsmann pursues the year: 20 percent). The Group Management ComAbout this Report responsibility and be mobile, and thus wish to pursue objective of strengthening employee diversity at all mittee had a total of 16 members (previous year: cross-functional, cross-divisional and international levels of the organization according to the ­priorities of 16 members) and was very heterogeneous. As in Company Profile development. According to the so-called “triple gender, generations and nationality. The ­proportion the previous year, its membership represented six Corporate Management two” approach, leaders in top and senior manageof women in Bertelsmann talent pools (Top Managenationalities, with five women (31 percent). ment positions should ideally have covered at least ment, Senior Management, Career Development) CR Management two functions, two divisions and two countries in shall be increased to one-third in each. This was The 25 to 30 age group constituted the largest proEmployees their professional career. Talent Management meaalready considered in the 2016 talent pool nominaportion of all employees on December 31, 2016 Fair Working Conditions sures primarily aim at increasing employee mobility tions. At a divisional level, RTL Group has set the (22 ­percent, previous year: 21 percent). Most Learning and expanding cultural, regional and professional objective of increasing the proportion of women in em­ployees in top and senior management were Diversity experience related to functions, business areas and top and senior management in stages. ages 46 to 50. Thus, 28 percent (previous year: n.a.) Health markets. of employees in top management positions (based As of December 31, 2016, the proportion of on 98 percent employee age reporting information) Media, Services and Education In addition to systematically promoting broadenfemale leadership in top management positions at and 29 percent (previous year: n.a.) of employees in Environment ing the personal experience and skills that are such Bertelsmann was 16 percent (previous year: n.a.) and senior management positions (based on 80 percent a decisive factor in hiring and promotion, Talent in senior management positions, 28 ­percent (previemployee age reporting information) were 46 to Society Manage­ment also helps create transparency on ous year: n.a.). Fifty-four percent of all Bertelsmann 50 years old. In 2016, half of Executive Board memAdditional Information diversity within the company. In its top and senior employees were women (previous year: 53 ­percent). bers (previous year: 60 percent) were ages 46 to management target groups, it documents statisThe proportion of female representation on the 50, and the other half (previous year: 40 percent) tics relevant to Group recruiting and staffing policy, Supervisory Board was 20 percent (previous year: were between ages 51 and 55. On the Group ManGRI Content Index including gender, age and nationality. 19 percent). One woman was on the Executive agement Committee (GMC), the largest age group ← ← GRI 102-22; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity; 405-1 Corporate Responsibility Employees 48 98 Report 2016 Foreword (31 percent) was 51 to 55 years, with the previous Age Distribution in percent year’s largest group (44 percent) being 46 to 50 years Senior About this Report of age. Most the members of the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board1) Executive Board1) GMC1) Top Management2)3) Management2)4) were ages 51 to 55, or over 65 years (27 percent, Company Profile 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 respectively). In the previous year, the 51 to 55 age < 25 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 n/a 0 n/a Corporate Management group represented the largest group (31 percent). 25 – 30 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 n/a 1 n/a CR Management 31– 35 years 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 n/a 3 n/a In financial year 2016, Bertelsmann and its compa36 – 40 years 7 6 0 0 0 0 3 n/a 14 n/a Employees nies had operations in 50 countries around the world. 41– 45 years 7 6 0 0 13 13 26 n/a 25 n/a Fair Working Conditions Employees of 150 different nationalities (previous 46 – 50 years 0 6 50 60 25 44 28 n/a 29 n/a year: n.a.) worked for the Group. On a management 51– 55 years 27 31 50 40 31 13 26 n/a 18 n/a Learning 56 – 60 years 20 6 0 0 13 13 11 n/a 7 n/a Diversity level, distribution by nationality was as follows: The 61– 65 years 13 25 0 0 13 19 3 n/a 3 n/a Health quota of non-German members on GMC was 31 per> 65 years 27 19 0 0 6 0 3 n/a 1 n/a cent (previous year: 31 percent), and on the ExecuMedia, Services and Education tive Board, 17 percent (previous year: 20 percent). 1) Basis: members of the bodies as of December 31 Environment On the Supervisory Board, 67 percent (previous year: 2) Top and senior management are defined as those positions that are of particular importance 69 percent) of members were ­German and 33 perfor corporate talent management because of their success-critical function and their strategic Society cent (previous year: 31 percent) were non-German. relevance for the Group’s continued transformation and the achievement of its strategic targets. Additional Information Top management positions include the GMC positions, but not the Executive Board positions. 3) B asis: employees on permanent and temporary contracts, excluding trainees, as of December 31, In Germany, the proportion of people with diswith age indication (98%) abilities in the company’s total workforce was 4) Basis: employees on permanent and temporary contracts, excluding trainees, as of December 31, GRI Content Index 4.7 percent (previous year: 4.3 percent). with age indication (80%) ← ← GRI 102-22; 405-1 Corporate Responsibility Employees 49 98 Report 2016 Other results of the promotion of strategic and operForeword ational diversity in 2016 included: About this Report >> Further development of diversity performance Company Profile indicators Corporate Management >> Bertelsmann Diversity Conference for managers >> Concept development for Smart Decisions – CR Management Managing Unconscious Biases Effectively trainEmployees ing for managers Fair Working Conditions >> Inclusion of the topic of diversity in leadership Learning training Diversity >> Concept development for pilot project relating Health to demography check in a G+J company >> Bertelsmann Exchange Initiative (pilot) as a temMedia, Services and Education porary employee exchange Environment >> Concept development for diversity curriculum for curated online courses for employees Society >> Internal communications campaign on diversity Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Diversity Corporate Responsibility Employees 50 98 Report 2016 Health Foreword New ways of organizing work, digital technologies, system of needs; physical, psychological and social “We will provide a healthy and accelerated workflows, heavier workloads and resources; ability to cope; and personal goals. About this Report steadily increasing international pressure to comsafe workplace for our employees pete have an impact on the health of employees. On Objectives, Structures and Processes by complying with all applicable Company Profile top of these changes in working conditions, there In 2012, with a view to creating a health-promothealth and safety laws and stanCorporate Management is demographic change, which is accompanied by ing work environment and preventing work-related such factors as an aging workforce. As the retirerisks of disease, Bertelsmann and the Group Works dards. Managers in particular must CR Management ment age rises, employees work longer and are Council resolved to establish and expand a systemensure that appropriate health, Employees faced with ever-increasing demands in their jobs. atic health management system at the German sites. Bertelsmann Health Management, part of the Group safety and security practices and Fair Working Conditions Learning Preventing Risks, Designing a Healthy HR department, has been put in charge of supervissafeguards are in place to comply Diversity Workplace ing and coordinating the Germany-wide health stratwith applicable laws and manageHealth Rising absenteeism, an increase in chronic and menegy and associated activities, together with a Health tal health disorders, inability to work and the early Management strategy group in Gütersloh. ment standards.” Media, Services and Education retirement of experienced employees are among the Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Environment challenges that arise from changes in the ­modern The Bertelsmann Health Community in Germany, working world. Bertelsmann wants to counter these which comprises health experts, works council Society developments at an early stage and has therefore chairs, supervisory board members, HR managers Additional Information invested in the health of its employees for many and representatives for employees with disabiliyears. Healthy, motivated employees are essential ties, also plays an important role in developing the to the company’s success. Health is understood not health strategy and implementing the associated GRI Content Index merely as the absence of illness, but as a complex measures. The Health Community also serves as ← ← GRI 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Responsibility Employees 51 98 Report 2016 a platform for systematic networking to establish Occupational Safety and Company Medical Serrepresentative body for employees with disabilities, Foreword uniform standards at the German sites. vices advise Bertelsmann’s German companies as well as the head of the Corporate ­Responsibility & About this Report regarding the implementation of occupational Diversity Management department are also repreBertelsmann sets four standard priorities here: health and safety tasks and standards required by sented on the strategy group. Company Profile Companies are to train their executives on the the German Occupational Safety Act. The in-house Corporate Management ­subject of health, set up a Health working group, social services team serves about 65 percent of Results inform their employees about health topics and the companies in Germany in matters relating to At the end of 2016, the status of health manageCR Management services, and give them access to company social the personal sphere or the workplace, as well as in ment at Bertelsmann in Germany was as follows: Employees counseling. The medium-term objective is to interhealth matters. Meanwhile, the Sports and Health Fair Working Conditions nationalize Bertelsmann’s health management. department offers more than 10,000 employees at >> 83 percent of Bertelsmann companies offered Learning the ­Gütersloh site an extensive company sports protheir management training on health-related Diversity Examples of Facilities and Services gram with more than 250 sports and fitness classes topics. In 2016, around 34 percent of executives Health Networking plays an important role in successful a week. The focus is on work-related and workplace-­ were trained in these companies. health management, as shown by the example oriented measures with a particular focus on back >> 78 percent of companies have set up a health Media, Services and Education of the Gütersloh site, where various bodies have health and relaxation. working group. Environment been working together to promote health for many >> 100 percent informed their employees about years. They include, besides the Occupational In 2016, these entities joined forces with healthcare issues and services. The Bertelsmann Society Safety department, Company Medical Services, the Bertelsmann Health Management to form the Health website, which was set up in 2016, has Additional Information Bertelsmann BKK company health insurance (with Health Management strategy group mentioned received around 13,000 visitors since its activaaround 8,500 members in Germany), in-house social earlier, with a view to planning future cooperation tion in March. services, and our Sports and Health department, all and the strategy for the site and beyond. The chairs >> 87 percent of companies offered in-house social GRI Content Index of which in turn cooperate under the title “BeFit.” of the Corporate Works Council and the Group’s counseling to their employees. ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Responsibility Employees 52 98 Report 2016 These cross-divisional measures were complekilometers as they can in one day. In 2016, as Objectives: Four Minimum Foreword mented by a wide range of activities in the divisions, in previous years, the €60,000 raised by their Standards for Health Management About this Report at the national and international levels. The followpedaling went to the Fonds de la Recherche in Germany ing is a selection: Scientifique (FNRS). In Belgium, RTL Belgium Company Profile > Health competency is a necessary part of made stress prevention the focus of its health all national leadership qualifications. Corporate Management >> In Germany, a pilot project for integrated health activities. Managers were trained to better idenmanagement was successfully completed at tify signs of stress in their team members, and > A permanent working group on health is CR Management RTL Nord, a Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland understand the role they play in the prevention established in every company with repreEmployees subsidiary. On its Health Day 2016, RTL Radio of stress and burnout. sentation from management, work councils, employees with disabilities representatives, Fair Working Conditions Center Berlin (RCB) devoted itself to preventive >> Motorpress Ibérica in Spain, part of Gruner + and HR. Learning measures for back health. In 2016, the Arvato HR Jahr, prepared a conference on the progress Diversity department teamed up with BKK Bertelsmann on health at companies in 2016. Company rep> All Group companies ensure that employees and Arvato CRM Healthcare GmbH to continue resentatives, delegates from Spain’s healthhave informational access to in-house Health health and preventive service offers. the “Preventiometer” project, which uses a digcare sector, experts from the fields of fitness Media, Services and Education ital “health cockpit” to develop individual health and nutrition, and top athletes attended to talk > Every employee has access to in-house Environment plans for employees, based on several health about measures to promote healthy habits in social counseling. parameters and an interview with a qualified the workplace. Penguin Random House Grupo Society medical assistant. ­Editorial is introducing the “Me gustar estar bien” Additional Information >> RTL Group has hosted an annual charity sports (“I like to feel good”) program to strengthen the event in Luxembourg since 2005. During the health and health consciousness of its ­Spanish indoor cycling event, or the Télévie Challenge employees, and surveyed them about their GRI Content Index on Tour on the road, employees cycle as many needs beforehand. ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Occupational Health and Safety Corporate Responsibility Employees 53 98 Report 2016 >> To minimize accidents and health risks, the Foreword ­Prinovis site in Liverpool, United Kingdom, About this Report renewed its occupational health management certification according to OHSAS 18001 (OccuCompany Profile pational Health and Safety Assessment Series) Corporate Management in 2016. This ensures a regular auditing of progress made in the prevention of accidents and CR Management occupational illness. Employees Fair Working Conditions The average sick rate (number of sick days/target Learning working days) at German Bertelsmann companies Diversity was 6.8 percent in 2016 (previous year: 6.6 ­percent). Health Bertelsmann companies in Germany also record Media, Services and Education data on accident statistics, taking into account the Environment workplace and road accidents that are subject to reporting requirements. The accident rate in Society the reporting year 2016 was 18.2 accidents per Additional Information 1,000 employees (previous year: 17.8). GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 403-2 Corporate Responsibility 54 98 Report 2016 Media, Services and Education Foreword Bertelsmann wants to reach as many people as possible with its products About this Report and services. The company relies on creativity, customer orientation, Company Profile diversity and quality. Corporate Management CR Management 800 million Employees books, e-books and Media, Services and Education audiobooks sold by Penguin Press Freedom Random House Content Responsibility Customer Privacy Further Topics Approx. 100 Environment Society editorial offices operated by RTL Group and G+J 150 million Additional Information consumers serviced by Arvato worldwide GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 102-7 Corporate Responsibility 55 98 Report 2016 Media, Services and Education Media is simultaneously an economic and a cultural systematically aligns its offers to the needs of its custhe divisions and companies. Cross-divisional netForeword asset, and plays a role in the formation of public tomers and, as digitalization increases, continually works, programs and events promote synergies About this Report opinion. Bertelsmann takes the social responsibildevelops and diversifies its own portfolio. The creand the exchange of best practices on specific topics ity that this implies seriously: for its business and ativity and innovation of Bertelsmann’s employees, related to the company’s product, content and serCompany Profile journalistic activities, as well as the production and entrepreneurs, authors and artists is the engine that vice responsibility. Beyond this, Group-wide policies Corporate Management distribution of content and formats worldwide. In drives this ongoing development. and procedural and technical management ­systems providing outsourcing, print and education serhave been implemented for some areas such as CR Management vices, the company gives top priority to professionGuidelines, Structures and Processes ­privacy and data security. Employees alism and customer focus, service quality, and the In addition to the Bertelsmann Essentials, the Media, Services and Education protection of personal information. Bertelsmann Code of Conduct specifies key principles for the responsible production and distribution Press Freedom Creative, Customer-oriented, Diverse of media and services that are consistent and bindContent Responsibility The Bertelsmann Essentials define entrepreneurship ing for all Bertelsmann companies. The company Customer Privacy and creativity as important guiding principles in the operates in a strongly regulated space, particularly Further Topics manufacture and distribution of media products and when handling customer data and disseminating Environment services. With its wide range of products and services, offers to potentially vulnerable groups. Compliance the company aims to reach as many people as poswith legal requirements and the highest quality Society sible, occupy top positions in its markets and make a standards is a matter of course for Bertelsmann, Additional Information positive contribution to society. Worldwide, the comand is fundamental to the company’s success. pany’s media products aim to inspire readers, viewers and listeners, and enable our business partners Responsibility for the design of the media and serGRI Content Index with future-oriented solution services. Bertelsmann vices businesses is decentralized and rests with ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Content Creation Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 56 98 Report 2016 Press Freedom Foreword Press freedom stands for a plurality of content, aware of the responsibility it has toward the public “Editorial and journalistic indeopinions and positions, and presupposes the in its role as an opinion-shaper, and handles this About this Report independence of the media in the production and responsibility with care. pendence is the foundation of our Company Profile dissemination of content. Bertelsmann interprets publishing, broadcasting and news this independence in two directions: Inside the In competing for the attention of media users and Corporate Management reporting activities.” company, it means that our management does costumers, independence, credibility, reliability not attempt to influence the decisions of artists, and diversity are crucial factors for the company’s Bertelsmann Code of Conduct CR Management editors and program managers, or to restrict their media brands. Bertelsmann benefits directly from Employees artistic or editorial freedom. To the outside, it these values as they make the company attractive Media, Services and Education means that the company does not capitulate to for employees, writers, artists and other creative political or economic influence in its journalistic talent. Press Freedom coverage, and complies with existing laws regardContent Responsibility ing the separation of editorial content and comGuidelines, Structures and Processes Customer Privacy mercial advertising. The Bertelsmann Code of Conduct defines freedom Further Topics of speech and opinion, in the sense of editorial and Environment Independence as a Competitive Advantage journalistic independence (freedom of the press), Bertelsmann sees censorship and attempts at politas a basic principle of Bertelsmann’s business Society ical influence-mongering in its international markets activities. In-house press freedom at Bertelsmann Additional Information as a risk to its businesses, and resolute opposition is guaranteed by the “Editor-in-Chief Principle”: to it as an opportunity. Regarding content, maineditorial decisions are the exclusive responsitaining independence from advertising business bility of the people in charge of the program. This GRI Content Index partners is a continual challenge. Bertelsmann is allows them to operate free from the influence of ← ← GRI 102-16; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Freedom of Expression; M3 Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 57 98 Report 2016 the Group’s owners or management. Many comindependence, as well as to share information, >> More than 200 awards for Gruner + Jahr’s pubForeword panies and editors have also implemented separate ideas and best practice. An RTL Group representalications and creative professionals, including About this Report statutes to safeguard journalistic independence in tive heads this working group. six top-10 placements in the “Journalists of the their day-to-day business. These focus primarily on Year” list published by the German magazine Company Profile journalistic and editorial duties of care, respect for Objectives and Results “Medium,” and the “Freiheit der Presse” FounCorporate Management ­privacy, dealing with representation of violence, The many accolades that the company’s editors dation Journalism Award to the Sächsische and the protection of minors. and creatives win for their products, formats and ­Zeitung, a G+J company CR Management publications are indicators of the successful realEmployees Such topics are also part of our in-house training for ization of quality journalism and independent A selection of important prizes and awards for the Media, Services and Education editors. Bertelsmann has two journalism schools program creation at Bertelsmann. In 2016, they Group’s media and services can also be found on that promote independent quality journalism: The included: the ↗Bertelsmann corporate website. Press Freedom RTL School of Journalism for TV and Multimedia Content Responsibility in Cologne, offering a two-year practical training >> A variety of ↗prizes and awards for RTL Group’s In addition, Bertelsmann’s companies advocate for Customer Privacy course for television editors, and the Henri Nannen programming, including the German Television a diverse media landscape by awarding their own Further Topics School from the G+J, ZEIT and SPIEGEL publishing Award in seven categories for the channels VOX prizes, through sponsorship programs and by supEnvironment companies, which teaches young people the jourand RTL Television, and the UFA film production porting external initiatives: nalistic craft for print and digital media. company; an International Emmy Award for Society the RTL production “Deutschland 83”; and the >> Among other activities, RTL Group supports Additional Information Representatives and experts from the Bertelsmann German Radio Award in three categories for young journalists with the Unicef ​​Belgium divisions also meet once a year in a cross-divisional RTL Radio Center Berlin broadcasters Young Journalist Award, presented by RTL working group to discuss current issues relat>> 585 Penguin Random House titles on “The New Belgium in cooperation with UNICEF, and the GRI Content Index ing to press freedom and editorial and journalistic York Times” bestseller lists, with 101 reaching #1 Jean-Baptiste Dumas Grant, a competition for ← ← GRI 102-12, 102-16; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Freedom of Expression; M3; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Content Dissemination; M4 Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 58 98 Report 2016 journalism students conducted by RTL Radio among other activities, documents violations of Foreword France. press freedom and the persecution of journalists About this Report >> Penguin Random House is an active supporter throughout Europe. Since 2005, G+J has also and partner of PEN America and, through its honored outstanding work in German-speaking Company Profile own values, supports PEN’s mission to advocate journalism with the Henri Nannen Prize, awarded Corporate Management freedom of opinion, help marginalized groups to to authors in the print and digital realm, as well be heard and promote social dialogue. As part as to photographers. CR Management of the New York Creative Writing Awards initiaEmployees tive, Penguin Random House had also awarded Media, Services and Education $2.5 million in prize money for college scholarships by the end of 2016. In Great Britain, Press Freedom Penguin Random House’s WriteNow program Content Responsibility aims to discover, mentor and publish new writers Customer Privacy from under-represented social groups, including Further Topics authors from ethnic minorities or members of Environment the LGBT community. Penguin Random House UK is also among the main sponsors of Society ↗World Book Day. Additional Information >> G+J is an official signatory to the ↗European Charter on Freedom of the Press and supports the European Center for Freedom of the Press GRI Content Index and Media, founded in Leipzig in 2015, which, ← ← GRI 102-12; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Freedom of Expression Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 59 98 Report 2016 Content Responsibility Bertelsmann wants to reach as many people as poscodes of national press councils; and within the panel, with representatives from politics, culture, Foreword sible with its creative products. This comes with a company by the Bertelsmann Code of Conduct. business and religious organizations, advises the About this Report responsibility to reflect on the repercussions of the With it, Bertelsmann’s editorial staff are commitmedia group’s management with special attention content it produces and distributes, and to protect ted to “respecting privacy and the responsible to diversity of opinion and plurality of channels Company Profile the rights and interests of media users to the greattreatment of information, opinion and images.” In and products. The council also monitors and disCorporate Management est possible extent. A special responsibility applies some cases, other statutes regulate the handling of cusses developments in the media and in media to the youngest media users, because today’s chilcontent responsibility at the divisional, company policy. RTL Group’s channels broadcast diverse CR Management dren and young adults have long since lived in a and editorial-department level. The representation programming for their various audiences. DiverEmployees world shaped by media. of social diversity, as well as regulations to avoid sity is also a priority in RTL Group’s in-house proMedia, Services and Education discriminating or stereotyping content, also play ductions. Guidelines, Structures and Processes an important role. Press Freedom In accordance with Bertelsmann’s Editor-in-Chief Example: Penguin Random House Content Responsibility Principle, responsibility for the production and disExample: RTL Group Penguin Random House complies with all applicaCustomer Privacy semination of media content is the sole responIn addition to local laws and voluntary commitble laws for the publication of content, including Further Topics sibility of program managers, who are free from ments, RTL Group has its own ↗Newsroom Guideregulations on defamation, privacy and adverEnvironment influence from the Group’s owners or local manlines that steer the work of its editorial staff. The tising. In the US and in Great Britain, Penguin agement in the company’s decentralized structure Guidelines describe editorial duties of care, and Random House has implemented a rigorous proSociety →Press Freedom, p. 56. Overriding principles include regulations on the protection of minors, cess whereby books containing potentially danAdditional Information and guidelines of media ethics are set by national impartial reporting, the protection of privacy and gerous content are subject to legal review prior and international laws governing the press, broadhow to handle the representation of violence. In to publication. Furthermore, the publishers’ edicasting and multimedia; by voluntary commitGermany, Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland also torial offices have standardized processes to GRI Content Index ments to external guidelines such as the ethics has a voluntary Media Advisory Council. The obtain written releases from private individuals ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Content Creation; M3; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Content Dissemination; M4 Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 60 98 Report 2016 Foreword whose personal information is included in a pubParticularly in Bertelsmann’s media broadcasting “We are aware of and treat lication. If the names or pictures of minors are to divisions and companies, efforts are often made About this Report be used, parental consent is required. Penguin to go beyond the existing European and national with care, the responsibility Company Profile Random House is current on media developments and media-related laws. regulations, (e.g., the Audiovisual Media Services Directive). that we as opinion makers, Corporate Management have toward the public.” CR Management Child and Youth Protection In Germany, for example, Mediengruppe RTL Bertelsmann Code of Conduct The purpose of media policies and laws is to proDeutschland’s channels teamed up with other comEmployees tect minors through the review of media content to mercial program providers to found the ↗Self-­ Media, Services and Education determine any possible detrimental effects on the Regulation Body of the Television Industry (FSF) in development of children and young adults. If such 1993. The channels’ Youth Protection Officers proPress Freedom an effect is suspected, various distribution restricactively submit youth protection-relevant programs Content Responsibility tions apply. The policies and laws are intended to to the FSF’s independent review groups prior to Customer Privacy ensure that such media content is only accessible broadcast. The FSF reviews programs for suitabilFurther Topics to age groups with the necessary maturity to put ity for minors and makes a binding decision as to Environment the possibly disturbing or unsettling content into whether and at what time a program may be broadcontext and process it appropriately. Bertelsmann cast. In France, as early as 1989, the channels of Society gives high priority to the protection of children and Groupe M6, part of RTL Group, developed a volunAdditional Information young adults in the production and dissemination tary labeling system for their broadcasted films – a of its media content and complies with the relesystem adopted and made obligatory in 1996 for vant requirements. These include broadcast time other French broadcasters by the Conseil Supérieur GRI Content Index restrictions as well as content and product labeling. de l’Audiovisuel. ← ← GRI 102-12; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Content Creation; M3; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Content Dissemination; M4 Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 61 98 Report 2016 Promoting Media and Internet Literacy among Random House publisher “Dorling Kindersley” Foreword Children and Young Adults offers a similar platform with “DKfindout!” About this Report In addition to passive measures to protect minors, media providers at Bertelsmann also engage in Company Profile various initiatives to actively promote media literCorporate Management acy among children and young adults →Promoting Media Literacy, p. 82. Online media literacy, or CR Management Internet literacy, is a particular focus of their Employees efforts. RTL Group was a founding member of the Media, Services and Education EU’s “CEO Coalition to make the internet a ­better place for kids” initiative, which develops specific Press Freedom recom­mendations for handling digital media. Content Responsibility These efforts continue under the name “Alliance Customer Privacy to better protect minors online.” Likewise, the EU Further Topics “klicksafe.de” initiative, sponsored by the ­German Environment TV channel Super RTL, works to promote public awareness of safe Internet use through practical Society programming and materials. Super RTL also supAdditional Information ports the online search engine “­­fragFINN.de,” which provides children between the ages of 6 and 12 with a safe, child-friendly website to GRI Content Index research topics that interest them. The Penguin ← ← M4; GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Media Literacy; M7 Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 62 98 Report 2016 Customer Privacy In the production and distribution of its media and informational self-determination). This includes perIn view of tighter regulation, increasing customer Foreword services, Bertelsmann encounters customer data sonal information, or information that could identify audits and demands for regulation of liability issues About this Report every day. In the service segment in particular, a person, being handled only in accordance with are to be expected on the part of business partners. many of the world’s largest corporations entrust legal requirements, and adequately protecting this For Bertelsmann, a decisive management of data Company Profile our company with parts of their value chain, such information against unauthorized access, such as protection is therefore an investment in the basis of Corporate Management as the management of their supply chains or cusreading, alteration or deletion. its business success. tomer communications. The confidential and careCR Management ful handling of personal data also plays a decisive Bertelsmann operates in a highly regulated environ­ Guidelines, Structures and Processes Employees role in contact with media users. Privacy is a funment when it comes to handling customer data. The rules and regulations that cover the protection Media, Services and Education damental human right. Accordingly, the company In all the core countries where Bertelsmann does of customer data privacy include the Bertelsmann attaches great importance to protecting customer business →Corporate Profile, p. 5, the protection of Code of Conduct, the Executive Board GuidePress Freedom data. customer data is already required by law, and comlines on Information Security and IT Risk ManageContent Responsibility pliance is a given for the company. European legment, the Bertelsmann Cloud Policy, and, for the Customer Privacy Ensuring Compliance, Maintaining Trust islators in particular are pushing ahead with further German companies in the Group, the “Handbuch Further Topics Protecting customer data includes safeguarding the data protection regulations against the background zum Konzern­datenschutz” (Group Data Protection Environment personal data of individual customers of a Group of Economy 4.0. The European General Data Protec­Manual). The Executive Board Guideline on Data company, as well as protecting personal information Regulation, which comes into force on May 25, Protection is designed to ensure consistent data Society tion about customers that is provided to individ2018, stipulates heavy fines for serious infringeprotection management across the Bertelsmann Additional Information ual companies in the Group by their partners. The ments. Violations would not only be detrimental to Group. It anticipates the requirements of the EU objective of customer data protection is to protect a company’s reputation and adversely affect trust General Data Protection Regulation, which will an individual’s right to determine who acquires among business customers and media users but come into force in Europe and substantially replace GRI Content Index what knowledge about them, and when (right to would also result in substantial financial penalties. existing national legislation in May 2018. ← ← GRI 102-16; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Customer Privacy Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 63 98 Report 2016 Foreword Responsibility for customer data protection is processing. The ISMS features a regular and struc“We collect, retain, use and decentralized and rests with the management of tured survey to ensure compliance with statutory About this Report the individual companies. To ensure compliance information security requirements, a systematic transmit personal data and Company Profile with the relevant German laws governing customer data protection, the Group companies in Germany recording of risks and the derivation of related miti­gation measures. information in compliance Corporate Management have a data protection organization consisting of with applicable law and central data protection officers and local data proObjectives and Results CR Management tection coordinators. The latter report to the local In 2016, a strategy for implementing the EU ­General policy.” Employees manage­ment, as well as annually or occasionally Data Protection Regulation was developed to ensure Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Media, Services and Education to the ­central data protection officers, who in turn future compliance. In addition to the Executive report to the Bertelsmann Executive Board. A similar Board Guideline on Data Protection, this involved Press Freedom organization with appropriate processes is being set drawing up a concept for reporting, organization Content Responsibility up for Group companies outside Germany. The cenand documentation. This concept will be impleCustomer Privacy tral data protection officers are supported by expert mented across Bertelsmann by 2018. Accordingly, Further Topics colleagues at the Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA from fiscal 2017, a worldwide survey of the number Environment ­Corporate Legal department as well as in the indiof data protection training courses and of the numvidual divisions. ber of lawsuits ongoing with data protection agenSociety cies, including monetary implications, is planned, Additional Information An information security management system among other things. In 2016, German Bertelsmann (ISMS, based on the ISO 27001 industry stancompanies processed a total of 81,548 inquiries dard) introduced across the Group in 2014 creregarding stored personal information (previous GRI Content Index ates the technical framework for confidential data year: 74,073). ← ← GRI 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Customer Privacy Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 64 98 Report 2016 Further Topics Protecting Intellectual Property attract new creative talent, and contribute to culEspecially relevant areas where labeling is used Foreword Bertelsmann is a home for artists, writers and cretural and creative diversity. include the protection of minors (e.g., in broadcastAbout this Report ative talent across all fields. The company promotes ing →Content Responsibility, p. 59), as well as envitheir artistic development and, with it, their commerProduct Safety and Product Labeling ronmental and climate protection (e.g., in paper Company Profile cial success. Bertelsmann’s businesses develop, In their production and distribution of products and procurement and recycling →Paper, p. 73). ProdCorporate Management produce, transfer, license, and sell products and serservices, all Bertelsmann companies comply with uct safety is a focus topic that plays a special role, vices that are protected as intellectual property. For legal requirements and the highest quality stanas in the production of children’s books at Penguin CR Management Bertelsmann, the protection of intellectual property dards as a matter of course. The Bertelsmann Code Random House adhering to the strictest safety stanEmployees rights is the foundation of its business success. For of Conduct codifies this as a binding principle: “We dards in connection with the manufacturing and Media, Services and Education this reason, the company is committed to a high are committed to providing our customers with safe, production of its books, toys and related products level of global copyright protection worldwide. high-quality products and services. Our products to ensure that all Penguin Random House products Press Freedom and services must not contain defects or unsafe feaare risk-assessed and safety tested for such things Content Responsibility Transferring copyright protection comprehensively tures that could lead to the endangerment of health as choking hazards and toxicity. Customer Privacy and fairly from the analog to the digital world plays or damage to property.” Responsibility for the proFurther Topics an important role. Bertelsmann works proactively tection of media users and customers, as well as Fair Marketing Environment to build awareness regarding the value of intelleccompliance with related requirements, standards The protection of media users – especially of mi­tual property, strengthen copyright protection in the and commitments, is decentralized and rests with nors – and the safeguarding of customers’ privacy Society digital world, and take action against the illegal disthe management of the individual companies. and data security are essential for ­Bertelsmann’s Additional Information semination of content. By doing so, Bertelsmann business activities. This goes also and especially remains competitive as a media company and creBertelsmann and its companies use a variety of prinfor the advertising activities and marketing comates the prerequisites for continuing to make longciples and procedures for product labeling, reflectmunications of Bertelsmann’s companies. The GRI Content Index term investments in new products and services, ing the diversity of their products and services. Bertelsmann Code of Conduct specifies principles ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Intellectual Property; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Marketing and Labeling; 417-1 Corporate Responsibility Media, Services and Education 65 98 Report 2016 Foreword for this: “We do not knowingly engage in or prowhen thousands of libraries, schools, bookstores “We do not knowingly mote misrepresentation or fraud in the marketing or and community centers across the nation and About this Report advertising of our products and services.” Beyond world unite to celebrate the freedom to read and engage in or promote this, responsibility for compliance with national exercise the right to do so without interference or Company Profile and industry-specific legal requirements and vol­censorship. misrepresentation or fraud in Corporate Management untary commitments in advertising and marketing the marketing or advertising lies with the local businesses. CR Management of our products and services.” Employees In selling its products and services, Bertelsmann Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Media, Services and Education complies with local, national and international laws. Products that are prohibited by law are not offered. Press Freedom Content Responsibility At the same time, Bertelsmann enshrines freedom Customer Privacy of speech and opinion, as well as editorial and jourFurther Topics nalistic independence, as fundamental principles Environment for the production and dissemination of its media products and content →Press Freedom, p. 56. In Society this connection, public discourse about media Additional Information ­products and content is an explicitly encouraged and desired effect of the company’s own journalistic activity. One example is Penguin Random House’s GRI Content Index industry-leading support of ↗Banned Books Week, ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Marketing and Labeling Corporate Responsibility 66 98 Report 2016 Environment Foreword Bertelsmann’s environmental management focuses on global climate About this Report protection and responsible, efficient natural resource management. -2.6% Company Profile Corporate Management CR Management reduction in CO² emissions Employees since 2015 -1.3% Media, Services and Education Environment Energy and Emissions reduction in electricity Paper Other Environmental Data consumption since 2015 86% Society paper from recycled or Additional Information certified sources GRI Content Index ← ← Corporate Responsibility 67 98 Report 2016 Environment Foreword Through its business activities, Bertelsmann enters in view of global warming, societal and regulatory “We strive for environmentally rea complex interrelationship with the environment. requirements to disclose and manage the environAbout this Report This gives rise to a special environmental responsimental impact of business activity are on the rise. sponsible procurement and use of Company Profile bility for the company. Together with its employees, This means that Bertelsmann’s business clients natural resources (energy, water, and in dialogue with its stakeholders, Bertelsmann also expect Bertelsmann and its companies to have Corporate Management materials and land) in the producstrives to use natural resources sparingly and effieffective environmental management that ensures ciently, and to reduce direct and indirect greenhouse compliance with laws and regulations. This is partion and distribution of our products CR Management gas emissions. This is part of the company’s overall ticularly relevant for Arvato’s services businesses and the performance of our serEmployees efforts to minimize the environmental impact of its and the Bertelsmann Printing Group. production, business and distribution processes. vices.” Media, Services and Education Bertelsmann meets these growing challenges by Bertelsmann Code of Conduct Environment Transparency and Climate Protection establishing transparency about its environmenEnergy and Emissions Protecting our environment and climate plays a key tal impact along the value chain. Combined with Paper role in ensuring a future that is worth living in. To effective energy and environmental management, Other Environmental Data reduce negative effects on the environment and this has the potential to lower costs and reduce ­climate, Bertelsmann actively advocates environthe company’s environmental footprint. It is also a Society mental protection – for reasons of social responsipotential way to prevent the interruption of comAdditional Information bility, as well as to ensure a sustainable direction for modity flows due to resource scarcity or extreme its business. weather events. In Bertelsmann’s understanding, the principle of eco-efficiency includes the responAgainst a backdrop of increasingly limited natural sible and efficient use, as well as sustainable sourcGRI Content Index resources with a growing global population, and ing, of energy and natural resources. This is based ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Materials; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Energy; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Water; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Emissions; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Effluents and Waste Corporate Responsibility Environment 68 98 Report 2016 on the belief that this behavior will eventually pay improving their environmental performance in local of the companies and sites of the divisions from Foreword off economically in the short, medium or long term. management systems. Bertelsmann’s international all around the world. The data collection for 2016 About this Report “be green” working group serves as a platform for covered companies from all divisions that in sum Guidelines, Structures and Processes environmental efforts across the divisions. represented 90 percent of employees (full-time Company Profile Environmental protection is a core element of the UN equivalents) and 87 percent of Group revenues. Corporate Management Global Compact’s principles to which Bertelsmann The “be green” working group is coordinated by the The results of the Carbon Footprint not only create has pledged itself →CR Management, p. 21. The Corporate Responsibility & Diversity Management transparency about impacts on the environment and CR Management Bertelsmann Environmental Policy initiated by the department, which reports to the CHRO. Repre­climate, as well as on Bertelsmann’s environmental Employees Executive Board and the Bertelsmann Paper Policy sentatives from the Bertelsmann divisions, such as performance, but also enables the management to Media, Services and Education provide the framework for the responsible use of paper buyers, energy and environmental officers, derive measures for improvement. In addition to the natural resources throughout the Group, as well as logistics experts, and controllers, regularly meet environmental data presented in the following, furEnvironment environmentally friendly energy and material proto discuss current environmental issues and best ther information, including explanations of the data Energy and Emissions curement. practice, and they maintain a dialogue with external and indicator methodology, are available online in Paper stakeholders. Beyond this, the “be green” working the ↗Bertelsmann Carbon Footprint 2016. Other Environmental Data Operational responsibility for energy and environgroup experts coordinate the Group-wide collection mental management is decentralized and rests of environmental data. Society with the management of Bertelsmann’s comAdditional Information panies. In addition to Group-wide objectives for Since 2008, Bertelsmann has regularly calculated reducing greenhouse gas emissions →Energy and its Group-wide Carbon Footprint and gathered other Emissions, p. 69 and for paper use →Paper, p. 73, data on energy, paper, water, wastewater and waste. business units, whose operations create significant To do this, each year the Corporate Center collects, GRI Content Index environmental impacts, set their own policies for analyzes and aggregates the environmental data ← ← GRI 102-16, 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Materials; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Energy; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Water; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Emissions; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Effluents and Waste Corporate Responsibility Environment 69 98 Report 2016 Energy and Emissions Foreword Energy is a focus of Group-wide cooperation on enviThe Group-wide measured value for Bertelsmann’s Scope 1 and 2 Emissions in metric tons of CO²-eq ronmental and climate protection, because although carbon footprint and climate objectives is the About this Report the increasing digitalization of Bertelsmann’s busiBertelsmann Carbon Footprint, which includes 600,000 nesses reduces their dependence on limited natudirect (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse Basis 2014 Company Profile ral resources, it also increases the energy needed gas emissions. The calculations are carried out in 500,000 2020 Corporate Management for data management. The sharing of knowledge close alignment with the Greenhouse Gas Proto2025 and experiences in the Bertelsmann “be green” col (GHG Protocol) and are reported in CO² equiva400,000 CR Management network (e.g., regarding energy-saving technology lents (CO²eq), which, in addition to carbon dioxide, Employees or renewable energies), and cooperation in energy-­ also include methane and nitrous oxide according 300,000 Media, Services and Education efficiency projects, can help reduce energy conto their greenhouse potential. Other indirect green200,000 sumption and emissions, costs, and effort. house gas emissions are also indicated (Scope 3). Environment 100,000 Energy and Emissions Objectives and Results In 2016, Bertelsmann’s carbon footprint was Paper Bertelsmann supports the goal of the international 572,300 metric tons (previous year: 577,600 ­metric 0 Other Environmental Data community of states to limit global warming to tons) of CO²eq. This reflects a slight year-on-year 2015 2016 below 2° C. In the 2016 fiscal year, the company caldecrease of 1 percent. Of this, 286,000 metric Society culated the company-specific contribution necestons were allocated to Scope 1 (previous year: Scope 1 Scope 2 (market based) Additional Information sary to achieving the <2° C goal, taking into account 287,900 metric tons). Of the Scope 1 emissions, the methodology of the Science-Based Target Initia38 percent are attributable to electricity generation, tive. Based on this analysis and from 2017 onward, 55 percent to heating, and 7 percent to transport Bertelsmann is striving to reduce its greenhouse gas with company-owned vehicles. Indirect CO²eq GRI Content Index emissions by 10 percent, compared with 2014 by emissions from the purchase of energy (Scope 2) the year 2020, and by 20 percent by the year 2025. amounted to 286,300 metric tons (previous year: ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Energy; 302-4; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Emissions; 305-1, 305-2 Corporate Responsibility Environment 70 98 Report 2016 Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Scope Foreword About this Report Scope 1 breakdown in percent Scope 2 breakdown in percent Scope 3 breakdown in percent Company Profile Corporate Management 7 (PY: 7) 38 (PY: 39) 21 (PY: 13) 4 (PY: 4) 5 (PY: 4) Employee Fuel Electricity Heat Energy-related acitivities commuting CR Management 4 (PY: 4) Employees Business travel Media, Services and Education 286,000 286,300 1,580,500 Environment tons of CO²-eq tons of CO²-eq tons of CO²-eq (PY: 287,900) (PY: 289,700) (PY: 1,632,200) Energy and Emissions 55 (PY: 54) 79 (PY: 87) 87 (PY: 88) Paper Heat Electricity Paper Other Environmental Data Society Additional Information Scope 1: Greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned by Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions generated by Scope 3: Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from business Bertelsmann or its fully consolidated subsidiaries (e.g., owned energy production at suppliers (e.g., emissions from the proactivities outside the company’s boundaries (e.g., emissions power and heat generation facilities, and company vehicles). duction of purchased electricity and district heat). from the production of purchased paper or business travel, or fuels and energy used in the supply chain). GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Corporate Responsibility Environment 71 98 Report 2016 289,700 metric tons). Of this, 79 percent was due total of 1.38 million metric tons of CO²eq (­previous of new logistics sites. At Arvato SCM in Singapore, Foreword to electricity consumption and 21 percent to district year: 1.44 million metric tons) were recorded for for example, numerous improvement measures About this Report heat consumption. Scope 2 emissions are calcuthe paper volumes purchased by Bertelsmann were taken to cut electricity consumption by nearly lated using market-based methodology, in accorcompanies. Scope 3 emissions from energy-related 36 percent. Likewise, many Bertelsmann Printing Company Profile dance with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. activities amounted to 67,800 metric tons of CO²eq Group companies carried out measures to improve Corporate Management In terms of the defined objectives with the base (previous year: 68,400 metric tons). Business travel efficiency, such as in the area of climate control and year 2014, Scope 1 and 2 have been reduced by emissions amounted to 55,600 metric tons of CO²eq ventilation. RTL Group in Luxembourg was also able CR Management 1.6 percent. (previous year: 56,900 metric tons). Emissions from to save energy by optimizing the output of its longEmployees employees’ daily commutes totaled 75,900 metric wave broadcasting operations. Media, Services and Education Due to the very diverse businesses of the individtons of CO²eq (previous year: 71,600 metric tons). ual divisions, specific greenhouse gas emissions Heating and cooling consumption totaled Environment (Scope 1 and 2) are reported based on the revenues Compared to the previous year, total energy 711,300 megawatt-hours in 2016 (previous year: Energy and Emissions of the Group units included in the environmental consumption remained virtually unchanged at 701,600 megawatt-hours), a 1 percent increase Paper data. In 2016, specific emissions decreased slightly 1,609 gigawatt-hours. Electricity consumption in compared to 2015. Reasons for this include the Other Environmental Data to 38.6 metric tons CO²eq/million € (previous year: 2016 was reduced slightly compared to 2015, by construction of new Arvato SCM Solutions sites, 39.0 metric tons of CO²eq/million €). 1 percent to 827,600 megawatt-hours (­previous as well as changing weather conditions, which led Society year: 838,100 megawatt-hours). This is due in parto a higher demand for heating, especially at locaAdditional Information As part of Bertelsmann’s environmental data colticular to the closure of a Bertelsmann Printing tions in Eastern Europe. In 2016, the use of fuel lection, indirect greenhouse gas emissions from Group site, as well as an RTL Group medium-wave for the vehicle fleet slightly increased by 1 percent the production of purchased paper, from energy-­ site, and the divestment of further international from 69,200 megawatt-hours to 69,800 megawatt-­ related activities (outside Scope 1 and 2), from activities by Gruner + Jahr. In addition, energyhours. The energy intensity is reported based on GRI Content Index business travel and from employee commutes are efficiency measures taken at Arvato nearly comthe revenues of the Group units included in the reported under Scope 3. For the 2016 financial year, a pensated for the additional electricity consumption environmental data. In the reporting year 2016, the ← ← GRI 302-1, 302-3, 302-4; 305-2, 305-3, 305-4 Corporate Responsibility Environment 72 98 Report 2016 Foreword specific use of energy, at 108.6 megawatt-hours per procurement of green electricity. In October Energy Consumption in megawatt hours €1 ­million revenue, was slightly below the previous 2016, a photovoltaic plant went into operation About this Report year (­previous year: 108.7 megawatt hours). on the roof of an Arvato SCM Solutions logistics 2,000,000 building in Landsberg, and has since produced Company Profile Selected Other Results “green” electricity for telecoms and healthcare Corporate Management customers. With a peak output of 1.7 kilowatts, 1,500,000 >> Transparency: In 2016, Bertelsmann took part it is one of the largest rooftop photovoltaic plants CR Management in the ↗CDP Supply Chain Program for the first in the German state of Saxony-Anhalt, and the Employees time, and made comprehensive information first in-house plant of this size used by Arvato. 1,000,000 Media, Services and Education about its climate management and emissions RTL Nederland has also been increasingly available to business customers. On a scale from buying “green” electricity at its Hilversum site. 500,000 Environment A to F, it received an above-average rating of C. Energy and Emissions >> Networking: In 2016, an in-house energy netPaper work was set up at Bertelsmann in Germany. 0 Other Environmental Data The first network meeting was held in ­Gütersloh 2015 2016 in November 2016. Experts from most of the Society divisions will meet three to four times a year Electricity Heat Fuel Additional Information to optimize energy management, expand their expertise in the areas of energy efficiency and energy audits, and share experiences. >> Renewable energy: In 2016 Bertelsmann made GRI Content Index its first larger-scale investment in producing renewable energy in-house, and expanded its ← ← GRI 302-1, 302-3 Corporate Responsibility Environment 73 98 Report 2016 Paper Foreword Paper, still the most important resource for the remaining paper volumes were provided to the “We seek the responsible, print media business, has a special priority at printing plants by customers. About this Report Bertelsmann. Even in an increasingly digital media efficient and considerate use landscape, printed books, magazines, brochures For paper procurement, Bertelsmann has adopted a Company Profile and leaflets will continue to have their place, which Paper Policy to supplement its Environmental ­Policy. of paper in our entire value Corporate Management is why resource conservation and waste prevention The policy also promotes certified sustainable forchain.” play a major role at Bertelsmann across the paper estry. For example, as the Paper Policy stipulates, CR Management Bertelsmann Paper Policy value chain. To safeguard forests, which are valuable no paper may be used whose production involves Employees for climate protection and biodiversity, Bertelsmann wood from virgin or protected forests. In addition, Media, Services and Education advocates responsible paper procurement. In their Bertelsmann takes care to ensure that, beyond cerrole as print service providers and paper buyers, tified wood fiber, the paper used contains as much Environment Bertelsmann companies offer their customers an recycled paper as possible. To complement its Paper Energy and Emissions extensive range of sustainably certified and carbon-­ Policy, Bertelsmann strives to increase the share of Paper neutral print products. recycled paper and paper from certified sustainable Other Environmental Data forestry to more than 90 percent by 2020. Objectives and Results Society Paper consumption accounts for the largest share In 2016, paper from sustainable sources accounted Additional Information of Bertelsmann’s total raw material consumption. for 86 percent of the total volume of paper purchased Compared to 2015, it decreased by 10,000 ­metric by Bertelsmann companies. Sustainable sources tons (-1 percent) in 2016, to 1,852,200 metric tons. include recycled paper as well as paper from certiOf the paper consumed, Bertelsmann bought a fiable sources that meet the requirements of FSC®, GRI Content Index total of 1,134,000 metric tons on its own account PEFC™, SFI® or equivalent standards. The year-on(61 percent of the paper consumption). The year increase of 12 percentage points (previous ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Materials; 301-1, 301-2 Corporate Responsibility Environment 74 98 Report 2016 Foreword year: 74 percent) is partly due to improved transPaper Bought by Bertelsmann in thousands Paper from Sustainable Sources in percent parency regarding existing certifications in paper of metric tons About this Report procurement, as well as to changing order ­behavior among customers and the responsible buyers. In 1,500 90% 2020 Company Profile 86% 2016, the share of certified paper procured was Corporate Management 64 percent (previous year: 53 percent). Recycled 1,000 paper accounted for 22 percent of this (previous CR Management 74% year: 21 percent). Employees 500 Media, Services and Education 60% Environment 0 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Energy and Emissions Paper Other Environmental Data Recycled Certified Other Share of total paper procurement Society Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 301-2 Corporate Responsibility Environment 75 98 Report 2016 Other Environmental Data Data on water consumption, wastewater and waste 2 percent overall increase can be attributed, among Foreword disposal is recorded across the Group as part of the other things, to higher consumption by environAbout this Report annual environmental data collection. This informamentally friendly air-conditioning at Mediengruppe tion can be used to identify trends and potential for RTL Deutschland. Company Profile improvement. Due to the disparate relevance and Corporate Management regulation of water and waste management locally, Waste these topics are mainly handled in a decentralized In 2016, waste volumes increased by 1 percent to CR Management manner by the local businesses. 318,800 tons (previous year: 314,300 tons). More Employees than 95 percent of this was recyclable waste, most Media, Services and Education Water Extraction of which is paper waste generated in the printIn the 2016 financial year, the total volume of water ing plants. The remaining waste is classified into Environment extracted from the public supply and company wells waste for disposal (4 percent) and hazardous waste Energy and Emissions increased to 4.8 million cubic meters (­previous year: (<1 percent). Paper 4.7 million cubic meters). This 2 ­percent overall Other Environmental Data increase can be attributed to, among other things, higher consumption of environmentally friendly Society air-conditioning at Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland. Additional Information Wastewater In the 2016 financial year, the total volume of water extracted from the public supply and comGRI Content Index pany wells increased to 4.8 million cubic meters (­previous year: 4.7 million cubic meters). This ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Water; 303-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Effluents and Waste; 306-1, 306-2 Corporate Responsibility 76 98 Report 2016 Society Foreword Citizenship is firmly anchored in Bertelsmann’s corporate culture. About this Report The Group aspires to make a valuable contribution to society with its Company Profile products and services. Corporate Management CR Management >15 million Employees books donated by Media, Services and Education Penguin Random House Environment Society > €20 million €600,000 by 2020 funds raised for charity Donations, Sponsorship and Projects donated for IT at Help through Media and Services during RTL Group flagship elementary schools in Promoting Media Literacy events Gütersloh Refugee Aid Additional Information GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 201-1; 303-1 Corporate Responsibility 77 98 Report 2016 Society Bertelsmann sees itself as part of society. As one of the supporting its “license to operate”; that is, enhancing strategy. At the Group level, Bertelsmann ­Corporate Foreword four Bertelsmann Essentials, corporate citizenship is the community’s acceptance of Bertelsmann. Communications is responsible for donations and About this Report deeply rooted in the corporate culture and, with it, the sponsorship. In line with the principle of decenCompany Profile daily activities of the Group, its divisions and compaDonations, Sponsorship and tralization, the divisions independently select their nies. In this sense, Bertelsmann strives to be a “good sponsorship projects and donations, guided by the Corporate Management citizen” – working toward a community worth living Projects Executive Board Guideline and in coordination with in through positive contributions to society. This also Corporate. The Chair & CEO decides on one-off CR Management includes the Group contributing its media, services Donations, sponsorship, funding for charity projdonations and sponsorships of more than €100,000 Employees and education business expertise, as well as financial ects and memberships are an expression of socially as well as regular commitments exceeding €50,000. Media, Services and Education assistance, when needed outside the company. responsible behavior and support ­Bertelsmann’s All commitments must be reported annually to the role as a good corporate citizen worldwide. CareGroup tax department to fulfill related due-diligence Environment Ensuring “License to Operate” fully planned and professionally implemented supand compliance obligations by the Bertelsmann Society As a media, services and education company, port measures boost the company’s reputation and Executive Board. Group companies are also required Bertelsmann’s activities are interwoven with societal anchor Bertelsmann as a responsible partner in the to define and document their donation activities and Donations, Sponsorship and Projects development around the world. Today, society and communities where it operates. sponsorship concepts and keep these documents Help through Media and Services employees alike expect the company to play an active for a period of five years. The general prerequisites Promoting Media Literacy role beyond its own businesses. Bertelsmann’s corGuidelines, Structures and Processes of the Executive Board’s Anti-corruption Policy are Refugee Aid porate social responsibility efforts, on the Group, diviThe Executive Board’s Guideline on Donations, to be complied with in the process and all questions Additional Information sional and company level, encompass a wide range of Sponsorships and Memberships ensures that supdirected to the ­Integrity & Compliance department. measures and sponsorship programs that involve and port measures in the form of donations, sponsordevelop local communities. By the same token, these ship and membership comply with legal and fiscal Bertelsmann’s priorities for its corporate citizenship GRI Content Index efforts pay dividends for the company’s success by requirements and are consistent with the company’s activities, based on the Executive Board Guideline ← ← GRI 102-16, 102-20; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Local Communities; 413-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Media Literacy Corporate Responsibility Society 78 98 Report 2016 Foreword on Donations, Sponsorships and Memberships, are Bertelsmann is especially committed to the loca“In the view of our shareholders, the as follows: tions where its companies operate, and gives prefAbout this Report erence to organizations and initiatives in which possession of property creates an Company Profile >> Education, especially for socially disadvantaged Bertelsmann employees are actively involved. obligation to the community. They groups and media-related issues (e.g., reading Corporate Management believe that in a market economy promotion, media literacy) Bertelsmann explicitly does not donate to poli>> Culture, especially promoting cultural heritage ticians, political parties or party organizations. a corporation derives its legitimacy CR Management and newcomers in fields closely associated with Similarly, it does not support organizations and from making a valuable contribution Employees Bertelsmann (e.g., literature, TV, movies) institutions whose fundamental position con>> Academic Research, especially on topics flicts with liberal-democratic principles, or which to society.” Media, Services and Education closely associated with Bertelsmann, such as allow or imply discrimination against people. Bertelsmann Essentials Environment economic and social sciences, as well as media Bertelsmann also does not engage in sports sponSociety and communications science sorship. >> Freedom in creativity and media, especially Donations, Sponsorship and Projects freedom of expression and press freedom, proObjectives and Results Help through Media and Services tection of intellectual property, content responBertelsmann seeks to contribute to the future-­ Promoting Media Literacy sibility, and editorial independence oriented development of its surroundings through Refugee Aid >> Networking activities with relevant stakedonations, sponsorship and charitable activities, Additional Information holders while at the same time securing acceptance and a broad client base. The goal is to reach as many The company also supports humanitarian disas­people as possible, create a positive impact on GRI Content Index ter relief efforts. As a good corporate citizen, ­society and increase Bertelsmann’s visibility. ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Local Communities; 413-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Public Policy; 415-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Media Literacy Corporate Responsibility Society 79 98 Report 2016 Selected donations and projects by Corporate >> UFA Film Nights: In August 2016, Bertelsmann made in-kind donations to various organizations, Foreword Center and RTL Group’s film production company, including more than 4,300 books. About this Report UFA, presented the sixth UFA Film Nights in >> Digitization of movie classics: As an interna­Berlin. Over three evenings, early masterpieces Selected donations and projects by the Company Profile tional media company, Bertelsmann promotes of ­cinema history were screened under the open divisions Corporate Management the preservation and restoration of early cinesky, accompanied by live music. matic masterpieces and is committed to the >> Citizenship activities in the Gütersloh area: >> Collaboration with the DKMS: In 2016, the CR Management digitization of its heritage. For example, in 2016 The company has supported approximately Mediengruppe RTL Deutschland channel Vox, Employees Bertelsmann supported the Friedrich Wilhelm 230 organizations, associations and projects in and its drama series “Club der roten Bänder,” Media, Services and Education Murnau Foundation’s comprehensive digital its hometown of Gütersloh and the surrounding supported the DKMS (German Bone Marrow restoration of the 1921 silent film, Destiny, from area with donations and sponsorship totaling Donor Registry) in the fight against leukemia. Environment director Fritz Lang. around €1.2 million – the highest sum since 2009. >> Projects in Hamburg: As part of its annual Society >> Digital history of opera: Milan-based Archivio The largest single donation of €600,000 went to Christmas Bazaar project, Gruner + Jahr Storico Ricordi is one of the world’s most valuGütersloh elementary schools to buy tablets for donated approximately €12,000 to five area Donations, Sponsorship and Projects able privately owned music collections. Since teaching. Bertelsmann also pledged €150,000 nonprofit projects that work to improve coopHelp through Media and Services 2011, Bertelsmann and the Ricordi team have to modernize the children’s library at Gütersloh eration and understanding in communities. Promoting Media Literacy been collaborating on developing a preservation Town Library →Promoting Media Literacy, p. 82. Since 2000, nearly €800,000 has been donated Refugee Aid project of its archives for posterity. Documenting Bertelsmann also supported the Gütersloh in this way. Additional Information the history of Italian opera, thousands of items ­Theater and several schools and kindergartens. >> “WERTvoller Raum” Project: Arvato Financial from the famous collection have been availAt Christmas, the company donated €25,000 to Solutions supported the Malteser Werke in their able for viewing and research via the Collezione Der Weg nach Hause, a palliative care provider efforts to integrate refugees as part of the “Aktion GRI Content Index Digitale online platform since December 2016. in Bielefeld, for the 10th year. Bertelsmann also Deutschland Hilft” Alliance with €30,000. ← ← GRI 201-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Local Communities; 413-1; 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Public Policy Corporate Responsibility Society 80 98 Report 2016 >> “erlebe IT” Initiative: Arvato Systems supForeword ported the Bitkom school initiative ↗erlebe IT, About this Report which is dedicated to teaching digital skills in schools through training courses and programCompany Profile ming workshops, by providing personnel and Corporate Management financial support of €15,000. >> Support of “The Prince’s Trust”: Since 2014, CR Management Arvato UK & Ireland has supported the integraEmployees tion of disadvantaged young people into the Media, Services and Education labor market through financial donations, fundraising and volunteer activities. Environment >> IT recycling: Arvato SCM Solutions Brazil Society donated 317 kilograms of computer material to a recycling company. Part of the accrued Donations, Sponsorship and Projects proceeds goes to projects that promote social Help through Media and Services and digital inclusion. Promoting Media Literacy Refugee Aid Measures to promote media literacy and reading Additional Information are described under →Promoting Media Literacy, p. 82. GRI Content Index ← ← GRI 201-1; 413-1 Corporate Responsibility Society 81 98 Report 2016 Help through Media and Services Bertelsmann and its divisions support nonprofit sum raised by the format since 1996 amounts project can apply for G+J to make a matching Foreword projects and initiatives around the world through to more than €151 million. The RTL “Télévie” donation of up to three times the amount (€3,333 About this Report media and public fundraising. In addition, some telethon, a collaboration between RTL Belgium maximum). Bertelsmann divisions and companies make time and RTL Luxembourg, has raised more than >> Arvato debt counseling: Arvato Financial Company Profile and their employees’ expertise available for corpo€162 million since 1989 for the Belgian Fonds Solutions has supported debt counseling at the Corporate Management rate volunteering programs. de la Recherche Scientifique (FNRS) for the Diakonisches Werk in Nordbaden since its estabresearch and treatment of leukemia in children lishment in 2009 with an annual financial donaCR Management Selected Results and adults. tion of €10,000. In addition, Arvato provides its Employees >> Volunteering activities at Penguin Random expertise for looking after and advising debtors. Media, Services and Education >> Bertelsmann Rosenball: In April 2016, House: By the end of 2020, Penguin Other Arvato sites carry out similar volunteering Bertelsmann and the German Stroke Foundation Random House will make 250,000 working activities on their own initiative. Environment founded by Liz Mohn hosted the 12th ­Rosenball hours available for employees to participate in Society in Berlin to raise money for a good cause. The company-organized initiatives, or to volunteer donations raised that evening will mainly go with organizations they personally support. Donations, Sponsorship and Projects toward building a network of pediatric care cen>> G+J volunteering program: Since 2008, Help through Media and Services ters that will provide children affected by strokes employees and managers have engaged in the Promoting Media Literacy in Germany with quick, qualified diagnosis and G+J Commitment corporate volunteering proRefugee Aid optimal treatment. gram. For each day they take off to volunteer Additional Information >> RTL-Spendenmarathon and “Télévie”: In 2016, for a social or charity institution, all employees the 21st RTL-Spendenmarathon, Mediengruppe can apply for another day of paid leave (up to a RTL Deutschland’s central fundraiser, raised maximum of three days per year). In addition, GRI Content Index €7.8 million for charity. This means that the total employees who donate their own money to a ← ← GRI 413-1 Corporate Responsibility Society 82 98 Report 2016 Promoting Media Literacy As a key skill of our time, media literacy has major designed children’s section worth €150,000 to division. Its target is to donate more than 15 milForeword implications for the education and development Gütersloh’s City Library →Donations, Sponsorship lion books to schools and educational programs About this Report opportunities of children, adolescents and adults. and Projects, p. 77. Among other things, Penguin by 2020, to promote reading among children By promoting relevant education measures, espeRandom House supports the First Book, Save in need around the world. In addition, 3 million Company Profile cially in ​​literacy and reading, Bertelsmann makes the Children and World Reader organizations, e-books are to be made available to schools Corporate Management an important contribution to societal development. which provide books to children and teenagand libraries in sub-Saharan Africa by 2020. In The company is guided by the principle of helping ers. Gruner + Jahr has been the main sponsor 2016, Penguin Random House Grupo Editorial CR Management people to help themselves at an early stage, because of “Buchstart,” a long-term early-childhood donated 10,000 books to Spanish prisons. Employees only those who actively experience, explore and literacy initiative, since 2007. The publishing >> Digital literacy for children and teens: Media, Services and Education question, as children, what they can do with the house also supports the Germany-wide “Lese­ Bertelsmann companies take a variety of media will be able to use it competently in future – start” project run by the Stiftung Lesen (Reading approaches to helping children and teens Environment as active readers, and as technically savvy and Foundation). Prinovis UK sponsored events by use digital media competently and responsibly. Society ­critical users. its charity partner The Reader. The events under ­Projects and initiatives in the field of digital skills the heading “Anytime is Storytime” are aimed promotion for young media users are described in Donations, Sponsorship and Projects Selected Results at families in Liverpool and are intended to greater detail in →Content Responsibility, p. 59. Help through Media and Services encourage reading. The company also supports Promoting Media Literacy >> Reading days: Every year, Bertelsmann and the Vision for Literacy Business Pledge initiative Refugee Aid its divisions host numerous events for World to promote literacy in the United Kingdom. Additional Information Book Day on April 23, as well as for Germany’s >> Book donations: One important element in pro­Reading Day. moting reading and literacy is the provision of >> Reading initiatives: To celebrate Liz Mohn’s free reading material. Bertelsmann’s most promGRI Content Index 75th birthday, Bertelsmann donated a newly inent book donor is the Penguin Random House ← ← GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Media Literacy; M7 Corporate Responsibility Society 83 98 Report 2016 Refugee Aid Across all divisions and all hierarchies, Bertelsmann Corporate Education has successfully implepeople to knit a scarf to a pattern or buy one. Foreword companies and their employees have been working mented for seven years. For each scarf, €10 will go to Save the Children’s About this Report to help people who have had to flee from war and >> TV format for refugees: In 2015, the program relief projects for Syrian refugee children. violence in their home countries. The main idea is “Marhaba” on RTL’s news channel N-TV was Company Profile to make them feel welcome, help them and intethe first program in Germany aimed at refugees Corporate Management grate them into our society. and immigrants from the Middle East. Practical information about life in Germany, presented CR Management Selected Results in Arabic, is designed to help them settle into Employees their new everyday lives. For his commitment, Media, Services and Education >> “Be Welcome” program: At the beginning the show’s presenter, journalist Constantin of April 2016, Bertelsmann launched the Schreiber, was distinguished with the Grimme Environment “Be Welcome” project in cooperation with the Award in 2016. Society ­Gütersloh Job Center. The program supports >> “Wir zusammen” initiative: Gruner + Jahr has the integration of refugees into the regional joined forces with 35 other well-known German Donations, Sponsorship and Projects labor market. It is aimed at refugees ages 18 to companies to help integrate refugees into the Help through Media and Services 25 with the aim of helping them develop career labor market through the “Wir zusammen” (“We Promoting Media Literacy prospects in the dual-training system within a Together”) initiative. Refugee Aid year. Eight young men and three women from >> “Schal fürs Leben” campaign: Together with Additional Information Syria enrolled in the training program, which the world’s largest independent children’s is designed and managed by the Bertelsmann rights organization, Save the Children, the G+J­ Corporate Education department. The concept women’s magazine “Brigitte” organized the GRI Content Index is based on the “Du bist deine Zukunft” (“You ­second “Ein Schal fürs Leben” (“A Scarf for Are Your Future”) project, which Bertelsmann Life”) campaign in 2016. The campaign calls on ← ← GRI 413-1 Corporate Responsibility 84 98 Report 2016 Additional Information Foreword About this Report Company Profile Corporate Management CR Management Employees Media, Services and Education Environment Society Additional Information List of Relevant CR Topics GRI Content Index Production Credits and Contact ← ← Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 85 98 Report 2016 List of Relevant CR Topics Foreword CR Topic at Bertelsmann GRI Aspects Boundary/Scope Basis: GRI Standards 2016 and cf. GRI Standards Glossary 2016, p. 17 About this Report GRI Media Sector Disclosures Company Profile Education > Training and Education > Inside the company Press Freedom > Freedom of Expression and Opinion > Inside the company, outside the company Corporate Management > Content Production > Inside the company, outside the company CR Management Fair Working Conditions > Employment > Inside the company Employees > Labor/Management Relations > Inside the company Media, Services and Education > Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining > Inside the company, outside the company Environment > Child Labor > Outside the company Society > Forced or Compulsory Labor > Outside the company Protection of Media Users > Marketing and Product Labeling > Inside the company, outside the company Additional Information and Customers > Customer Privacy > Inside the company List of Relevant CR Topics GRI Content Index > Content Dissemination > Inside the company Production Credits and Contact > Media Literacy > Inside the company, outside the company Diversity > Diversity and Equal Opportunity > Inside the company > Non-discrimination > Inside the company, outside the company Health > Occupational Health and Safety > Inside the company ← ← GRI 102-46, 102-47 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 86 98 Report 2016 Foreword CR Topic at Bertelsmann GRI Aspects Boundary/Scope Basis: GRI Standards 2016 and cf. GRI Standards Glossary 2016, p. 17 About this Report GRI Media Sector Disclosures Company Profile Eco-efficiency/Environment > Materials > Outside the company > Energy > Inside the company, outside the company Corporate Management > Water > Inside the company, outside the company CR Management > Emissions > Inside the company, outside the company Employees > Effluents and Waste > Inside the company, outside the company Media, Services and Education Further Topics > Economic Performance > Inside the company, outside the company Environment > Anti-corruption > Inside the company, outside the company Society > Anti-competitive Behavior > Inside the company > Protection of Intellectual Property > Inside the company Additional Information > Local Communities > Inside the company List of Relevant CR Topics GRI Content Index > Public Policy > Inside the company Production Credits and Contact ← ← GRI 102-46, 102-47 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 87 98 Report 2016 GRI Content Index Foreword General Disclosures About this Report Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information Company Profile Corporate Management GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 CR Management Organizational Profile Employees GRI 102-1: Name of the organization 12 GRI 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and 6, 9, 10 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Innovation and Growth) Media, Services and Education services ↗Corporate Website: Company Profile Environment GRI 102-3: Location of headquarters Gütersloh, Germany Society GRI 102-4: Location of operations 6, 7 ↗Corporate Website: Locations Additional Information GRI 102-5: Ownership and legal form 12, 13 List of Relevant CR Topics GRI 102-6: Markets served 7, 9, 10 GRI Content Index GRI 102-7: Scale of the organization 6–10, 54 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), Production Credits and Contact p. 5, 43 GRI 102-8: Information on employees and 34, 37, 39 VI ↗Corporate Website: Employee Figures other workers GRI 102-9: Supply chain 9, 10 GRI 102-10: Significant changes to the 8 organization and its supply chain ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 88 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 102-11: Precautionary Principle or approach 16, 17, 19, 30, 31 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), p. 29 ff. GRI 102-12: External initiatives 12, 16, 17, 24, 36, 57, 58, 60, 61 GRI 102-13: Membership of associations 24 ↗Corporate Website: Memberships and Foreword Cooperations About this Report Strategy Company Profile GRI 102-14: Statement from senior decision3 maker Corporate Management Ethics and Integrity CR Management GRI 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and 15, 17, 18, 19, 33, 35, 36, 43, 44, 56, 57, 62, 68, 77 I–X ↗Corporate Website: Bertelsmann Essentials Employees norms of behavior ↗Corporate Website: Bertelsmann Code of Conduct ↗Corporate Website: Bertelsmann Supplier Code of Media, Services and Education Conduct Environment Governance Structure Society GRI 102-18: Governance structure 12, 13, 14 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), p. 126 ff. Additional Information Stakeholder Engagement List of Relevant CR Topics GRI Content Index GRI 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 25 ↗Corporate Website: Stakeholder Dialogue Production Credits and Contact GRI 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 18 III GRI 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 25 ↗Corporate Website: Stakeholder Dialogue GRI 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 25–27, 37, 38 ↗Corporate Website: Stakeholder Dialogue GRI 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 28, 29, 37 ↗Corporate Website: Topics ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 89 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information Reporting Practice GRI 102-45: Entities included in the consolidated 4, 6 ↗Corporate Website: Subsidiaries and Participations financial statement Foreword GRI 102-46: Defining report content and topic 28, 29, 85, 86 Boundaries About this Report GRI 102-47: List of material topics 85, 86 Company Profile GRI 102-48: Restatements of information 4, 34 Corporate Management GRI 102-49: Changes in reporting 4, 28, 29 CR Management GRI 102-50: Reporting periods 4 Employees GRI 102-51: Date of most recent report 4 Media, Services and Education GRI 102-52: Reporting cycle 4 annual Environment GRI 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding 98 ↗Corporate Website: Contacts Society the report GRI 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance 4 Additional Information to the GRI Standards List of Relevant CR Topics GRI 102-55: GRI content index 87–97 GRI Content Index Production Credits and Contact GRI 102-56: External assurance none GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 7, 8 I–X ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information) (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Annual Report 2016 (Innovation and Growth), p. 12–15 GRI 201-1: Direct economic value generated 7, 76, 79, 80 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), p. 41 f. and distributed ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 90 98 Report 2016 Foreword Relevant Topics About this Report Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information Company Profile M1: Significant funding and other support 8 Corporate Management received from nongovernmental sources CR Management (ads etc.) Employees GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 17–20 X ↗Corporate Website: Anti-corruption Media, Services and Education (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Environment GRI 205-2: Communication and training about 20 X ↗Corporate Website: Compliance Training Initiatives anti-corruption policies and procedures Society GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 Additional Information GRI 103: Management approach 2016 17, 20 List of Relevant CR Topics (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI Content Index GRI 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive The Bertelsmann Annual Report contains more ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), p. 33 Production Credits and Contact behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices information on this. GRI 301: Materials 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 67, 68, 73 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Corporate Website: Paper ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 91 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 73 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 GRI 301-2: Recycled input materials used 73, 74 VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 Foreword GRI 103: Management approach 2016 67, 68, 69 VII–IX ↗Corporate Website: Energy and Emissions About this Report (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 Company Profile GRI 302-1: Energy consumption within the 71, 72 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 organization Corporate Management GRI 302-3: Energy intensity 71, 72 VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 CR Management GRI 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 69, 71 VIII–IX ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 Employees GRI 303: Water 2016 Media, Services and Education GRI 103: Management approach 2016 67, 68, 75 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Environment GRI 303-1: Water withdrawal by source 75 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 Society GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Additional Information GRI 103: Management approach 2016 67, 68, 69 VII–IX ↗Corporate Website: Energy and Emissions List of Relevant CR Topics (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Corporate Website: Carbon Footprint ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 GRI Content Index Production Credits and Contact GRI 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 69, 70 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 GRI 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 69–71 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 emissions ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 92 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG 70, 71 VII–VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 emissions GRI 305-4: GHG emissions intensity 71 VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 Foreword GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 About this Report GRI 103: Management approach 2016 67, 68, 75 VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Company Profile GRI 306-1: Water discharge by quality and 75 VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 Corporate Management destination CR Management GRI 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 75 VIII ↗Carbon Footprint 2016 Employees GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 32, 33, 35, 36 I, III, VI ↗Corporate Website: Employees Media, Services and Education (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Environment GRI 401-1: New employee hires and employee 36 VI ↗Corporate Website: Employee Figures turnover Bertelsmann does not currently publish information Society on new hires and employee fluctuation. This is due to adjustments to the definition of the employee categoAdditional Information ries “full-time employees” and “headcount”. List of Relevant CR Topics GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 GRI Content Index GRI 103: Management approach 2016 33, 35, 36, 37, 38 III ↗Corporate Website: Employee Representation Production Credits and Contact (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding 37 III operational changes ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 93 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 33, 35, 50–52 I, VI ↗Corporate Website: Health (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Bertelsmann Health Website Foreword GRI 403-2: Types of injury and rates of injury, oc53 cupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Bertelsmann does not report these figures by gender or About this Report and number of work-related fatalities with regard to freelance and external/third-party employees, and does not provide any information on deaths. Company Profile Due to the decentralized organizational structures in the Corporate Management field of occupational health and safety, this information is not centrally available at Bertelsmann. A central collecCR Management tion of this information is not currently planned. Employees GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Media, Services and Education GRI 103: Management approach 2016 33, 35, 40–42 I, VI ↗Corporate Website: Learning (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Environment GRI 404-1: Average hours of training per year 41 VI Society per employee Bertelsmann does not currently report these figures broken down by gender and other employee categoAdditional Information ries, since this information is not available centrally. Bertelsmann is continuing to develop its data collecList of Relevant CR Topics tion in this respect, and plans to report on this in the GRI Content Index medium term. Production Credits and Contact GRI 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee 37, 40, 41 ↗Corporate Website: Continuing Education skills and transition assistance programs GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 33, 35, 43–47, 49 I, VI ↗Corporate Website: Diversity (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 94 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and 13, 47, 48 I, VI employees GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Foreword GRI 103: Management approach 2016 18 I–II, VI ↗Corporate Website: Anti-Discrimination (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) About this Report GRI 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and Bertelsmann does not report case numbers, since such I–II, VI Company Profile corrective actions taken incidents are subject to special confidentiality requirements. All reports of suspected compliance violations Corporate Management received are reviewed and examined in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Group Guidelines. CR Management If an infringement is confirmed, appropriate remediation Employees measures are taken. Details on case categories, case numbers and total numbers of reports received are Media, Services and Education regularly reported to the Bertelsmann Corporate Compliance Committee and the Executive Board. Further Environment details on this are subject to trade secrecy provisions. Society GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 Additional Information GRI 103: Management approach 2016 17, 18 I–III (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) List of Relevant CR Topics GRI Content Index GRI 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the 16 I–III right to freedom of association and collective barProduction Credits and Contact gaining may be at risk GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 17, 18 I–II, IV (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 95 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant 16 I–II, IV risk for incidents of child labor GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 Foreword GRI 103: Management approach 2016 17, 18 I–II, IV (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) About this Report GRI 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant 16 I–II, IV Company Profile risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor Corporate Management MSD²: Freedom of Expression CR Management GRI 103: Management approach 2016 56–58 I–II ↗Corporate Website: Press Freedom (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Employees MSD²: Intellectual Property Media, Services and Education GRI 103: Management approach 2016 64 I–II ↗Corporate Website: Protection of Media Users Environment (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) and Customers Society GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 77–79 I ↗Corporate Website: Society Additional Information (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Corporate Website: Cultural Affairs List of Relevant CR Topics GRI 413-1: Operations with local community 77–81, 83 I ↗Corporate Website: Projects Worldwide GRI Content Index engagement, impact assessments, and Production Credits and Contact development programs GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 26, 78, 79 I–X ↗Corporate Website: Public Affairs (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) GRI 415-1: Political contributions 78 X ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. 2) Media Sector Disclosures. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 96 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 64, 65 I–VIII (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Foreword GRI 417-1: Requirements for product and service 64 information and labeling About this Report GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Company Profile GRI 103: Management approach 2016 62, 63 I–II Corporate Management (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) CR Management GRI 418-1: Substantiated complaints concerning Bertelsmann currently does not report on legitimate priI–II breaches of customer privacy and losses of vacy complaints, since this information is not available Employees customer data centrally. A data collection process has been set up; Bertelsmann plans to report on this starting in 2018. Media, Services and Education MSD²: Content Creation Environment GRI 103: Management approach 2016 55, 59, 60 I–II ↗Corporate Website: Quality Society (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) ↗Corporate Website: Press freedom Additional Information M3: Actions taken to improve adherence to 56, 57, 59, 60 I–II content creation values, and results obtained List of Relevant CR Topics MSD²: Content Dissemination GRI Content Index Production Credits and Contact GRI 103: Management approach 2016 57, 59, 60 I–II ↗Corporate Website: Protection of Media Users (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) and Customers ↗Corporate Website: Access to Media M4: Actions taken to improve performance in 57, 59, 60 I–II ↗Corporate Website: Access to Media relation to content dissemination issues and results obtained ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. 2) Media Sector Disclosures. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 97 98 Report 2016 Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information MSD²: Media Literacy GRI 103: Management approach 2016 61, 77, 78, 82 I–II ↗Corporate Website: Media Literacy (including GRI 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Foreword M7: Actions taken to empower audiences 61, 82 I–II through media literacy skills development and About this Report results obtained Company Profile Corporate Management CR Management Further GRI Standard Disclosures (Supplementary to “in Accordance, Core” Disclosures) Employees Disclosures Page/Comments UNGC¹ Further Information Media, Services and Education Environment GRI 102-15: Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 9, 16, 22, 28–31 Society GRI 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns 17–20 I–X ↗Corporate Website: Compliance about ethics Additional Information GRI 102-20: Executive-level responsibility for 12–14, 17, 21–23, 35, 40, 44, 50, 63, 68, 77 ↗Corporate Website: CR Organization List of Relevant CR Topics economic, environmental, and social topics GRI Content Index GRI 102-22: Composition of the highest 14, 47, 48 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), Production Credits and Contact governance body and its committees p. 133 ff. GRI 102-23: Chair of the highest governance body 12 ↗Annual Report 2016 (Financial Information), p. 133 ff. ← ← 1) UN Global Compact. 2) Media Sector Disclosures. GRI 102-55 Corporate Responsibility Additional Information 98 98 Report 2016 Production Credits Contact Publisher Professional Consultation Corporate Responsibility & Foreword Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Diversity Management About this Report Carl-Bertelsmann-Straße 270 München Tel.: +49 (0) 5241-80-75021 33311 Gütersloh, Germany responsibility@bertelsmann.com Company Profile Photography Corporate Management Responsible Sebastian Pfütze, Berlin For Journalists Marie-Luise Kühn von Burgsdorff Corporate Communications/ CR Management Head of Corporate Responsibility & Media Relations Employees Diversity Management Editorial deadline: July 31, 2017 Tel.: +49 (0) 5241-80-2466 Media, Services and Education presse@bertelsmann.com Project Lead and Head of Editorial Environment Katharina Kerl For Analysts and Investors Society Director Corporate Responsibility Investor Relations Tel.: +49 (0) 5241-80-2342 Additional Information Editorial Staff investor.relations@bertelsmann.de List of Relevant CR Topics Barbara Kutscher, Lena Fischer, GRI Content Index Carolin Scheil For Global Jobs and Careers Production Credits and Contact Recruiting Services Design and Production createyourowncareer@bertelsmann.com Territory CTR GmbH, Gütersloh ↗www.createyourowncareer.com ← GRI 102-53
