Communication on Progress Year: 2017 Statement of Continued Support of the UN Global Compact 25th September,2017 Ms. Judy Njino Global Compact focal point Kenya United Nations Global Compact Nairobi Kenya. Dear Judy Njino, Re: TATA Chemicals Magadi Co Ltd. support to the UN Global Compact TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited (TCML) is committed to rendering support to the global compact programme of The UN and will endeavour to abide by the TEN principles of the United Nations Global Compact in The core agendas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. As a responsible business, TCML has been a leader in corporate social responsibility, environment, safety, and human resource management for over 100 years. As part of actions that demonstrate increasing commitment to sustainability, TCML continues in implementation of The IS0 26000 and remains an active member in the technical committee of sustainability by The Kenya Bureau of Standards With this communication we express our willingness to continue supporting and advancing the principles of The UN global compact through our policies, processes, products, and services. In case of any further enquiries do not hesitate Page 1/14 to get in touch with The Foundation Manager-Mr. David Aoll on Telephone +254 722 773 492. For and on behalf of: TATA Chemicals Magadi Limited. Yours Sincerely, Eng. Jackson Muchira Mbui Managing Director. ______________________________________ 25/09/2017, ENG JACKSON MBUI,MANAGING DIRECTOR Company name: TATA Chemicals Magadi Ltd. Sector: Extractives Number of employees: 693 UN Global Compact signatory since: 2007/02/07 Contact person: David Omondi Aoll Address: Po Box 1-00205 Nairobi, Kenya Email: domondi@tatachemicals.com Phone: +254 722 773492 TATA Chemicals Magadi is the largest Soda Ash producer in Africa and one of the largest exporters in Kenya. Page 2/14 Scope of this COP The scope of This COP defines the activities of the last year in four areas: Human Rights, Anticorruption, Labour Rights and Environment. This COP provides a summary of activities and outputs in these four areas. In this year’s COP we wish to demonstrate unalloyed commitment to the ten principles of the UNGC Human Rights UN Global Principle 1: Business should support and respect the Compact protection of internationally proclaimed human rights principles Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not covered: complicit in human rights abuses Commitment: TATA Chemicals Magadi commits to the full support of Human Rights. The company adheres to all relevant Kenya legislation that are applicable in the industry:  The company supports Right to life, liberty and security of the person right to peaceful assembly and supports this by encouraging regular community meetings and supporting peaceful assemblies by partnering with the police and local administrators.  The company is committed to supporting the right to an adequate Human Rights standard of living for its entire staff by providing good standard of housing and incentives that enable access to food and clothing.  The company supports the rights of its employees and community members to physical and mental health. This year we have improved Current the facilities in Magadi Hospital and strengthened the community wellness program to help support the above objectives. We also support the right to education by provision of bursaries and improvement of education infrastructure. This year we have provided over 22 university bursaries, 50 secondary schools, 20 colleges.  The company promotes equal recognition and protection under the law; freedom of thought; conscience, land religion  The company working with the local administrators has carried out several sensitization meetings to promote the human rights mandate of Right to a fair trial, right to hold opinions; freedom of information and expression Page 3/14  The company has promoted the development of local culture in recognition of the right to participate in cultural life, the benefits of scientific progress  Freedom of movement.  The company has worked to guarantee the right to a safe work environment; Right to rest and leisure; and right to family life for all its employees implemented through a community friendly township policy. A brief description of our Processes or Systems:  The company maintains safety, health, and environment policy  The company has on its payroll a safety and environment manage who is tasked among other things with ensuring that human rights are adhered to.  Employees have free access to portable water, health services, and modern housing.  The company provides four schools and a hospital to guarantee access to education and health.  The company operates an effective first aid policy with well-trained first aiders and rapid response teams in place.  The company supports the Magadi police station to ensure that the rights of every individual are safeguarded.  The company operates a whistle blower policy which ensures that all human rights violations are reported and dealt with.  The company maintains a sexual harassment committee that safeguards the residents and employees against all forms of sexual harassment.  The company strictly employs individuals that have reached the age o=f majority and strongly prohibits child labour.  The company works with the administration to ensure law and order and protection of human life and dignity is fully adhered to.  The company sponsors regular activities on healthy sensitization and health prevention to guarantee individuals rights to healthy services.  Employees are covered by group, personal accident insurance  For the local community the company runs a robust community social responsibility program under The Magadi Soda Foundation –providing water, health, employment, microenterprise development, and education, etc.  The company holds monthly consultations with the community.  A passenger coach provides service from Magadi to Kajiado for staff, their, families, and the community Page 4/14  Provision of protective clothing for staff and community members that visit the factory. Activities implemented in the last year 1. Human Rights audit for all processes, partners, suppliers, contractors. 2.Capacity building workshops for all staff on human rights 3.Active participation in national and international for on human rights 4. Empowerment of human rights champions in the company and the surrounding community. 5. Safety net programs for individuals at high risk of human rights violations. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  No reported cases of human rights violation.  No litigation cases involving human rights  Non-discrimination in employment opportunities  Reduced incidence of gender based violence  Elimination of all forms of child labour and exploitation of children  Fair work practices  Cordial relations with all stakeholders through survey reports-union, local community, suppliers, and contractors  Zero targets for loss and injury in the work place  Improved preventive health care-leading to less sick off, high staff productivity Page 5/14 Activities planned for next year: 1.Comprehemsive human rights assessment for Magadi township 2.Partnership with the disciplined forces in Magadi division for improved human rights Human Rights 3.Capacity building the local community through workshops on human rights Future Labour Rights Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining UN Global Principle 4: Business should support the elimination of all Compact forms of forced and compulsory labour principles covered: Principle 5: Business should support the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Business should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Page 6/14 Commitment:  The company strictly adheres to existing labour laws: Right to work; Right to equality at work; Right to equal pay for equal work; Right to organize and participate in collective bargaining; Freedom of association; Right to non-discrimination; Right to just and favourable remuneration  The company supports international labour laws including ILO.  Our code of conduct policy document-TATA code of conduct-has been extended to suppliers and contractors for fair labour practices  Employees are engaged in free and fair labour  The company does not discriminate persons on grounds of skin colour, sex/gender, religion, or tribe  Staff employed must be above 18 years of age and provide proof through a national ID card  The company has an affirmative action plan for marginalized groups such as minorities and disables in accordance with the constitution of Kenya. Labour Rights A brief description of our Processes or Systems  Strong works council exists to deal with all staff grievances. Current  Staff wellness program is operational and active.  Policies on non–discrimination and non–segregation.  The employee relations office exists to take care of employee grievances and company climate.  Open door policy and monthly communication meetings exist to provide employees with the right to be heard.  Staff suggestion boxes and complaints mechanisms in place to capture employee feedback and situations. Activities implemented in the last year 1.Strengthening of the works council in handling employee grievances 2.Refresher course for managers on labour laws 3.Strengthened employee wellness program 4.labour laws compliance audit for suppliers and contractors 5. Capacity building of contractors and suppliers in labour laws. Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company Page 7/14  Company engagement survey measures the level of positive employee engagement  The grievance procedure records all incidents and runs through to resolution.  Zero incidents of child labour  Zero occurrences of forced labour  Fair and transparent recruitment policies with non –discrimination  Elimination of legal costs and legal occurrences due to violation of human rights.  Women have an equal right to compete for opportunities.  Promotion based on competence, merit, and performance only  Activities planned for next year Labour Rights 1.All supervisors to take refresher courses concerning labour rights. 2. Strengthening the works councils in Magadi 3. Work place assessment to identify areas of improvement Future Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary UN Global approach to environmental challenges Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to principles promote greater environmental responsibility covered: Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Page 8/14 Commitment: TATA Chemicals Magadi has demonstrated over the years a commitment to environmental stewardship, protection, and sustainability.  This includes having an openly displayed policy as well as integrating environmental considerations in overall management systems and our operations.  The company has obtained a robust safety, Health, and Environment Policy The company conforms to The National Environmental legislation under The  Environmental Management and coordination ACT of 1999.  Audits of operations as per the International Finance Corporation(IFC)  Environmental and social audits once every two years  Annual environmental audits and environmental impact assessments A brief description of our Processes or Systems  We have a full time senior manager taking care of safety and environment.  Monthly environmental audits with the objective of eliminating unacceptable risk to the environment and health of employees, Environment customers and members of the public  Permanent Task force reports on weekly actions to reduce to a practicable minimum adverse effect of the environment Current  We c consult regularly with employees, regulatory authorities, and local community Activities implemented in the last year  Planted over 250,000 trees in Kajiado and Magadi under an aggressive afforest ration campaign.  Construction of gabions and other soil control initiatives to the north of Lake Magadi  Commissioning of the Lake Magadi integrated siltation and environmental conservation project to conserve Lake Magadi and the water towers  Construction of dikes and other initiatives to control the siltation of Lake Magadi Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Minimum of dust released to the environment Construction O Electro Static Precipitator(ESP)to reduce the amount of dust emitted  Reduced evaporation rate of water at Oloibortoto River leading to sustainable water supply. Page 9/14  Rate of improved tree cover in Magadi Division.  Environmental action plan and environmental audits conducted monthly for sustainable environment policy  Result of 2016 environmental audits defining action plans for environmental conservation.  Greening project implementation-centenary park maintenance  Implemented policy on dealing with environmental breaches with clear mitigation plans.  Working with the county governments of Narok and Kajiado to conserve the natural habitat. Activities planned for next year  Continued implementation of the Lake Magadi-Suswa restoration project.  Participate and provide leadership in the inter-agency committee on Environment environment jointly with the government.  Continued research on the viability of green energy in Magadi Future  Complete feasibility study on the water recycling project to conserve water in Magadi  Continued afforestation-over 200,000 trees.  Capacity building the local community on soil conservation.  Page 10/14 Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all principles its forms, including extortion and bribery covered: Commitment:  The company has a clear policy and very clear guidelines on issues of anti-corruption and this are well documented in standing instructions.  The TATA code of conduct which defines the employee code of conduct has a clause on anti-corruption and this clause is strictly enforced.  The company operates in the international market with major operations in the UK and is keen to comply with The UK anti-bribery act which is enforced as part of the Code of conduct  The standing instructions of TATA Chemicals Magadi are clear on Zero tolerance for corruption.  The company is still committed to adhere to national legislation on corruption. A brief description of our Processes or Systems Anti-corruption  The whistle blower policy encourages reporting of issues on corruption  The company has an innovation and quality team that routinely monitors and implements improvements in the ethics and integrity agenda. Current  The company carries out monthly communication meetings at corporate and departmental levels and policy briefs are given to staff and among the issues highlighted are issues of anti0corruption.  New staff are inducted and have to sign an anticorruption agreement before joining  The company participates in several forums and initiatives to combat  corruption-both government and private sector  Robust audit procedures and a full time systems manager to ensure adequate internal controls to minimize/eliminate corruption incidences. Activities implemented in the last year  All employees, suppliers and contractors sensitized on the TATA code of conduct Monthly meetings and communications targeting anticorruption  The TATA anti-corruption policy signed by all employees and key stakeholders. Page 11/14 Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company  Zero number of corruption cases reported during the year.  No financial losses incurred due to corruption.  Improvement in the perception index on corruption with suppliers and contractors with the company seen as a zero tolerance zone for corruption.  There have been no legal case and fines related to corruption and bribery in the last year  Zero reported incidences of corruption cases as monitored by the ethic committee  Zero reported incidents of fines and other costs related to corruption  High scores on integrity in the corruption survey reports by anticorruption agencies  Improved reputation as a corruption free zone and organization  Resultant improvement in contractor and supplier services as a benefit from a corruption free operation. Activities planned for next year  Continued advocacy with suppliers and all stake holders on our zero tolerance stance on corruption. Anti-corruption  Carry out a corruption audit across all our stakeholders  Strengthen anti-corruption messaging and warning systems across the Future organization Page 12/14 How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders?  Regular Stake Holder Meetings e.g. the monthly community meetings  Newsletters/ Email/ Posters  Email and Social media updates  Hard copy brochures, and posters  Newslettersmailed and emailed.  Sporting and community events as  partner and industry newsletters and forums  briefing meetings  publications, distribution of documents and invitations to comment  Reports-monthly and annual  Exhibitions and Events to showcase results  Stakeholder engagement forums  Use of the provincial administration and in local community administrative meetings Donations, awards TATA Chemicals Magahi’s Corporate Social Responsibility Program has won the Kenya Institute of Management’s Company of the Year (COYA) Corporate Citizenship Awards in six consecutive years in 2000, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005 and 2006. The company was also the recipient of the Millennium Global Awards for sustainable education in 2012. The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has also recognised our CSR Program, as a model for business/community partnership. Page 13/14 Environmental awards including The Petroleum Institute of East Africa (PIEA) and the Total’s ECO Challenge. The company is the led pilot organization for ISO26000 in the region. Page 14/14
