2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS: 3 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE 40 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT BOARD OF HT 41 Management approach 42 Business Sustainability Questionnaire 5 MATERIAL TOPICS OF HT 43 DIGITAL SOCIETY 10 ECONOMIC VALUE 44 Management approach 11 Management approach 44 STEM programme – academic community 11 HT Group at a glance 45 Digital literacy 12 Macroeconomic trends 46 Project for Promotion Digital Literacy 47 Digital inclusion 14 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES 15 Management approach 52 RELATIONS WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES Together 15 Ethics and employees' dignity 53 We Are Stronger 15 Trade union associations 56 HT Campus of the Astronomical Society of Višnjan 16 Job position evaluation 17 Pension benefits 57 GROUP PROFILE 18 Other benefits 59 Schematic Overview of the HT Group 19 Employee and management relations 60 Strategy and governance 19 Safety at work 62 Prevention of corruption and other conflicts of interest 19 Personal protective equipment 63 Management Board 20 Training of workers for safe work 64 Supervisory Board 20 Corporate values 65 General Assembly 21 Training and education 66 Shareholders 22 Diversity and equal opportunities 66 State administration and regulators 22 Anti-discrimination 66 Non-governmental organisations 23 Fight against corruption employees 67 Business interest organisations 68 Certificates 24 CUSTOMER RELATIONS 68 Awards 25 Customer satisfaction management 26 Personal data protection 69 TABLES 26 Marketing and marking 69 102-8 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and gender 27 CLIMATE CHANGES, ENVIRONMENT AND 70 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed HEALTH –HT Group 28 Management approach 71 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 28 Objectives of environmental management 72 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 32 Energy efficeincy 72 305 Emissions – direct and indirect greenhouse gas 33 Climate protection emissions 34 Climate changes and advanced ICT 73 GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal technologies 73 method GRI 401-1 Total number of new employee hires 34 Through education to improvement of and employee turnover by age group and gender environmental indicators 74 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, 35 Health and safety occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and 36 Ten guidelines on electromagnetic fields number of work-related fatalities 37 Safety requirements 74 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per 38 Emissions employee category 39 Green Office 2 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF HT Dear Reader, You have in front of you our new Hrvatski Telekom Sustainabiconducted by the Institute of Economics which showed that lity Report, the first one prepared in accordance with the new HT is the largest private investor and the leading company with standard of the Global Reporting Initiative. We have intentioregard to its positive impact on the Croatian economy. In 2016, nally chosen a standard whose full application is expected in we increased the value of investments even more, to HRK 1,608 the course of 2018, as we wanted to set ourselves high goals billion, which is 9.1% more than in 2015. Investments were aiand show ambition without which it would be impossible to mamed at increasing the capacity for broadband Internet access, intain our leading position when it comes to sustainability. The improving user experience and increasing competitiveness. fact that we already had created a good precondition for this step forward was also helpful in making this decision. As we Our strong market position enables us to invest even more in ponder on our activities from a strategic point of view, taking economic growth and reinforcement of capacities and compeinto consideration our role and social and economic impact, we titiveness. Increased investment had an impact on the strengtset ourselves to the task of defining material topics. hening of positive economic trends in Croatia which also continued in 2017, despite political instability. In the world of reporting and sustainability, just like in financial reporting, the materiality rule says that the report must include The positive economic trends resulted in further consolidatiall topics that are important and indispensable for the comon of the telecommunications market. Such consolidation pany: information on business success, but also on the social brought numerous benefits for customers, as only financially and environmental impact. stable operators are capable to meet the customers’ needs at an acceptable price, but also to invest in new services and In this report, we provide you with a detailed presentation of tocontinuously increase quality standards. Investment in the fixed pics which, upon a dialogue-based assessment, we found to be network resulted in fibre optic access for 295 thousand houseof key importance for long-term sustainable operations of HT. holds, which is by 68% more than in 2015. Broadband access Management of these topics, although often very challenging, speeds were increased by two to five times as compared to the is essential for harmonisation of financial results which in 2016 previous ones, free of charge, for more than 50% of customers. were not only good but also growing – with the goals HT wisNGA speeds above 30 Mbit/s were enabled, in total, for 800 hes to achieve on a long-term basis: value for its stakeholders thousand Croatian households, thus bringing Croatia closer to and for the society in which it operates, along with a maximum the European Digital Agenda targets. possible care for the resources we use. In the mobile segment, 4G network coverage for download The growth achieved in the course of 2016 is a result of persispeeds of up to 225 Mbit/s increased to 51% of the populastent monitoring of our customers’ needs and changing them tion compared to 31% coverage at the end of 2015. 4G mobito the better by offering numerous new and innovative services. le network outdoor coverage increased from 93.1% to 96.9% Our efforts have paid off, and this is why HT once again concompared to 2015. We are making these efforts to enable grefirmed its leading position in telecommunications and digital ater digital inclusion and literacy as a necessary prerequisite services, both in Croatia and in the Region. to taking advantage of all benefits of digital technologies and services. We continue developing services that will totally chanOur principal objective is to generate economic value and to ge our everyday life, based on Internet of Things (IoT) concept. invest in creating the preconditions for more accelerated digiThere is a whole range of innovative services to be found in this talisation. We are extremely proud of the results of the analysis segment, some of them being unique even within the Deutsche 3 Telekom Group. We are working at an accelerated pace on the which we signed in 2007 and which is based on transparent commercialisation of the 4.5G network. We are convinced that reporting on all our activities. use of 4.5G technology will lend further impetus to the development and use of new services. And, last but not least: this Report reflects our commitment to Davor Tomašković, the principles of the United Nations Global Compact initiative President of the Management Board of HT and CEO 4 MATERIAL TOPICS OF HT MATERIAL TOPICS, WHAT ARE THEY ALL ABOUT? Material topics help us to present rations. At the same time, we show whether we can remain operative not only our present status, how and be successful, be accepted and respected members of the community for a long time. we operate right now, but also what kind of future we have Material topics are basically the key impacts of HT. Such key impacts envisaged in HT: employees also paint a broader picture, the picture of the surroundings and of the and managers, our clients, complex network of mutual relations between HT and its stakeholders, suppliers and competitors, local and of the permanent and increasingly challenging efforts to reconcile good operating results with inevitable impacts not only on members of communities… HT, but also on all those with whom we collaborate in one way or another to realise the vision of leadership in provision of digital services that Through the materiality prism, we show the quality of our short-term opeenable development of the digital society and economy. 6 HOW DID HT DEFINE ITS MATERIAL TOPICS? HT defined its material topics through a specially designed tification, prioritisation, validation and review of material topics. process comprised of four phases. The process was formed The Global Reporting Initiative is the leading global initiative according to the guidelines for definition of material topics of which, throughout the last 20 years, is considered to be the leathe Global Reporting Initiative, comprising four key steps: idending global framework for preparation of sustainability reports. PHASES ACTIVITIES RESULT Analytical Examination of various studies that included feedback on HT’s Wider list of aspects Phase activities, on positive and negative aspects. Examination of the important for HT’s suDeutsche Telekom Materiality Matrix and analysis to what extent stainable business. the topics are applicable to HT and the environment in which it is operating. Additional consultations with representatives of HR, Environmental Protection and Procurement. Comparison of material topics to Sustainability Topics for Sectors: What do stakeholders want to know? and their applicability to HT. Dialogue Phase In-depth interviews conducted. Their purpose was to grant deeper Report on the results insight in the challenges related to sustainability, competitiveness, of in-depth interviews client relations, management, and corporate responsibility of HT from the perspective of the following participants: Maruška Vizek, Ph.D., Institute of Economy; Dejan Ljuština, PwC; Vesna Mamić, HST; Dražen Lučić, Ph.D., and Domagoj Jurjević, HAKOM, and Vladimir Jelavić, Ph.D., Croatian Association for Carbon Footprint Reduction. Selection Phase Elaboration of criteria used to define the relative significance of each Final list of HT’s mateindividual material topic. Preparation of the final list of HT’s material rial topics topics by comparison of results from Phase 1 and Phase 2. Presentation Description of each individual material topic, preparation of a Presentation of matePhase materiality matrix and selection of the way of presentation of marial topics terial topics. By selection of material topics, HT has met the basic prerequisite latest standard of the Global Reporting Initiative which shall be for preparation of the new sustainability report according to the applied from the beginning of 2017. 7 KEY HIGHLIGHTS FROM THE DIALOGUE PHASE Sustainability challenges in the society and telecommunications sector “With the arrival of liberalisation, no will exhaust their growth potential”, Maruška Vizek, Ph.D. one is safe anymore, neither suppliers “Work is not available in limitless nor operators, the market has been quantities, and then there is cannibalised, soon there will be only automation, but the fact is that the a few big suppliers and a few big price of labour gets depressed all operators.” Dražen Lučić, Ph.D. the time, and, all things considered, For Domagoj Jurjević, “telecommunications are no more infrastruthe labour price is what enables us cture and services, but rather infrastructure plus services plus conto make our living. A big problem in tent”, while according to Dejan Ljuština “the role of digitalisation in the EU is loss of jobs, as capital is the society will be significant, a substantial portion of job positions transferred to places where profit will disappear, and future professions will be knowledge-based”.. can still be creamed off.”, The question is, what will the governments do when they come to realise that they are producing staff that will be unable to get Vesna Mamić. employed, this is the main problem. “The markets of developed coThings will evolve in such a way that every company should have untries are oversaturated with various products and services, with its own carbon footprint, regardless of the volume of emission, so all the items we should buy in order to feel happy and satisfied. that it would be known how much this is per capita, how much People do not want to shop anymore, they do not want to get into emission this is per employee of that company. This will be the debts in order to shop, to feel well, happy, satisfied. Companies future.”, Vladimir Jelavić Social responsibility of HT “HT is an excellent company and an excellent challenging place everyone has a phone today, and this is where the biggest role is.”, where you come across interesting jobs, new technologies and Vladimir Jelavić, Ph.D. “It is not true at all that foreign operators opportunities. Unfortunately, this kind of dynamics and challenges make absolutely no investments; they do invest far more than the are extremely exhausting. Regrettably, new technologies do away national economy. As far as HT is concerned, I am not saying that with existing job positions, while new ones are not yet defined. they should not invest more, but the fact is that of the HRK 2.5 billiRegardless of the fact that they can be proud to work in such a on invested in the sector, HRK 1.5 billion has been invested by HT, company, every day HT employees are exposed to frustration and 50% more than investments made by all others in 2015.” Dražen job insecurity”, Vesna Mamić. “Large infrastructure companies like Lučić, Ph.D. “Short-term goals are the problem. The management HT have additional responsibility for infrastructure, digitalisation of bodies, upon their arrival, have only their own item in mind, i.e. the society and development of awareness of digitalisation and inshort-term profitability, to the detriment of long-term benefits. frastructure.” Maruška Vizek, Ph.D. “In order to understand socially responsible business, one must understand what sustainability is, Operators do not have to do that what we do today should not be done to the detriment of construction work in places where future generations. A company like HT must be ambitious. Glosuch work does not pay off, but they bal changes are made by technological changes, political will and should think about doing construction changes in behavioural patterns.. HT can invest both in technology and in changes in behavioural patterns, and very strongly so. work in places where such work HT has not only a strong impact on itself and its employees, but could get profitable very soon.” also strongly impact the general population and its customers, as Domagoj Jurjević. 8 HT’S MATERIAL TOPICS, PRESENTLY AND FOR A LONGER TERM Economic Impact on value employees Governance taking into account harmonisation of short-term Maintaining the reputation of a good and attractive employer, resand long-term goals, decision-making taking into account not pecting natural limitations of workers to ensure their well-being and only the immediate result, but also potential long-term results health, respecting the labour rights of all employees, possibility to (expanding the decision-making horizon), creation of value for balance work and life, acquisition and retention of employees with HT and the society. digital skills, understanding the specifics of individual generations, employee-management relations and role of trade unions. Customer relations Digital society Simplification of the customer experience and communication with consumers by shifting the emphasis from technical terms Responsibility for infrastructure and development of fixed broadand descriptions of technology to customers’ needs, providing band Internet infrastructure, better access to NGA networks and consumers with accurate and complete information on servihigher speeds, collaboration with the government with regard to ces, pricing and billing method. Good price/service quality rainfrastructure development in areas where this is not economication, rewarding loyal customers. Providing a high level of data lly viable, development of new, innovative products and services security and hacking protection, protection of privacy and chilthat will be applicable in a useful way in various areas. Digital dren’s rights, accessible and simple communication. education of young generations and future customers, supporting the government in their efforts to promote digital literacy, collaboration with the government on digital literacy projects. Climate changes Health and environmental protection Definition of HT’s, carbon footprint and making use of the potential impact of integrated communication on changing the customer’s behavioural patterns, raising energy efficiency and increased use Possible impacts of electromagnetic radiation, keeping track of of renewable energy sources. and informing the public on the latest scientific findings, e-waste management and disposal of hazardous waste, use of equipment with a small carbon footprint, assessment of the product’s useful Supply chain life and efforts to prevent waste generation – circular economy. management Collaboration with the Supplier evaluation, preventive mechanisms for prevention of local community corruption, ensuring equal conditions for all suppliers, efficient procurement management – batch planning and aggregation of procurement of material aimed at cost reduction. Donation projects, volunteering, job creation. 9 ECONOMIC VALUE MANAGEMENT APPROACH Only a company which generates economic value can conStrategic goals are transformed into duct proper business, i.e. can pay workers and suppliers, precise annual business and financial invest in its development, meet the interests of other stakeholders as well and thus create the basis for long-term surtargets whose achievement is also vival on the increasingly competitive market. The challenges the basis for rewards to be paid out faced by HT in this context are significant and diverse, from to the Management Board and manathe economic situation in the country, over fast-changing gers, but also to all employees of HT. technology trends and customer habits, to regulatory provisions and activities of competitors. In order to respond to The Management Board is the body primarily responsible for the all these challenges, HT is continuously working on and harbusiness result. Achievement of the set annual goals is monitored monising its long-term business strategy; technological leain detail on a monthly/quarterly basis, and corrective action is tadership is one of the major strategic levers, which requires ken, if required. Since HT’s share is listed on the stock exchange, substantial financial investments in the telecommunications each quarter, business results are announced in a transparent network and other areas. way, including key explanations, available to the public for review. HT GROUP at a glance * 2,234 1,007 752 401 mobile network customers fixed network customers broadband Internet customers TV (prepaid: 1,075, postpaid: 1,159) (retail: 924, wholesale: 83) (retail: 618, wholesale: 134) customers *shown in 000 In 2016, the Institute of Economics prepared the Economic of the economy are tied to each job within the HT Group. Atlas, a study of HT’s socio-economic impact on the wider With an average of HRK 8,616 net, the Group is paying out business and social environment. The entire HT Group¹ a salary that is by 54% above the national average and by generates more than 3% of the Croatian GDP and more than 16% percent above the average salary in the information and 27,000 jobs in Croatia, and an additional 4.4 jobs in the rest communications sector. The entire HT Group With an average of generates 3% 8,616 net, the Group is paying out of the Croatian GDP 54% above the national The entire HT Group average salary generates more than 16% 27,000 jobs in Croatia above the average salary in the information and communications sector. 11 ¹ Financial and operations data are shown consolidated for the HT Group, all other data for HT d.d. MACROECONOMIC TRENDS After six years of recession, the first half of 2016 saw growth secutive month, since August 2014. With a growth rate of 3.6%, which speeded up in Q3. Overall on annual level, Croatian GDP personal consumption was one of the most important drivers of grew by 2.9%, while, according to the Croatian Bureau of StatistiGDP growth to 3.4% on annual level in Q4 2016, which is the cs, the population’s purchase power increased for the 33rd confastest economic growth since 2008. Overall on annual level, personal consumption Croatian GDP grew by grew by 2.9% 3.6% KEY MARKET TRENDS: CONSOLIDATION OF THE FIXED MARKET, INVESTMENT IN NETWORKS AND CONVERGENT OFFERS The consolidation activities in the telecommunications market nued growth, reaching 796,000 customers in 2016, which is continued in 2016, and operators are able to meet the incre3.8% on annual level. asingly demanding needs of the customers at an acceptable price. A positive example is also visible in the case of HT’s The Croatian mobile market has been marked by strong maracquisition of Optima Telekom. This acquisition stabilised its ket competition and regulatory measures that influence mobile business operations, financial results and market position, whirevenue. Estimated mobile SIM penetration rate was 113.9% ch enabled continued progress and further consolidation. In at the end of December 2016. Also, the Company’s estimated order to make this possible, the companies must be financially share of total mobile telecommunications customers remained stable, and further substantial investment in infrastructure is stable at 47% at the end of December 2016. All three mobile necessary, where HT takes the leading role by having invested operators offer 4G services including data packages and attratwice as much as all other operators combined. Last year, Hrctive smartphones/tablets that additionally encourage the usavatski Telekom increased investment to HRK 1.61 billion, or ge of OTT services (OTT – over the top). As a result, the number 9.1% compared to the previous year. Investment was focused of sent SMS messages continued to decrease by an additional on increase of the broadband Internet access capacity, custo9% compared to 2015, and the total mobile market minutes of mer experience improvement, and increase of competitiveness. use (MOU) increased by only 1.6% in the same period. On the By the end of 2016, HT Group had 618 thousand of broadband other hand, total broadband traffic grew by 38.3% compared to access lines, and total turnover in this segment increased by total traffic in 2015. Total fixed originating voice minutes conti38.3% compared to 2015. The Croatian Pay TV market continued to decline by 8.1% on annual level. Hrvatski Telekom investment Compared to the 2015 total fraffic, the total grew by broadband traffic in 2016 increased by 9.1% 38.3% 12 MOST SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENTS IN 2016 Investment value was increased to HRK 1,608 billion, or 9.1% thousand Croatian households, thus bringing Croatia closer to more than in the previous year. HT put the investment focus on the European Digital Agenda targets. In the mobile segment, 4G increase of the broadband Internet access capacity, customer network coverage for download speeds of up to 225 Mbit/s inexperience improvement, and increase of competitiveness. Fibre creased to 51% of the population compared to 31% coverage at optic access was expanded to 295 thousand households, reprethe end of 2015. 4G mobile network outdoor coverage increased senting a 68% increase compared to 2015. Broadband access from 93.1% to 96.9% compared to 2015. In 2016, HT launched speeds were increased by two to five times as compared to the the new, unique concept of service offering on the Croatian teprevious ones, free of charge, for more than 50% of customers. lecommunications market, Magenta 1, which was accepted by NGA speeds above 30 Mbit/s were enabled, in total, for 800 more than 53 thousand households within six months. Fibre optic access was 4G mobile network outdoor increased by coverage increased to 68% 96.9% 13 IMPACT ON EMPLOYEES MANAGEMENT APPROACH Management of employees’ needs lies within pany’s strategic goals. Polls are conducted the responsibility of Human Resources. Emon a regular basis, dealing with employees’ ployee satisfaction is one of the company’s opinions on satisfaction and other topics of strategic goals, therefore, in the adoption of importance for employees. Employees can strategic decisions, their potential impact on also use the MyHR a portal where they employees is taken into consideration. Consican enter their questions and express their deration is being given to how changes will demands. HT has an elaborate performance affect employees, which needs to be done in management system which is used to comorder to ensure the employees’ satisfaction municate tasks and targets to employees, to and commitment to work, so that they can monitor their engagement and to transparenfully contribute to the realisation of the comtly reward them for the results achieved. ETHICS AND EMPLOYEES' DIGNITY Each HT employee can report any misconEmployees may express their complaints duct or violations of the Code of Conduct concerning protection of dignity to two pervia the Ethics Line, established to provide sons especially appointed to deal with such employees with confidential and anonycomplaints who shall, within eight days at mous reporting. The Ethics Line can be the latest, examine the complaint and take contacted by mail, phone, fax, e-mail, or all the necessary measures to prevent any a special tool available on the Internet. further harassment. TRADE UNION ASSOCIATIONS HT’s employees are organised in several traformation on the progress of talks or negotiade unions. However, only those trade unions tions with HT on the company IntraNet, and representing at least 20% of the total trade will sometimes be informed directly, by direct union membership participate in the negoe-mail, depending on the importance of the tiations on the Collective Agreement. Repretopic. In the course of 2016, elections of sentative trade unions are the Croatian Telethe workers’ representative in the European communications Trade Union (HST) and the Works Council were held electronically, and Republic Trade Union of Croatian Workers several regular meetings were held between (RSRH). Communication takes place regularHuman Resources and representatives of the ly, on a weekly basis. Employees can get intwo representative trade unions 15 JOB POSITION EVALUATION Each position in HT is evaluated in terms of the impact the actiProject-based rewarding, covering rewards for extraorvities of that workplace have on the operations of HT, the values dinary contribution on special projects outside regular of the same jobs in the Republic of Croatia, key responsibilities work processes; and of the job, the complexity of the job and the working conditions “THANK YOU for putting your heart into the work” – an under which activities are performed. Accordingly, each job poadditional type of reward granted to employees who consition is classified into the appropriate salary band. Salary bands tinuously display a high level of engagement and team comprise groups of jobs that are identical or similar in level of work, thus making an extraordinary contribution to posicomplexity, responsibility, knowledge, experience and competive corporate culture and achievement of results. tencies required for their successful performance, and the salary of each employee is within the range in which the position is The compensation scheme for the senior executives comprises classified, depending on the performance of the employee and the following long-term incentive plans: HT Variable II 2013, HT the necessary knowledge, experience, responsibility and quality Variable II 2014, Lead to Win 2015 and Lead to Win 2016. The of work. aim is to ensure competitive remunerations for the Management Board and senior management. Their goal is to ensure competiHT has a variety of long-term rewarding plans for all employees tive compensation for members of the Management Board and and the management, applying various rewarding models adapsenior executives. The plans promote medium and long-term value ted to the specific features of the individual roles, material and enhancement of HT Group, aligning the interests of management non-material, which provide the type of reward best matched to and shareholders. HT Variable II 2012 ended on 31 December the needs of the job positions. 2015, and the Supervisory Board has determined final target achievement of 11.5%. In June 2016, participants in the plan received Employee rewarding results from the performance management awards in the total gross amount of HRK 257,929. HT Variable II system which offers several models: 2013 and HT Variable II 2014 are cash-based plans with four equally weighted performance parameters that cannot change during Performance management covering managers on top plan duration. Two targets are financial KPIs, adjusted earnings (executive) level which is conducted, following unified per share (EPS) and adjusted operating return on capital employed rules, in all DT Group members. The system’s working (ROCE), while third and fourth targets are customer and employee title is “Lead to Win”; satisfaction. The duration of the plans is four years, effective as Performance management covering managers on medifrom 1 January every year. Upon the expiry of the term of the plans, um and lower level, the “Step-up” system; the Supervisory Board shall determine whether each of the targets Performance management covering employees perforhas been achieved and adopt an appropriate decision. The Variaming jobs in direct contact with users of HT services ble II amount awarded to International Business Leaders (BLTs) is and products (workers in sales, in the call centre and a fixed sum specified in the individual employment contract. For technical support in the field); other participants, the rewarded amount is 30% or 20% of the parPerformance management covering back-office worticipants’ individual annual salary as contracted at the beginning kers, i.e. workers who are not in constant direct contact of the plan, depending on the management level of the participant with end customers; and according to the Supervisory Board decision. Participants’ Supervisory Board has determined final target achievement of 11.5% In June 2016, participants in the plan received awards in the total gross amount of HRK 257,929.00 16 individual annual salary is defined as the annual amount of total parameters are the parameters of the DT Group. They are: ROCE fixed salary and the annual amount of variable salary in case of a (Return on Capital Employed), Adjusted EPS (Earnings per Share), 100% target achievement. Customer satisfaction and Employee satisfaction. The success parameters have an achievement corridor between 0% and 150%. In 2016, HT continued participation in the performance manageThe term of the LTI plan shall cover the period from January 1, 2016 ment corporate plan “Lead to win” model for HT's senior manageto December 31, 2019. HT Supervisory Board shall declare the ment. Rewarding of top management is directly linked to individual target achievement after the end of each year. performance and the achievement of collective KPI performance on DT Group level. The LTI (Long term incentive) plan, as part of The employee’ salary is determined in the employment contract the Lead to Win Program 2016, is a cash based plan and the awarin a gross amount and may be by the amount of salary suppleded amount depends on the Management Group (MG 1 – MG 3) ments for working in special conditions (overtime, night work, to which the participant’s position belongs and on individual pershift work, work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, awards, etc.). formance. Only those who achieve a minimum performance rating The gross basic salary for a job in the lowest, first salary band of 3 (score range is from 1 to 5) can participate in the plan. The amounts to HRK 4,000.00 to which amount other salary increaparticipation amount can be from 10% to 30% of the contracted ses are added. The average monthly gross salary paid in 2016 annual salary depending on MG and on individual performance amounted to HRK 11,991.00, which is by 1.5% more than the rating. The plan currency shall be euro, and four defined success average gross salary paid in 2015 amounting to HRK 11,816.00. The gross basic salary for a job in the lowest, first salary band amounts to HRK 4,000.00 The average monthly gross salary paid in 2016 amounted to HRK 11,991.00 PENSION BENEFITS HT is regularly paying contributions Hrvatski Telekom is the founder and sponsor of the T-HT Clofor all employees in the sed-End Voluntary Pension Fund with favourable terms and benefits for HT employees who join it. In 2016, HT made voluntary generational solidarity system at payments amounting to HRK 42,900 in favour of members of a rate of 20%, applicable in the the Fund – HT employees. The Collective Agreement allows 1st pillar. For policyholders who each employee the option of deciding whether he or she wants are insured in both mandatory the employer to pay the amount of the annual vacation bonus in pillars, the contribution rate for the form of a monthly payment into the T-HT Closed-End Voluntary Pension Fund, or as an annual vacation bonus. first pillar is 15%, whereas in the second pillar pays a contribution of HT made voluntary payments amounting to 5% is paid to personal accounts in HRK 42,900 mandatory pension funds. in favour of members of the Fund – HT employees. 17 OTHER BENEFITS All employees have equal benefits, according to the time spent at family members by financing medical interventions, schooling of work: vacation bonus amounting to HRK 1,250, Christmas bonus children, in cases of fires and floods, purchase of computers etc. amounting to HRK 1,250, Easter voucher in the amount of HRK 400, gifts for children up to 15 years of age in the amount of HRK The company particularly cares about employee health and of 600, various supports defined by the Collective Agreement, sathe balance between private and professional life. In addition to lary bonuses for family needs etc. Employees are entitled to comthe free-of-charge medical check-ups, employees are encourapensation of commuting expenses, and when they retire, they ged to attend free Yoga and Pilates classes in the company’s are entitled to severance payment. Managers are not entitled to premises and provides counselling on nutrition in order to raise vacation bonuses and vouchers for Easter. awareness of healthy diets at the workplace as well. Every year, the HT Olympics are held – a sports meeting where all interested All employees are covered by an accident insurance policy with employees can show their sports skills in in individual disciplines an authorised insurance company in the case of death due to during a three-day event. HT also participates in the B2B Run, accident, permanent disability, accident, and hospitalisation cowhere Members of the Management Board and managers, who verage. Moreover, financial assistance is paid for schooling of are participating in the run themselves, promote active running children of deceased workers in amounts from HRK 500 to HRK and encourage employees to join the Run in as large numbers 1,300 per month, financial assistance for schooling of children as possible. The number of runners is increasing with each year, of single parents, financial assistance to workers’ children who and, thanks to the B2B Run, many employees started to train are single parents, to children with developmental disorders and running and have kept this healthy habit. to and children of workers with four or more children, to each worker per child up to 15 years of age, in the gross amount of Aiming to promote work-life balance, HT provides numerous proHRK 3,000. For the use of the second six months of the matergrammes and activities in order to involve the employees’ faminal leave, the company will pay an additional HRK 1,200.00 per lies and bring the closer to corporate life. HT has a flexible wormonth, in addition to payment of a compensation for the birth or king hours policy and the “Friday in Slippers” programme an adoption of a child. excellently received pilot programme encouraging work at home, on the last Friday of the month. All first graders get one day of HT also provides for free-of-charge medical check-ups for empaid leave for the child’s first day at elementary school, so that ployees and discounts for their family members. HT’s “PrijaTelj” they can spend that special day with their children. The Day with Foundation will provide financial assistance in cases of extraorMom and Dad at Work gathers a large number of employees’ dinary, increased costs of medical treatment of employees and children in the company’s premises, where they spend one day members of their closer or wider family, members of their comat their parent’s workplace – either in the robotics workshop, in mon household and persons who the employee has to take care the drawing workshop, or just having a lot of fun. of. The foundation also provides assistance in the case of natural disasters and other potential forms of damage to property, as Moreover, employees get more favourable prices for telecommuwell as other forms of financial assistance fulfilling the purpose nications services. HT’s Intranet pages also features the offers of of the Foundation. In numerous cases, the Foundation has provicompanies that offer their products and services at more favouraded financial assistance to employees and their closer and wider ble prices, exclusively to HT workers. 18 EMPLOYEE AND MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Negotiations for a new Collective AgreeIn addition, all channels of internal commument begin no later than three months benication and direct communication between fore the expiration of the current Collective managers and employees are used to reAgreement. Deadlines for consultation with gularly provide employees with information the Employees' Council on everything that on forthcoming changes of importance for affects the labour and social position of emcompany operations and for the employees ployees in HT are defined in the Agreement themselves. The understanding of changes is on the Conditions for the Work of the Worreviewed on a regular basis by the Employee kers' Council. Satisfaction Survey, and measures are taken to improve communication of changes. SAFETY AT WORK HT has organised the work of four Safety at following areas: North and Zagreb headquWork Committees and the Central Safety at arters, West – Rijeka, South – Split, and Work Committee. The Committees meet on East – Osijek, while the Central Committee a quarterly basis to systematically consider operates in Zagreb. The Collective Agreethe improvement of safety and health proment regulates the area of safety at work tection of employees and persons at work, and the employer’s obligations concerning prevention of injuries at work, and preventhe application of safety at work regulations tion of occupational and other work-related and improvements, as well as the tasks of diseases. The Committees operate in the the work safety representatives. PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT Employees who, during their work, are expohazards and potential harms involved, and sed to certain types of dangers and harmful approximate deadlines are given for issuance influences are provided with personal proteand use of protective equipment. ctive equipment if risks cannot be eliminated by other protective measures. Based on the Within the scope of preventive medical checkrisk determined by means of the Workplace ups, the employer provides for eyesight testing Hazard Assessment as the basic document of employers working at computers, such test in the safety at work area, HT has defined, in being conducted at a selected occupational healaccordance with the statutory provisions and th office. According to available data, at Hrvatski the Work Safety Regulations, which means or, Telekom, 2,776 employees work at the computer respectively, equipment shall be used during (working with computers means using computers which activities or tasks, depending on the for four or more hours during the working day). 19 TRAINING OF WORKERS FOR SAFE WORK Pursuant to the provisions of the Occupational Health and ces employment, if there are changes in work processes, and Safety Act and of the Work Safety Regulations, HT conducts when changing job positions or places or work. The practical training of workers on safe work before the worker commencompetence for work is evaluated at the place of work. CORPORATE VALUES HT’s system of corporate values is defined by the Guiding PrinMaking new employees aware of company values is also incluciples. Along with the Code of Conduct, these Principles provide ded in the Onboarding Programme, and conduct in line with the fundamental guidelines followed by HT in its daily life and work, Guiding Principles is part of the Company’s competency model. and that promote ethical conduct, mutual respect, team work, acThe Employee Satisfaction Survey which we conduct on a rehievement of best results in the simplest possible manner, open gular basis always includes questions related to knowledge of expression of opinions, assumption of responsibility and creation the Guiding Principles and/or business operation in line with the of an environment that encourages, recognises and appreciates Guiding Principles. exceptional results. The Guiding Principles are available on the Company’s IntraNet and on the web page www.t.ht.hr. 20 TRAINING AND EDUCATION HT intensively supports and creates awareness of the need for or individually, as an activity for development of managers. lifelong learning. To keep up with the latest achievements in the fast-changing industry, all employees must regularly build and In 2016, HT continued to apply the concept of creation of an develop their competencies and adopt new knowledge, which individual career development plan for employees and the will also raise their personal competitive position. concept of Education of Your Own Choice. 2,500 job positions were offered to employees for application through the local HT has developed an e-learning system which all employees HR.net system. The superior’s approval was a prerequisite for can or must attend (depending on the education topic) at a application. In addition to employee education, the year 2016 time and place they find most convenient. Moreover, employees also saw the launch of the Talent Programme where 300 talents also have access to the Magenta MOOC (Massive Open Onliwere nominated. Furthermore, the Leadership Academy was ne Course), Skillsoft and Learnlight, programmes intended for started for 120 managers. Various formats of professional eduemployees of Deutsche Telekom Group that provide interdiscation are already available as part of the standard offer. ciplinary learning experience based on video lectures, academic mentoring and peer learning about digital trends and new HT has several models of performance management, depenbusiness models. HT is a knowledge company; therefore, emding on the type of work that employees perform. Employees at ployees are encouraged to permanently undergo further eduthe Company receive information on their performance in a way cation and to keep track of publicly available online training that they are first given objectives, after which their progress is courses on platforms such as Coursera or TedX. monitored through the year and, finally, their performance is evaluated, and depending on that evaluation, rewards are paid. In 2016, HT maintained its wellAll employees at HT are included in performance assessment, developed internal education and they have equal rights to achieve their targets and get rewarded. The goal is to evaluate the employee performance system. HT employees have specific and to raise work motivation and employee satisfaction. Asseknowledge, and internal transfer ssment of the employee’s performance and potential lays the of knowledge is useful both for the ground for the employee’s further development. Once a year, trainee and for the trainer who is based on the performance assessment (targets and compedeveloping additional competencies. tencies) and the potential for taking on more demanding jobs, one of six possible development categories is set for the emHrvatski Telekom has trained T-trainers. In 2016, certified HR ployee. Moreover, the employee defines, in collaboration with employees were intensively involved as trainers in education on the superior, the measures for his/her development: trainings development of team culture (e.g. SDI analysis, Four Rooms of he/she needs to attend in the current year, education, other Change) and in transfer of specialist HR know-how for managedevelopment programmes (e.g. mentoring), and areas which rial staff (e.g. HR toolbox). Managers are evaluated on the basis the employee needs to work on independently or, respectively, of how they develop their team. Coaching is used in the group, assume initiative for his/her own growth and development. 21 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES Out of the seven Members of the Management Board, two are and male employees holding managerial positions is 44:56%. female employees. HT does not collect data on minorities. The ratio of basic salary of male and female managers in 2016 indicates that female managers on average have 2.5% higher HT has a total of 3,730 employees, of which 2,252 are male and salaries than their male counterparts. The average salary of male 1,478 are female employees. HT employs 193 managers, of whiemployees in non-managerial positions is 3.8% higher than the ch 108 are male and 85 female employees. The ratio of female average female employees’ salary at the same positions. Number of employees 2,252 : 1,478 male female Number of managers 108 : 85 male female ANTI-DISCRIMINATION HT has appointed persons in charge of receiving complaints committed harassment was taken, as HT has zero tolerance and protecting the dignity of workers. In 2016, one complafor any form of harassment. However, in 2016, three lawsuits int regarding protection of the worker’s dignity was received; have been filed (by former HT workers) on grounds of discriupon completion of the complaint resolution procedure, the mination; the respective proceedings are ongoing, and HT measure of termination of employment of the worker who had disputes the occurrence of any form of discrimination. 22 FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION EMPLOYEES pany’s internal websites a comprehensive education which is All employees, including members permanently available. The education course is based on an inteof the managerial body, have been ractive and multimedia approach to raising the awareness of and made aware of HT’s anti-corruption educating employees, and apart from topics concerning the recopolicies and procedures. The gnition and prevention of corruption and conflict of interests, it also policies have been published in covers risk areas such as handling of gifts and benefits, relation to the members of the public sector, and controls when working with the Company’s media and are also external consultants and representatives. The education concept available on the corporate Intranet. is designed as a discussion on cases, where attendants of the eduHT applies three methods to make cation course are faced with real-life dilemmas and situations from employees more aware of the issue of the business environment. The education course includes also a corruption risks: by communication clear message of the Management Board of the Group of a need to fight corruption at all levels (Tone from the Top). coming from the Management Board, by regular campaigns on occasion of If they have any questions on how to prevent being exposed to the the International Anti-Corruption Day, corruption risk, employees and members of the managerial body and via its web pages on Compliance. can ask experts on the “Ask Me” consultation portal. U 2016, there were 16 requests for advice on this topic and 357 integrity checks All employees who would like to learn more on how to prevent of future and existing partners of HT, also covering corruption ricorruption and other conflicts of interests can find on the comsks. Not a single case of corruption was confirmed. 23 CUSTOMER RELATIONS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION MANAGEMENT Customer satisfaction is among most of specific questions about products, prices, contact points important strategic goals of Hrvatski and processes where the customer is interacting with HT. This way, HT gets a full picture of the customer experience. Results Telekom. HT monitors customer are being monitored from Management Board level to the indiloyalty using the TRI*M methodology, vidual employees (depending on responsibility level) and are while customer satisfaction is applied as strategic guidelines defining activities in areas whemonitored within the ICCA project. re extra efforts need to be made in order to increase customer satisfaction. Results in 2016 indicate that a TRI*M customer The ICCA (International Customer Contact Analysis) examines satisfaction index of 62 was achieved (on a scale from -66 to customer satisfaction with all of HT’s touch points: call centre, +134), which means that almost the same satisfaction level was IVR self-service, T-Centres, field technicians, door-to-door serachieved as in 2015 (index 60), while compared to 2014, (index vice and HT’s official website. Polls are conducted on a daily 54), the satisfaction index shows a significant increase in 2016. basis, immediately upon the end of the last interaction with The results in individual areas show that customers have given HT. By completing the poll, customers have the opportunity to above-average ratings to network quality and coverage, while rate the competence and kindness of the agent or sales reprecomplaint resolution received a below-average rating, which insentative with whom they had the last interaction, as well as dicates that the process is very demanding. the duration and quality of realisation of the interaction itself. The results are monitored and reported to all levels, from the Based on the results of the TRI*M survey, numerous projects Management Board level to the level of each individual agent were launched in the last two years, with a focus on resolution or sales representative. Based on the supplied results, HT takes of fundamental difficulties and provision of basic quality in the short-term and long-term measures to improve the quality of delivery of services and support. The results of these projects work of agents and sales representatives as well as processes. are evidenced by the progress in service provisioning to customers; some of the examples are: The results for 2016 show that the set Number of calls reduced by 8% compared to the precustomer satisfaction index has been vious year; realised in a total amount of 115%. Number of complaints reduced by 6% compared to the Customers considered the interaction previous year; T-Centres, the call centre, and with Number of faults reduced by 2% compared to the previous year; field technicians and to be the best The percentage of inquiries resolved at first contact inand indicated improvements they creased by 1 per cent compared to the previous year. would like to have implemented for upgrading of the IVR self-service. In addition to the projects, the Company’s strategic focus on improvement of customer satisfaction is also evident from the HT will continue to apply the identical method in 2017 as well, approach to product development, which can be seen on the as the customers’ ratings and opinions serve as a basis for proexample of Magenta 1. posals regarding HT’s operations aimed at improving customer satisfaction. Employees from HT offices also spend time in direct contact with customers, becoming “Christmas helpers” in the shops. The TRI*M survey method has been applied on DT Group leThis initiative provided HT's managers an opportunity to speak vel since 2007. In addition to the overall customer loyalty and directly to customers and hear their comments on products and satisfaction index, this survey also provides analysis of results services. 25 PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION HT’s main privacy protection policy is the Binding Corporate Rules Privacy (BCRP) of Deutsche Telekom Group, publicly available on HT’s website. It is important to point out that the BCRP is a policy of Deutsche Telekom Group which includes HT as a member. It has been passed in accordance with the best European practice, by customers or supervisory bodies with regard to protection of and it received approval from all relevant personal data protection personal data. A separate organisational unit has been put in agencies in a special procedure of the EU Commission. The policharge of application of the efficient personal data protection cy was adopted by HT in October 2014; HT included a separate system, and it responds directly to the President of the Manageorganisational area responsible for protection of personal data and ment Board. The Personal Data Protection Officer is in charge privacy. Moreover, since 2009, HT also has the special function of of education on the need and manner of protection of natural Data Protection Officer, although this function is scheduled to becopersons’ rights related to processing of their personal data. me mandatory only pursuant to the new EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) which are going to be applied as from May 2018. In 2016, customers and the Personal Data Protection Agency filed 24 complaints regarding violation of the right to privacy. In Pursuant to the mandatory regulations and corporate standards, three cases, leaking, theft or loss of customer data was found HT has a two-stage complaint submission or, respectively, reso(individual cases caused by human error). Each HT customer lution procedure in place. A complaint can be filed at any sales can submit a complaint on abuse of personal data. If a fault is point of HT, by calling the Customer Service, or in writing, by found on HT’s side or, what occurs more frequently, if abuse e-mail, telefax or regular mail to HT’s address. Moreover, contawas committed by unknown third parties, the complaint will cts at HT are provided to customers with regard to protection of be settled positively for the customer. HT keeps track of the personal data; HT endeavours to respond in a timely manner to occurrence of specific types and frequency of data abuse comevery relevant inquiries, requests and/or complaints submitted plaints and, if necessary, will change internal processes. MARKETING AND MARKING In marketing communications, advertising, sponsorship and tract with the distributor or directly with the supplier must be promotion, HT uses Deutsche Telekom's brand guidelines marked in accordance with the applicable statutory provisions. and the HURA code of advertising. During the reporting period, no incidents were reported with regard to non-observance of marketing communications. In 2016, HT received two reprimands due to the fact that on two accessory items the declaration that has to be affixed to the item by the distributer was missing. The procedure requires that each product offered for sale by HT on the basis of a con26 CLIMATE CHANGES, ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Management Board of HT is directly responsible for the sideration risk directly or indirectly related to climate changes. definition and implementation of the environmental protection, In order to reduce and bring under control its own impact on health and safety policy. HT focuses on finding solutions that climate changes, the company has defined, within the scope of will render products and services energy-efficient, that will save the Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at Work Mananatural resources and preserve the health of employees and gement System in line with the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 customers. standards, a documented procedure to be followed when handling ozone-depleting substances. Employees are continuously involved in measures of environmental protection, health and improvement of safety at work. They are obligated, just like the contractual partners and suppliers, to observe and apply statutory provisions from these areas. HT has a policy of environmental protection, health and safety in place which is aligned with the DT and DT Group Policy, and HT provides, on a regular basis, information to the public on activities performed for protection of the environment, health and safety at work. When considering the impact of various risk types on the company’s operations, the Management Board also takes into conOBJECTIVES OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Based on the environmental protection policy and on signiImproving the workers’ proficiency level in the domain ficant aspects of the environment, HT defines, applies and of accident and risk prevention: maintains documented general and individual objectives in Conducting of seven evacuation and rescue drills; environmental protection on relevant functional levels in the Preparation of a program for prevention of stress at company, as well as programmes/measures for achievement work and related to work; of such objectives. In 2016, a total of 42 environmental management objectives was defined, among them were: Performing control of electromagnetic field levels: Perform initial and periodic measurements on mobile Providing information and raising awareness: network base stations in line with statutory time limits; Education of primary school pupils on the importance of proper disposal of old mobile handsets and related Reducing the number of spatial interventions during accessories for recycling purposes and environment construction of mobile network base stations: preservation; Interoperator collaboration aimed at electronic infraParticipation in the “Earth Hour” project; structure location sharing. Identifying the public opinion on environmental proteMore efficient and rational consumption of all forms of ction aspects in HT: energy: Conducting public opinion polls: Optimising energy consumption and increasing ener28 gy efficiency in fixed and mobile networks; Smart lamps and smart street solutions; Reduction of energy consumption by optimisation of the system for provision of thermal working conditions Promotion of environmental advantages of HT’s proand IT systems and equipment; ducts and services, with emphasis on information and Reduction of energy consumption on mobile network communication solutions that reduce consumption of base stations by rectifier modernisation; energy and resources: Modifications in heating and cooling systems; Solution for video surveillance and forest fire detection Reconstruction of the cooling system in the data centre; systems; Improvement of energy efficiency of buildings (fitting and reconstruction of facilities); Promotion of traffic system sustainability Conducting energy audits and energy certification of Decarbonisation of urban mobility through a network of facilities according to the plan and statutory time limits; fully connected EV charging stations; Conducting of the initial energy audits of HT as large company; Reduce and prevent emissions of harmful gases into the air: Full replacement of systems and devices using HCFC Reducing paper consumption: (R-22); Reduce paper consumption in day-to-day work; Measurement of air emissions from stationary sources; Promote the use of electronic media for purposes of inRegular maintenance and servicing of air conditioning ternal and external communication (Intranet, Internet, systems and devices, as well as boiler rooms and fleet; e-mail) and promotion of products and services; Replacement of diesel power generators by low-voltage Reduce consumption of paper for bills and itemised call network; lists for customers by promoting increased use of e-bills; Procurement of new vehicles meeting the highest enviDevelop My Telekom portal for administration of services ronmental criteria; for residential and business customers; Using electricity generated from renewable sources (sign Reduce the need for paper consumption at sales points; a contract with HEP Opskrba d.o.o. for the ZelEn product); Document printing optimisation process in the company; Waste: Promotion, presentation and implementation of the techIncrease reuse of no longer required network and IT nology framework “Internet of Things”: equipment, devices and small inventory; Smart City solution in Dubrovnik; Increase the portion of recycled waste 29 In accordance with statutory regulations, HT systematically monitors and measures: Electromagnetic field levels (regularly); ment and devices (monthly); Consumption of all energy products and fuels (quarterly); Paper consumption in the office (yearly); Air emissions from stationary sources (regularly, every Quantities of all types of waste incurred in business two years, pursuant to legal obligation); operation (monthly); Quantity of packaging material put on the market (quQuantity of disposed mobile devices collected from cuarterly); stomers and from internal use (yearly); Quantity of imported electrical and electronical equipKilometres travelled by air on business trips (quarterly). Environmental impacts measured by HT although not prescribed by law: Public opinion polls on environmentally friendly disConsumption of all energy products and fuels (quarterly) posal of old mobile phones and electromagnetic radiation; Paper consumption in the office (yearly) Encouraging visitors at sales points to return old moKilometres travelled by air on business trips (quarterly). bile phones and other electronic devices from the sales portfolio for further disposal, along with granting special benefits; Within the scope of evaluation of indirect impact on the environment, the services offered to customers are evaluated in terms of raw material and/or energy savings, traffic avoidance and enabling hardware replacement; Among the monitored environmental impacts of HT’s services/products are: Products are put on the market in paper packaging; the T-Centres (more than 137,000 old mobile phones packaging quantities are monitored and measured on collected and disposed of until the end of 2016). a regular basis (quarterly). These quantities have been reduced by implementation of appropriate measures. Within the scope of evaluation of indirect impact on the environment, the services offered to customers are evaDue to the widespread public interest in electroluated in terms of raw material and/or energy savings, magnetic field levels, HT is publishing the specific traffic avoidance and enabling hardware replacement. absorption rate (SAR) of mobile phones offered by HT on its official website. HT uses public opinion polls to monitor the population’s perception of activities related to environmental HT conducts various marketing campaigns to enprotection, electromagnetic radiation and old mobile courage customers to return old mobile devices to phone collection campaigns 30 Measures taken by HT to reduce waste volume: Waste prevention by encouraging the reuse of no longer required Reduction of paper consumption in day-to-day work tangible assets, reducing wastage to a minimum, separate collecti(digitising internal processes and switch to e-business on of waste containing useful components to enable their recycling contribute to reduced paper consumption in the office); and proper disposal are the backbone of the activities in the field of waste management in HT. Availability of reports in electronic form, etc.; Separate waste collection and selection (office paper, Development for IT applications which enable paper sacardboard packaging, PET bottles, batteries, copper cavings; bles, iron parts etc.) for delivery to licensed collection companies for recycling purposes; Reduction of paper consumption for printed media and promotional material (promoting the use of electronic Sale of no longer required small inventory to interested media for purposes of internal and external communicaemployees; tion and promotion of products and services). Sale of dismantled and no longer required telecommuWithin the scope of business transformation through automatinications equipment and parts to interested buyers for on, digitalisation and simplification of business processes, paper reuse; consumption in the office in HT has been decreasing for years. Reduction of packaging quantities in products; ——> Employee education; Reduced consumption of paper for bills and itemised call lists for customers by promoting increased use of e-bills; Measures taken to reduce water consumption: Due to the nature of its activities, HT does not discharge waste separators and grease filters, which provide for the separation water associated with power plants, i.e. water is not used for of oils from liquids. Reduced water consumption throughout the technological purposes. HT uses water from the public water sulast couple of years is a result of the employees’ environmental pply network as utility service, for drinking, sanitation purposes, awareness, optimisation of business premises, and preventive in air conditioning and firefighting systems. Domestic water is maintenance and completed reconstructions on heating/cooling discharged only in sewage outfalls. It is important to note that systems and the water supply network. none of the HT’s business processes represents a risk of pollution of watercourses. Where there is a risk of oil spills into the Water consumption is decreasing (in 2016 it was reduced by sewer, appropriate technical means are applied, the so-called oil 20% compared to 2015). compared to 2015 water consumption is reduced by: 20% 31 ENERGY EFFICIENCY Since 2011, HT is conducting an ficiency improvement measures; all measures are aligned with the set objectives of the Integrated Environmental, Health, and energy efficiency project covering Safety at Work Management System. In 2016, the implemented all energy efficiency-related measures resulted in a total 8,230 GJ decrease in energy conactivities aimed at realisation of the sumption. The project of promoting energy efficiency on corbest possible results in the area of porate level was continued in 2016 and resulted in reduction reduction of energy consumption. of electrical energy by 2% compared to 2015. In other words, consumption of electrical energy was reduced from 127,381.39 HT is conducting analysis of a number of potential energy efMWh to 124,457.12 MWh. 2% reduction of electrical energy Among the measures are: Decommissioning and dismantling of obsolete and optimisation of the installed air-conditioning systems); non-functional equipment; Replacement of the cooling system, reconstruction of Replacement of control meters; the cooling system in the data centre, modification and reconstruction works on the heating and cooling Change of tariff models for billing of electricity consystems on two locations); sumption; Reduction of electricity consumption through maxiConducting of energy audits and energy certifications mum utilisation of existing IT resources; for all facilities of HT; Conducting feasibility studies in the process of procuAnalysis of the utilisation status of spaces in HT’s facirement of telecommunications and IT equipment (one lities and relocation of employees and/or equipment; of the specification’s input is energy consumption or, generally, energy efficiency of the new equipment); Reduction of energy consumption of DC power supply at mobile network base stations (rectifier replacement); Procurement of multifunctional equipment whenever possible (e.g. procurement of a single device featuReduction of energy consumption of the system for proring printing, copying and telefaxing functions); vision of thermal working conditions (replacement of cooling devices and reduction of electrical energy by Fleet renewal by procurement of new vehicles. 32 CLIMATE PROTECTION Sustainable development and risk of damage caused by adverse weather conditions. In 2016, HT has recovered HRK 1.8 million from insurance, in contrast to climate protection constitute one the year 2015, when revenue from insurance payments received of the strategic determinants of HT amounted to HRK 3.7 million. As the trend of reported damage and the entire DT Group, and use of increases every year due to impact of adverse weather conditienergy from renewable sources is ons, the insurance company change the terms and conditions one step forward in HT’s constant for compensation of damage. We are currently in the phase of improving the process of damage reporting and payment of daefforts to create a society with mages by the insurer. reduced greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, we are proud that we will Impacts on the environment are reduced by heating and cooling procure electricity for our own needs control employing so-called smart building solutions. In 2016, from renewable sources and thus energy audits and certifications of buildings continued with a view to improving the energy efficiency of the real estate portmore actively contribute to a wellfolio. In total, 50 technology and office premises and buildings considered joint course of action for were certified, with an average energy class D, which is satisfaa better environment and a better ctory with regard to the year and type of construction, primarily future in our community. due to the quality of regular maintenance and the materials and equipment installed. The car fleet, the average age of a car being HT operates a widely branched access network which has larbelow 3.5 years, is subject to constant renewal and modernisatigely been built above ground, particularly in rural and less poon in line with the highest environmental criteria. It also includes pulated areas, and which is therefore subject to damage caused approximately 40 vehicles that can run on LPG fuel considered by natural disasters, increasingly caused by climate changes. In the most environmentally friendly motor fuel. Within the objective order to ensure business continuity and to increase network resito transform the business operations through automation, digitalience to impacts of bad weather, HT is investing financial funds, lisation, and simplification of business processes, the quantity of within the scope of its regular operations, into the replacement disposed and recycled paper waste decreased by approximately of the above ground network by an underground network in re10% compared to 2015. Alongside the regular collection of used gions where such sorts of damage would be most pronounced. devices in T-Centres, we continued the buy-back program for old Moreover, HT’s telecommunications infrastructure is extremely mobile devices, under which customers can receive discounts dependent on secure and uninterrupted power supply and thus when buying a new device. Employee education is conducted exposed to the risk of electric power outage from the public eleon environmental impacts and energy efficiency. In addition, as ctricity service caused by bad weather. This is why HT is cona step further in its continuous efforts to protect the climate and ducting technical and organisational measures in terms of proreduce greenhouse gas emissions, since 2016, HT has been providing stationary and mobile backup power supply units for all curing green electricity generated solely from renewable soursignificant infrastructure facilities. Furthermore, the company has ces, covering more than 80% of its electricity needs. taken out an insurance for its network infrastructure covering the the quantity of disposed and recycled paper waste decreased by approximately 10% 33 CLIMATE CHANGES AND ADVANCED ICT TECHNOLOGIES By implementation of cutting-edge ICT technologies, HT contriphysical products into electronical ones. By development, implebutes to the reduction of its own carbon footprint, while providing mentation and provision of increasingly broad offerings of ICT its customers with many products and services enabling them to services “in the cloud”, HT is making an additional contribution do the same. The majority of such products and services allows to the beneficial influence of ICT technologies and services on development and application of various forms of online business climate changes, as evident from reduced need for travel, reduactivities (e-commerce, e-administration, e-banking etc.), virtualiced consumption of paper and other tangible resources, less, sation of business in hitherto markedly “physical” environments more rational and more efficient use of energy etc., which has (e-libraries, e-video libraries, online advertising, online sales, onan impact on reduction of harmful gas emissions, particularly line customer support, e-bills etc.), thus transforming traditionally carbon dioxide (CO₂) into the air. THROUGH EDUCATION TO IMPROVEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS Continuing with its environmental and educational collaborapatch note was handed over to the school. This way, HT is tion with primary schools, HT visited the primary school “OŠ an active participant in the education of the youngest on the 22. lipnja” in Sisak which has the permanent “International importance of environmental preservation and proper waste Eco School” status. Within the scope of the school’s environmanagement. mental programme related to waste collection, sorting and recycling, the diligent pupils have been collecting old moHT supports the raising of environmental awareness among bile phones during the school year. The campaign saw the its employees in numerous ways, for instance by obligatory involvement of all pupils, along with an outstanding commiseparated collection of useful waste (paper, batteries, small tment of a group of ecologists, under the leadership of the teelectronic waste, spent toner cartridges, etc.). Most of the acher Ljubica Radulović, and a total of 128 old mobile phones employees have completed a course on environmental prowas collected. HT forwarded the collected old mobile phones tection, and new employees receive training in environmental to a licensed Croatian concessionaire, and the received disprotection during the onboarding process. 34 HEALTH AND SAFETY With the development of mobile A margin of safety of as much as 84% applies to the communications and the growing power density (i.e. the permissible radiation level is just 16% of the EU Directive and ICNIRP Guidelines). number of customers, the need for base stations and mobile antennas without GSM base stations have been developed, tested and put into which communication is not possible operation in accordance with international standards and requialso increases. HT strictly complies rements. Hrvatski Telekom receives the certificates proving that with regulations on electromagnetic the base stations comply with the security requirements of ICNIRP and with a series of standards for product safety, electromagnetic radiation, with the Ordinance on compatibility and general technical regulations from the equipProtection Against Electromagnetic ment manufacturer. Also, all base stations are certified as conforFields and the Ordinance on ming to a range of European and international standards issued by the Limitation of the Strength of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. Electromagnetic Fields for Radio HT encourages extensive and detailed scientific research and Equipment and Telecommunications keeps track of the research activities of many organisations, indeTerminal Equipment. pendent groups, professional teams and scientists on the effects of electromagnetic radiation. All research papers published up to HT also applies the international standard for limiting exposure now and the latest scientific findings show that the electromagneto time-varying electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields tic fields in the mobile communication systems have no harmful (up to 300 GHz), including the safety limits that have been effects on human health, which has been also confirmed by the adopted by the UN World Health Organisation on a global level. World Health Organisation itself. In the course of 2016, measureThe Croatian Ordinance on Protection Against Electromagnetic ments were conducted on almost 1,400 base stations, and the reFields has stricter limitations than those prescribed by the Eusults were forwarded to the Ministry of Health. Such independent ropean Union and the International Commission on Non-Ionimeasurements of electromagnetic fields in HT’s mobile networks sing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP): have been conducted on a regular basis for many years already. The results for 2016 generally show the same trend as in previous A margin of safety of 60% is applied to electric field years which the measured values are far below the prescribed strength (i.e. the permissible level is 40% of the EU limits. All sources of electromagnetic field in HT’s mobile networks Directive and ICNIRP Guidelines); have their approval for use issued by the Ministry of Health. 35 TEN GUIDELINES ON ELECTROMAGNETIC FIELDS HT acknowledges the general public’s true concern over the HT plays an active role in the public dialog on electromagnetic impacts of mobile communications technology, of mobile fields, supports independent scientific studies in health researhandsets as much as of base stations. Taking into account ch, and participates in counselling, communication and provithe large number of base stations and millions of customers, ding information to the public and other important subjects on all Croatian Telecom is determined to take the public’s concern social levels. Although the regulatory and social principles differ seriously and to deal with the general public’s needs and throughout Europe, all members of the DT Group share the comenvironmental needs in an open, constructive and sincere mitment to transparency, being informed, providing advice and manner. active participation. HT has accepted and observes the principles set forth in the DT Group Guidelines on EM Fields: Transparency HT has set up internal responsibilities and workflows All base stations of HT comply with the national guiwith regard to complaints and inquiries on technology delines on exposure to non-ionising radiation, as well impacts, health and other related issue as with the Guidelines of the ICNIRPthe International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection. In HT is aware of the general public’s interest in in mobile order to improve transparency, Croatian Telecom has communications. For full transparency, HT supports the a Compliance Certificate for each base station. idea of creation of national data bases on base stations which would contain all other EMR sources as well. Providing information In addressing the public, HT follows a proactive commuOn its website and at all sales outlets, HT is providing nications strategy, striving to cooperate with all interemanufacturers’ information on the SAR values of the sted parties. Moreover, HT is encouraging authorities on devices offered. all levels to cooperate with the mobile industry and to set up own programs of providing information to the public. Cooperation HT cooperates with local authorities in handling citizens’ inquiries regarding network development and selection of sites for base stations. For assistance to local authorities, HT provides all relevant information on our networks. HT strives to cooperate with local authorities, aiming to harmonise its position on base station sites with local authorities. HT makes efforts to minimise visual impacts of bases stations and effects of the overall network on the landscape. 36 Promoting scientific expertise HT fully supports the progress of scientific expertise gnetic fields should be defined on the basis of sciention EMR effects on human health and contributes to fically documented and recognised research, and that independent development programmes. such limitations should be under permanent control. Furthermore, HT is keeping track of and assessing HT believes that limitations of exposure to electromathe latest discoveries in science, on its own. SAFETY REQUIREMENTS All mobile devices marketed by HT is less than 2 W/kg. meet the safety requirements on the In 2016, HT continued with the implementation of activities by whiSAR values. SAR (Specific Absorption ch HT seeks to contribute to reducing the use of materials by its Rate) is a measure of specific customers, with a focus on customer needs and advancement of absorption rate, or the unit that e-business. Services “in the cloud” are primarily intended for budescribes the speed of absorption of siness customers; they have been designed and are enabled in a centralised manner, in HT’s own network. By means of these servielectromagnetic energy per unit mass ces, HT reduces the customers’ need for devices and equipment, of tissue, and is expressed in W/kg. thus contributing to the protection of the environment. FurthermoPursuant to Directive 1999/519/EC of the European Union on lire, the e-bill service contributes to preservation of the environment miting exposure to electromagnetic fields (0 Hz to 300 MHz), the thanks to reduced use of paper, and the number of customers who permissible limits of SAR amount to 2 W/kg for every 10 g of tissue have activated this service is constantly increasing. In 2016 as well. for the head and torso. The limitation has been taken over by the HT continued offering our “Replace and Save” service, allowing Croatian Ordinance on the Protection from Electromagnetic Fields customers to bring their old mobile device to a T-Centre and get a (OG 146/2014). The SAR value of mobile phones marketed by HT discount on products included in HT’s offering. 37 EMISSIONS Within the scope of the Integrated Environmental, Health, and where planes/trains/rented cars and taxis are the most comSafety at Work Management System, the Handling Ozone-deplemonly used means of transport, showed an upward trend in the ting Substances Procedure established the monitoring and mareporting period as compared to the previous years, due to innagement of activities pertaining to the maintenance of various creased business needs as a result of outsourcing of individual equipment that contains substances that could potentially affect business activities. the. HT monitors air emissions from boiler rooms on a regular basis and prepares reports in compliance with Croatian regulaThe year 2016 saw an upward tions. The weight of air emissions is either directly determined trend in the use of audio and video from measurements or indirectly calculated from fuel consumpticonferencing as a replacement for on. As a result of a decreasing energy consumption trend, the NO₂ and SO₂ emissions were lower in 2016. Boiler rooms are physical meetings, which further equipped with automated regulation of consumption parameters reduced the need for business contributing to a more efficient use of resources and lower emistrips, particularly over longer sions in the environment. Regular maintenance of boiler rooms is distances where air planes are the basis for reducing emissions in the environment. mainly used for transport. Of other indirect emissions, those resulting from business trips Audio conference has become a standard method for holding by public transport are considered the most significant ones in regular meetings and consultations at the DT Group level, espeHT (travels by company vehicles from own fleet are included in cially when the presence of participants from several national direct greenhouse gas emissions). Exact data on types of mecompanies is required, which has resulted in a considerable ans of transport and mileage are not monitored and therefore reduction in the number of trips in order to hold physical meeare unavailable. However, the total number of business trips, tings, and thus in emissions caused by such trips. 38 GREEN OFFICE As part of the Integrated Environmental, Health, and Safety at reduced, the lifespan of sold tangible assets is expanded and saWork Management System, HT defined the guideline for establivings on resources (raw materials) required in the production of shment of the Green Office. The Green Office is a set of measures new equipment and devices are achieved. and proper conduct in day-to-day office operations resulting in an increase in the efficient use of resources and, at the same time, in The total weight of waste is determined by weighing. In 2016, a positive impacts on the environment and our business operations. total of 782 tons of various types of waste was collected and disThe guidelines also pertain to the use of resources, particularly posed, of which 102 tons were hazardous waste. The quantity of paper. The digitalisation of internal processes and the transfer to hazardous waste was reduced by 43% compared to 2015, as a ree-business contribute to the reduction of paper use in office opesult of the sale of old equipment and devices previously disposed rations. The transformation of business operations, through their of as electronic waste, and as such classified as hazardous waste automation, digitalisation and simplification, resulted in a constant decline in paper consumption in HT. In 2016, paper consumption According to Croatian regulations, was reduced by 13% compared to 2015. In the Sales Department, HT provided its customers in all HT is continuously working on the digitalisation of sales docusales points with the possibility ments and processes; in the course of 2016, a total level of 8% of paper documents was achieved in T-Centres. to return their old mobile phones and batteries or, respectively, old HT offers its customers numerous innovative services enabling electronic devices from its portfolio. them to reduce their own impacts on the environment (saving raw By means of various campaigns of material and/or energy, avoiding traffic, reducing the need for harenvironmentally friendly disposal of dware, offering the possibility of hardware replacement etc.) used mobile handsets organised by HT deals responsibly with the waste generated in the business HT since 2005, until now, more than processes, in accordance with the procedures of the certified In137,000 used mobile devices were tegrated Environmental Management System, Waste Management taken care of. procedure. Waste prevention by encouraging the reuse of unnecessary assets, reducing wastage to a minimum, separate collection Communication with individuals and customers on environof waste containing useful components to enabling its recycling mental protection may be realise either in written or in verbal and proper disposal are the backbone of the activities in the field form. The dedicated e-mail address for inquiries regarding enof waste management. All waste generated in the business procevironmental protection in HT is: zastita.okolisa@t.ht.hr. Oher ss is to be sorted according to the place of origin, and is collected marketing ways of communication are announcements in in separate containers and delivered for further care to authorised newspapers, ads, websites, flyers, brochures, press conferencompanies and concessionaires. For the purpose of reuse of unneces, and announcements of annual results in environmental cessary assets, a prescribed procedure for its sale to interested management, media conferences on the occasion of launcexternal customers as well as employees of the company is conhing environmental projects and on other occasions related ducted. In this way the amount of waste produced is significantly to environmental protection. The quantity of hazardous waste was reduced by: 43% 39 SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT APPROACH Management of supplier relations and processes lies within the defined important ethical topics in business relations with parresponsibility of Procurement. Procurement makes sure that tners. Therefore, HT: supplier relations are managed cross-functionally, taking into consideration the supplier’s overall lifetime. HT’s Procurement Does not tolerate corruption; manages cash outflow, except in the case of taxes, salaries, acquisition and merger transactions, and mobile device subsiAvoids and suppresses all situations that imply conflict of dies, in one of the following ways: interest on any side of the business relationship; By integration of procurement under Procurement’s direct Strictly defines rules on giving and receiving gifts among responsibility; business partners; By allocation of mandates to the respective customer facing Does not support reciprocal transactions and is commi/ functional units to perform procurement activities; or tted to full transparency of all business processes; By defining exceptions to Procurement. Has implemented and is maintaining internal control systems according to the highest standards; Procurement is responsible for achievement of best value for the Company in the procurement of goods or services, including meRequires its partners to accept the principles set forth in asures required for implementation, management and monitoring the five Guiding Principles and the Code of Ethics. of the respective processes, such as: HT has also put into place a certified environmental management Definition of procurement strategy and supply chain; system in compliance with the ISO 14001 standard. This international standard sets forth that all subjects performing work on behalf Prescribing activities and responsibilities related to execuand in the name of HT, must be made aware of the environmention of the annual Procurement Plan in order to create the tal protection principles, which includes suppliers of goods and basis for achievement of optimum procurement conditions; services and other contractual partners. Therefore, while being involved in the procurement process on the Hrvatski Telekom side, Leading and management of needs, as well as cost manaand particularly while they are working at locations in ownership or gement aimed at increase of overall savings and avoidanunder jurisdiction of Hrvatski Telekom, suppliers are expected to: ce of unnecessary costs. Proceed in line with applicable laws and other regulations Management of supplier relations and procurement contracts, dealing with environmental protection; including continuous improvement programmes with logistic parHandle waste produced during performance of work in tners – as a rule, HT avoids doing business with suppliers which the manner as prescribed by the contract; might have a detrimental impact on the reputation or pose any Upon completion of maintenance work, dispose of replaother risk. Therefore, Procurement has to ensure that the following ced consumables, parts, and material themselves; companies be not invited to the tendering process: Always proceed in line with the principles of best practice in environmental protection, regardless of whether Companies included in the list of undesirable suppliers; or they have their own certified environmental protection certificate in place or not. Companies which have failed the organisational unit’s compliance check. All suppliers with whom Procurement establishes business cooperation are made aware of HT’s anti-corruption policies, as an By means of its internal documents, Hrvatski Telekom has strictly excerpt from HT’s anti-corruption rules is included in all contracts. 41 BUSINESS SUSTAINABILITY QUESTIONNAIRE In the regulation of relations with suppliers, HT also uses the “BusiDuring the procurement process, ness Sustainability Questionnaire” which contains two basic assessment components observation of ethical principles in business the company is asked to submit operation and environmental protection. The above-mentioned documents on the education and Questionnaire is an obligatory document for all suppliers who wish further continuous education of to do business with HT. To this effect, in the course of 2016, all new the security company employees. suppliers were evaluated by application of environmental manageDuring the reporting period, ment criteria. In 2016, 156 suppliers had to complete the Business Sustainability Questionnaire. Out of the total budget, 88% is spent none of the suppliers has been on local suppliers with whom HT directly enters into business relasubject to analytical assessment tions and which are not defined in terms of geography. In addition due to possible significant to the 678 local suppliers, HT enters into contracts on services with potentially detrimental impact so-called “global” suppliers with whom cooperation is established on the environment, nor has any on DT Group level. In the case of engagement of security companies, HT enters into contracts on services with companies which significant risk been identified operate in line with applicable statutory provisions and meet the related corruption in the risk conditions for performance of such activities. assessment of selected suppliers. 42 DIGITAL SOCIETY MANAGEMENT APPROACH HT manages development of the digital society by means of straon new technologies, acquire new competencies and maintain tegically defined development plans, utilising digital access and their personal competitive position. Expert training, professional applications, as well as by intensive collaboration with educatiofurther education, internal transfer of know-how and an extensive nal institutions and the academic community in the promotion of online education programme which provides employees with the the digital society. HT is a forerunner in terms of automation and opportunity to learn when and where they want – all this is part computerisation of business processes, document and material of employee development which is given a lot of attention. Furtflows, as well as of task management. From the Human Resources hermore, the inclusion of HT employees in international projects aspect, HT influences digital inclusion through its STEM programwithin the scope of Deutsche Telekom Group allows them to gain me² which covers HT employees. They are not only participants, access to new knowledge and to develop their competencies in an but act as ambassadors and mentors of STEM. HT is a company international environment. In collaboration with Croatian Makers, of STEM experts which continuously fosters lifelong learning and HT organises robotics workshops for children of its workers, where further education of its employees, thus enabling them to work the little ones learn and work with mBot, Logo and micro:bit. STEM PROGRAMME – ACADEMIC COMMUNITY HT offers specialised internships A five-year Framework Cooperation Agreement has been signed with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Compufor STEM students, offering them ting (FER), covering work on science and research projects, the opportunity to get familiar with involving university students in projects with HT, further educaspecific jobs and company life and to tion of HT employees, but also lectures given by HT experts to acquire first work experience already FER students. HT has an intensive cooperation with FER’s Caduring their study. Furthermore, the reer Centre, actively supporting their programmes. HT is also involved in INNOSOC (Innovative ICT Solutions for the Societal HT Innovation Camp was held, where Challenges), a joint project of eleven faculties from eight costudents could learn more about the untries aimed at development of multidisciplinary international brand-new technologies. study programmes in the area of innovations based on informaHT experts are frequent experts are frequent guest lecturers tion and communication technologies (ICT). at faculties, particularly in the area of ICT and IoT (Internet of Things). HT is also involved in the Private Sector Youth Initiative HT delivers access services, on a regular basis, to the acaof the Croatian Employers Association and the European Bank demic community and educational institutions, employing for Reconstruction and Development whose main objective is tools for automatic monitoring and notifying upon completito enable young people to acquire their first work experienon of individual steps in procurement business processes, ces, mainly through practical training. In collaboration with the in the areas of network construction, cost control, and cuKnowledge in Action Foundation, secondary school students stomer requests. HT plans to use advanced “big data” tools are given the opportunity to visit HT’s business areas. for analysis of customer needs. ² The term STEM is an English-language based acronym formed from the initial letters of four areas – science, technology, engineering, 44 and mathematics DIGITAL LITERACY and participation in collaborative peer networks via the Internet. Digital competency means Digital competency requires understanding and knowledge of confident use of IT society the nature, role and capacity of technology in everyday situations: technology for work, in personal and social life, and at work. This includes the major entertainment, learning and applications, such as text processing, spreadsheets, databases, communication. storage and management, as well as understanding the possibilities and potential risks of the Internet and of communication via It includes basic ICT skills: use of a computer for finding, acceelectronical media (e-mail, web tools) for work, leisure, exchange ssing, storing, creating, presenting and exchanging information of information, collaboration, networking, learning and research. 45 PROJECT FOR PROMOTION DIGITAL LITERACY For the promotion of digital literacy, HT organised the Hack it! HT provides free training for elderly users on how to use the Internet. hackathon, and in a very short period, more than 150 people applied, mostly developers, designers, marketing and business HT grants special prices of publicly available voice telephony services professionals from the marketing and business areas; among tailored to the needs of socially endangered groups of end-users – serthem, the 43 best candidates were selected and assigned into tevice users with special social needs (war and military invalids and civil ams keeping in mind the balance between knowledge and skills. invalids of the Homeland War, members of the close family of killed The teams have been presented with the task of developing the and missing Homeland War veterans and associations, and persons method of communication of the future. Be it augmented reality, with disabilities – members of the association). virtual reality, or some other third technology, the innovation and development of an idea will be considered the most valuable, HT and IN2 started the implementation of the mNurse system in Zaand the additional advantage will be given to the solutions with greb Children’s Hospital and Zabok General Hospital. The mNurse market potential. The winner of the hackathon was Maggie Team application is a mobile upgrade of the IN2 Hospital Information System with a solution based on a personal digital communications assi(Bolnički informacijski sustav – BIS) intended for nurses working in stant. Maggie Team provided a vision of a personal digital assihospital wards. The mNurse application will enable the ward nurses stant that follows one’s conversations through a mobile phone to enter all their observations and required information in the hospital and hence, based on the data and patterns collected, predicts system on the spot during their regular checks and conversations with user requirements and wishes and acts accordingly (for example, patients within all hospital premises. The graphic display of data in the it automatically schedules a meeting arranged during a conversaapplication ensures better visibility of the patient data, and the data tion and enters it into the digital calendar). records are adjusted to the working process of the ward nurses. The users of the application have a full insight into the ward activity list, which, in a simple way, provides an overview of the prescribed and applied therapies and interventions for all patients. The Red Noses Foundation, Microsoft Hrvatska and HT have provided the youngest patients at the Oncology Institute of the University Clinic for Tumours with the opportunity to communicate with clown doctors. During 2016, the project generated 98 Skype calls with the participation of approximately 500 children. HT and the Croatian Society for Alzheimer's disease conducted a DT HT and PlugSurfing GmbH (PS), an international company seated in Group project on the territory of Croatia – Sea Hero Quest. This is an Berlin, have signed a cooperation agreement on the joint promotion innovative mobile game, specifically designed to create the world's larof e-Mobility across the Adriatic Region, to provide users of electric gest crowd sourced data set benchmarking human spatial navigation. vehicles, by means of the PlugSurfing application, access to a wide The database will help bring scientists one step closer to developing network of charging stations all over Croatia, built by HT and its parnew diagnostic tests for dementia. Within six months from its launch, the tners. The application registered 54,000 downloads on the iOS and game has attracted more than two and a half million users worldwide. Android platform and has 29,000 active users worldwide and 150 The data collected through the game are submitted to the scientists paractive users in Croatia. ticipating in the project, as well as to the Alzheimer's Research, and will hence be comprehensively analysed which is expected to last two more HT has designed special packages for users aged over 60, which years. The next project step is to use the mobile game Sea Hero Quest include a broadband line at favourable prices and lower-priced tablet in early diagnosing of dementia and in patient treatment, as well as in computers with installed applications for newspaper reading and the analysis of the drug effectiveness. This research is likely to be a real communication with the closest family members, all aimed at encourabreakthrough in the fight against dementia which, according to estimaging the seniors to use the Internet. Moreover, in the two largest cities, tes, is expected to affect 131 million people by 2050 at the global level. 46 HT is the sponsor of a unique mobile application Bebin kalendar of complementary food into baby's diet starting from six months of dohrane (Baby's calendar of complementary feeding). The free age to the age of two. Number of direct app users: 6,045 (iOS 631, application aims to help parents in introducing complementary food Android 5,414). The users’ average rating of the app is 4.9, which to their babies' diet on a daily basis and is a straightforward and commakes this app the best rated Croatian application. prehensible method to present a recommended plan of introduction DIGITAL INCLUSION Access to broadband services ons need to have broadband Internet and invites tenders for the HT holds the leading market position defined locations. HT submits a tender and offers establishment in the provision of digital broadband of the service, while HAKOM allocates the necessary funds baservices. According to the access sed on the tender. HT is obligated to provide a minimum of 2 network development strategy, HT Mbps within six months from the date of signature of the subsidy plans and constructs fixed and mobile contract, and 30 Mbps within two years, to the institutions (schools, nursery schools, public institutions) in areas of special stabroadband networks in all parts of te concern. Since 2014, when HT had signed the contract with Croatia where sufficient commercial HAKOM, implementation is ongoing in 2016 as well in various interest can be identified. HT owns, institutions and organisations in the following areas: Lika-Senj manages and maintains most of County, Požega-Slavonia County, Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the electronic communications Lika-Senj County, more specifically, the Zrinski and Frankopan Primary School, Lipovlje Primary Branch School, the D. Lerman infrastructure (ECI) in Croatia. Brestovac Primary School – Skenderovci Primary Branch School, In areas lacking sufficient commercial interest, or in areas of spethe Stjepan Radić Primary School – Ruševo Primary Branch Sccial state concern and islands, HT closely collaborates with the hool, the Žuljana Volunteer Fire Department, the Gospić VocatioRegulator and the local community with regard to supported and nal School, the Gospić Grammar School and the Gospić Medical subsidised construction of ECI. HAKOM defines which institutiCentre. Implementation will continue in 2017. 47 Being an infrastructure operator, HT is actively participating in wholesale model. This way, HT will make a maximum contristate programmes for broadband Internet development financed bution to realisation of DEA goals in non-commercial areas by EU structural funds. The respective programmes are: the Naof the Republic of Croatia. Particularly in the case of large tional Framework Programme for the Development of Broadband infrastructure companies, such as HT, which are much more Infrastructure in Areas Lacking Sufficient Commercial Interest for exposed to the public eye, and whose every move is given Investments, and the National Programme for the Development much more attention, they have additional responsibility for of Broadband Aggregate Infrastructure in Areas Lacking Suffiinfrastructure which, in the specific case of HT, is the digicient Commercial Interest for Investments, as a prerequisite for talisation of the society and development of awareness of the development of next generation access (NGA) networks. digitalisation, and of the infrastructure enabling such digitalisation, including all other related factors. By its regular commercial operations, HT is contributing to realisation of the goals of the EU Digital Agenda (DAE) which By fulfilment of the prerequisites for broadband Internet access, requires that broadband access speeds of at least 30 Mbit/s HT increases efficiency and fosters digital business operation be made available to 100% of the population and 100 Mbiin all segments of the society – government institutions, local t/s to a minimum of 50% of the population. The Republic of authorities, entrepreneurship, infrastructure companies, educaCroatia is operationally implementing the DAE goals throtional institutions, culture and sports institutions, the academic ugh a formally approved programme of state subsidies for community, etc. development of broadband infrastructure in areas lacking sufficient commercial interest for investments; in practice, HT own 80,819 km of cables in transport, aggregation the programme will be implemented by grant calls from the and access networks; Operational Programme Competitiveness and Cohesion 2014-2020. (OPCC). Eligible applicants to the planned grant HT provides broadband Internet access services at call within the scope of the OPCC are local/regional units speeds of at least 30 Mbps for 54% of households, and which, before applying for the grant, will select by public 100 Mbps for 16% of households; procurement procedure a private partner (network operator), with whom they will further prepare the project for appliMobile broadband service coverage with a minimum cation to the grant call. It is the business interest of HT to download speed of 1 Mbps is 79% for the territory of the be selected as private telecom operator to as many public RoC or, respectively, 97% for the population of the RoC. procurement procedures as possible, for which HT is making intensive preparations presently, actively participating HT participated in all tender procedures related to in all preparatory procedures (public consultations). If selegrant calls for subsidised construction of ECI conducted, HT will co-finance the construction of the subsidised cted by the Regulator, thus providing broadband lines broadband network and manage the same by applying the for 215 institutions. HT own 80,819 km of cables minimum 30 Mbps minimum 100 Mbps 54% of households 16% of households 48 Use of electronic communications infrastructure HT leases its own ECI or capacities (manholes, ducts, cables, to enjoy the benefits of the digital society even when it is not masts, facilities, signal transmission, data transmission etc.) on commercially profitable for HT. a commercial basis, or at regulated rates, to participants in the society – to telecommunications operators, service providers HT: transmitting programmes or signals for multimedia publishers, the firefighting community, power supply companies, local auLeases 6,821 km of pipes and 233,000 copper cable thorities, non-profit organisations etc. HT enters into partnerspairs for the ULL; hips with other operators and other entities, and takes on lease of the ECI from other legal entities. Takes lease of and uses four fibre optic distribution networks constructed and maintained by other teleIn the case of critical infrastructure such as for telecommunicacommunications operators; tions, energy, water supply etc., HT maintains a strategic focus on utilisation of existing infrastructure (e.g. masts of the power Exchanges more than 100 antenna masts with other supply distribution network) and therefore enters into partnersoperators; hips with strategic companies in the Republic of Croatia. Takes lease of 78,100 masts of the power supply distriHT was designated as the Universal Services Provider in the bution network; Republic of Croatia at fixed location for voice, telefax and data communications which permit functional Internet access. FurtTakes lease of 51 km of pipes; hermore, being a Universal Services Provider, HT installs and maintains public pay telephones, provides special measures for Takes lease of 91,100 m2 of space/property for accomdisabled persons and offers a special pricing system adjusted modation of mobile network ECI and 10,914 m2 space/ to groups of end users with special social needs. property for accommodation of fixed network ECI; Being a provider of the above mentioned universal services, HT Has 19,707 users of universal services on the territory contributes to the social inclusion of individuals, enabling them of the Republic of Croatia 49 Innovative use of infrastructure related to innovative services HT is continuously investing in the development and impleHT started to implement the Fixed Wireless Access pimentation of innovative products that contribute to increased lot services in order to test the possibilities of provision cost-effectiveness of infrastructure use and thus to increased of fixed services based on use of the radio network and availability of services. On the mobile network, HT proactively a dedicated spectrum. tests and implements new standards for the Internet of Things concept, which entails millions of telemetric devices for tranHT started testing of the mobile network’s LTE Narrow smission of small quantities of data. Band IoT functionality. HT offers the MaxNetMini service for more than 15,000 In March 2016, HT launched Magenta 1, a unique concept of households. The service uses mobile network resourintegrated services offering. For residential customers using ces for provision of fixed telephony and Internet access fixed and mobile services, HT provides the fastest Internet acservices with reduced performances due to the limitaticess and the widest choice of TV content on MAXtv. For busions of the mobile network resources; ness customers, the Magenta 1 Business Package provides the best from the fixed, mobile and cloud world in one place. Proactivity in the launch of modern user equipment HT provides permanent offers for replacement of user equipHT is preparing the replacement of STB devices for IPTV; ment, or performs such replacements on its own, in line with the needs in network modernisation. During fault repair, as a rule, customers’ access units are replaced by new generation units. With the introduction of the VDSL service, HT has replaced modems at all fixed network access nodes which are now supporting VDSL and Vectoring VDSL; HT provides permanent offers for mobile handset replacement to enable customers to use all modern mobile network functions; Development of ICT services for small, medium and large business customers HT participates in the development of ICT services for small, reduced or increased as needed. medium and large business customers and has prepared two service packages for them: Return to Growth which incIn 2016, total ICT revenue amounted to HRK 683 million; lude development of new digital business operation. In 2016, HT had a total of 23 standard ICT services. HT has the broadest ICT and Cloud service portfolio in Croatia. Cloud services enable business customers to operate Total ICT revenue amounted to HRK 683 their business more efficiently. The service costs are foreseeable, so that there are no initial investments – the service will be charged in monthly fees, depending on use. The services are scalable, i.e. the number of licenses may be milion 50 Petitions to HT regarding broadband Internet infrastructure development HT occasionally gets citizens’ petitions from areas insufficienare instructed to seek further information at the local adtly covered by the mobile signal or lacking sufficient speed ministrative units. of access to the fixed network. In such cases, HT takes the following steps: In places where modernisation of ECI (electronic communications network) is required, activities were started Technical analysis of the area is performed in the for preparation of design and investment documents. same manner as in regular network planning; Obtaining necessary building permits in line with applicable laws of the Republic of Croatia is an essential preA cost-effectiveness analysis is performed in terms of requisite for realisation of planned interventions. marketing and finance, the result of which indicates the individual area’s or individual solution’s profitability. In 2016, three requests were received – petitions of citizens/ local community based on development of broadband acceA profitable solution will be planned for implementation, ss. The petitions dealt with the topic of improvement of the Inaccording to priority, either for the current or for the next ternet connection and mobile network in the area of the towns two years, and the citizens are provided with feedback. of Kaniža, Šumeće, Zbjeg, Dubočac and Bebrina, telephone signal and Internet speed boost in the towns of Bogdanovići If the individual area is covered by an EU BB project proand Sitno in the area of Prgomet municipality, and telephone posal, and HT has no commercial interest, the citizens signal and Internet speed boost in the Pušća municipality. 51 RELATIONS WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITIES TOGETHER WE ARE STRONGER In the course of the year 2016, HT has ternet of Things in Croatian Primary Schools 2016” included more than 450 pupils from 55 primary schools and organisations from donated almost HRK one million for all over Croatia, providing them with access to advanced digital tevarious projects. The primary donation chnologies such as IoT and Logo. Education on technologies that project was this year’s donation are becoming indispensable in the development of new products contest Together We Are Stronger and services was provided not only to pupils, but also to more than which, in 2016, was announced in two 60 teachers in primary schools across Croatia. The “HT Campus” project helped to equip a new interdisciplinary lab which is unique categories – Technology and Science. in Croatia and which enables pupils to conduct interdisciplinary It was aimed at primary school research. It can be adapted to highly specialised projects from the children to promote STEM education fields of biology, astrobiology and chemistry. The construction and in Croatia. The donation fund of the equipping of the laboratory enables the implementation of year-long contest amounted to HRK 700,000. programmes of a higher level of quality, in addition to providing pupil comfort and safety. Due to its equipment, the laboratory meets Together We Are Stronger is a project conducted by HT since the requirements for conducting the introductory practice to work 2004. Since the launch of this initiative, HT has donated almost in chemistry, microbiology, biology, and astrobiology laboratory for HRK 10 million, supporting the realisation of approximately 300 elementary school pupils, as well as the requirements of specialiprojects that made a positive contribution to various segments of sed projects for secondary school pupils. In addition to equipping the society. Within the scope of the contest of 2016, 39 applications the laboratory, the Astronomical Society Višnjan, due to the donawere submitted in two categories (New Technologies and Sciention made through the Together We Are Stronger contest, tripled ce), and the focus was primarily on those who promote STEM eduthe number of pupils of both elementary and secondary schools cation amongst primary school pupils in the most effective way. HT attending the workshops and programmes within the introductory Group employees selected five finalists in each category through programme to science. The donation ensured the involvement of an internal selection, while the winners were selected by the expert a larger number of teachers, mentors, assistants, and volunteers panel comprised of Hrvatski Telekom representatives and experts working with young people in STEM fields. Consequently, up to from competent institutions and associations. The winning proje450 children will be educated at the Camp in the future, as well as cts were “Internet of Things in Croatian Primary Schools 2016” of teachers, mentors, assistants, and volunteers involved in work with the Institute for Youth Development and Innovativity and “HT Camyouth in STEM fields. The project has been developed within the pus” of the Višnjan-based Astronomical Society. The project “InVišnjan-based Science and Education Centre. 53 HT – 2016 ZAJEDNO SMO JAČI (TOGETHER WE ARE STRONGER) HRK 700,000 were invested in the two largest STEM programs 1 2 INTERNET OF THINGS IN CROATIAN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS HT-CAMPUS We carried out 165 STEM We shared STEM knowledge with 1,630 HT is in partnership with 2 STEM projects through the two students and 130 teachers from 74 schools. partners: IRIM and the VIŠNJAN programs. ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY. 1 WITH THE INTERNET OF THINGS PROGRAM IN CROATIAN ELEMENTARY SCHOOLS We carried out 70 We included more than 55 We educated more than We educated more interesting and innovative elementary schools and 450 students. than 60 teachers. projects. associations across Croatia in the program. We produced more We additionally We carried out an additional collaborative than 70 educational educated 400 students project, in which more than 35 elementary materials for further in schools that were not schools participated simultaneously. work with the students. part of the project. AN AUTOMATED BATTERY RECYCLING CONTAINER A DEVICE FOR MONITORING WATER LEVELS AND FLOOD PROTECTION 54 2 WITH THE HT CAMPUS PROGRAM We carried out 95 initiatives, More than 310 students, ages 8–18, participated in More than 90 assistants, with 19 schools participating the residential programs (schools and camps). mentors, teachers and in them. lecturers participated in the program. More than 470 students participated in half-day More than 70 teachers Schools from 19 workshops and lectures in cooperation with the Ministry attended additional counties participated in of Science and Education in less economically seminars and courses. the program. developed regions in Croatia. Volunteers spent over 4,700 More than 6,000 visitors of hours on various activities the Observatory learned and the employees at the about HT Campus activities. Observatory another 3,000 hours. WE CONTINUE TO INVEST IN STEM IN 2017 AS WELL! Student education Teacher/professor education Innovations ― ― ― donation of donation of donation of HRK 200,000 HRK 300,000 HRK 200,000 More information is available at www.zajednosmojaci.hr 55 Having recognised the importance of investing in the STEM field selecting natural science faculties for their education and profesand in education of present and future generations of experts, in sional development is decreasing. May 2016, with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing acting as its first partner, HT has launched STEM HUB, HT has close links with the academic community, particularly an incubator intended to encourage the development of skills in with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering and Computing (FER). science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. Through HT The Company promotes the transfer of knowledge and focuses STEM HUB, students can acquire new knowledge in the STEM this long-standing cooperation on joint project work, scientific rearea, and develop and apply it in practice by participating in natisearch, and development activities. In 2016, HT and FER signed onal and international projects. They also receive an opportunity a five-year collaboration contract, providing for the best exchanto win a scholarship or even a job. Last year, HT awarded schoge of knowledge and practices among students and employees larships of HRK 3,000³ to the highest achieving FER students. in the STEM area. In addition to regular professional training of Although demand for experts from the fields of science, technoHTs employees and the scholarship and mentoring scheme for logy, engineering and mathematics is constantly rising due to the best final year students, the contract provides students with a the general trend of digitalisation, the number of young people better opportunity to participate in international projects. HT CAMPUS OF THE ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY OF VIŠNJAN Within the scope of the donation contest oriented towards sogrants to all regions of Croatia, within the scope of high-tech cially responsible projects, HT selected two projects in 2016. IoT (Internet of Things) programmes (e.g. Smart City DubrovThe first one is Internet of Things in Croatian primary schools nik), and will continue to do so at an even faster pace. of the Institute for Youth Development and Innovativity, and the second one is “HT Campus” of the Astronomical Society of VišA partnership was established with the Homeland War Multimenjan. The selected projects focus on education of children in dia Centre in Vukovar on the project of the virtual stroll through the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematithe premises of the Vukovar Homeland War Memorial Centre. cs, which will contribute to creating new generations of young This way, visitors were given the opportunity to learn about experts. A total of 1,630 pupils and 130 teachers from 74 schothe recent past of Vukovar via the Memorial Centre’s website. ols are directly involved in the projects. Since its launch, the website has recorded 7,400 visitors who have spent an average of 46 seconds on the website, browsing Together with its partners, HT Group is also attracting EU through its content. ³ source: Annual Report 2016 ² Izvor: Godišnje izvješće 2016. 56 GROUP PROFILE HT d.d. is the leading provider of telecommunications serviand data transmission services. HT also has shares in two ces in Croatia. In addition to HT, the HT Group also includes companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina – HP d.o.o. Mostar Iskon Internet d.d., Combis d.o.o., KDS d.o.o., E-tours d.o.o., and HT d.d. Mostar. and since 2014, OT-Optima Telekom d.d. The main activities of the Group include providing mobile and fixed telephony, HT is a joint-stock company in majority ownership of CMobil design and construction of communications networks in the B.V. with a share of 51%. As at 31 December 2016, significant territory of the Republic of Croatia, and broadband Internet Company shareholders are as follows: OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE 6.7% War veteran's fund 51% Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding B.V. 39.4% private and 2.9% Restructuring and sale centre institutional investors Republic of Croatia Deutsche Telekom Europe B.V. is the majority shareholder with (category A and category B) which own 8.9% of Company shaa 51% holding (Deutsche Telekom Europe B.V. is wholly owned res. An up to date list of the top ten shareholders of the Comby Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding B.V., whose sole owner pany can be found on the website of the Central Depository & is Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding GmbH (formerly T-Mobile Clearing Company. Global Holding No. 2 GmbH). Deutsche Telekom Europe Holding GmbH is wholly owned by Deutsche Telekom AG). The The core activities of Hrvatski Telekom d.d. (HT d.d. or the Croatian War Veterans’ Fund owns 6.7% of shares in the ComCompany) and its subsidiary companies comprise the provision pany, the Restructuring and Sale Centre (RSC) of the Republic of electronic communications services and design and construof Croatia (a legal successor to the Government Asset Managection of electronic communications networks within the Repument Agency) owns 2.9% of shares in the Company. Croatian blic of Croatia. In addition to the provision of fixed telephony citizens, domestic and foreign institutional investors own the services (fixed telephony line access and traffic, as well as fixed remaining 39.4% of shares. network supplementary services), the Group also provides Internet, IPTV and ICT services, data transmission services (lease Raiffeisen Mandatory Pension Funds are investors with the larof lines, Metro-Ethernet, IP/MPLS, ATM), operating with GSM, gest shareholding among the private and institutional investors UMTS and LTE mobile telephone networks. 58 Fixed telephony and Internet HT Group provides all telecomData services – As the leading provider of data services on the munication services related to fixed telephony, Internet, IPTV market, HT provides customers with various data services – leand international communications. Mobile networks HT mobiased lines, Metro-Ethernet, IP/MPLS, ATM. le networks cover about 98% of Croatian territory, and outside of the home network our users are covered by more than 200 The consolidated financial statements include the financial staGSM operators in our global roaming network. HT is the market tements of Croatian Telecom Inc. and the following subsidiaries leader covering about 47% of all users on the Croatian mobile comprise together HT Group (“Group“): communications market. Schematic Overview of the HT Group HT Group HT Cable OTOptima Iskon Combis E-tours Distribution Telekom System (KDS) The Company applies a dualistic structure of Company bodies shareholders exercise their managerial and property rights. HT whose main characteristic is a strict division of responsibilities conducts the annual Sustainability Questionnaire which also between the two bodies of the Company, the Supervisory Botakes into consideration the external stakeholders’ perception ard on one side and the Management Board on the other side. of the level of required and performed protection, thus proviThe Supervisory Board has a supervisory function, while the ding additional information in the revision process of optimal Management Board is in charge of managing the business operisk management. Open and transparent communication with rations of the Company. The General Assembly is comprised customers, employees, investors and all other groups forms the of the Company’s shareholders. At the General Assembly, the basis of all of HT’s relations. HT cooperates with its stakeholders on various bases and platforms, which is presented in detail within the scope of each individual material topic: Customers Shareholders Suppliers Employees Trade unions Business interest organisations Community State administration and regulators Non-governmental organisations 59 STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE Risk management Application of the precautionary principle in risk management safety standards for management of specific risks. In addition to means inclusion of all units of HT into the risk management supervision of the overall risk exposure, HT also has special aresystem. The Corporate Risk Management Committee, the Manaas for management of individual risk groups, such as the Comgement Board of the Company and the HT d.d. Audit Committee pliance Committee for control of risks of embezzlement, corrupexamine the overall risk portfolio in the HT Group Corporate Risk tion and other forms of criminal behaviour, occupational safety Report. Risk assessment is performed according to a standardiactivities within the HR Services Section with regard for risks to sed methodology; all risks are monitored, regardless of the mahuman health and safety, the IT Security Section for various risks teriality limits, for early recognition and monitoring of trends and in IT operations, the Corporate Security Department for security risk factor development. With regard to probability of occurrence, risks, IT security and data protection, and management of the impacts of risks with a likely probability of occurrence (>50%) are Company’s business continuity, the Privacy and Personal Data subject to a process of business planning and forecasting as well Protection Section for protection of personal data and privacy, as as making cost provisions, while impacts of risks with a lower well as other organisational areas responsible for individual risks. probability of occurrence are, if required in terms of materiality limits, are the subject of contingent liabilities in financial reports Risk management activities in HT include, among other things, reaccording to the International Accounting Standard No. 37. gular certification corresponding to the ISO 27001 IT security requirements, to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard HT’s risk management system has PCI DSS, and to the guidelines of the ISO 31000:2009 standard for been organised by following the risk management. All major risks are regularly shown in the finanprinciple, of transparent and riskcial reports and other media announcements made by HT Group. appropriate decision making in line The Management Board and the management of HT are obligawith the risk management standards ted to perform optimum risk management, in line with the longof Deutsche Telekom Group and term business development strategy. Optimum risk management locally applicable risk management means transparency in risks and yields when making decisions standards of economic operators, on investments, both in the creation of new value and in prosuch as the Corporate Governance tection of existing assets. Investments in creation of new value and protection of existing assets mean capital investments. HT Code of the Zagreb Stock Exchange, as an organisation is managing a significant investment budget the Capital Market Act, the Companies and is responsible for investment management in order to enAct, and other applicable standards. sure maximum benefit for the company and the shareholders by a carefully balanced investment portfolio. Decisions on capital Risk management is performed by monitoring of changes in investments are supported by decision-making tools, including, external and internal business environment factors that might among others, by the business case analysis tool. In addition to have a negative impact on the business of HT, including its afproviding information on economic efficiency (profitability etc.), filiates. An independent area within the framework of the Interthis tool quantifies expected return, the best alternative, and prenal Control, Audit and Risk Department monitors the overall risk sents risks in form of sensitivity to input parameter change. The exposure and reports the risks to the Corporate Risk Managebasic method used by the tool is the net present value method ment Committee, the Management Board of the Company and which compares receipts of the economic flow (revenue) and exthe HT d.d. Audit Committee. penditures (operating costs and capital investments) that were incurred due to investment in the project. The essence of the Measures of mitigation, transfer and acceptance of risks are bamethod is the calculation whether the investor’s assets have sed on the Company’s strategy, executive business plans and been increased or decreased when the investment’s overall li60 fetime is taken into consideration. Risk is taken into account by The company’s strategic focus on corporate responsibility and analysis of the sensitivity of the final result (asset value) to input sustainability is one of the key elements of risk management. parameter changes (negative situations during the project’s lifetiThree main risk areas were identified by internal assessment and me), where projects with higher risks will have a higher sensitivity through consultations with individual groups: corruption, persoor, respectively, result dispersion. nal data protection and employee health protection. Project portfolio management or, respectively, their prioritisation In December 2016, the central internal audit of HT’s Integrated Enand scoring model is performed in line with the applicable busivironment, Health, and Security Management System, as part of the ness strategy. Prioritisation criteria for each investment category DTAG’s Integrated Management System, was successfully conduare determined by a combination of the following elements: financted by DTs auditors, in line with the requirements of the ISO 14001 cial KPIs calculated in the business case and the top-down guiand OHSAS 18001 standards. The audit confirmed the integration deline factor provided by the Management Board. Each project of environmental care into all relevant work processes and a high will be evaluated and ranked on the basis of these criteria. The level of environmental awareness of employees. The external certiproject lists with an indication of the ranking within each invesfication company DEKRA has issued new ISO 14001 and OHSAS tment category will then be reconciled with the available budget 18001 certificates for the period of the following three years. for the respective period. In HT, the annual compliance risk assessment process incluHT systematically monitors and regularly reports on significant ded an assessment of the whole organisation. Risk assessment business risks: regulatory and legal risks, financial risks, liquidity is conducted in line with the methods and in collaboration with risks, credit, market, and operating risks, as well as risks related the compliance functions of DTAG. This process includes the to potential impacts on the health, the environment, and busineassessment of risks associated with active and passive corrupss operations in the community. Such systematical approach to tion, including workshops with the members of the Managerisk monitoring and reporting is conducted on a quarterly basis ment Board and heads on assessing the control environment and, where necessary, ad hoc, with a focus on the Management efficiency and determining the residual risk, as well as measuBoard and supervisory controlling bodies: the Audit Committee, res to cover the residual risk. In the process of annual complianthe Supervisory Board, and Internal and External Audit. The risk ce risk assessment, no material corruption-related risks were management process also makes an integral part of the business identified, and the control environment within the company was planning process and financial reporting. found to be adequate. 61 PREVENTION OF CORRUPTION AND OTHER CONFLICTS OF INTEREST At the end of 2010, HT adopted an Anti-Corruption Policy clearly assessment of risks associated with active and passive corruption, stating HT’s position towards all negative occurrences in busineincluding workshops with the members of the Management Board ss operations and laying down a clear framework for the behaand heads on assessing the control environment efficiency and viour of all its employees and managerial staff. The Anti-Corrupdetermining the residual risk, as well as measures to cover the tion Policy introduced clear criteria and responsibilities for the residual risk. In the process of annual compliance risk assessment, assessment of correctness in business operations and defined no material corruption-related risks were identified, and the control procedures for all matters of conflicts of interest. The Complianenvironment within the company was found to be adequate. ce Section is responsible for the interpretation of all provisions of the Anti-Corruption Policy, while the Compliance Committee All activities undertaken by HT are aligned with the basic princievaluates individual cases and proposes corrective measures. ples provided for in the corporate Code of Conduct, in particular the principle “Respect and integrity guide our behaviour”. In orFollowing Deutsche Telekom (DT) Group’s endeavour to standardider to regulate its relations to political parties, HT adopted the se the approach to fighting corruption and the approach to businePolicy on Prevention of Corruption and Other Conflicts of Intess compliance, HT continued adopting new policies regulating the rest, prohibiting contributions to political parties. Apart from poliessential areas of business compliance, and thus adopted three tical parties, the HT Group neither donates nor sponsors working corporate policies: the Policy on Avoiding Corruption Risks when groups, youth organisations, and associations of political parties. Working with Consultants, the Antitrust Policy, and the Guidelines The only exceptions are independent institutions, such as indefor Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. All policies building on the pendent political foundations not related to any particular party. Anti-Corruption Policy relate to the issues such as accepting and granting benefits, work with external consultants, organisation of Cash payments and donations in kind to Members of Parliabusiness events, and prevention of conflicts of interest, are harment and holders of public offices are not allowed, except if monised with the relevant legal framework and include practical donations in kind are expressly allowed by a code of conduct provisions on allowed and improper behaviour in business operaapplied to the person seeking donation. tions. At an annual level, HT conducts risk assessment, including In 2016, three proceedings of HT were conducted before the the assessment of risks related to active and passive corruption. Croatian Competition Agency (CCA) Besides corruption, conflicts of interest on individual level are also Proceedings initiated by the CCA against HT concerning possible. This relates, for instance, to performing free time activities the alleged abuse of a dominant position as a result of that may be competitive. Moreover, this also includes performance distribution of premium football content exclusively via of secondary private jobs during working hours regardless of whetthe MAXtv service. The proceedings are still in progress; her HT equipment is used in the performance of such activities. Proceedings initiated by H1 Telekom before the CCA concerning the alleged abuse of a dominant position Each employee can report any misconduct or violations of the Code on wholesale markets, for having failed to remove faults of Conduct. To that end, the Ethics Line has been established as a and interferences and to realise services within the system providing the employees with a confidential and, if desired, prescribed time limits. The matter was referred back to anonymous means of reporting. The Ethics Line can be contacted rehearing by decision of the High Administration Court. by mail, phone, fax, e-mail, or a special tool available on the Internet. The first decision by the CCA had been positive for HT; Proceedings for assessment of admissibility of concenIn Hrvatski Telekom, the annual compliance risk assessment protration of the companies HT and OT-Optima Telekom. cess included an assessment of the whole organisation. Risk asseHT had filed an application for prolongation of manassment is conducted in line with the methods and in collaboration gement control over OT-Optima Telekom over an additiwith the compliance functions of DTAG. This process includes the onal period of time. The proceedings are in progress. 62 MANAGEMENT BOARD Members and the President of the Management Board are appofor successful management of the Company’s business affairs, inted and removed by the Supervisory Board. Their term of office subject to approvals as may be required from the Supervisory is up to five years, with the possibility of re-appointment. AccorBoard for certain matters and decisions (certain major transading to the Company’s Articles of Association, the Management ctions, the assumption of long-term indebtedness or significant Board is comprised of five to seven members. In its current comappointments). position, the Management Board includes seven positions: President of the Management Board and CEO, Davor Tomašković; The Articles of Association set forth that any two members of the MB Member and Chief Financial Officer (CFO); (CFO), Josef JaManagement Board may represent the Company jointly. The Makob Matthias Thürriegl; MB Member and Chief Operating Officer nagement Board holds sessions when required by circumstanResidential (COO Residential), Nataša Rapaić; MB Member and ces, as a rule once a week. By way of exception, MB decisions Chief Operating Officer Business (COO Business), Saša Kramar; may also be adopted out of session, by written vote, telephone, MB Member and Chief Technical and Information Officer (CTIO), telegraph, telefax, via video conferencing, or use of other suitable Boris Drilo; MB Member and Chief Human Resources Officer technical means, if no objection is lodged to such method imme(CHRO), Marija Felkel, and Member of the Management Board diately by any MB Member prior to its application. and Chief Customer Experience Officer (CCO), Boris Batelić. Detailed data on the MB Members’ age, education and career The quorum for a MB session is are included in the Annual Report on the Status and Business formed by four Members of the Operations of the Company and HT Group for the business year Management Board; decisions 2016. All senior executives employed have been drawn from the local community, only the MB Member and CFO is a German, are passed with the majority of coming from Deutsche Telekom. votes of MB Members present or represented. In the event of an Pursuant to the Companies Act, the Company’s Articles of Assoequal number of votes submitted for ciation, and the By-Laws on the Work of the Management Board, and against a certain decision, the the Management Board is responsible for managing the business affairs of the Company. It is obligated and authorised to perPresident of the Management Board form all activities and make decisions that it considers necessary has the casting vote. 63 SUPERVISORY BOARD Pursuant to the provisions of the Company’s Articles of Associaa year: SB Members who cannot be physically present at the tion, the Supervisory Board consists of nine members: five memSupervisory Board session may cast a written vote. SB decisions bers representing Deutsche Telekom AG (Jonathan Richard Talmay also be adopted out of session, by written vote, telephone, bot, Oliver Knipping, Ph.D., Eva Somorjai-Tamassy, Marc Stehle telegraph, telefax, via video conferencing, or use of other suitable and Eirini Nikolaidi), one member nominated by the Raiffeisen technical means, if no objection is lodged to such method by any Mandatory Pension Funds (Damir Grbavac), two independent SB Member within an appropriate time limit set by the Chairman members (Ivan Mišetić, Ph.D. and Dolly Predovic) and one memof the Supervisory Board. The quorum for a SB session is formed ber appointed by the Workers’ Council of HT d.d. (Vesna Mamić). by five Members of the Supervisory Board; decisions are passed with the majority of votes of SB Members present or represented. The Supervisory Board is responsible for appointment and removal of Members of the Management Board and for superviThe major topics included in the sion of the managing of the Company’s business operations in agendas of SB sessions are stated accordance with the Companies Act, the Articles of Association in the Supervisory Board’s Report of the Company, and the By-Laws on the Work of the Supervion the Performed Supervision of sory Board of the Company. For individual major transactions, Business Operations Management the assumption of long-term indebtedness or significant appointments, the consent of the Supervisory Board is required. of the Company in the business year 2016 which has been published on Sessions of the Supervisory Board are held at least four time the Company's website. 64 GENERAL ASSEMBLY The shareholders’ membership rights are divided into managethe Report of the Supervisory Board and the Auditor’s Report, rial and proprietary rights. The basic managerial rights of the shawhich are submitted to shareholders at the Company’s General reholders are: the right to participate in the General Assembly of Assembly. Also, during the General Assembly the Management the Company including the right to take part in discussions, the Board gives to each shareholder, upon their request, information right to information, the right to vote and the right to challenge about the operations of the Company, if that is necessary for decisions of the General Assembly. understanding the items of the agenda. The right to participate in the General Assembly of the Company The right to vote is a fundamental managerial right of shareholincluding the right to debate belongs to all shareholders and ders exercised at the General Assembly by voting on the propocannot be taken away. This right is a prerequisite for the realisatisal of the decision put to a vote. The right to vote is exercised on of other managerial rights exercised exclusively at the General by a shareholder at the General Assembly either in person or by Assembly (i.e. the right to vote) or mostly at the General Assembly proxy, according to nominal amounts of shares held, with each (i.e. the right to information). In accordance with the Companies share representing one vote. Act, as the condition to participate in the General Assembly, the Articles of Association of the Company provide that the shareholAmong managerial rights of shareholders are some of the powers ders must apply to participate in the General Assembly, and that that a qualified minority of shareholders possess. Thus, for examthe application for participation must be delivered to the Comple, shareholders who together hold shares in the amount of 1/20 pany no later than six days before the General Assembly (this of the Company’s share capital have the right to request the conperiod does not include the day the application is delivered to vening of the General Assembly and propose to publish additional the Company). The right to participate in the General Assembly issue to be decided, and each shareholder has the right to make can be exercised through a proxy. counterproposals to the proposals of the Management Board and/ or Supervisory Board. A proprietary right of shareholders is, for The invitation to the General Assembly containing the proposal example, the right to receive payment of the dividend. The Comof the agenda and proposed decisions on items of the agenda, pany’s dividend policy is defined in the Prospectus for the initial puinstructions to the shareholders for the participation in the Geneblic offering from October 2007. Future dividend policy should be ral Assembly and an explanation of certain proposals of Decisithat all dividends declared and paid in respect of any year following ons of the General Assembly are delivered to the shareholders by the year after the IPO will range from 50% to 100% of distributable the Company via electronic communication. profits of the Company acquired in the previous year. Any annual dividend will depend on the overall financial position of the Company According to the Company’s Articles of Association, the General and its needs for working capital in the relevant period. Assembly cannot pass valid decisions, unless shareholders are present at its session personally or by proxy who hold shares As at 21 April 2016, the General Assembly approved the payment whose nominal value exceeds one half (50%) of the Company’s of the dividend to shareholders for the financial year 2015 in the share capital (quorum). At the general assembly held on 21 April amount of HRK 491,307,624.00 (HRK 6.00 per share), represen2016, 72.60% of the Company’s share capital was present. ting a dividend distribution ratio compared to realised profits of 55.0%. The dividend was paid in May 2016. Information on the Shareholders exercise the right to information through annual General Assembly in 2016 and on decisions adopted at the Gefinancial statements and reports on the status of the Company, neral Assembly are available on the Company’s website. the payment of the dividend to shareholders for the financial year 2015 HRK 491,307,624.00 65 SHAREHOLDERS HT attaches considerable importance to transparent communiEmphasis is placed on quickly finding a solution to the problem cation with investors in order for them to get a realistic picture and on the fair treatment of all shareholders, for which regular of the current status and potential of the Group and to have the annual assemblies of shareholders and individual meetings are opportunity of fair valuation of the company. This communication also used as a continuous activity throughout the year. Thus, in includes quarterly business results and accompanying conferen2016, HT held more than 30 individual meetings with investors ce calls, ad hoc press releases for stock exchanges and for the and attended several investor conferences. Direct contract can public, and professional exchange of information and opinions. be established also by phone and e-mail. STATE ADMINISTRATION AND REGULATORS Collaborative relations comprise exchange of opinions and on acts and procedures. Furthermore, HT directly collaborates, collaboration with politically elected representatives, public adexchanges opinions, and collects data on good practices to ministration and agencies, and authorities in charge of supervieliminate unsustainable practices and increase its competitive sing the markets in which HT operates, as well as consultations strength, as well as to eliminate and avoid legal compliance. NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS Where necessary and at regular intervals, HT exchanges informatiand partnerships). To that end, an e-mail address is made available on and opinions with certain nongovernmental organisations, suto the public for all questions and information – donacije@t.ht.hr. pervises the implementation of supported projects and initiatives, and reports on sustainability (two-way communication, donations, 66 BUSINESS INTEREST ORGANISATIONS HT's collaboration with business interest organisations is focused on information exchange and development of good practices in HT has also been actively participating business operations, as well as mutual and public exchange of opiin the work of the Energy Association nions. In addition to acting independently through public appeawith the Croatian Employers’ rances in the media and the participation in round tables and conAssociation since its inception in 2013. ferences, HT, as an electronic communications services operator, The goal of the Energy Association acts at the national level by participating in the work of the Mobile Communications Association of Croatia and the Telecommunicais to provide a better and more tions Association at the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which sustainable economic environment publicly represent common interests of the member operators. by including energy production in the Moreover, HT is a member of the European Telecommunications national strategic plan. Network Operators’ Association (ETNO) and of the GSM Association which are engaged in promoting the interests of the operators Development (HR PSOR), a non-profit institution established in in the electronic communications sector at the EU level. 1997 that caters primarily to the private sector, promotes sustainable development in the economy, and represents the economy Since 2007, HT is a signatory to the UN Global Compact initiain sustainable development. Its members – representatives of tive which establishes connections between the business sector the Croatian economy, public institutions, and non-governmental and UN agencies, governments and the civil society in supporting organisations – are pooling know-how, innovative capacity, and fundamental social values from the areas of human rights, labour responsibility in the search for development paths that will balance rights, environmental protection and fight against corruption. business success, social well-being, and environmental protection. HT is a member of the Association for Environmental ProtectiHT is a member of the Croatian Business Council for Sustainable on in the Economy at the Croatian Chamber of Economy. 67 CERTIFICATES Since 2002, HT has been the holder of the ISO 14001 certifiOHSAS 18001 certificates for the period of the next three years. cate, and since 2013 also of the certificate under the OHSAS 18001 standard. In May 2014, HT established an Integrated EnHT also has the ISO 27001 certificate for information security. vironmental, Health, and Safety at Work Management System Furthermore, the management systems have also been certi(Integrated System) which is subject to checks on a regular fied to the ISO 9001 standard in HT’s organisational units relabasis. In compliance with the requirements of the specified ted to human resources and corporate strategy and business standards, in June 2014, Deutsche Telekom conducted an development. audit of the HT’s Integrated System as part of the Integrated Management System of Deutsche Telekom Aktiengesellschaft, which confirmed HT's compliance with all requirements of the standards and the company. The renowned international certification organisation DEKRA has issued new ISO 14001 and AWARDS For the third year in a row, on 3 same time establishing a work-life balance. And this is also why March 2016, HT has been awarded HT is a company with 43 per cent of women at top managerial positions, which makes us extremely proud, said Marija Felkel, the prestigious Employer Partner Member of the Management Board and Chief Human Resources Certificate for excellence in human Officer at Hrvatski Telekom. The Certificate was handed over to resources management and thus her by Aleksandar Zemunić, Member of the Management Board reaffirmed its position among of the certificate awarding SELECTIO company. companies with the best business The company is also paying particular attention to the preservatipractice in the area of development, on of health of its employees, therefore, in addition to numerous monitoring, motivating, and rewarding campaigns aimed at health promotion and stress prevention, the of its employees. Particularly in the company acts, for the second consecutive year, as the General area of rewarding employees based on Sponsor of the B2B Run, the first business running competition achievement of strategic targets, HT in Croatia, which, this year, will gather several thousand runners from Split, Rijeka, Osijek, and Zagreb. The Employer Certificate has achieved the best possible result. project is supported by the MojPosao portal as the general spon“The Employer Partner Certificate is an important acknowledgesor and by the Lider business weekly as the media sponsor. ment for HT, but also for each of our employees in the human resources area, as it constitutes an official confirmation that we HT is the winner of the CSR Index award for socially responare doing a good job, which can be summed up in one sentensible community relations, awarded by the Croatian Business ce – employee satisfaction is our primary goal. The employees’ Council for Sustainable Development and the Croatian Chamopinion about all factors of company culture forms the basis for ber of Economy. This award was given to HT at the 8th CSR improvement of satisfaction, and key tool for that is open and Conference on Socially Responsible Business. This recognition two-way communication. In addition to employee rewarding and is an additional impetus to Hrvatski Telekom to continue, as motivation, where HT is achieving the best results on the market, a leading telecom operator, to encourage the development of it is creating an environment that enables professional developcommunity as a whole through investment in infrastructure dement and improvement of personal competitiveness, while at the velopment and broadband Internet access services. 68 TABLES 102-8 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and gender HT 2013 2014 2015 2016 Total workforce 5,232 4,325 3,992 3,731 Males 3,270 2,528 2,377 2,253 Females 1,962 1,797 1,615 1,478 Employed for an indefinite period 4,984 4,115 3,772 3,581 Males 3,159 2,426 2,257 2,171 Females 1,825 1,689 1515 1,410 Employed for a definite period 248 210 220 151 Males 111 102 120 83 Females 137 108 100 68 Full-time contract 5,231 4,325 3,992 3,731 Males 3,269 2,528 2,377 2,253 Females 1,962 1,797 1,615 1,478 Part-time contract 1 0 0 0 Males 1 0 0 0 Females 0 0 0 0 Share of workers performing individual activities of HT-a, but who are not employees (agency 1,293 1,692 1,527 1,754 workers, other forms of engagement –students) Agency workers 128 622 883 1,114 Students 1,165 1,070 644 640 Data collected by means of the HR Net system 69 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed – HT Group a) Direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accrual basis in HRK million 1 Operating income 6,970 2 Profit from income from the disposition of non-current assets 36 3 Lease income 31 4 Financial income 64 5 Dividend from HT Mostar 3 TOTAL 7,104 i. Economic value distributed: 1) Operating costs 2) Staff costs (salaries and benefits 3) Payments to providers of capital 4) Payments to the Government of RoC 5) Community investments in HRK million Operating costs (incl. salaries of those who are not HT Group employees) (excluding staff costs 1 4,822 and value adjustments) Staff costs (salaries and benefits) (HT Group employees) (all employee benefits, incl. voluntary 2 pension fund, insurance, company cars, health protection (full medical checks, interest subsiStaff costs 987 dies on housing loans, public transport, severance payments)) Dividend 491 Cost of interest 93 3 Payments to providers of capital Total 584 Payments to the Government of the RoC (profit tax and property tax, (excl. deferred taxes), fines 4 Profit tax 234 and penalties on all levels, national and local. Community investments (voluntary contributions to charities and research institutes (unrelated to the company's commercial research), NGOs, funds to support community infrastructure, such as 5 recreational facilities, direct costs of social programmes, including arts and educational events). 1 Such investments exclude investments where the purpose is commercial or driven primarily by core business needs. TOTAL 6,628 70 ii. Economic value retained (“direct economic value generated” less “economic value distributed“) U milijunima kuna. 1 Direct economic value generated 7,104 2 Economic value distributed 6,628 TOTAL 476 b) Where significant, report EVG&D separately at country Not significant in the case of HT Group 201-4 Significant financial assistance received from government FOR HT GROUP U milijunima kuna. Significant financial assistance received from the Government, including: tax relief, subsidies, 1 investment grants, research and development grants, awards, royalty holidays, financial 0 incentives, other Participation of the Government of RoC in the ownership structure: indirectly via CERP (Restru2 2.9% cturing and Sale centre) as at 31 Dec 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume HT 2014 2015 2016 Materials used by weight or volume Paper consumption (in tons) 112 75 68 71 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation HT 2014 2015 2016 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source in GJ Total direct energy consumption (from non-renewable sources) 118,921 98,034 101,930 of which: natural gas 30,443 29,872 29,567 of which: fuels for the fleet / petrol, diesel, LNG 70,978 51,093 56,850 of which: other fuels 17,500 17,069 15,513 HT Total indirect energy consumption (from non-renewable 2014 2015 2016 energy sources) Total indirect energy consumption (from non-renewable energy sources) in GJ 490,343 476,746 226,570 of which: purchased electricity 472,062 458,746 210,714 of which: thermal energy from heating plants 18,281 18,173 15,865 HT Total indirect energy consumption (from renewable energy 2014 2015 2016 sources) Total indirect energy consumption (from renewable energy sources) in GJ 237,341 (purchased electricity) 305 Emissions – direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions HT Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by 2014 2015 2016 weight (in tons CO2) Total greenhouse gas emissions (sum of direct and indirect emissions) 49,508 47,723 26,397 of which: total direct emissions of CO2 (from non-renewable sources) 7,965 6,529 6,820 of which: natural gas 1,475 1,448 1,433 of which: fuels for the fleet (petrol, diesel, LNG) 4,958 3,586 4,029 of which: fuel oil 1,532 1,495 1,358 of which: total indirect emission of CO2 41,543 41,194 19,577 Calculation sources: 1. World Resources Institute (2015). GHG Protocol tool for mobile combustion. Version 2.6.; 2. GHG Emissions from Purchased Electricity version 4.8, May 18, 2015, Added IEA emission factors for year 2012 and latest GWP values from IPCC Fifth Assessment Report 72 GRI 305-7 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight HT NOx, SOx and other significant air 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 emissions by type and weight, in tons (for boiler rooms above 100 kW) Total NO2 emission 6.12 1.86 4.73 0.99 4.00 1.34 Total SO2 emission 7.13 5.69 4.60 3.92 4.22 3.45 GRI 306-2 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method HT 2014 2015 2016 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method in tons Total weight of waste 921 595 782 of which: hazardous waste 178 179 102 of which: non-hazardous waste 744 416 679 GRI 401-1 Total number of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group and gender From 30 to HT Up to 30 Over 50 Total 50 Termination of employment in 2016 68 297 88 453 Males 32 150 51 233 Females 36 147 37 220 Employment in 2016 117 72 2 191 Males 61 47 0 108 Females 56 25 2 83 These data relate to the full reporting period (2016) 73 GRI 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Number of Working Working days HT By gender injuries hours lost lost Work-related injuries 37 7,216 902 M 25, F 12 In the work process 18 2,352 294 M 14, F 4 Outside the work process 19 4,864 608 M 11, F 8 GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee category Average hours HT Total hours HC per employee Total by type of workplace 64,282 3,728 17.24 Executive 46,597 3,105 15.00 Manager 17,658 623 28.34 Ukupno prema spolu 64,282 3,728 17.24 Males 34,125 2,252 15.15 Females 30,157 1,476 20.43 74 Data on the preparation of the Sustainability Report HT has prepared its Sustainability Report 2016 in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core Option. In the preparation of the Report, HT was also guided by the criteria for the Advanced Reporting Level based on the principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. Contact person for questions about the report: Lada Aškić Corporate Communication Department lada.askic@t.ht.hr Advanced Reporting Level Criteria Sustainability Report 2016 Commitment and leadership of the President of the ManageStatement of the President of the Management Board ment Board High standards of transparency and providing information Company Profile Strategy and governance Election of the Management Board and supervision Management Board, Supervisory Board, General Assembly Application of precautionary principles Integration of sustainability into corporate functions and Management approach to material topics business units Selection of material topics Stakeholder inclusion Customer and employee satisfaction survey, projects and initiatives Global sustainability goals Material topics of HT Commitment, strategies and policies with regard to ethics and employee dignity, trade unions and collective bargaining, protectiHuman rights on of customer rights and the right to privacy, management and monitoring Commitment, strategies and policies with regard to work conditions, Management Board and employee relations, health Employee relations and safety at work, training and education, diversity and equal opportunities and anti-discrimination, mechanisms for protection of workers’ rights, management and monitoring Commitment, strategies and policies with regard to use of Environment materials, energy, waste, products and services, emissions, management and monitoring Commitment, strategies and policies with regard to prevention of Fight against corruption corruption and other conflicts of interest, risk assessment related to corruption, management and monitoring Commitment, strategies and policies with regard to supplier Supply chain relations management and supplier evaluation, management and monitoring 75 GRI UN GLOBAL INFORMATION CHAPTER INDICATOR COMPACT ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation 10. Group Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10. Group Profile 102-3 Location of headquarters 10. Group Profile 102-4 Location of operations 10. Group Profile 102-5 Ownership structure 10. Group Profile 102-6 Markets served 10. Group Profile 102-7 Scale of the organisation 10. Group Profile 102-8 Employees and other workers Table 102-8 102-9 Supply chain 7. Supply chain Significant changes to the organisation and its 102-10 7. Supply chain supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle approach 10. Group Profile 102-12 External initiatives 10. Group Profile 102-13 Membership of associations 10. Group Profile STRATEGY Statement from the most senior decision1. Statement of the President of the 102-14 maker of the organisation Management Board of HT 2. Material topics of HT 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 10. Group Profile ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Values, standards, principles and norms of 10. Group Profile 102-16 behaviour 12. Impact on employees / Corporate values GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure 10. Group Profile STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholders 10. Group Profile 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 4. Impact on employees / Trade unions 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2. Material topics of HT 2. Material topics of HT 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 4. Impact on employees 5. Customer relations 2. Material topics of HT 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 10. Group Profile / Strategy and governance 76 GRI UN GLOBAL INFORMATION CHAPTER INDICATOR COMPACT REPORTING PRACTICE Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 3. Economic value statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 2. Material topics of HT 102-47 List of material topics 2. Material topics of HT 102-48 Restatements of information 3. Economic value 102-49 Changes in reporting 3. Economic value Data about the Sustainability Report 102-50 Reporting period preparation method Data about the Sustainability Report 102-51 Date of most recent report preparation method Data about the Sustainability Report 102-52 Reporting cycle preparation method Data about the Sustainability Report 102-53 Contact point preparation method Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Data about the Sustainability Report 102-54 standard preparation method Data about the Sustainability Report 102-55 GRI content index preparation method ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic value generated and 3. Economic value 201-1 distributed Table 201-1 Financial implications and other risks and 6. Climate changes, environment and 201-2 opportunities due to climate change health Obligations of the organisation related to 201-3 2. Impact on employees defined retirement plan MARKET PRESENCE Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 202-1 2. Impact on employees compared to local minimum wage Proportion of senior management hired from the 202-2 10. Group Profile local community INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Infrastructure investments and services 203-1 8. Digital society supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 3. Economic value 77 GRI UN GLOBAL INFORMATION CHAPTER INDICATOR COMPACT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 7. Supply chain ANTI-CORRUPTION Percentage and total number of operations 10. Group Profile / Prevention of 205-1 assessed for risks related to corruption corruption and other conflicts of interest Communication and training about anti205-2 2. Impact on employees corruption policies and procedures Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions 205-3 2. Impact on employees taken ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 206-1 10. Group Profile anti-trust, and monopoly practices MATERIALS 6. Climate changes, environment and health 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Table 301-1 ENERGY 6. Climate changes, environment and health 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Table 302-1 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 6. Climate changes, environment and health 6. Climate changes, environment and health Reductions in energy requirements of 302-5 7. Supply chain products and services 8. Digital society WATER 6. Climate changes, environment and 303-1 Water consumption health / Measures taken to reduce water consumption BIODIVERSITY Description of significant impacts of activities, 6. Climate changes, environment and health 303-1 products, and services on biodiversity 8. Digital society EMISSIONS 6. Climate changes, environment and health 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Table 305 – Direct and indirect GHG emissions 6. Climate changes, environment and health 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions by weight Table 305 – Direct and indirect GHG emissions NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by 6. Climate changes, environment and health 305-7 type and weight Table 305-7 78 GRI UN GLOBAL INFORMATION CHAPTER INDICATOR COMPACT WASTE Total weight of waste by type and disposal 6. Climate changes, environment and health 306-2 method Table 306-2 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT New suppliers that were screened using 308-1 7. Supply chain environmental criteria Negative environmental impacts in the supply 308-2 chain and actions taken EMPLOYMENT 4. Impact on employees 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Table 401-1 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 401-2 4. Impact on employees not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 4. Impact on employees LABOUR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Minimum notice periods regarding 402-1 4. Impact on employees operational changes OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Workers representation in formal joint manage403-1 4. Impact on employees ment-worker health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational di4. Impact on employees 403-2 seases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number Table 403-2 of work-related fatalities Workers with high incidence or high-risk diseases 403-3 4. Impact on employees related to their occupation Health and safety topics covered in formal agree403-4 4. Impact on employees ments with trade unions TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per year, per employee 4. Impact on employees 404-1 category Table 404-1 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and lifelong learning and transition assistance pro404-2 4. Impact on employees grammes to facilitate continued employability and the management of career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular per404-3 4. Impact on employees formance and career development reviews 79 GRI UN GLOBAL INFORMATION CHAPTER INDICATOR COMPACT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 4. Impact on employees 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 10. Group Profile Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of 405-2 4. Impact on employees women to men, by employee category NON-DISCRIMINATION Incidents of discrimination and corrective 406-1 4. Impact on employees actions taken SECURITY PRACTICES Percentage of security personnel trained in 410-1 7. Supply chain human rights policies or procedures HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Employee training on human rights policies 412-2 10. Group Profile or procedures LOCAL COMMUNITIES Operations with local community engagement, 8. Digital society 413-1 impact assessments, and development programs 9. Relations with the local communities SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT New suppliers that were screened using social 414-1 7. Supply chain criteria Negative social impacts in the supply chain and 414-2 7. Supply chain actions taken PUBLIC POLICY 415-1 Political contributions 10. Group Profile CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 6. Climate changes, environment and 416-1 product and service categories health MARKETING AND LABELING Requirements for product and service information 417-1 5. Customer relations and labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 417-2 5. Customer relations and service information and labelling Incidents of non-compliance concerning marke417-3 5. Customer relations ting communications CUSTOMER PRIVACY Substantiated complaints regarding concerning 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses of 5. Customer relations customer data 80
