16/17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SEPTEMBER 1, 2016 – AUGUST 31, 2017 Welcome This report summarises Dustin’s corporate responsibility performance for the 2016/17 financial year. This is Dustin’s third Corporate Responsibility Report and, like the previous report, it is based on the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The Report describes our most important corporate responsibility issues, our focus areas and their respective targets and key performance indicators. The report has been signed by the company’s board and and published in connection with the publication of Dustin's annual report. The report has been reviewed by third party. 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Dustin in brief Leading Nordic online IT partner Efficient online platform Dustin is one of the leading IT resellers in the Nordic As one of the leading B2B e-retailers in the Nordic region, region, with a wide range of hardware, software and Dustin has created a strong market position with its related services and solutions. Our centralised warehouse efficient online platform, since more and more sales of and efficient logistics and online platform ensure fast and both products and core services are now taking place reliable delivery. By adding high-level IT expertise we act online. Our market position is also strengthened by our as an IT partner primarily for small and medium-sized focus on the more agile and fast-growing customer businesses, but also for large-sized businesses, the public category of small and medium-sized businesses. We see sector and the B2C market. increasing demand for advanced services as requests for mobility and accessibility grow. By combining pro­ Business customer focus ducts and services into integrated solutions, and by Dustin applies a multichannel business model, where adding advanced services through acquisitions, we are most sales are online, supplemented by relationship and continuously expanding our customer offering. We are consultative selling over the phone or through customer able to solve more and more of our customers’ IT needs, visits. Dustin conducts operations in Sweden, Denmark, which is in line with our vision. Our range of packaged Finland and Norway through two business segments: services and solutions includes clients, licenses, network, B2B (the business-to-business market) and B2C (the data storage, security, IT operations, mobility and print. business-to-consumer market). The operations are supported by a number of scalable and shared central Dustin Group AB is a Swedish public limited company with functions, including the online platform, purchasing, its head office in Nacka Strand outside Stockholm. The share warehousing and logistics, pricing, marketing, IT and HR. was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap Index in 2015. 9.3 94% Net sales 2016/17 Share of B2B sales SEK billion 75% Share of B2C sales 6% Share of sales via the online platform 100,000 Active SMB customers 3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Share of orders via the online platform Active B2C customers 90% 350,000 2,500 Number of manufacturers in the range Number of products in the range 250,000 Contents 2 Introduction 22 Responsible manufacturing Dustin in brief The past year CEO statement Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct Risk management in our value chain 7 Transformation towards sustainable IT Results of facility inspections The key role of resellers Compliance management & monitoring Sustainable IT today Dustin’s new initiatives 27 Business ethics Is there demand for sustainable IT? Guidance Training 8 Business value Compliance 9 Development in focus areas 29 Diversity and equality Responsible manufacturing Occupational health and safety Reduced climate impact Responsible use of resources 35 Reduced climate impact Business ethics and corruption Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions Diversity and equality 37 Responsible use of resources 12 Materiality assessment and stakeholder dialogue Resource efficiency Conflict minerals Taking back end-of-life products Responsible corporate tax behaviour Our offering Information security and privacy Easier to choose sustainable product Materiality assessment Overview of stakeholders Monitoring 39 Active membership 14 Control and monitoring Confederation of Swedish Enterprise Governance model UN Global Compact Our commitments Womentor Governing documents World Wide Fund for Nature Our values 41 Reporting principles and scope Monitoring objectives Management systems 43 GRI Content Index 17 Risk management & Internal control 45 The Board of Directors on the Corporate Responsibility Report Business ethics 46 Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report Information security Corporate social responsibility Internal control 4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB A clear vision for sustainable business Responsible business is a prerequisite for a healthy and successful company. Active corporate responsibility has always played a role in Dustin’s operations in different forms, and these efforts have been structured and intensified in recent years. This is why we have also chosen to clarify the importance of corporate responsibility to us as a company by updating our vision. Dustin’s vision is to be the customer’s first choice for efficient and sustainable IT. To us, responsible business concerns how we ourselves Acquisitions complement and develop operate, although this also includes what takes place Our strategy is to acquire three–five companies each year. before and after us in the value chain. Efficient and sustainThe acquired companies allow us to complement our able IT is about how the products are manufactured and existing offering with more advanced services and solutions. transported, how they are used and how they can be The new offerings could, for example, bring positive results returned to the ecological cycle when you have finished by increasing the use of cloud services that could increase using them. This also entails combining products with flexibility and reduce travel for customers. New acquisitions services and solutions that in turn can contribute towards, could also influence our targets on such issues as environfor example, a reduced environmental footprint. mental footprint and diversity and equality due to premises, transports and staffing profile. Over the coming financial Focus areas where we make a difference years, we will therefore increase focus on including our Our five focus areas are in line with the updated vision and acquired companies in the sustainability agenda. cover our own operations and the impact both at the start and the end of the value chain. In our opinion, corporate Own brands ensure control responsibility must be a natural part of the entire business During the year, we launched products under our own if it is to have an effect. Accordingly, all of our focus areas brand, primarily less-advanced products. This provides are connected to our operations and to different stages in completely new opportunities at the same time as the the value chain. Responsible manufacturing focuses on company shoulders a greater responsibility. We are in a how the products are manufactured while responsible use better position to influence the product’s contents and of resources is about what happens after the product has the manufacturing conditions. For example, we endeavour been used. Equality and diversity as well as business ethics as far as possible to avoid conflict minerals and no such is about how we run our business while reduced climate minerals are currently included in our own products. Direct impact concerns all areas of the business. contact with the factories increases our opportunities 5 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB to exert control. All factories that manufacture products Over the next few years, we will continue to work with for our own brands were inspected by us together with all of the focus areas to achieve the targets we have set external partners. Our ambition is that our own brands ourselves for 2020 and to increase the pace of work with will constitute about 25 per cent of category sales, which acquired companies, with the supply chain and with our in turn means we have greater control over aspects of customers. corporate responsibility for approximately one quarter of the product range in these categories. Sustainability breeds success Our customers, partners, employees and investors are Excellent results for the year placing increasing demands on us to act in a sustainable We have achieved very good results in all focus areas and and ethical manner. If we can achieve this, then we can reachieved or exceeded our targets for the year. One example spond better towards our customers’ needs and help them is end-of-life returns for used products, where we noted a in their choices. We can be a strong partner and a good poor development during the previous financial year, but investment and we make it easier to attract and retain the by using new processes the rate has increased and has best employees. Corporate responsibility is not a hygiene exceeded this year’s interim target for the total target of factor, it is a success factor. receiving 140,000 end-of-life returns by 2020. To improve equality at the company, we have decided that all executive recruitments must have a woman and a Georgi Ganev man as final candidates. During the year, 9 of 13 externally President and CEO recruited executive were women. Nacka, November 2017 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Transformation towards sustainable IT “Sustainable IT” embraces so much more than only environment and working conditions. Leading manufacturers are developing new and creative solutions for the circular economy. According to Stephanie Forsblom, Head of Corporate Responsiblity at Dustin, Dustin plays a major role as a reseller, with an ability to influence both suppliers and customers. Below Stephanie presents her view of the past year and the future for sustainable IT. During the 2014/15 financial year, Dustin became more and shortcomings. The IT industry’s value chain remains focused on corporate responsibility. Since then, we have complex and production is largely carried out in “high-risk worked to integrate corporate responsibility across the countries”. We therefore intend to increase the number of organisation, from our corporate culture and values to our our facility audits to a total of 80 by 1 September 2021. As well Code of Conduct. We have focused on guidelines, targets, as inspecting the facilities that manufacture our own-brand procedures, monitoring, risk management and raised products, we will also be ensuring supplier compliance. awareness. Due to solid foundation work, 2016/17 was a successful year for sustainability at Dustin. We achieved Is there demand for sustainable IT? excellent results, thanks to our dedicated employees and While responsible manufacturing and reduced environ­mental strong core values. Now it’s time to raise our ambition and impact are a good place to start, the behaviour of customers continue moving forward. and how they use IT products are equally important for driving the industry in a positive direction. Several studies The key role of resellers show that if the price and quality are equal, customers will As an IT reseller, Dustin is situated between manu­facturers purchase the more sustainable alternative. We believe that and customers. We offer about 200,000 products and demand for sustainable IT products will grow, and therefore 2 million visitors engage with our online platform every want to offer more sustainable solutions for our different day. That means we can influence both sides – from how customer segments. Product leasing, for example, which we choose our range, to how we guide our customers to a would include repairs and end-of-life returns, could be a costmore sustainable choice and use of products, services and efficient and sustainable solution for small and medium-sized solutions. businesses. In 2017/18, we will be running a campaign and develop our web-pages for more sustainable choices, and are Sustainable IT today looking forward to the customer response. From our meetings and discussions with IT manufacturers today, it is clear that the concept of sustainable IT is changing. Leading manufacturers are focusing not only on the traditional areas of working conditions, emissions and the origins of minerals source, but also on the deve­lopment of new circular economy solutions. These include waste as a resource, closed-loop production systems and server centres running on 100 per cent wind, solar or hydropower. Dustin’s new initiatives Dustin’s corporate responsibility has five focus areas, based on the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We work actively with several of the UN SDGs, but focus specifically on Goal 12: Responsible Consumption and Production, which includes the sustainable consumption and production of goods and services, and the efficient the use of resources. We define sustainable production as Stephanie Forsblom partnership with industry pioneers, and systematic work Head of Corporate Responsibility to help our manufacturers overcome their challenges Nacka, November 2017 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Business value Dustin’s updated vision is to be the customer’s first choice and to set the standard for efficient and sustainable IT. By integrating our view of sustainability and sustainable practices into our overall strategy, our aim is to promote responsible business and make sustainable IT more accessible to our customers. In 2016/17, Dustin’s vision was updated to be the Progress during the year and long-term targets in customer’s first choice and to set the standard for efficient these focus areas are reported below in the section and sustainable IT. Responsible and ethical conduct is “Developments in our focus areas.” an important part of our vision, and our responsibilities span the entire value chain. The aim of our new vision is Corporate responsibility is based on our overall strategy, not only to clarify Dustin’s own social and environmental and the materiality assessment carried out last year. Our impact, but also to make it easier for customers to choose strategy is designed to strengthen our position as a leading sustainable IT products, services and solutions. We want Nordic IT reseller by: to be the first choice for our customers, and their close • using a flexible sales model and increasing sales to business partner. existing customers Our corporate responsibility includes business ethics, • introducing and strengthening our customer offering social responsibility, human rights, labour conditions, across the entire Nordic market occupational health and safety, well-being, environmental • continuously striving for efficiency improvements considerations, equality and diversity. In the 2015/16 • acquisitions for growth and a broader customer offering financial year, we focused on the following five focus areas. 1. Responsible manufacturing At Dustin, corporate responsibility is central to everything that we do. In recent years, we have worked consistently 2. Reduced climate impact with clear guidelines, procedures and monitoring to inte­ 3. Responsible use of resources grate corporate responsibility into the organisation. In 4. Business ethics and anti-corruption 2017/18, we will be focused on sustainable IT, and making it 5. Diversity and equality more accessible to our customers. Dustin’s five focus area RESPONSIBLE REDUCED RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ETHICS AND DIVERSITY AND MANUFACTURING CLIMATE IMPACT USE OF RESOURCES ANTI-CORRUPTION EQUALITY Ensuring that Minimising the Offering energy and Engaging in ethical Building a respectful the products we use of resources resource-efficient business practices and value-based offer come from (energy, emissions services, solutions and and counteracting all corporate culture, manufacturers with and materials) in the products, including forms of corruption by improving equality a commitment to, operations in order to taking back end-of-life promoting a culture across all levels of expertise in, and continuously reduce electronic products as in which employees the organisation and ongoing activities for our negative impact a service. and business partners promoting innovation improving working on climate change and can openly discuss through a diversity conditions in the the environment. the ethical dilemmas of perspectives, value chain. they may experience experience, cultural in their day-to-day backgrounds, gender operations. and views. 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Developments in our focus areas Dustin’s Board and Executive Management Team have defined five focus areas, with long-term targets for 2020. The focus areas were chosen in dialogue with a selection of Dustin’s key stakeholders, and the level of ambition was determined by external benchmarking. Responsible manufacturing Target: 100 per cent of our suppliers, from whom our total purchase volume exceeds SEK 200,000 or equivalent per year, will have committed to Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct. 2015/16 outcome: By the end of the 2015/16 financial year, 97 per cent of our hardware suppliers, from whom our total annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK 200,000 or equivalent, had adopted our Code of Conduct or introduced their own code of conduct that corresponds to our requirements 2016/17 outcome: By the end of the 2016/17 financial year, 99.8 per cent of our hardware suppliers, from whom our total annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK 200,000 or equivalent, had adopted our Code of Conduct or introduced their own code of conduct that corresponds to our requirements Reduced climate impact Target:We will reduce our climate impact by 40 per cent by 2020, compared with 2014/15. 2016/17 outcome: At the end of the financial year, the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions had decreased 12 per cent since 2015/16, while our organic growth increased 8.6 per cent. This means that solid progress was achieved within the framework of our target to reduce our environmental impact. One of the main reasons for the favourable results was the choice of renewable energy for our properties and also the efficiency measures implemented in logistics during the year. If we include emissions savings from the reuse of end-of-life returns, the recycling of waste together with carbon offset from one of our logistics partners, the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions has decreased 17 per cent since 2014/15. 40% Organic sales growth Total reduction of emissions 30% Total reduction of emissions, including offsets, recycling and end-of-life returns 20% +8.6 % 10% +4 % Baseline 2014/15 Net sales: 7,933 MSEK 0% Emissions: 2442 tonnes CO2e -2 % -10% -6 % 13% -20% 17% -30% -40% 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 9 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Responsible use of resources Target: 140,000 end-of life products recovered by 2020. 2016/17 outcome: During the year, we recovered 15,449 products. Of these products, 13,839 could be reused and the remaining 1,610 were recycled. Since this target was adopted, we have taken back a total of 28,946 end-of-life units, representing 21 per cent of the overall target for 2020. Total proportion of recovered products 140,000 140,000 Interim target End-of-life returns 120,000 100,000 80,000 70,000 60,000 40,000 28,946 35,000 20,000 9,127 4,370 10,000 2,500 5,000 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 Business ethics and corruption Target:100 per cent of our business areas will undergo a business ethics and anti-corruption risk assessment. 100 per cent of the reported incidents will be followed up. 2014/15 outcome: 100 per cent of our business areas underwent a business ethics and anti-corruption risk assessment. No incidents were reported during the year. 2015/16 outcome:100 per cent of our business areas underwent a business ethics and anti-corruption risk assessment. One incident was reported and investigated. There were no confirmed incidents of corruption. 2016/17 outcome:100 per cent of our business areas underwent a business ethics and anti-corruption risk assessment. No incidents were reported during the year. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Equality and diversity Target: By 2020, each gender is to represent at least 40 per cent of the entire organisation. 2016/17 outcome: In 2016/17, we achieved our interim target for equality at all levels of the organisation. The Board and executive management team accounted for the highest increase in women’s repre­ sentation, with 21 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively. During the year, nine of 13 external executive recruitments resulted in a female final candidate. Despite these measures however, the percentage of women at executive level has remained at 31 per cent, the same rate as last year. One of the main reasons is an internal organisational change, in which one senior level was added to our central warehouse. 40% 40% Interim target increase/year 36.4% Increase in total share of women 32.8% 29.2% Increase in total share 30% 29% of women 27% Interim target, 3.6 per 22% 25.6% cent increase/year 20% 10% 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 40% 40% Interim target increase/year 36% Increase in total share of women 32% 31% 31% Increase in share of 30% 28% women at senior level 24% Interim target, 4 per cent increase/year 20% 20% 10% 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 40% 40% Interim target increase/year 33.8% Increase in total share of women 30% 27.6% Increase in share of 30% women in the Executive Management Team 21.4% Interim target, 6.2 per cent increase/year 20% 15.2% 11% 9% 10% 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 50% 40% 40% Interim target increase/year 35.4% Increase in total share of women 30.8% Increase in share of 30% women on the Board 29% 26.2% Interim target, 4.7 per cent increase/year 21.6% 20% 17% 10% 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Materiality assessment and stakeholder dialogue By engaging in active dialogue with our key stakeholders, we create a mutual understanding of the sustainability aspects that are material to our operations. In addition to our five established focus areas, we worked actively in 2016/2017 with conflict minerals, responsible corporate tax behaviour and information security. In 2015/16, Dustin carried out its first materiality assess­ Information security and privacy ment. The results confirmed Dustin’s five focus areas: The issue of how Dustin, as a company, processes personal responsible manufacturing, reduced climate impact, data will become increasingly important for our customers, responsible use of resources, business ethics, and diversity employees and suppliers. As a reseller of IT products, we and equality. In addition to our focus areas, the materiality use personal data for deliveries, invoices, customer surveys assessment also highlighted other priorities for our stake­ and marketing. Processed personal data is important for holders. Below, you can read more about our work during Dustin’s services and we have a major responsibility as a the year in three of these areas. personal data processor. Conflict minerals In 2016/17, Dustin stepped up its efforts to ensure that Due to stricter international guidelines and customer personal data is processed responsibly and in accordance requirements on conflict minerals, and the fact that Dustin with the new EU General Data Protection Regulation now manufactures products under its own brand, we have (GDPR), which becomes effective in May 2018. An impor­ strengthened our purchasing practices and increased our tant part of this work is to raise awareness of the potential commitments regarding conflict minerals in IT products. information security and data privacy risks. This applies Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct contains conflict mine­ both internally and to our customers, suppliers and other ral reporting requirements and during the year, Dustin business partners. During the year, we conducted online adopted a conflict mineral policy that describes our training courses in information security, and in the General own responsibilities. We performed a risk assessment to Data Protection Regulation and personal data processing. identify the origin of minerals in the supply chain of our The courses and their respective tests were designed for proprietary products. Some of the products contain tin, employees. one of four minerals extracted in a conflict zone and used in nearly all electronic products. Dustin’s own-branded In 2017/18, our work with information security and privacy products are currently conflict-free. The minerals come will also focus on building stronger partnerships with our from certified smelters that have passed the Conflict-Free strategic suppliers. We will be introducing new procedures Smelter Programme’s (CFSP) smelter audit. The aim is that for our internal processes as well as our business partners. our proprietary products will remain free from conflict materials. We also realise that any broadening of our range Materiality assessment poses major challenges. The 2015/16 materiality assessment was the most com­ prehensive sustainability assessment ever performed Responsible corporate tax behaviour by Dustin. A total of 77 stakeholders took part, including During the year, Dustin engaged in ongoing dialogue with manufacturers, distributors, customers, business partners, our investors regarding our approach to tax. As a result, and employees, the Board, the executive management team, to demonstrate clearly that we represent responsible and investors, non-governmental organisations and other correct tax behaviour, we have included the issue of tax in partners. The aim was to identify the aspects that our our Code of Conduct and Corporate Responsibility principles. stakeholders considered material. The results were then analysed on the basis of their At the end of the financial year, Dustin successfully intro­ impact on the company’s vision and strategic targets, and duced a systematic change to calculate and manage repor­ categorised into four areas: ting and payment of the new Excise Chemical Tax for our Swedish operations. 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Prioritise – Material aspects that will be a priority as we Follow-up move forward, in addition to our five Dustin has used the results of the materiality assessment focus areas. and our five focus areas to define the sustainability areas described in this year’s Corporate Responsibility Report. Achieve – Material aspects for our stakeholders, for which The sustainability areas are considered material for the we want to be directly and/or indirectly responsible. entire organisation, and for our external stakeholder groups. Monitor – Material aspects for Dustin’s strategy, for which we monitor developments and opportunities. None of the Because our corporate responsibility targets are long-term identified aspects fell within this group. – until 2020 – we have decided to conduct a materiality assessment at least once every third year. In the event Wait – Material aspects considered less relevant. These of significant changes to the company’s strategy or will not be prioritised, but their development will be operational activities, such as geographic expansion monitored. or new product categories, more frequent materiality assessments may be required. Our focus in the coming years will be to achieve the set targets. Materiality matrix Corporate Responsibility aspects 1 Business ethics important to Dustin’s stakeholders 2 Responsible manufacturing 3 Integrity and the protection of 14 6 1 9 2 4 Good corporate governance an Important 13 10 8 5 Energy and resource efficient IT 12 11 5 4 3 15 6 Open communication and tran 7 7 Simple and effective recovery s 16 8 Certified management system 18 Less important 19 17 9 Equality, diversity and preventi 10 Responsible sourcing and usag Impact on Dustin’s 20 strategical goals 11 Talent attraction and vision 12 Employee health and wellbein Low High 13 Sustainable and smart product 14 Prevention of climate impact a Prioritise Fulfill Monitor Await 15 Green and energy efficient pro 1 11 16 Eco product design Business ethics Talent and expertise attraction 2 Responsible manufacturing 12 Workplace wellbeing and health promotion 17 Local community engagement 3 Privacy and customer data protection 13 Sustainable and smart product packaging and green transportation 4 14 Measures to prevent climate change and Dustin’s18 Purchasing of green electricity Good governance model and risk management 5 Energy and resource-efficient IT services and solutions environmental impact 19 Water scarcity and diversity 6 Open communication and transparency 15 Green and energy-efficient product offerings 7 Simple and efficient end-of-life services for electronic waste 16 Eco-product Design 20 Environmental lobbying 8 Management system certification for the environment, 17 Local community support, commitment and charity occuptional health and safety and quality 18 Purchase of green electricity and renewable energy 9 Equality, diversity and discrimination prevention 19 Water shortage and biodiversity 10 Responsible extraction and use of raw materials 20 Environmental lobbying 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Control and monitoring Everything we do is guided by our values, from how we act towards each other to our relationships with customers and other business partners. Combined with a series of commitments, laws and governing documents, they provide clear frameworks for our day-to-day operations. As a value-guided company, guidelines for how we act • Corporate Responsibility Council – responsible for towards each other and our stakeholders are essential. development and implementation of the corporate We have therefore gathered our commitments, values responsibility strategy, reporting and corporate re­ and Group-wide policies linked to Dustin’s corporate spon­sibility targets and KPIs. The Council consists of responsibility in two central governing documents: Dustin’s Group Management members and Group functions Code of Conduct, and Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct. with responsibility for specific focus areas. Governance model • Head of Corporate Responsibility – has overall re­ • Board of Directors – is responsible for, and approves, spon­si­bility for corporate responsibility and moni­ the Group business strategy, which includes the tors its implementation. The Head of Corporate corporate responsibility strategy. The Board regularly Responsibility reports to Dustin’s CEO. addresses relevant corporate responsibility matters at its meetings. In 2016/17, these matters included • Ethics and Compliance Function – has overall respons­ Dustin’s updated vision, new 2020 sustainability targets i­­bility for ensuring adequate management of ethical and planned activities in high-priority focus areas for and legal requirements and their compliance. This coming years. function also includes a whistleblower function, led by the Chairman of the Audit Committee. • The CEO and Group Management – the CEO is respon­ sible for the company’s ongoing management, with For more information about corporate governance, the support of Group Management. This includes the including a description of management structure and annual Corporate Responsibility Report, monitoring processes, see our Corporate Governance Report. the implementation of the corporate responsibility strategy and our corporate responsibility targets and key performance indicators (KPIs). Dustin’s Corporate Responsibility Council MANAGE CORPORATE VISION AND STRATEGY CEO HEAD OF CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBLE REDUCED RESPONSIBLE USE BUSINESS ETHICS DIVERSITY & MANUFACTURING CLIMATE IMPACT OF RESOURCES EQUALITY Vice President Head of Corporate Vice President Head of Legal Vice President Product Marketing Responsibility Solutions and Services People Development COMMUNICATIONS LEGAL 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Our commitments of underlying policies and guidelines clarify and exemplify Dustin has committed to the Universal Declaration of expectations and requirements in the Code of Conduct. Human Rights, and the ILO conventions and core labour standards. We have also endorsed the UN Global Compact’s Group-wide policies and guidelines associated with Ten Principles taking into account the fundamental re­ Dustin’s corporate responsibility: sponsibilities of business in the areas of human rights, • Dustin’s Code of Conduct labour, environment and anti-corruption. Furthermore, we • Dustin’s Supplier Code of Conduct have committed to the OECD Guidelines for Multinational • Business ethics guidelines Enterprises. These voluntary commitments are incorporated • Environment, work environment & quality policy into Dustin’s Code of Conduct and Supplier Code of • Conflict minerals policy Conduct, and apply to all companies in the Group. All of the policies underwent a review in 2016/17. This Governing documents resulted in a revision of Dustin’s Code of Conduct, Dustin’s Dustin’s Code of Conduct is our Group-wide policy for Supplier Code of Conduct and our environment, work company actions governed by core values and responsibility. environment & quality policy. We also drew up a separate The Code is based on our values, voluntary commitments conflict minerals policy. The purpose of this work was and business that is consistently conducted in accordance to clarify our actions towards and our expectations of with existing laws and regulations. The Code of Conduct our stakeholders and to better reflect the sustainability has been adopted by Dustin’s Board of Directors. A number requirements imposed on today’s electronics industry. 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Today, Dustin’s Code of Conduct includes our values Follow-ups of objectives and 16 business principles. A new principle for 2016/17 Beginning in 2016/17, our annual objectives and/or perfor­ is responsible tax treatment, which we describe in mance indicators for the five focus areas are included in the more detail in the Chapter ‘Materiality assessment and management directives for each business area and function stakeholder dialogue’. As part of the review process Board where it is relevant. Dustin’s strategic plan is established at members, employees and internal consultants have been the beginning of the financial year, and it includes corporate requested to sign the updated Code of Conduct, and responsibility. The objectives for the focus areas are thus employees have also completed an online course with an part of the regular follow-up between management and accompanying test. At the end of the financial year, 94 functions. This is an important step in our continuing efforts per cent of active employees had taken part in the course. to integrate corporate responsibility throughout the business. Most of those who have not completed the course were employed towards the end of the financial year Management system Dustin’s Group-wide guidelines and objectives for the en­ Our values viron­ment, work environment and quality are implemented Continuing our success and working in an ethical and with the aid of a management system and Lean Six Sigma responsible manner throughout the entire value chain methodology. The management system helps us to work require cooperation, both among our employees and more systematically and integrate the guidelines into ope­ with suppliers, customers, business partners and other rations. In Sweden our business is certified in the areas of stakeholders. This is why Dustin’s core value is “Win as quality, the environment and the work environment. Our a team”. It is supplemented by four support values that certification demonstrates that we strive to achieve efficient permeate our way of working; strive to improve, keep it use of resources, holistic risk management and increased simple, challenge all cost and live up to promises. customer satisfaction. Dustin’s Management System PL AC T. Board of . Directors Strategic Plan AN Executive management Dustin Code of Conduct Corporate Policies and Responsibility Guidelines Council Group-wide targets Risk management Values Internal Control Training Operational targets Audits and CH inspections CK Activity plans O . D E . 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Risk management & internal control Systematic management of sustainability risks is integrated into Dustin’s Groupwide risk process. Risk management ensures good control and a business model that is sustainable in the long term. Sustainability risks are defined as risks related to our five focus areas. Important risks in these areas are regularly 1. ID EN TIF evaluated as part of Dustin’s risk management process. NGRING ICA 4 O AND . REP N TIO MO OR NI TI All of the risks in our risk management process are T allo­cated into three categories: external, strategic and operational risks. This risk allocation provides support in NT the choice of suitable methods to identify both existing SS ME R 3. M I E and new risks, their interconnection and management. TI S P O SE GA NS AS TIO E & 2. N • External sustainability risks – risks related to the industry, countries where the Group operates, changes in market conditions, regulatory changes The extent of the sustainability risks is estimated using a and events beyond the Group’s direct control. risk matrix that takes into account both the risks’ potential impact on the business and the likelihood that the risk • Strategic sustainability risks –risks related to Dustin’s would occur within a defined time period. strategic objectives. The potential impact of the sustainability risks on the • Operational sustainability risks – risks related business is primarily evaluated based on economic con­ to Dustin’s value chain manufacturing, logistics and sequences, but also criteria such as strategic business distribution, product use, recycling and reuse. goals, the Group’s reputation, effect on employees’ safety Manage-ment of operational risks focuses on limiting and well-being and legal and regulatory compliance. The the probability of the risk occurring, for example, Company also investigates which risk reduction activities through internal controls, audits or procedure are already established, such as certified management descriptions. systems and factory inspections. 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Dustin’s Head of Corporate Responsibility regularly moni­ committee analyses the risks that have been reported, tors and analyses external sustainability risks and their compiles the Group’s most important risks and evaluates potential effect on the Group. Each business area and whether the management of these risks is appropriate. support function analyses, manages and monitors existing The Group’s largest risks and the measures for managing internal risks, and identifies any new risks facing the unit. them are reported at least twice per year to the Audit Dustin designates risk owners for the largest risks. The risk Committee. owner is responsible for ensuring that suitable actions are taken within a reasonable time. Reporting to the Group’s Below is a selection of risk areas related to sustainability, risk committee is performed on a quarterly basis. The risk and a brief description of the measures for managing them. Risk matrix Potential impact Critical 1 Major 2 3 Limited Probability of Minor occurance Unlikely Potential Probable Expected 1 Business ethics The risk of bribes in connection with purchases. of our business ethics guidelines. A total of 284 people participated including the purchase department in the One of the largest business ethics risks for Dustin is in the Nordic region. During the year, the Board of Directors purchasing process. During the year, we worked actively to adopted an updated version of Dustin’s Supplier Code of reduce the risk of bribes by increasing awareness internally Conduct with clearer requirements and zero tolerance about how responsible collaboration with suppliers should for bribes. The next step is to begin discussions with be conducted. In specific terms, this means the purchasing strategically important suppliers with regard to our organisation was trained in what is considered a bribe and demands and expectations for ethically correct behaviour. how they can work with activities within the framework 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 2 Information security Risks linked to consumer privacy are increasingly important In 2016, initial gap analyses were conducted with a focus on Large quantities of data are handled in the interaction with identifying activities to ensure the implementation of GDPR our customers. With increased expectations and stricter requirements and risk management in time. A special survey legislation, we can see that the management of risks linked of data was performed to prepare an overview of activities in to consumer privacy is becoming increasingly important. data processing. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) was Dustin’s ambition is to consider the privacy context as early as adopted in April 2016 and comes into effect in May 2018. possible in projects, activities and business development. The The new requirements will have a substantial impact method for an impact assessment of consumer privacy helps on our business as the amount of personal data being in this work by ensuring that initiatives comply with internal handed is increasing exponentially, cloud-based services requirements and laws early in the process. The impact and cross-border data transfers are becoming increasingly assessment process for consumer privacy has been integrated widespread, the threat scenario is constantly changing and as a compulsory stage in Dustin’s project model. Dustin has customer trust is a crucial factor in our business. Moreover, also introduced a routine for the collection and handling of the Regulation entails significantly tougher sanctions for personal data, which specifies that information about, for handling personal data in contravention of the regulation. example, the reasons for processing the personal data and Altogether, the GDPR entails an increased risk exposure, which rights the customer has, must be entered in a single in part for economic damage, and in part for non-material register. damage, such as badwill or other damage to trust. In autumn 2017, we will focus on risk management activities Our work is governed by Dustin’s guidelines for handling connected with GDPR. These include changes in the IT of personal data, which specifies principles for collecting, environment and processes and procedures for data processing and storing personal data as well as consumer processing, as well as activities to continuously increase rights. Our privacy team, which is headed by a Corporate awareness and to strengthen governance linked to consumer Privacy Officer, guides and trains the organisation on GDPR, privacy. Relevant guidelines and procedures will be updated supervises risk management, performs reviews and leads and adapted to the new requirements of GDPR. and closely follows up the implementation project. 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 3 Corporate social responsibility Non-conformance with Dustin’s Code of Conduct for ownhave trained 16 safety and production managers on site. branded products. We are also working systematically with the factories to ensure they correct any identified deviations within the In 2016/17, Dustin launched products under its own time agreed. During the year, all factories manufacturing brand. We have greater opportunities to inspect and our own brands were inspected, both announced and influence working conditionsw in the factories where unannounced. In total, this concerned 12 audits led by these products are manufactured. To reduce the risk of Dustin’s Head of Corporate Responsibility together with non-conformance, we have as part of the selection process local experts. No zero-tolerance incidents were found in chosen smaller factories, where most have undergone the 2016/17 audits. In one case, however, the inspection audits by, for example, EICC or BSCI. The fact that the resulted in a decision to end the colla­boration with the factories are relatively small means Dustin, as a major factory. This was because of the number of deviations customer, has greater influence. However, one challenge and the attitude of factory management towards work is that smaller factories are often less aware of work required to correct these. environment, and to reduce the risk of non-compliance we Internal control and diversity efforts in the recruitment process and business In 2016/17, Dustin implemented internal controls linked ethics. This is how we are further integrating corporate to our sustainability efforts. The controls are integrated responsibility into the business and can ensure systematic into the Group-wide framework for internal control and follow-up. The controls were successively implemented apply to work in our five focus areas. Six controls were during the financial year. At the end of the year, the controls implemented in total. Three apply to sustainability efforts were tested, which showed that five of the controls are in the value chain – meaning follow-up of compliance considered implemented and effective. The implementation with Dustin’s Code of Conduct and non-conformance of the control for gender equality and diversity in the management. The remaining three apply to calculating recruitment process was carried out late in the financial year, and analysing Dustin’s environmental impact, equality which is why the function of the control could not be tested. 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Responsible manufacturing The IT industry’s value chain is complex. The route from mining raw materials to the end consumer is long and difficult to follow. By being in place and leading factory inspections, we can link the result to our purchasing operations and work in an integrated manner with corrective actions. It is important to us to promote human rights and healthy Dustin’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers labour conditions when manufacturing the products The Code of Conduct is part of our purchasing agree­ we sell. Today, we carry out regular risk analyses and ment, which means all suppliers are obligated to act factory audits in high-risk countries to make certain that in accordance with the principles of the Code, and in manufacturing is in accordance with our Supplier Code accordance with all applicable laws and regulations. For of Conduct. We are aware that the risk of serious nonannual purchases exceeding SEK 200,000 we follow up compliance increases the further down you move in the that the Code of Conduct has been signed, or that the value chain, and we aim to conduct 80 factory inspections hardware supplier can produce an equivalent code. by 2020. In 2016/17, Dustin’s Board of Directors adopted a revised version of our Code of Conduct with clear demands During the year, Dustin’s Board of Directors adopted an on management systems, work environment, health and updated version of our Code of Conduct with more specific environmental protection. demands on health and safety, management systems and environmental protection. The updates are based on The past year frameworks from the International Labour Organization, Last year, we achieved several important milestones in the United Nations, the Electronic Industry Citizenship our work in responsible manufacturing. 99,8 per cent of Coalition and the Fair Labor Association. In conjunction our suppliers, where annual purchasing volume exceeds with distributing the updated Code of Conduct, we are SEK 200,000, have signed our Supplier Code of Conduct. planning an online training session for Dustin’s purchasing About 253 suppliers also conducted an estimate of their and product organisation. own ability to carry out controls and compliance, Dustin’s ‘Compliance Capability Assessment’. The purpose is to give Dustin’s Code of Conduct covers for example the us greater insight into ongoing activities, commitment and following areas: competence among suppliers in order to safeguard and 1. Legal requirements improve working conditions in warehouses, factories and 2. Freedom of association and the right to collective further down in the value chain. The assessment provides bargaining an indication of which suppliers we need to work more 3. Prohibition of discrimination actively with to reduce the risk of shortcomings. The result 4. Salaries and other remuneration led us to conduct 12 factory inspections during last year. 5. Working hours We also trained 16 production, health and safety managers 6. Occupational health and safety on site at the plants to further enhance know-how in 7. Housing conditions health and safety, one area we noted most shortcomings 8. Prohibition of child labour and non-compliance. 9. Terms of employment 10. Prohibition of forced labour and disciplinary measures 11. Environmental protection and environmental work 12. Conflict minerals 13. Business ethics • When we refer to suppliers we mean a business partner for direct purchases. This could be both manufacturers and distributors • A manufacturer is our definition of a partner that produces/assembles IT products • A distributor stocks and distributes IT products • Dustin has around 250,000 products from over 2,500 manufacturers, of which 2,100 are hardware manufacturers • We have a total of 350 distributors, which provide 80 per cent of our direct purchases 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Managing risks in our value chain Therefore our ambition is to work more systematically The IT industry’s value chain is complex. The route from based on the entire life cycle and integrate sustainability mining raw materials to the end user is long and difficult to aspects at every stage, from the choice of products follow. For example, a computer contains several hundred we purchase, the suppliers we choose to collaborate different components, where each component in turn may with to how we work with existing suppliers and conhave several manufacturers and subcontractors. Millions clude business relations. We call this our end-to-end of workers are impacted by the journey from mineral to commitment model. finished product. End-to-end commitment model ONBOARDING ASSESSMENT VALIDATION & CAPABILITY • Dustin Supplier Code • Supplier Due Diligence IMPROVEMENT BUILDING of Conduct signed Compliance Capability • On-site audits & CONTINUOUS • Requirements Assessment • Root cause analysis, IMPROVEMENTS PHASE OUT part of contractual corrective and preven• Training agreement tative action plan • Capability building • Follow-up audit, if programs required In 2016/17 Result of factory inspections • 99.8 per cent of our hardware suppliers, where the total A large share of all IT products are manufactured in annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK 200,000, had high-risk countries. As reseller, it is important for us to signed our Code of Conduct or had their own codes of be involved in working conditions and environment at conduct that meet our requirements. the factories. The aim is to review 80 selected factories • 253 suppliers underwent Dustin’s ‘Compliance Capability by 2020 to ensure that they follow our demands on Assessment’. These are strategic suppliers for us, both human rights, working conditions, health and safety, existing and new. environmental protection and ethics. • 12 factory inspections were conducted in high-risk countries. Factory inspections can be both announced and un• 20 procent of new hardware suppliers, where the total announced, and non-compliance noted in the inspection annual purchasing volume exceeds SEK 200,000 were is followed up. We conducted 12 factory audits in 2016/17, screened regarding human rights, labour conditions, three of which were unannounced. All of the audits were environmental protection, business ethics and health led by Dustin’s Head of Corporate Responsibility together and safety. with local experts trained in our Supplier Code of Conduct. • 16 production, health and safety managers were trained in health and safety. Country-specific risks – China The map shows risk levels for a number of social risks in China. The risk indices were drawn up by Maplecroft. Most manufacturing in Dustin’s value chain is conducted in Asia and China. Child Labour Decent Wages Decent Working Time Discrimination in the Workplace Forced Labour Freedom of Association and Collective Bargains Migrant Workers Occupational Health and Safety Younger Workers Extreme High Middle Low 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Each inspection scrutinises about 180 sub-demands within working conditions, environment, work environment and business ethics. These include age, working hours, wages, freedom of speech, discrimination, machinery safety, chemicals management, living conditions and waste management. Talks are also held with employees, in groups and individually, and the inspection ZERO-TOLERANCE NON-CONFORMANCE group always eats in the staff canteen. To be corrected within 48 hours Non-conformance management & follow-up We have identified five levels of non-compliance that we use as a starting point when we conduct our CRITICAL NON-CONFORMANCE factory audits. Depending on the severity level, the To be corrected within 30 days manufacturer has a certain number of days to correct the non-conformance. It must then perform a root cause analysis and prepare preventive actions. • Zero-tolerance non-conformance Unacceptable MAJOR NON-CONFORMANCE To be corrected within 60 days finding, with a significant impact that requires immediate corrective actions. This type of noncompliance includes children or slave labour, immediate danger of injury, bribes and forgery of documents. This R115 G255 B164 R116 G255 B234must non-compliance G230reported R114be B255 MINOR NON-CONFORMANCE to Dustin’s CEO, VP Product Marketing, Head of To be corrected within 90 days Corporate Responsibility and Head of Legal within 24 hours. R115 G161 B255 R122 G115 B255 R206 G115 B255 • Critical non-conformance Total violations of demands. Putting employee health, employee safety, employee rights or the surrounding community at danger. • Serious non-conformance Significant violation of demands. The finding indicates a systematic failure in the management system and the lack of control. Non-conformance and results – During the inspections, The impact on employee safety, employee rights or 193 cases of non-conformance were identified. Most of the surrounding community is moderate the non-conformance was minor, but serious and critical non-conformance were observed at all factories. No zero• Minor non-conformance A partial violation tolerance non-conformance was brought to our attention. of demands. The finding can be regarded as an More than 40 per cent of the non-conformance was related isolated case or a random incident. The impact on to shortcomings in health and safety, such as handling employee safety, employee rights or the surrounding chemicals, fire safety, a well-functioning management community is low. Minor non-conformances may system for work environment, shortcomings in training and occur due to inattention or lack of oversight. expertise and the use of the correct protective equipment. Other common forms of non-conformance included • Observation An observation that does not working hours and remuneration, mainly social insurance. constitute non-conformance. The definition can be Three of the factories also lacked an action plan if a child used in several situations: was found at the factory, which constitutes three cases of 1) when there is insufficient evidence to conclusively non-conformance under the ‘child labour’ category in the determine conformity or nonconformity, 2) a non-conformance table on the following page. potential risk of future non-conformance, 3) improvement opportunities, 4) positive finding/best practice. 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 2016/17 Aggregated Supplier Audit Findings Audit Audit Number of non Section Finding -conformance Right to Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 3 Non-discrimination 5 Grievance system 2 Fair Compensation 13 Human and Decent Working Hours 16 Labour Rights Child labour avoidance 3 Juvenile and Student Worker Protection 0 Freely choose employment 4 Inhumane treatment 9 Health and Safety Management System 14 Health and Safety Permits 1 Emergency Preparedness and Response 0 Injury and Incident Management 2 Physically Demanding Work 2 Health and Safety Machine Safety 12 Chemical Safety 22 Personnel Protective Equipment (PPE) 11 Fire Safety 14 First Aid 5 Environmental Management System 2 Environmental Permits and Reporting 2 Resource reduction and continuous improvement 1 Environmental Hazardous and Non-hazardous Waste Management 7 Protection Wastewater Management 3 Storm Water Management 0 Air Emissions 2 Materials Restrictions 3 Living and Housing Food & Water 6 Conditions Worker Dormitories 3 Legal and Regulatory Compliance 22 Anti-corruption 2 Legal Compliance and Ethical Business Record 0 Business Practices Information Protection 0 Conflict Minerals 3 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB TOTAL FINDINGS CORRECTED WITHIN DEFINED TIMELINES. Percentage of non-conformance corrected 76% Corrected 1% Ongoing Critical 8% Ongoing Major 15% Ongoing Minor During the financial year, Dustin was actively involved in safety, Dustin organised its first knowledge-building ensuring measures were implemented at the factories. activities, where 16 production, health and safety Regular follow-up meetings were held between the managers were trained in health and safety. factories and Dustin’s purchasing organisation, Head of Corporate Responsibility and external experts. Almost One of the 12 factory inspections led to the termination 80 per cent of non-conformance was corrected within of collaboration with the factory. This was because of Dustin’s time frame (30/60/90 days). The main reason the number of deviations and the attitude of factory rectifying the non-conformance has taken longer is due to management towards the work and measures required external factors, such as a lack of permits or certificates. to rectify these. Dustin supported the factory in rectifi­ Three of the factories also received unannounced followcation work at the same time as work began to find a up inspections. Due to the shortcomings in health and replacement for the supplier. 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Business ethics We strive for integrity and compliance with the principles of business ethics throughout our entire business. Our work in this focus area is intended to create an open and responsible culture. We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribes. Continuous training, interactive discussions and risk assessments help us increase awareness and act responsibly. Business ethics is one important aspect of responsible Training business for Dustin and our stakeholders. We never accept In 2016/17, we continued to train our employees in business bribes or other violations of our principles of business ethics. ethics through an online course in our Code of Conduct. We make clear that violations of these principles may lead to The course includes all employees in the Group and has the end of a partnership, and may also have consequences offered us an opportunity to systematically improve the in labour law and criminal law for the perpetrator. general skills level. At the end of the financial year, 94 per cent of active employees had taken part in the course. The purpose of our business ethics efforts is to create a The course is only passed if employees complete the responsible corporate culture and awareness of risks, thus subsequent test. We also organised classroom sessions strengthening trust on the part of our stakeholders. for employees across the Nordic region with discussions about ethical dilemmas, mainly for selected groups within Guidance purchasing and sales. The aim was to provide guidance Our business ethics guidelines contain a clear framework for and practical examples of anti-corruption, gifts, business all employees to comply with. The guidelines are available in entertainment and conflicts of interest. We want, in this local languages. We require all employees to read and sign way, to create a corporate culture where employees can our business ethics guidelines. openly discuss ethical dilemmas. We apply the following principles in order to avoid the risk Compliance of bribery: All employees are encouraged and expected to report • Our employees may not offer or accept any types of gifts suspected violations to their immediate supervisor, or benefits, directly or indirectly, from a third party if it is Executive Management Team or the company’s chief not considered to be within the boundaries of generally corporation counsel. There is also a whistleblower system accepted business practices and laws. that provides employees with anonymous access to the • In case of any doubt, our employees are expected to chairman of the audit committee. The whistleblower seek the advice of their immediate supervisor, Executive function is a secure web-based reporting system. The Management Team or the company’s chief corporation function is managed by the chairman of the audit counsel. committee. No reports were recorded in 2016/17. 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Diversity and equality More women in leading positions and clearer guidelines for an inclusive corporate culture. These are a few of the improvements noted in Dustin’s work for diversity and equality in 2016/17. We currently have more female employees in Sweden than the Swedish IT and telecom industry as a whole. As one of the leading IT resellers in the Nordic region, we In order to move even further in our efforts to achieve view diversity as a success factor. We strive to create an greater equality and diversity, we created a Nordic inclusive organisational structure where we respect each “Equality & Diversity” team to plan activities in every other based on our qualities, experiences, values and country and to inspire and guide managers and employees. skills regardless of factors such as gender, religion, ethnic An “Equality & Diversity” ambassador has been designated background or age. Our active work with diversity offers in every country to increase the focus on this area. us access to different perspectives and we can challenge ourselves and drive the business forwards. We believe 3. Governance: that employees who reflect society as a whole also help us It is important that our commitment to gender equality respond better towards our customers. is reflected at management level. Currently, four of eight Board members and three of ten members of the Dustin promotes a balanced gender distribution at all Executive Management Team at Dustin are women. levels of the organisation. Our corporate responsibility We continuously monitor the percentage of women at target for 2020 is that each gender shall be represented all levels in the organisation and between the different by at least 40 per cent and no more than 60 per cent. countries where we conduct operations. In previous years, In 2016/17, we decided to actively focus on four areas we noted significant variations between the countries, to achieve our goals and increase diversity within the a prioritised area where our efforts have yielded good company. results. In 2016/17, the percentage of female managers in Denmark increased by 50 per cent and in Norway by 33 per 1. Recruitment: cent. There are many challenges in creating a workplace with a balanced gender distribution. Ignorance within 4. Knowledge and awareness: the organisation, difficulties in attracting the underIn recent years, Dustin has acquired a number of represented sex to leading positions and a conservative companies. At Dustin, our values are deeply rooted, and view of gender roles are just a few examples. When we a future focus is to harmonise our core values into the recruit, we always try to put together the best and most recently acquired companies. We also want to contribute dedicated team. We endeavour to have at least one man to increase awareness externally and to support efforts and one woman with equal competence among the final to increase the proportion of women in the IT industry as candidates as part of an executive recruitment. Using a whole. One major initiative is our network for women, reflection and analysis, we want to ensure the choice of Women in Business. Last year, for the first time, we final candidate is based on our values and relevant skills. In organised Women in Business in Denmark and Finland, 2016/17, nine of the 13 executive recruitments resulted in a in addition to two networking meetings in Sweden. female manager. Altogether in 2016/17, we have reached almost 200 women in the Nordic region and received highly positive 2. Inclusive: feedback. Dustin is also involved in Womentor, which An open and inclusive corporate culture is supported by aims to help companies in the IT and telecom industry to both sound values and good examples at management work systematically to increase the proportion of female level, by clear guidelines and by long-term goals. We managers. It is also a forum to exchange knowledge and believe an organisation that represents diversity is better experience. at allowing employees to use their personal strengths and to express their needs. We disassociate ourselves from all forms of discrimination. 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 2016/17 results In 2016/17, we achieved our interim target for equality One in three employees employed during the financial year at all levels of the organisation. The largest increase in were women. Most of Dustin’s recruitment is in Sweden. women’s representation was noted on the Board, rising by We can also observe that our internal efforts concerning 21 per cent, and in management by 19 per cent. During the inclusiveness have yielded good results. Statistics for the year, nine of 13 external executive recruitments resulted percentage of terminated contracts indicates that the in a female final candidate. Despite these measures, the women we recruit enjoy working for us. percentage of women at executive level remained at 31 per cent, the same rate as reported for 2015/16. One of the main Dustin as a company has few part-time employees. The reasons is an organisational change, which increased the gender balance at Dustin is comparable with the gender number of men at senior level at our central ware-house. balance at medium-sized companies in the IT industry. Total 2016/2017 Total 2016/2017 29% 31% Gender balance at Dustin Gender balance at senior level Female Female Total 2016/2017 Total 2016/2017 Female 29% Male 71% Female 31% Male 69% Total including acquisitions Total including acquisitions Male 71% Female 24% Male 76% Sweden Male 69% Norway Denmark Female 28% Male 72% Finland Sweden Norw Total including acquisitions Total including acquisitions | 6/2017 Total 2016/2017 33% | 67% 21% | 79% 21% 79% 22% | 78% 34% | 66% 29% | Female 24% Female 28% 29% Male 76% Sweden 33% | 67% Norway Female 21% | 79% 31% Denmark 21% | 79% Male 72% Finland 22% | 78% Sweden 34% | 66% Norway 29% | 71% Denmark 13% | 87% Finland 22% | 78 71% Male 69% uding acquisitions Total including acquisitions 24% Female 28% % Male 72% Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland 33% | 67% 21% | 79% 21% | 79% 22% | 78% 34% | 66% 29% | 71% 13% | 87% 22% | 78% Gender balance in the executive management and the Board Executive management 2016/2017 Board of Directors 2016/2017 Female 30% Female 50% Male 60% Male 50% Total 2015/2016 Total 2015/2016 Female 11% Female 29% Male 89% Male 71% Age breakdown at Dustin Total Executive Management The Board of Directors 50– years 13% 50– years 30% –29 years 0 % 50– years 63% –29 years 0 % –29 years 24% 30–49 years 63% 30–49 years 70% 30–49 years 37% 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Dustin’s employees Total 1144 Female 273 Male 871 Full-time employees 2016/2017 Part-time employees 2016/2017 Female 256 Female 17 Male 863 Male 8 Staffing by country Women Men Dustin Sweden 200 596 Dustin Norway 27 111 Dustin Denmark 22 85 Dustin Finland 23 80 Staff turnover excluding acquisitions Number of new employes 2016/2017 Number of leavers 2016/2017 Total 219 Total 171 Female 67 Female 37 Male 152 Male 134 Age Number Per cent Age Number Per cent -29 116 53% -29 79 46% 30-49 89 41% 30-49 74 43% 5014 6% 5018 11% Country Number Per cent Country Number Per cent Sweden 160 73% Sweden 106 62% Norway 19 9% Norway 18 10% Denmark 18 8% Denmark 27 16% Finland 22 10% Finland 20 12% 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Working environment, health and safety life balance. The percentage of work-related absenteeism Since 2016/17, occupational health and safety has been generally remained at the same level as the preceding year, a part of Dustin’s Code of Conduct. We also updated our except in Denmark where an increase was noted. One of occupational health and safety policy to embrace all of the main reasons for the increase is the reorganisation Dustin at a Nordic level. Our aim is to create a working that created some ambiguity for parts of the organisation environment where employees are motivated and thriving for a period of time. We define work-related absenteeism – physically, psychologically and socially. We wish to as the proportion of total working hours that employees encourage leadership that promotes safety and creates are absent from work due to illness caused by work. To an insight that accidents can be prevented with the right conduct preventive measures in both the organisational behaviour. and social work environment, we focus on the following areas: work load, working hours and bullying. Our activities in Sweden are governed by a work en­ We monitor our work environment through: vironment management system according to the require­ • Regular risk assessments ments of the OHSAS 18001 standard, and from now • Annual employee surveys on of the ISO 45001 standard, as well as the AFS 2001:1 • Development talks each year provisions. The line organisation bears the responsibility. Managers coordinate and drive ongoing work environment Injuries due to workplace accidents, other injurious effects efforts, through participation and involvement with of work, illness and accidents on the way to and from work responsibility on the part of employees. All Dustin em­ are all categorised as work-related injuries. Work-related ployees have at least one professional development injuries that do not require medical treatment also fall meeting with their manager every year. into this category. These are minor injuries (first aid level). Work-related injuries related to Dustin’s business have All employees in Finland are covered by a collective bar­ always been light and few in number, as was the case in gaining agreement. All employees at Dustin in Sweden 2016/17. Examples of typical work-related injuries are cuts, have been covered by a collective bargaining agreement crushing injuries, lifting injuries and falling products. The since 1 May 2017. None of Dustin’s employees in Denmark forklifts in the central warehouse constitute one of the and Norway are covered by collective bargaining larger work-related risks. However, we have succeeded agreements. in reducing the risks related to the forklifts and avoiding injuries thanks to active preventive actions. 2016/17 results Our concentrated focus on health-promoting activities Preventive actions we are currently taking: for employees had a positive effect on absenteeism in • In addition to a forklift driving licence requirement, the 2016/17, which declined in all Nordic countries. We define driver must demonstrate the ability to drive properly absenteeism as the proportion of total working hours and safely. The importance of driving cautiously is that employees are absent from work due to illness. Our emphasised at all department and safety meetings. Wellness group arranges regular talks, training sessions • We avoid piece rates, i.e. giving the forklift drivers a and activities to increase well-being and create a workcertain time to perform a certain amount of work. Absenteeism Total Work-related 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Sweden 4.2% 4.7% 4.0% 0.2% 0.1% Norway 1.9% 2.4% 2.9% 0.2% Denmark 3.3% 3.5% 3.5% 0.2% 0.1% 1.3% Finland 1.4% 2.6% 1.6% Total work-related injuries 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Sweden 3 3 2 Norway 0 Denmark 1 1 1 Finland 4 Total 4 4 7 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Reduced climate impact During the year, we worked to increase our percentage of solar energy, wind and hydroelectric power. These activities have reduced our environmental impact by 35 per cent. The aim is for Dustin to be run 100 per cent on renewable energy. One of Dustin’s focus areas for corporate responsibility Energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is the climate, and reducing our business’s effect on Dustin’s energy consumption is attributable to electricity the environment. Aspects that have been identified as consumption, heating and cooling. Our consumption is important are energy consumption, emission of green­ reported in kilowatt hours (kWh). We take into account house gases, resource usage, recovery, reuse and recycling. all of our properties (offices and shops) in the Nordic The environmental aspects related to Dustin’s own ope­ countries, as well as our central warehouse, our smaller rations are evaluated on a regular basis. Examples of these warehouse in Finland and leased warehouse space in aspects are warehouse space and properties (offices and Norway. We strive to reduce our consumption and related shops), as well as operations directly linked to Dustin such emissions of greenhouse gases by choosing renewable as customer deliveries. energy for electricity and heating and optimising our use of space. At the end of the fiscal year 10 of 14 facilities run The Company’s Group-wide corporate responsibility target mainly on renewable energy Our focus for 2016/17 is to for the environment is to achieve a 40 per cent reduction increase the proportion of green contracts. in greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. This target helps us contribute to the UN global climate action goal, (goal 13). Our central warehouse is Green Building-certified. Dustin’s office in Norway and the Dustin concept store We consider the following aspects to be critical to our in Stockholm are located in environmentally certified success with our climate goal: buildings. Our climate impact is reported in accordance 1. A life cycle perspective– we are establishing with the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. The calculations direct targets for our own operations, while simul­ take Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 into account. taneously working to obtain an overall view of the • Scope 1 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases from environmental consequences caused by products company-owned vehicles. during different stages of their life cycle. We are • Scope 2 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases from also expanding our commitment, together with our power consumption, heating and cooling. customers and suppliers, to reduce this impact. • Scope 3 Other indirect sources of greenhouse gas emissions related to the company’s operations. This 2. Focus on continuous improvement– we work on includes outbound transports, business travel, offenvironmental issues based on a management premises data centres, leasing vehicles, recycling of system: structured, systematically, preventative waste and reuse of old devices. and with a focus on continuous improvement. Our operations in Sweden, the central warehouse and the head office, are ISO 14001-certified. Dustin’s distribution process and logistics system 3. Trustworthy and transparent reporting – Dustin’s Dustin’s distribution process and logistics system are climate impact is reported in accordance with the based on a central warehouse in Sweden that handles Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol. This method takes about 18,000 products per day. The warehouse in the six most important greenhouse gases into Sweden is complemented by a smaller warehouse in account: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous Finland and third-party logistics solutions in Denmark oxide or laughing gas (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFC), and Norway, as well as direct deliveries from suppliers perfluorocarbons (PFC) and sulphur hexafluoride to end customers. In the 2016/17 financial year, about (SF6). We annually report our progress as part of our 65 per cent of net sales went through Dustin’s central Corporate Responsibility Report, which complies warehouse, and the equivalent of about 25 per cent of with the independent international Global Reporting net sales passed through the warehouse in Finland. Initiative (GRI) standard. The remainder was sent directly from suppliers. 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB 2016/17 results life returns, the recycling of waste together with carbon Total emissions amounted to 2,304 tons of CO2 offset from one of our logistics partners, the total amount equivalents. The total includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and of greenhouse gas emissions has decreased 17 per cent since Scope 3 emissions. The largest amount of greenhouse gas 2014/15. emissions (60 per cent of the total) resulted from transport activities, followed by electricity consumption, heating and cooling of properties. During the year, we implemented a pilot project with one of our logistics partners with the aim of reducing our environmental impact during transportation by reducing the number of wooden pallets that the products are stacked on. The project contributed to a 45,000 kg CO₂e reduction in greenhouse gas emissions of transported products. Over the next few years, we will review the possibility of expanding the concept to our other logistics partners. Our choice of green electricity helped us to reduce greenhouse gas emissions within our properties by 35 per cent. At the end of the financial year, the total amount of greenhouse gas emissions had decreased 12 per cent since 2015/16, while our organic growth increased 8.6 per cent. This means that solid progress was achieved within the framework of our target to reduce our environmental impact. If we include emissions savings from the reuse of end-ofGHG emissions 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 GHG Scope 1 direct emissions from company-owned vehicles (kg CO2e) 10,709 18 805 14 216 GHG Scope 2 indirect emissions from purchased electricity, heating and cooling (kg CO2e) GHG Scope 2 – ‘market-based’ 304 698 470 897 511 711 GHG Scope 3 (other indirect emissions) Emissions from outbound transport activities (kgCO2e) 1,434,518 1,632,937 1,790,398 Offset emissions from transport activities (kg CO2e) -32 734 -43 620 -40 996 Emissions from business travel, by air and by train (kg CO2e) 276,558 211,074 123,410 Emissions prevented through reuse of old devices (kg CO2e) -129 688 -122 891 -33 035 Emissions prevented through recycling of waste (kg CO2e) -27 325 -42 260 -36 660 Emissions from off-premises data centres (kg CO2e) 0 0 0 Emissions from leasing vehicles (kg CO2e) 277,439 273,783 212,418 Total (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3) 2,303,922 2,607,496 2,652,153 Total including offsets, recycling and end-of-life returns (kg CO2e) 2,114,175 2,398,725 2,541,462 Energy consumption for the 2016/17 financial year am­oun­ our total consumption rose. The cause of the increase was ted to 4,257 MWh. Our 20,000 sqm central warehouse is primarily because of acquired companies and the opening the largest single source. Despite our efficiency measures, of Dustin's Concept Store. Energy 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Electricity consumption, total (kWh) 2,710,809 2 513 687 2 431 460 Heating, total (kWh) 1 481 056 1 212 204 1 234 280 Cooling, total (kWh) 64 831 82 850 91 608 Total energy (kWh) 4,256,696 3 808 741 3 757 348 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Responsible use of resources Resource efficiency 2016/17 results Efficient use of resources is a high-priority issue for Dustin. In 2016/17 we generated 509 tons of waste at our central We strive to reduce the total amount of waste we create, warehouse and head office. This was a decline of nearly while at the same time increasing the quantity of products 10 per cent compared with 2015/16. The reduction in we recycle. Reduced use of materials accomplishes both waste was primarily due to more efficient use of materials cost savings and lower climate and environmental impact. at the warehouse. At the same time, the quantity of Our focus is on reviewing how we can reduce waste hazardous waste declined from nearly 257 tons to 123 manage­ment in our own business, while increasing times. The total quantity of hazardous waste includes end-of-life returns. hazardous waste from our own operation at the central warehouse, such as fluorescent lamps, batteries and old Dustin’s business creates waste of various types. We sort electronics equipment, as well as electronics waste that the waste into multiple categories in order to maximise we as a producer are obliged to accept. Also included are opportunities for recycling. products we collected as end-of-life returns that could not be reused, and were instead sent for recycling. Our • Waste – The total amount of non-hazardous waste reporting system does not currently allow us to measure generated. This includes wood, cardboard, waste the proportion of hazardous waste that comes from paper, plastic, combustible household waste, coloured each source, and thus what is the primary cause of the and non-coloured glass, metal and aluminium cans. reduction. However, no hazardous waste was sent to landfill. All of it was reused, recycled or diverted towards • Hazardous waste – Hazardous waste is waste that is energy recovery. explosive, inflammable, corrosive, infectious or toxic to humans and the environment. Hazardous waste is sorted in accordance with local legislation. This waste includes batteries and fluorescent lamps, as well as electronics. We recover waste consisting of electrical and electronic products as part of our producer responsibility. Waste 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycling (kg) 108,129 104 163 121 344 Energy recovery (kg) 400,936 359 980 373 650 Landfill (kg) 70 0 1000 Total quantity of waste (kg) 509,129 464 143 495 994 Hazardous waste 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Recycling (kg) 204,893 273 893 79 283 Energy recovery (kg) 31,966 65 617 17 054 Landfill (kg) 0 0 0 Other 6,784 5 924 2 146 Total quantity of hazardous waste (kg) 243,643 345 434 98 483 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB End-of-life returns One of the main reasons for the good results is improved At Dustin, we endeavour to extend product lifetimes by and more efficient internal processes for end-of-life returns. encouraging our customers to return them to us when End-of-life returns via leasing is also a success factor that they no longer need them. Firstly, we ensure products are contributed to the outcome. We still have some work to do reused by selling them as second-hand products. Secondly, to achieve our target of 140,000 products but we believe we ensure they are recycled. By 2020, we aim to have that we are on course. Over the next year, we will focus on recovered 140,000 sold products. offering our customers Dustin’s end-of-life return service in the Nordic countries. 2016/17 results In 2016/17, 15,449 sold products were collected as end-oflife returns. 13,839 of these products could be reused, and the remaining 1,610 were recycled. End-of-life returns for electronic products 2016/17 2015/16 2014/15 Products reused (quantity) 13 839 7 421 2 896 Products recycled (quantity) 1 610 1 706 1 474 Total CO2 emissions savings (kg CO2e) 129 688 122 891 33 035 The quantity of products reused or recycled includes components. The definition is synchronised between desktop computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, Dustin’s end-of-life return partners. Only one of these monitors, servers, networking equipment and printers. partners is currently able to report carbon emissions. Categories not included are mice, keyboards, cables, The total amount of carbon-emission savings for 2016/17 laptop docking stations, external hard drives, removable represents 35 per cent of the total number of end-of-life hard drives, CDs, backup tapes and removable computer returns for the year. Our offering In order to eco-label a product, the manufacturer must Dustin’s customer offering is based on a broad range minimise the product’s environmental impact during its of products and their related services and solutions. entire life cycle: during manufacturing, usage and after it Altogether the range includes around 250,000 hardware is discarded. In practice this means that the environmental and software products from over 2,500 manufacturers. requirements that eco-labelled products meet may con­ Our hardware offerings include computers, smartphones, cern issues such as recycling, using recycled materials in tablets, servers, networking products, printers, cables, manufacturing, the product’s lifetime, packaging size and keyboards, televisions and cameras. The types of software materials, and restriction on hazardous substances in the we offer are operating systems, Office suites, security product. Other issues include energy savings features software, and software as a service (SaaS), such as and other steps that reduce the product’s climate impact. Office 365. Different eco-labels fulfil one or more requirements to varying degrees. It’s simpler to choose the eco-label As part of our corporate responsibility efforts, we want to Dustin has chosen to use several recognised Nordic, make it easier for customers to find products that are a bit European and international labels: Svanen (Nordic Swan better for the climate. Dustin currently offers its customers Ecolabel), Blue Angel, TCO Certified, Epeat, Energy Star and 1,200 eco-labelled products. EU Ecolabel. Product category (draft) Number of eco-labelled products available Computers (laptops & PCs) 677 Tablets 102 Monitors 238 Printers 172 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Overview of stakeholders Stakeholders Dialogue channels Key issues Customer • Customer contact and customer meetings • Hazardous substances in electronics • Concept store • Conflict minerals • Customer magazine and IT trade fair • Certified management system (Dustin Expo) • Code of Conduct and compliance • Information on website, customer service • Factory inspections and social media • Customer survey and Net Promoter Score (NPS) • Focus groups Shareholders • Individual investor meetings • Responsible corporate tax behaviour • Webcasts/telephone conferences for • Risk analysis of value chain and interim reports factory inspections • Presentations for investor lunches • Environmental targets seminar and other meetings • UN Global Goals Employees • Daily meetings and interaction • Responsible manufacturing of • All staff meetings Dustin’s own-brand products • Training, classroom and e-courses • Work on Dustin’s five focus areas • Annual employee surveys • Conflict minerals • Annual appraisals • End-of-life returns Suppliers • Separate meetings in purchasing process • Compliance with Code of Conduct • Supplier assessments under framework • Healthy working conditions and of Dustin’s Code of Conduct promoting human rights • Seminars and panel discussions on • Occupational health and safety specific topics, such as migrant workers • Environmental protection • Training supplier personnel in risk countries • Anti-corruption and bribery • Factory inspections. 12 inspections took • Country of origin and traceability place in 2016/17 Voluntary • Individual meetings • Sustainable IT and eco-labelling organisations & • Conferences, training courses and • Environmental targets partners panel discussions • Chemicals and hazardous substances • End-of-life returns 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Active memberships CONFEDERATION OF SWEDISH ENTERPRISE WOMENTOR Dustin is a member of the employers’ organisation A leadership and mentoring programme that supports Almega, which is part of the Confederation of Swedish companies in the IT and telecom industry that want to Enterprise. The Confederation of Swedish Enterprise is work systematically to increase the proportion of female the representative of companies in Sweden. Its longmanagers. Dustin became a programme participant in 2015. term goal is for Sweden to regain its pole position in the international prosperity league. Its mission is to heighten awareness of the importance of Swedish enterprise, and to work to ensure that all companies in Sweden have the IN PARTNERSHIP best possible prospects to operate and grow. It lobbies WITH DUSTIN FOR SUSTAINABLE decision-makers on issues ranging from tax legislation IT-SOLUTIONS AND A BETTER CLIMATE to companies’ long-term needs for qualified staff and procurement issues. In 2010, Dustin became a member of the Almega Employers’ Organisation for the Swedish WWF Service Sector, and its Service Employer Association. Since 2014, Dustin has had an active partnership with WWF in a series of priority areas such as reducing green­ house gas emissions, efficient resource management throughout the life cycle of products and responsible recycling. Dustin also supports WWF’s Climate Solvers project, an initiative to identify technological solutions that can combat climate change. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Dustin signed the UN Global Compact in 2015. The com­ pany works strategically with the 10 principles of sustain­ able business in the areas of human rights, working con­ ditions, environmental protection and anti-corruption. 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Reporting principles and scope This is Dustin Group AB’s third Corporate Responsibility Report. The Corporate Responsibility Report has been prepared in accordance with the international Global Reporting Initiative, (GRI) standard. It is reported in accordance with G4 guidelines, and at the “Core” level. It encompasses the Group’s corporate responsibility efforts during the financial year from September 1, 2016 to August 31, 2017. If you have any questions, please contact Georgi Ganev, President and CEO. Data collection and measurement policies and operating measures, rather than on the basis Environmental data, energy and emissions are collected of financial control and economic interest. through the Group’s environmental reporting process. Group-wide definitions are used for all environmental For this reason, the following emission sources are used: parameters in order to increase quality. The consolidation • Trips with vehicles owned by Dustin (Scope 1) principles used for environmental data include all • Electricity consumption, heating and cooling of Dustin’s companies within the Group, including Dustin’s offices in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland with acquisitions — IT Hantverkarna, Commsec, Idenet, IKT more than 15 employees. The Dustin Concept Store in Gruppen, Purity IT and Saldab. All data have been collected Sweden, Dustin’s central warehouse in Sweden and in accordance with Dustin’s reporting period September 1 smaller consolidation warehouses in Finland and Norway to August 31 for 2014/15, 2015/16 and 2016/17. are also included (Scope 2) • Outbound transports from warehouses to customers. Employee data has been collected separately from This includes transports from Dustin’s central countries where the Group operates and has been warehouse in Sweden, consolidation warehouses in consolidated at Group level. Consolidation principles for Finland and Norway together with direct deliveries from employee data include all majority-owned companies distributors to customers (Scope 3) within the Group, including Dustin’s acquisitions. Internal • Dustin’s off-premises data centres (Scope 3) consultants, meaning consultants with their own e-mail • Leasing vehicles for staff (Scope 3) address from Dustin, are also included. During the 2016/17 • Business travel by train and air (Scope 3) financial year, IKT Gruppen became an operational • Recycling and energy recovery of waste from the head part of Dustin. This means employee data reported for office and central warehouse (Scope 3) Dustin also includes IKT Gruppen, while IT Hantverkarna, • Reuse of sold end-of-life returns (Scope 3) Commsec, Idenet, Purity IT and Saldab are reported under acquisitions. Specific emission factors have been used to calculate all Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions. Dustin’s small Air emissions consolidation warehouse in Denmark is not included. Climate data produced by companies are often associated with uncertainty. This is because of scientific uncertainty Energy about measurement methods but also uncertainty about the The total quantity of energy consumed is reported in data used in the measurement methods. The total amount of kilowatt hours and includes electricity consumption, greenhouse gas emissions is reported in kg CO2 equivalents, heating and cooling. The calculations encompass all of and primarily includes CO2 greenhouse gases. Biogenic Dustin’s office properties with more than 15 employees, emissions are insignificant and have not been reported. the central warehouse, small consolidation warehouses in Finland and Norway and the Dustin Concept Store The reporting is performed in accordance with the GHG in Sweden. Dustin’s small consolidation warehouse in Protocol, and includes Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 Denmark is not included. The boundary is in accordance emissions. We chose the “operational control” approach for with the calculations of Scope 2 emissions. Consumption consolidating greenhouse gas emissions. This means that furthermore includes electricity and cooling at offwe calculate units based on whether we can introduce premises data centres. 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB The office properties in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and has its own local standards or regulations. Absenteeism Finland are used only partly by Dustin, and their heat and work-related injuries have not been broken down by consumption is allocated based on space. The same applies gender when the difference between the genders was not to the consolidation warehouse in Norway as well as the considered substantial. ‘Injury rate’ and ‘Lost Day Rate’ are Dustin Concept Store. For the data centres, consumption is also not monitored currently since they are not seen as measured using PUE (Power Usage Effectiveness) values. material for Dustin. Waste Changed information compared with preceding The total reported quantity of waste encompasses Dustin’s Corporate Responsibility Report waste from its head office and central warehouse. Other Corrections were made to the number of end-of-life properties or warehouse space are not included. returns for 2014/15 and 2015/16 now that all of Dustin’s returns partners can report the number of end-of-life Hazardous waste returns, products reused and products recycled in line with The total reported quantity of hazardous waste only Dustin’s reporting principles and definitions of end-of-life encompasses hazardous waste from the central returns. As a result of the corrections in historical data, the warehouse and electronics waste that we as a producer number of past end-of-life returns increased from 1,373 to are responsible to accept. Dustin does not currently have 4,370 for 2014/15 and from 4,592 to 9,127 for 2015/16. an accepted method to measure the quantity of waste The decision to include all acquisitions in the from our other properties that is sent for recycling. environmental report for energy and emissions also led to a correction in historical data pertaining to emissions End-of-life returns for electronic products from leasing vehicles. Emissions from leasing vehicles rose The quantity of returned products includes the categories from 72,616 kg CO2 to 212,418 kg CO2 for 2014/15 and from of desktop computers, laptops, tablets, mobile phones, 81,400 kg CO2 to 273,783 kg CO2 for 2015/16. Emissions from monitors, servers, networking equipment and printers. business travel rose from 37,479 kg CO2 to 123,410 kg CO2 Categories not included are mice, keyboards, cables, for 2014/15 and from 85,648 kg CO2 to 211,074 kg CO2 for laptop docking stations, external hard drives, removable 2015/16. hard drives, CDs, backup tapes and removable computer components. CO2 savings are only calculated for products As a result of the correction of historical data, the that can be reused. environmental report for waste has been recalculated for 2014/15 and 2015/16. As a result, the quantity of waste for Employees 2014/15 increased from 495,957 kg to 495,994 kg while the Active employees refers to all employees at Dustin and quantity of hazardous waste declined from 256,765 kg to acquired companies, including internal consultants. 98,483 kg. For 2015/16, the quantity of waste increased Individuals on parental leave or on long-term sick leave are from 448,700 kg to 464,143 kg and for hazardous waste not included. Active employees are reported in connection from 123,093 kg to 345,434 kg. with the proportion of employees who have completed the online course on Dustin’s Code of Conduct. Significant changes concerning scope and boundaries Certain GRI indicators concerning our employees have A decision was made in 2016/17 to include all acquisitions not been broken out by age group and country, when in the environmental report for energy and emissions the difference between the ages was not considered (Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3). This applies to leasing important. vehicles and properties. Absenteeism and work-related injuries The precautionary approach The consolidation principles for absenteeism and workThe precautionary approach is one of the fundamental related injuries include all majority-owned companies principles for sound accounting standards applied by within the Group with the exception of the acquisitions Dustin. The precautionary approach is currently being — IT-Hantverkarna, Commsec, Idenet, Purity IT and applied to sustainability as needed, for issues such as Saldab Minor variations in the definition of work-related estimated emissions from leasing vehicles. The principle is injuries may exist between countries, as each country defined in the company’s Code of Conduct. 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB GRI index GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI Indicator Page Strategy and analysis G4-1 Statement from the Executive Management 5-6 Organisational profile G4-3 Name of the organisation 3-4 G4-4 Products, services and brands 3-4 G4-5 Address of the organisation’s head office 3-4 G4-6 Countries in which operations are conducted 3-4 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3-4 G4-8 Markets served 3-4 G4-9 Scale of the organisation 3-4 G4-10 Total number of employees 30-31 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective 32 bargaining agreements G4-12 Suppliers 22-26 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 40-41 G4-14 Regarding the precautionary approach 41 G4-15 Principles and initiatives 15 G4-16 Participation in strategic initiatives 39 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 Operations included in the financial statements 40-41 G4-18 The process for defining content 12-13 G4-19 Material aspects 12-13 G4-20 Material aspects, internal perspective 12-13 G4-21 Material aspects, external perspective 12-13 G4-22 Significant changes 40-41 G4-23 Significant changes concerning scope and boundaries 40-41 Stakeholders G4-24 Stakeholders 12-13, 38 G4-25 The basis for identification of stakeholders 12-13, 38 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 12-13, 38 G4-27 Key topics in stakeholder engagement 12-13, 38 Report profile G4-28 Reporting period 2 G4-29 Date of most recent report 1/9 2016 31/8 2017, published in November 2017 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact for questions regarding the report 40 G4-32 The report is in accordance with GRI Core 40 G4-33 External review 2 Governance G4-34 Corporate Governance 14-16 Ethics and integrity G4-56 Values and ethical guidelines 14-16 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Material aspects DMA / Indicators Page Environment G4-DMA Energy consumption, waste and greenhouse gas 34-37 emissions Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 34-35 Greenhouse gas emissions G4-EN15 Direct emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 1) 34-35 G4-EN16 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 2) 34-35 G4-EN17 Indirect emissions of greenhouse gases (Scope 3) 34-35 Transportation G4-EN30 Environmental impact of transportation 34-35 Products and services G4-DMA Eco-labelled products and returns of sold units 37 G4-EN28 Percentage of products returned and recycled 37 Supplier assessment G4-DMA Supplier audits 22-26 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 22-26 environmental criteria SOCIAL IMPACT Material aspects DMA / Indicators Page Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Employee turnover 30-31 Health and safety G4-DMA Occupational health and safety, and absenteeism 32 G4-LA6 Injuries and absenteeism 32 Equality and diversity G4-LA12 Composition of workforce, Board of Directors and 30-31 executive management Supplier assessment G4-DMA Supplier audits 22-26 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 22-26 labour practices criteria Human rights Supplier assessment G4-DMA Supplier audits 22-26 G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 22-26 human rights criteria 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB SOCIAL IMPACT Material aspects DMA / Indicators Page Society Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Risk assessment related to corruption 10 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidences of corruption 10 Supplier assessment G4-DMA Supplier audits 22-26 G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using 22-26 criteria for impacts on society. 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB The Board of Directors on the Corporate Responsibility Report The Corporate Responsibility Report, which comprises all sustainability information in Dustin Group AB’s Annual Report and 2016/17 Corporate Responsibility Report were approved for publication by the Board of Directors on 16 November 2017. Stockholm 16 November 2017 Fredrik Cappelen Chairman Caroline Berg Gunnel Duveblad Johan Fant Board member Board member Board member Maija Strandberg Mattias Miksche Mia Brunell Livfors Board member Board member Board member Tomas Franzén Board member Georgi Ganev President and CEO 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Dustin Group AB’s Sustainability Report To Dustin Group AB Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Dustin Group AB to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Dustin Group AB’s Sustainability Report for the year 1 September 2016 – 31 August. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted Executive Management for the Sustainability Report auditing standards in Sweden. The firm applies ISQC The Board of Directors and the Executive Management 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) and are responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, as control including documented policies and procedures explained on the pages 40-41, and are the parts of the regarding compliance with ethical requirements, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (published by The professional standards and applicable legal and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)) which are applicable to regulatory requirements. The procedures performed the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance calculation principles that the Company has developed. that we would become aware of all significant matters This responsibility also includes the internal control that might be identified in a reasonable assurance relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable that is free from material misstatements, whether due to assurance conclusion. fraud or error. Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Responsibilities of the Auditor Board of Directors and the Executive Management as Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the described above. We consider these criteria suitable for Sustainability Report based on the limited assurance the preparation of the Sustainability Report. procedures we have performed. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is We conducted our limited assurance engagement in sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability conclusion below. Reports issued by FAR. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons Conclusion responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Based on the limited assurance procedures we have Report, and applying analytical and other limited performed, nothing has come to our attention that assurance procedures. The procedures performed in causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report is not a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Management. Stockholm, November 16, 2017 Ernst & Young AB Jennifer Rock-Baley Charlotte Söderlund Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016/17 DUSTIN GROUP AB
