LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 CONTENTS A Word from the Founder and Chairman of the Board 2 A Word from the CEO 4 About this report 6 Estre 8 Corporate governance 12 Consistent growth 14 Present in 7 Brazilian states 16 Solutions for cities and companies 18 Timeline 24 Solid waste in Brazil 26 Sustainability strategy 32 Formal commitments 36 Ethical businesses 38 Valuing our people 42 Occupational health and safety 48 The importance of community 52 Our commitment to the environment 64 Innovative processes 70 Index of GRI-G4 content 78 Credits 80 The information contained in this report refers to the year 2016. ESTRE GROUP G4-8, G4-9, G4-17 7 million tons of waste collected annually 18 years in the industry 31 million people directly 13,415 served R$ 1.4 billion employees net income LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO 5,400 private and 104 public clients GRUPO GRUPO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO GRUPO GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO ESTRE GROUP COMPANIES AFFILIATED COMPANIES GRUPO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 A WORD FROM THE FOUNDER AND CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Sustainability is a part of every activity at Estre and I can say that LONG-TERM the company has never backed away from its commitment to COMMITMENT TO the environment, regardless THE ENVIRONMENT of the challenges that this choice involves.” Eighteen years ago, waste manahighlight the sustainability of the figure that shows the long road ties that reside in the areas surrougement in Brazil was completely business from an environmental ahead and the size of the business nding our operations also contridifferent. At the time, I was worand economic standpoint. opportunities in Brazil. buted to this. king on a major logistics project, The realization of this dream Sustainability is a part of every In 2016, we signed the United in which one of the guiding prinbegan to take shape with our activity at Estre and I can say that Nations Global Compact, the ciples was that the shipping of first landfill in Paulinia (SP), in the the company has never backed world’s most important voluntary something only makes sense if region of Campinas, which began away from its commitment to the initiative for corporate responsiit adds some value to the oveoperating in 1999. With this landenvironment, regardless of the bility. This commitment is anorall process. Then I realized that fill, Estre was born. Today we can challenges that this choice involther opportunity to show that transporting waste did not add say that we were trailblazers and ves. An achievement of this magour actions, plans and businesses any value, but rather raised costs. helped the waste management nitude is primarily due to the work are always in tune with our vision There was a clear opportunity to industry evolve, an achievement of each of our employees, who of innovation and competitivelook at waste management from a that fills me with pride. incorporate the company’s vision ness, combined with a sustainable different perspective. Over these 18 years, environand values into innovative envifuture for the country and In Brazil, this industry undersmental awareness has grown ronmental solutions, in a safe and the planet. tood little about the issues surin every segment of society. responsible manner. rounding waste management and Nevertheless, with the technoloValuing our people has always was behind the curve in terms of gical advances in the sector, there allowed for the recognition of the technology. An appropriate enviare still many challenges. To give professionalism and discipline of Wilson Quintella Filho ronmental approach and commuyou an idea, over 40% of solid our employees. Listening attentiFounder and Chairman nication strategy were needed to waste is disposed improperly, a vely to the people and communiof the Board 2 3 A WORD FROM G4-1 THE CEO This balance between investments, efficiency and sustainability will allow us to continue on our path GROWING WITH ETHICS, towards our vision of being a leader and benchmark in the Brazilian INNOVATION AND environmental solutions market, SUSTAINABILITY while always promoting innovative, ethical and sustainable solutions.” Even in an adverse macroecoces not only of global excellence, wth in recyclable recovery, clean In publishing our Sustainability nomic scenario, last year’s perbut also with the best prices in the energy generation and the opeReport, I think it is important to formance met the main strateindustry. ning of new landfills in less deveemphasize our subscription to the gic priority of our company: creaOur strategy for sustainable groloped regions of Brazil, is an inteUnited Nations Global Compact— ting value for clients, shareholders wth was based on investments gral part of the challenging tarthe largest corporate responsibility and employees, through the creain new landfills and technologies, gets posed by the elimination of initiative in the world—which is tion of innovative environmental including the first recyclable waste dumpsites throughout the councrucial for us to play a leading role solutions for society. The volume sorting plant using German techtry. This balance between investin sustainability in our industry. I of waste managed by Estre grew nology by STADLER, the world’s ments, efficiency and sustainabitake this opportunity to reiterate 4.3% during a time in which the most advanced. Consequently, the lity will allow us to continue on our commitment as a signatory of economy shrank by 3.6%. Paulínia Waste Sorting Plant will our path towards our vision of the Global Compact, and also its Focusing on innovation, ethics be able to process 500 metric tons being a leader and benchmark in dissemination to our stakeholders, and quality, Estre developed and of urban solid waste daily, without the Brazilian environmental soluin tune with the 2030 Agenda and conquered new public-sector the need for prior separation of tions market, while always promowith the Sustainable Development customers, such as the cities of recyclable and organic waste. We ting innovative, ethical and sustaiGoals. Bauru and Aracaju, as well as sevealso invested in energy generation nable solutions. In this scenario, ral major customers in the private using biogas, which will expand there is a unique opportunity for sector, such as Apple. We also had our capacity by more than 40%. growth and consolidation in the the discipline necessary to reduce Our continuous investment waste management industry both Sergio Pedreiro costs, enabling us to offer serviin new technologies, with groin Brazil and in Latin America. CEO 4 5 ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-18, G4-28, G4-30 G4-31, G4-32 The year of 2016 marks the beginning of a process to structure our vision of sustainability with a diagnosis, for which a multidisciplinary workgroup with participants from various departments was created. The primary objective is to align sustainability with business strategy. Biogas burning facility in Paulínia (SP) Estre’s first sustainability report presents the company’s main initiatiThe report is structured around the main topics identified in the proves and social, environmental and economic performance. This report cess of developing the company’s strategic planning for sustainability and will also serve as a sustainability management tool for monitoring reflects Estre’s economic, environmental and social impacts, and those Estre’s progress year after year. that influence assessments and decisions made by stakeholders, shareholThis report was prepared by a company-wide workgroup, and folders and employees. The topics are: lowed GRI-G4 indicators and guidelines for the “in accordance” option—even if not in a comprehensive manner, mainly with regard to the preparation of the materiality matrix. It is also designed to Strategic Social license Strengthening report on Estre’s progress with the principles of the Global Compact, management of to operate and Innovation of institutional internal audience and relationship in waste a United Nations initiative to promote the adoption of business practireputation and internal culture for with the local management target audiences ces by organizations in the areas of human rights, labor relations, envisustainability community ronment and anti-corruption. Operational Ethics efficiency, Environmental and combating quality management corruption and safety This sustainability report refers to Estre’s activities in 2016 and the company intends to publish it annually. 6 7 ESTRE The company is responsible for sweeping and cleaning the city of Curitiba (PR) 8 9 OUR VISION G4-3, G4-4, G4-5, G4-7, G4-8, G4-56 To lead and serve as a benchmark in environmental solutions for Brazil, while promoting innovation, ethics and sustainability. Estre Ambiental S.A. is the largest environmental services company in Brazil. While most still treat trash OUR MISSION as the final result in the production or consumption chain, Estre sees trash as the starting point for a series of opportunities. To provide innovative environmental solutions safely, responsibly and ethically, to improve people’s quality of life, by promoting awareness and engagement, and creating value for our clients and shareholders. The company offers waste management solutions: it turns trash sort recyclable materials, which contributes to environmental preOUR VALUES into energy with electrical power servation and social inclusion. The generation plants that use biogas, company’s Waste Management We recognize and value our people. and through the production of Centers have soil sealing, drainage LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Refuse-Derived Fuel (RDF). It speand percolated liquid treatment We do the right thing, safely. cializes in reverse manufacturing, (leachate), rainwater collection LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO a process that reuses more than and a system for removing and We are passionate about our business 85% of electronic waste and also burning greenhouse gases—conLIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO recycles materials from the conssidered one of the most efficient We act like owners. truction industry. Estre also uses in the world. microwave and electrothermal Headquartered in the city of São LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO We act with humility, simplicity and ethics. deactivation technologies for the Paulo, state of São Paulo, Estre is a treatment and disposal of healprivate company with operations LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO thcare waste. Soil decontaminain six other states: Alagoas, Bahia, We encourage innovation. tion by bioremediation is another Goiás, Paraná, Rio de Janeiro and LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO service the company provides. Sergipe. With all these services, Estre reduIn its 18 years in the industry, ces waste volume by up to 70% Estre has become into Brazil’s larwithout polluting the air. gest environmental services comEvery Estre Waste Management pany, through acquisitions and Center has facilities designed to successful greenfield projects. 10 11 CORPORATE G4-7, G4-34 GOVERNANCE Estre is a privately held corporation, governed by BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF The Board of Directors is composed of directors, who may be indeDIRECTORS its Articles of Incorporation and applicable legal pendent or not, and who are elected and dismissible by the General 2016 Management provisions. Its shareholder structure is as follows: Meeting, which will appoint a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman, all with Wilson Quintella Filho a unified term of one year, with the possibility of reelection. The Board (President) of Directors is the company’s top advisory and management body. It meets at least once a month at the company’s headquarters for reguCarlos Daniel Rizzo da Fonseca lar meetings and whenever deemed necessary in special meetings. (Vice-president) The board is an active body which, besides meeting monthly, approves strategic and financial planning annually. Sergio Messias Pedreiro (CEO) EXECUTIVE BOARD Wilson Ferro de Lara Wilson Quintella Filho Estre has five departments: Otavio de Garcia Lazcano 41,5% Department of Landfills and Value Recovery Alexandre Ferreira Bueno Alberto Ribeiro Guth Department of Collection and Environmental Services André Luís BPMG Tigama (BTG) Andreas Yutaka Gruson 27,4% Lima Meira Estre’s Department of Legal Affairs, People and Management, Compliance, Sustainability and Corporate Affairs Julio César de Sá Volotão shareholder Department of Finance Roberto Koiti Nakagome structure Department of Private Business Thiago Fernandes Alexandre Ferreira Bueno Roberto Koiti Nakagome A.Z.A.S.P.E. S.A. (BTG) André Luís Lima Meira 0,5% Julio César de Sá Volotão Thiago Fernandes Gisele Mara de Moraes Treasury Stocks 8,6% 1,9% Wilson de Lara Angra Infra FIP 5,3% 8,2% Hulsof S.A. WQF 6,6% 12 CONSISTENT 2015 2016 G4-9 GROWTH Adjusted R$ 1.3 billion Net Income R$ 1.4 billion In 2016, Estre continued to stand out as one of the Adjusted R$ 322.9 million EBITDA best prepared to maintain its strategic position in a R$ 389.4 million market with huge growth potential, and to capture a significant portion of the unmet demand in the Adjusted 25% EBITDA Margin Brazilian waste management industry. 28% Net Income for 2016 was R$ 1.4 bilservices to cover the entire value R$ 102.2 lion, 7% higher than adjusted net chain in the waste management million Added Value R$645.5 income for 2015, which excludes industry. The company leveraged Personnel discontinued operations. Adjusted funding for its acquisitions through EBITDA for 2016 came to R$ 389.4 the issue of debentures in the million, an increase of 21% on Adjusted EBITDA for 2015, mainly Brazilian domestic market, with Net Debt of R$ 1.7 billion in December million due to the company’s focus on the 2016 and a Net Debt/EBITDA efficiency of its operations and cost ratio of 4.3x. reductions. We also saw a noteworWith regard to the distribution thy increase in Adjusted EBITDA of added value, the amount of R$ Distribution Margin, which rose from 25% to 645.5 million was distributed to of Added Value 28%, comparable to levels of interpersonnel (direct compensation, 2016 national companies in the industry. benefits and FGTS – Employment R$ 117.2 Estre’s growth in recent years has Insurance Fund), taxes, federal, million been achieved both organically state and local fees and contribuTaxes, fees and through acquisitions, allowing tions, as well as third-party capital and contributions for an expansion of its portfolio of compensation (interest, rent, etc.). R$ 426.1 million Third-party capital compensation 14 1515 PRESENT IN 7 G4-8, G4-9 BRAZILIAN STATES Nossa Senhora do Socorro Rosário do Catete Maceió Alagoas Aracaju Feira de Santana Salvador Goiás Sergipe Bahia Aparecida de Goiânia São Paulo Sanitary landfill Transfer Station Catanduva Recycling Unit Jaú Ribeirão Preto Jardinópolis Sertãozinho Public Waste Collection/Sanitation Guatapará Araraquara Piratininga Itaboraí Biogas Facility Paulínia Tremembé Sarandi Sorocaba São Paulo Rio de Effluent treatment station Janeiro Itapevi Paraná Taboão da Serra Santos Fazenda Rio Grande Co-processing Balsa Nova Curitiba Treatment of healthcare waste Regional Branch of ESTRE Institute 16 17 SOLUTIONS G4-4, G4-8 FOR CITIES Cleaning services • Sweeping: manual or mechanized sweeping of streets and public spaces. • Waste Collection: manual or mechanized waste collection, ensuring correct final disposal, including selective collection in some cities. • Public sanitation: encompasses everything from washing public monuments, With the enactment of the selective collection and composincluding painting sidewalks and curbs, to cleaning and unclogging storm drains. National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS), ting for organic waste to reduce city governments are now responthe quantity of waste sent to • Sanitary landfills: the most appropriate technosible for winding down dumpsilandfills. logy for disposal of waste that cannot be r tes, with deadlines ranging from Estre seeks out the best alternaeused, which ensures complete environmental 2018 to 2021, depending on the tives to ensure that waste underprotection. number of inhabitants. However, goes value recovery or is sent to its Treatment • Healthcare waste: collection and treatment to the dumpsites are already consifinal destination in an environmenensure that its final disposal is safe and not a threat dered irregular, as they contamitally correct manner. The services to human health or the environment. nate the environment and are plaoffered to cities promote muni• Wastewater treatment: treatment of the vast ces of high social vulnerability. cipal sanitation with respect for amounts of water contaminated with waste City governments must also put in the environment, encompassing that need to be treated to avoid contaminating place other waste treatment and everything from planning to the the environment. value recovery methods, such as final disposal of urban solid waste. A few of our Public Clients: City of Aracaju Value City of Bauru Recovery City of Campinas City of Curitiba •C  onstruction waste recycling: mechanized recycling that is able to process difCity of Maceió LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO ferent types of construction materials, producing physical properties that are simiCity of Ribeirão Preto lar to new materials at a more competitive cost. •M  echanized Sorting Center: sending selective collection waste to this center City of São Paulo produces economies of scale turning recycling feasible and generate benefits for the public, recycling cooperatives and the industry. 18 19 SOLUTIONS FOR Value G4-4, G4-8 COMPANIES • Refuse Derived Fuel (RDF): non-hazardous urban and indusrecovery trial solid waste is turned into fuel that may be used to fuel A few of our industrial furnaces (cement kilns, boilers and biomass plants) by Private Clients: reusing materials that are not organic or recyclable. • Co-processing: conversion of useless and hazardous waste into Apple fuel, which may be used in cement plants, ensuring the des Biosev truction of products and safeguarding brands. • Reverse manufacture of electronics: breakdown of electronBosch ics and reuse of materials in three different stages: after manufacEstre offers solutions for companies, According to the PNRS, compaBunge turing, after sales, and after consumption. ranging from planning to the final nies are responsible for implementDow • Construction waste recycling: mechanized recycling that is disposal of their waste. These soluing reverse logistics processes for Eaton able to process different types of construction materials, productions consider the possibilities for their products and waste, so that Ecoponte – Ecorodovias ing physical properties that are similar to new materials at a more value recovery or appropriate disthese can be reused or correctly disFaber Castel competitive cost. posal for all types of waste, whether posed of. Companies must look for Goodyear • Energy: biogas generated by waste decomposing in sanitary industrial, healthcare, construction or the best way to manage their waste Grupo Pão de Açúcar landfills is collected and burned to generate energy, which also other types of waste, ensuring proand to inform their consumers on HP contributes to reducing methane gas emissions. tection for the client’s brand and for the proper disposal of products and the environment. packaging. Kimberly-clark Latam O Boticário Pepsico • Contaminated areas: diagnosis, monitoring and remediation Vale Decontamiof contaminated areas. Land with environmental liabilities are, • Waste Management: aimed at manufacturing nation Volvo in principle, rendered unusable, but can be reverted through and consumer goods and services companies Waste Votorantim Metais the remediation of contaminated water and soil. of various sizes, it encompasses the entire waste Managechain, from generation up to final disposal, tracment king all stages and mapping opportunities for • Sanitary landfills: the most appropriate technology for disoperational improvements and savings. posal of waste that cannot be reused, which ensures complete environmental protection. Treatment • Sanitary Landfills for Hazardous Waste – Class I: landfills that receive hazardous waste (such as flammable, corrosive, reactive, toxic and pathogenic waste) and have even stricter controls to prevent soil, water or air contamination. • Healthcare waste: collection and treatment of this hazardous waste to ensure that its final disposal is safe and not a threat to human health or the environment. • Wastewater treatment: treatment of the vast amounts of water contaminated with waste that need to be treated to avoid contaminating the environment. 20 21 SOLUTIONS The Value Chain involves managing urban, commercial G4-12 and industrial waste, as well as hazardous waste, FOR CITIES AND through services, logistics, value recovery and final treatment. Estre operates in all stages of management of all types of waste with its different brands, COMPANIES providing solutions for cities and companies. ORIGIN SELECTION LOGISTICS VALUE RECOVERY TREATMENT Power or natural gas G E N E R AT I O N Public Power or Class II Sanitary Landfill collection natural gas plant Street sweeping Urban waste Urban Transfer cleaning Station Construction waste Materials Selective for recycling collection Mechanized selection center Private collection Commercial Waste management Reverse logistics of Healthcare waste treatment and industrial electronic waste waste Liquid effluent treatment Hazardous Class I Sanitary Landfill waste RDF production collection Contaminated Areas Refuse-derived Co-processing fuel (RDF) 22 23 ESTRE TIMELINE Partnership Acquisition Beginning Subscription Estre between of Itaborai of operation to the UN’s Institute Angra Infra of the aste Global is Established Fund and value recovery unit Compact Estre, (Tyrannosaurus) and the GRUPO followed by Business Pact Acquisition of Estre is acquisition of LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO for Integrity Guatapará and Established Veolia’s assets Acquisition and Against Jardinóplis Waste of Viva Corruption Management Ambiental of the Ethos LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Centers Institute 1998 99 2000 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Attend Beginning of Acquisition of Ambiental is the Paulínia Geo Vision Established landfill Beginning of 1st ISO 140001 the Maceió, EstablishCertification Curitiba ment of and Itaborai Estre landfills Energia Beginning of Itapevi Acquisition of Oxil and Santos landfills (Reverse logistics of electronic waste) Acquisition of Cavo followed by Investment from BTG (beginning of operation in public cleaning) 24 25 SOLID WASTE Generation of waste in Brazil Brazil IN BRAZIL 218,874 t/day 41,3% of the waste generated is improperly disposed of in Brazil Aerial view of the Paulínia (SP) sanitary landfill 26 27 BRAZILIAN OVERVIEW OF SOLID WASTE IN BRAZIL NATIONAL SOLID WASTE The main challenges of the PNRS include: Waste collection 198,750 t/day 1.071 Waste production 9,2% POLICY • Implementation kg/inhab/day of the waste is not served by collection of Integrated Waste Management by municipalities. It took twenty years to enact a waste • Making companies policy at the national level. This has responsible for the provided a new outlook for the industry reverse logistics of 30 million their products. metric tons of waste as well as challenges. receives improper disposal • Shared 79.9 million responsibility for waste generation metric tons/year 42.6 million metric tons, or 58.7% throughout the of waste generated of what is collected, entire production goes to sanitary landfills cycle. • Implementation of IMPROPER DISPOSAL After more than 20 years of conwaste products. Selective Collection % OF MUNICIPALITIES BY REGION sideration by congress, Brazil pasThe core guideline also seeks to in municipalities. sed a National Solid Waste Policy exhaust all waste treatment and North Northeast (Law No. 12,305) on August 02, recovery possibilities using availa• Closure of 2010. With the law, solid waste ble technological processes up to dumpsites and man64,2% 64,3% management in Brazil gained the point where there are no other datory construction a new framework, focused on options and environmentally of sanitary landfills the environmental, social, cultuappropriate final disposal is necesby 2021. ral, economic, technological and sary. Currently, the amount of public health variables related waste that is subject to recycling to waste. The core guideline of or value recovery is very small, and the PNRS is the non-generation, the vast majority of it goes directly Midwest South Southeast reduction and treatment of solid to final disposal, often in unsuita69,5% 29,1% 27,0% waste, as well as the environmenble locations, such as dumpsites, tally appropriate final disposal of which pollute the environment. (SOURCE: ABRELPE “Overview of Solid Waste in Brazil”– 2015) 28 29 BRAZILIAN MARKET TRENDS Estre is strategically positioned and prepared to capture a significant portion of the Brazilian market’s unmet demand. Oxil employee during a reverse manufacturing process for electronic waste LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Increase in the generation of all types of waste as a result LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO of GDP growth and income inclusion. High potential LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO for growth with I ncrease in the quality of recyclable waste. urbanization and LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO The waste management market was worth R$ 30 billion in LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO rising incomes LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO 2015, potentially reaching R$ 41 billion by 2020. In 2015, LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO ABRELPE recorded the creation of 353,400 jobs in the LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO public sanitation industry. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Regulatory The  government is committed to sound environmental LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO changes and the practices—Brazilian National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS)— LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO business scenario will with the adoption of sanitary landfills. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO have a positive impact LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO New obligations for municipalities, industry  LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO on the industry LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO and commerce. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Long-term contracts based on public-private LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO partnerships. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Environmental LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO awareness, Enhanced  viability of projects such as recycling, LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO waste value recovery for energy and organic waste LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO technology and LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO commodity prices treatment. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Increased  mechanization of operations. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO 30 31 LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability is at the heart of Estre’s strategy, since its business contributes significantly to lessening the STRATEGY environmental and social impacts of waste management activities in the places where it operates. Biogas burning facility, in Paulínia (SP), which generates carbon credits 32 33 Waste management team at Natura’s Cajamar unit SUSTAINABILITY IN 7 phase, the strategic contribution of the Estre Institute to the business The last stage in this process, ongoing in 2017, includes creating Participants in Limpa Brasil Project, in which employees CORE SUSTAINABILITY THEMES and its role in sustainability, as well a sustainability workgroup with came together to clean cities as its importance to social initiatithe participation of various corIn 2016, Estre saw the need to incortized and monitored to ensure that ves and in the relationship with the porate departments and the Estre porate sustainability into the comsustainability is fully integrated into communities where the company Institute, the publication of this pany’s strategy in an even more Estre’s business strategy. The core operates were all taken in account. report, the launch of a sustainabieffective and systematic way. This sustainability themes are: The second stage of the project lity policy and the creation of a sysprocess was divided into three stainvolved developing performance tem of indicators. Strengthening of Reputation in Sustainability and ges: diagnosis, pilot project for indiRelationship with Target Audiences indicators. The entire company is working cators and incorporation into the A pilot project for applying perto make sustainability a compeEthics and Combating Corruption business, with the support and formance indicators was initiatitive edge for Estre, one that will engagement of the company’s top Strategic Management of Internal Audience and ted using the Sustainable Return generate value for the business Internal Culture for Sustainability management. on Investment (SROI) method, a and its stakeholders. Based on this The diagnosis was performed by Operational Efficiency, Quality and Safety methodology developed by the premise, the strategy for sustaian external consultancy, which held Social License to Operate and Relationship IFC – World Bank, which calculanability takes into account: use of 15 face-to-face interviews with the with the Local Community tes financial return on investment indicators; incorporation of susleaders of the company and the Environmental Management in community relationship projects. tainability into the company’s culEstre Institute, and reviewed interInnovation in Waste Management This methodology was applied to ture; publication of the company’s nal documents and a study compathe social work carried out in the formal commitments on this topic ring both Brazilian and international Many of the core themes were city of Rosário do Catete, state of and strengthening of Estre’s repucompanies in the industry. The first already being employed at Estre in Sergipe, where Estre operates. More tation as a key player in the topic phase yielded seven core sustainaa structured way to varying degrees, information on this pilot project can of sustainability and waste manability themes that should be priorisuch as ethics and integrity. In this be found on page 62 of this report. gement innovation. 34 35 FORMAL G4-15, G4-16 COMMITMENTS STRENGTHENING OF REPUTATION GLOBAL COMPACT In 2016, Estre signed its commitment to the UN Global Compact with the aim of establishing business practices with values and goals that apply internationally and were agreed upon through the company’s engagement with initiatives in human rights, labor rights, environmental protection and combating corruption. The commitment letter sent to the UN was signed by the Chief Executive Officer and the brand use agreement was signed by the Executive Director of Legal and Compliance. BUSINESS PACT FOR INTEGRITY AND AGAINST CORRUPTION – ETHOS INSTITUTE Since 2016, Estre has been a member of the workgroup on the Business Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption Workgroup, an Ethos Institute initiative, organized with the aim of encouraging debate on this subject. By signing the pact, companies commit to disseminating Brazilian anticorruption law to their employees and stakeholders, so that it is fully complied with. They also commit themselves to guarding against all forms of bribery, while promoting lawfulness and striving for transparency of information and collaboration in investigations, whenever necessary. “Sustainable Community” Project in Rosário do Catete (SE) 36 37 ETHICAL G4-56, G4-DMA, G4-SO3, G4-SO4 BUSINESSES ETHICS AND COMBATING CORRUPTION In 2016, 100% of the units and processes were Estre’s employees sign subject to corruption-related risk assessments a panel, representing their commitment to and the significant risks were identified ethics and integrity ETHICS COMMITTEE A Top management participates in both regularly scheduled and special Since 2012, Estre Ambiental has The Risk Management and meetings of the Ethics Committee. All the meetings are attended by the reinforced its integrity tools, partiCompliance department has a Chief Executive Officer, the Executive Director of Legal and People and cularly in 2015, when the General team that is dedicated exclusiManagement and the Chief Risk Management and Compliance Officer, Office for Risk Management and vely to planning and implemenpermanent members of the Ethics Committee, in addition to the Executive Compliance was created, a deciting initiatives for the Integrity Directors and members of the Board of Directors, who are invited to each sion made at the meeting of the Program. The responsibilities of meeting. This committee is established in the Ethics Committee Policy, board of directors held in February this department are set forth in and its main responsibility is to ensure the implementation and monito2015. Since then the company the Compliance Policy, approved ring of Estre’s Integrity Program. has worked hard to make Estre’s by the Chief Executive Officer and Compliance Program robust and published by the company. COMPLIANCE PROGRAM aligned with best practices. Estre takes steps to reach all its The Risk Management and Compliance department, created in June 2015, Today compliance involves all stakeholders, and publishes poliis responsible for implementing and managing the Compliance Program. hierarchical levels, employees, cies related to integrity, as they are The department makes periodic reports to the Ethics Committee and to partners, suppliers and intermeupdated, on Estre’s website (www. the Board of Directors by: diary agents, with a structured estre.com.br). The policies address: • Managing the Complaints Channel; team, development and updating Anticorruption Policy, Code of • Implementing the Integrity Program (in compliance with Brazilian of policies, broad diffusion of inforEthics and Business Conduct, Anticorruption Law Law No. 12.846); mation and communications, and Policy for Sponsorships • Developing training courses on anticorruption policies; participation in and organization and Donations. Contracts with • Developing indicators to monitor corruption risks; of pro-compliance events and suppliers also contain specific clau• Monitoring internal anticorruption controls; and campaigns. ses about integrity. • Preparing Estre to obtain integrity program certification. 38 39 ETHICAL G4-SO4, G4-56 BUSINESSES CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT Estre’s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct has existed since 2014, and its aim is to guide the personal and professional behavior of all company employees. The code addresses the following topics: • Workplace Relationships and Individual Responsibilities • Occupational Health and Safety • Relationship with Clients • Relationship with Suppliers • Giveaways and Gifts • Relationship with Investors • Relationship with Unions • Relationship with Government Agencies and Regulatory Bodies • Relationship with Communities • Relationship with the Environment • Relationship with the Market and Competitors • Relationship with the Media • Sanctions/Penalties Event on the theme of • Approval and Validity ethics and integrity promoted by Estre Other training courses and events offered in 2016: All employees, regardless of their As part of the integrity program, • Training in Good Bidding Practices: offered at all units at the launch level in the company, must fill approximately 6,300 people were of the Bidding Process Policy, addressing the main topics covered in out and sign the Declaration of trained in 2016 in face-to-face traithe policy and related conduct practices. Responsibility and Commitment ning courses. to the Code of Ethics and Business • Onboarding of new employees, covering Estre’s values, Code of Conduct. It should also be noted Third-party liability Ethics and Business Conduct. that a printed copy of the code Outsourced employees who work in primer format is handed out at Estre receive onboarding mate• Onboarding of new Managers, Chief Officers and Executive by the HR department to each rial that is identical to that given to Directors: covering integrity actions in the company, the Code of employee and contractor in-house employees. Outsourced Ethics and Business Conduct, and the Anticorruption Policy. of the company during the employees also receive two hours onboarding process. of integrity training. LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO 40 41 VALUING G4-DMA OUR PEOPLE Employees are key to the company’s growth. This is why the company encourages them to continue to learn, develop skills and overcome challenges. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT OF INTERNAL AUDIENCE Public sanitation employees in Aracaju 42 43 G4-LA10 There are several programs that red using individual targets and by Team responsible for the sweeping service foster employee growth, by creathe manner in which the employee at Curitiba ting a favorable environment and achieves these results. offering tools that monitor and This process contributes to guide their development. the execution of the Individual Estre uses a structured model Development Plan and actions that of performance management, optimize the achievement of new based on the breakdown, managetargets. ment and assessment of clear tarThe performance assessment gets, covering everyone, from the model also enables information to president on down to coordinabe used in the employee’s career tors. The model allows employees development process. This is why to understand Estre’s strategy and the People Committee was creamotivates them to work together ted: to promote discussion and talent to benefit the company, and develops the managerial skills leaEmployee training in the “Time to Learn in pursue of the same objectives. alignment of performance, develoalso become conscientious citiders need to achieve their goals Program” (PR) Estre’s skills management model pment, career, succession, potential zens, aware of their potential. The more effectively. For operatiois used to describe the behavior movements, merit, acknowledge“People Cycle,” for example, strucnal employees, there are two proexpected from each employee, ment, and other actions. tures employee development, with grams: PEX Landfill and Pex Collect, highlighting and plotting a path for There are other programs desigperformance assessed in terms which assess and recognize the their development. ned to boost employee qualificaof targets and competencies. The company’s best operational units The delivery of results is measutions so that they can employ their “Leadership Development Program” with awards. 44 45 WHO ARE EMPLOYEE G4-10, G4-LA6, ESTRE’S EMPLOYEES? PROGRAMS G4-LA10 In 2016, we had 13,415 employees, of whom more than 90% were male. This results from the fact that 86% of the personnel is allocated in public collection and cleaning services, work that is mainly performed by men, as shown in the table below. PROFISSIONAIS POR GÊNERO EMPLOYEES ACCORDING DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES TO GENDER ACCORDING TO WORK AREA TIME TO LEARN Besides the programs presented, we should make special mention of “Time to 5% Learn,” a program that has been running for 20 years, providing literacy skills to Male Private employees on Estre’s frontlines. Most of these employees are in situations of 91.28% business social risk—12% to 15% of them are functionally illiterate, and about 30% do Gender 2% not have academic records or have not completed elementary school. 2016 Corporate In 20 years, the Program: Work • Has eradicated illiteracy at the Sanitation and Urban Collection unit in area Curitiba, state of Paraná. Female 7% • Currently works with Middle and High School Education. 8.71% Landfills • Positively favors labor mobility. • Makes it possible for students to attend other programs, for training as 86% administrative assistants, mechanics and truck drivers and in English DADOS DE ABSENTEÍSMO Collection and information technology. E TURNOVER services • Enables students to be admitted to technical schools and university Besides being well below the industry average, absenteeism programs. and turnover rates have decreased over the past two years, • Has already been implemented in three other Urban Sanitation and a reflection of our work on valuing employees. Collection units: Ribeirão Preto (SP), Taboão da Serra (SP) and Maceió (AL). ABSENTEEISM AND TURNOVER DATA PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN ESTRE AND INSTITUTO PROA ABSENTEEISM TURNOVER 30% In 2016, Estre established a partnership with the ProA Institute on a project Brazil industry 2.2% average for professional qualification education for low-income youth. As a sponBrazil industry 25.2% average sor, in 2017 Estre will hire young apprentices who participate in the project, 1.4% 18.7% 1.3% giving them the opportunity to experience their first jobs. The youth will be supervised by a manager, who will draw up a development plan for them. After the contract period, there is the possibility of them being 2015 2016 2015 2016 hired as permanent employees. 46 47 OCCUPATIONAL G4-DMA HEALTH AND SAFETY OCCUPATIONAL EFFICIENCY, QUALITY AND SAFETY As seen in the previous chapter, Among the initiatives to ensure more than 90% of Estre’s personemployee well-being, there is nel work on the frontlines: public the Workplace Safety Program, collection and cleaning services which is a set of actions and or sanitary landfills. For this reasteps designed to mitigate or son, workplace safety is a priority in eliminate the risks of work-related Estre’s operations. accidents and damage Estre’s policy on occupational to assets. health and safety establishes the The program, besides using following principles: methods for assessing and • A Prevention of work-related identifying hazards and risks, accidents must be considered a proposes a series of steps prime objective, one that cannot aimed at preventing be compromised for any reason; occupational disease. • Assessment and monitoring of risks is the responsibility of the The program requirements are: employee (in-house or contrac Estre employee tor) who performs the task and Organization: The departments monitors operation of the “owner” of the area where must keep the procedures, of “Tyrannosaurus” the service is performed; forms and records organized in Paulínia (SP) • We cannot compromise the so as to corroborate the practices VALUE of SAFETY for the sake of in accordance with Estre’s occupaprofits and production. tional health and safety standards. 48 49 The objectives of Estre Ambiental’s Occupational Safety Program are: ACCIDENT PREVENTION MONITORING OF WORK PRACTICES RISK MANAGEMENT LEGAL ASSISTANCE STANDARDIZATION AND MONITORING Education and Training: procedures for routine activities, Personal Protective EquipInvesting on workplace safety is a commitment The manager is responsible for including occupational health ment (PPE) is fundamental to ensuring health in the to society and, above all, with our greatest ensuring that employees who are and safety requirements. workplace asset: the lives of our employees. directly exposed to risks are Incident Management: The trained and qualified to perform organization must manage incitheir activities, by promoting dents by investigating, reviewing an environment that favors inciand proposing corrective and dent prevention. preventative actions with the Monitoring Safety Risks: aim of preventing recurrence. Acknowledging risks and establishing controls to prevent An Occupational Health and incidents that may result in Safety Committee was establiCommitment: Estre does not must be recorded and reported. injury to employees. shed to ensure observance and compromise on Occupational Frequency rates, severity rates Monitoring Health Risks: efficacy of the Safety Policy. Health and Safety for the sake of and traffic accident rates must be Acknowledging health risks and This is a requirement to profits or production. The commonitored and discussed, establishing measures to prevent encourage a safety culture by mitment to workplace health and and actions proposed to occupational diseases. establishing priorities in safety is the responsibility of all reduce these rates. Monitoring work practices: decision-making, reviewing safety company employees, regardless of Communication: All events must Monitoring work practices through indicators, performing a c their level in their hierarchy. be communicated following the procedures, forms, inspections, ritical analysis of monitoring Assessment: Safety indicators are accident communication flow. risk analysis, work permits for elements and contributing to a key component of the manaSafety Alert is an example of comhazardous activities and the continuous improvement gement system. All incidents pliance with this requirement. non-routine activities. Developing of the safety program. 50 51 THE IMPORTANCE G4-DMA, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2 OF COMMUNITY RELATIONSHIP WITH THE LOCAL COMMUNITY Our relationship with the commuwith soil, as well as the traffic of nities that surround Estre facilities trucks loaded with waste. is critical for generating local value With the aim of building a relaand ensuring smooth operations. tionship of trust and generating We know that managing and disvalue for the communities where it posing waste safely and responsibly operates, Estre performs a series of is not just about taking care of the actions and initiatives that contriSocial license environment, but also the health of bute to obtaining and maintaining is the constant the public in general. their so-called “social license to opeand continuous Even though sanitary landfills are rate.” acceptance and critical for the disposal of solid waste Estre remains in constant conapproval of a in cities, their implementation and tact with local communities project or enterprise operation may face resistance from through Social Communication and by the local the public, many times due to lack Community Participation Programs, community, key of knowledge about how they work. which promote projects in sports, stakeholders and The operation of a sanitary landculture, work and income generasociety in general. sion or completion, the Social operation of the enterprise, and all “Sustainable Community” fill may also disturb the surrountion, development of recycling cooOur relationship Communication Programs inform the steps that will be taken to miniProgram in Rosário do Catete (SE) ding communities due to smell properatives and environmental eduwith the community the public of the need for that lanmize them. The Estre Institute also duced for a time period—however cation. is critical for our dfill, the reasons behind the selecsupports some of the local initiatishort it might be—between the disWhether it is at the beginning of business. tion of that location, the issues resulves in the communities, by offering posal and the coverage of the waste a new project or during its expanting from the implementation and environmental education. 52 53 G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2 From left to right, pictures show initiatives from the projects Varre Grota, Comunidade Sustentável and Cooperlínia, respectively SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY PROJECT A community engagement project designed to endow the community with the tools they need to find solutions for better quality of life. Estre TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF RECYCLING COOPERATIVES uses an engagement method that is conducted in three stages: identifying The main purpose of recycling cooperatives, which receive support from issues, seeking solutions within their own realm of possibilities and forming Estre through selection unit projects and creation of work procedures, is a network to maximize the effect of these efforts. to generate work opportunities. The company also provides training in Activities Promoted in Rosário do Catete (Sergipe) in 2016: environmental education and cooperativism, always from an entrepre• Social Innovation Workshop: promoting interaction between commu neurial and economic sustainability standpoint. nity leaders and associations for joint planning of priority actions. To provide support to the cooperatives, Estre relies on a partner• Children’s Day mobilized 200 volunteers to promote recreational, cul ship with Cooperlínia Ambiental do Brasil. Created in 2002, in the city of tural and environmental education activities on Children’s Day for 500 Paulínia (SP), on the premises of CGR Paulínia, Cooperlínia has become a children. benchmark in its sector, in Brazil and abroad, and was the 1st recycling • Support for the formation of a Recycling Cooperative for implementing cooperative in the world to receive the ISO 14001 certification. a selective collection project in the city. • Support for the Transforming Lives Challenge Project, which qualified 200 women to create handcrafted products that were sold at stateREVIRAVOLTA COOPERATIVE – NOSSA SENHORA DO SOCORRO (SE) wide and nation-wide events and fairs. After the closure of Palestina Dump in 2013, 35 waste collectors regis• Support for seven sports projects for children and teenagers. tered by the city social services showed interest in forming a cooperative. Reviravolta Cooperative was formed through a joint effort between VARRE GROTA PROJECT – Maceió (AL) the local City Environmental Office, Estre, Instituto Votorantim and the The project is intended to bring the public together to clean up their Environmental Prosecution Office. neighborhoods. Maceió has 76 Grotas or communities with socially vulIn 2016, SEBRAE joined the partnership and, supported by the connerable populations, of which 22 Grotas are served by Estre’s garbage colsulting service provided by Cooperlínia’s President, assisted the group lection and street sweeping services. The Varre Grota Project was brought in Reviravolta’s restructuring process focused on innovation, raising effito 3 “Grotas”: Grota do Rafael, Grota do Onofre and Grota do Conjunto ciency, improving results and getting ready for new challenges. Ipanema, where 12 community street sweepers serve 5,620 families. Results: Other projects in progress: • Better organized leaders planned better social initiatives. • Formação Creation of a Cooperative in Piratininga (SP) Piratininga • Improved health and quality of life. Waste Management Center • The city government was praised by the public, which then co-opted • Creation of a Cooperative in Rosário do Catete (SE) – Sergipe Waste the project as a government program for 2017. Management Center 54 55 ESTRE VALUE FOR SOCIETY, VALUE FOR BUSINESS INSTITUTE Presentation of scale model of the Trash Cycle, during the educational workshop “Where’s the trash that was here?” at Estre Institute headquarters in Paulínia (SP) 56 57 G4-EC7, G4-EC8 MISSION To promote, in a playful way, reflection and dialogue about contemporary social and environmental challenges with a critical and emancipatory environmental education. Students visit Southeast Regional Branch of the Estre Institute, in Paulínia (SP) Established in 2006, Estre Institute was created BOOKS PUBLISHED to promote and strengthen the environmental Reflection and practices in environmental education: education, contributing to the education in exploring consumerism and waste management (2012) communities where Estre operates. It combines huge practical experience, the culmination of years of research and debate about environmental education conducted by the Institute. An important reference for teachers, environmental educators and researchers. The Institute promotes a variety of 300,000 individuals in almost 10 events—involving a much wider years of operation. Estre Institute Solid waste in Brazil – opportunities and challenges and more diversified public— has non-profit status and is locaof Federal Law no.12.305 on solid waste (2014) on topics such as consumpted in three Brazilian regions: Solid waste management is one of Brazil’s most serious challenges. tion, waste, citizenship, sustainaWith the involvement of numerous specialists, the publication offers an ble educational spaces and other • Southeast Regional extensive overview of the industry, discussing the main provisions of the topics involving environmental (headquarters): new law and its applicability. education. Activities are conducPaulínia/SP ted on two fronts: Environmental • South Regional: Sustainable Schools (2015) Education Projects and Dialogue Fazenda Rio Grande/PR The book offers new perspective on how a critical and emancipatory and Knowledge, which have • Northeast Regional: environmental education can be powerful and transforming for schools. already directly reached more than Rosário do Catete/SE It presents the history of the program and shares the practical experiences of Estre Institute. 58 59 ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION G4-SO1 PROJECTS ORGANIZED BY ESTRE INSTITUTE Educational workshop “Where is the waste that was here?”: educational project where teachers and students have the opportunity to talk, experience and reflect about environmental education, consumption and waste. Stories that belong to the world: storytelling roadshow organized in schools, city theaters, parks and public spaces. The Institute introduces topics such as citizenship, educational sites, environmental education, waste and consumption to a diverse audience in a fun and interactive manner. Sustainable Schools: a project designed to mobilize the school community to think and act collectively to make schools a sustainable educational. 2016 RESULTS • Projects in 8 of 12 of the company’s sanitary landfills. • Over 50,000 people served, including students, children, educators and those interes ted in environmental educa tion in general. “Stories that belong to the • Hundreds of people from 25 world” show held in Parque cities have already visited the Taquaral, in the city of units of the institute. Campinas (SP) 60 61 THE GENERATION OF SHARED VALUE SROI CASE – Financial indicators for the Social Investment Return on Rosário do Catete (SE) Pilot project using the International Finance Corporation (IFC World Bank) methodology to measure return on social projects in the municipality of Rosário do Catete (SE) In 2012, Estre started operations at come its own challenges; educate Residents of Rosário the Waste Management Center in residents about the operation do Catete (SE) Rosário do Catete, Sergipe. The arriof a landfill—including guided val of the landfill met some resistours for the general public and tance from the town of 10,000 schools—and provide environmeninhabitants, who were not aware tal education. Avoided costs and measured were: spontaneous of its operation. The department Estre believes that the relationship added value media coverage, revenue from R$ 3.16 of Institutional Affairs, in charge with the community generates The “avoided costs” indicators new agreements and a decrease for each R$ 1 of the relationship with the local shared value both for the commuaccounted for 31.9% of the SROI in the average receipt period. invested—this is community, together with Estre nity and the company. result and were measured based The method has resulted in an the return on the Institute, conducted a series of action four aspects: interruptions in ROI of 3.16 times within a fivesocial investment vities locally. In 2016, Estre Institute Financial return on operations avoided due to disayear period. Even if this result canmade in Rosário do inaugurated its Northeast Regional social investment greements with the communot be automatically duplicated in Catete (CE) over a branch with a permanent local This study, conducted together nity, legal expenses, sponsorship other situations, it has contributed period of 5 years team, and has also taken one of with an outside consulting firm, demands and licensing requests. the development of indicators on its educational waste cycle models used the International Finance On the other hand, the indicator social license to operate, for the to the city. Corporation (IFC – World Bank) related to added value accounEstre Institute or for the departThe local actions, still in progress, methodology, which estimates ted for 68.1% of SROI, from which ments of sustainability and of insare intended to: bring the comthe avoided operating costs and the “social license maintenance to titutional affairs. The study also pany closer to the community; the added value after the social operate” indicator alone accounfacilitates strategic decision-maempower the community to overinvestment. ted for 31.3%. The other aspects king for Estre’s social investments. 62 63 OUR COMMITMENT TO Estre’s commitment to the environment is at the core of its business vision, which is G4-DMA THE ENVIRONMENT to provide innovative, safe and responsible environmental solutions. ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT Aerial view of the Paulínia sanitary landfill (SP) 64 65 G4-DMA, G4-EN11, G4-EN23, G4-EN27 such as final healthcare waste disvery measures in place to posal units, power generation units ensure the preservation In 2016, and effluent treatment stations. They are highly efficient, safe sysof the existing ecosystem. The company also maintains 11,000 tems for soil waterproofing, draitight control over the leachate Nm3/h of biogas nage and percolated liquid (leagenerated by the decomposition were generated, and chate) collection, which is deconof waste. The landfill ensures that Estre was able to deduct taminated and turned into reuse there are no leaks into the soil and and recover 450,000 water, drainage and treatment of that it is efficiently captured. Estre carbon credits The inappropriate management tecting the environment and the The Paulínia sanitary gases that contribute to the greeworks to treat 100% of the leachate (Certified Emission of waste imposes a high cost on quality of life of the public, is chealandfill was Estre’s first nhouse effect, geotechnical monicollected and turn it into reuse in Brazil Reductions CER). society. Based on projections from per than maintaining the dumps toring based on periodic reports water, thus mitigating another Abrelpe, R$7.5 billion would be and continuing with inappropriate controlled by environmental agenimpact from the operation. needed through 2023 to close all waste management. cies and fauna and flora control. • In 2016, 1,248,335.98 m³ of dumpsites in Brazil. Despite the When building a landfill, the leachate was treated. hefty price tag, it would still be Landfills company establishes commitThe decomposition of buried less than the R$13.5 billion neeToday, in Brazil, landfill technoments to mitigate the impacts from waste also generates biogas, which ded to maintain and operate the logy is the most appropriate disthe project in the form of operacontains methane, one of the main dumpsites (especially the cost posal method for solid waste that tional, environmental and social greenhouse effect gases. To miniof treating pollution-related cannot be recycled or reused. conditions. Estre strives to perform mize this impact, Estre captures diseases), in addition to the Completely different from a dumpthese obligations and also to make and burns the biogas at all its lanenvironmental recovery of the site, a landfill prevents the leaking sure that its landfills operate in dfills so that the methane is transdamaged areas. of leachate, protects water tables, accordance with best practices, formed into carbon dioxide, signiAnother study conducted in ensures that greenhouse gases, so as to avoid any risk to the ficantly reducing its impact on the 2015 by the NGO International such as methane, are not released environment or public related to atmosphere. With the final disposal Solid Waste Association (ISWA) into the atmosphere, thus its operation. service offered to its clients in the estimates that the Brazilian protecting the environment and An important consideration is public and private sector, in 2016, Healthcare System (SUS) spends public health. the proximity of an operation to an Estre safely and appropriately disR$1.5 billion annually on diseases Estre operates thirteen sanienvironmental preservation area. posed of: caused by inappropriate waste distary landfills in different parts of • Nine of Estre’s operations are • 5.6 million tons of Class II posal. In other words, at the end the country. Also known as Waste located close to environmental Waste of the day, ensuring appropriate Management Centers, they offer preservation areas and have envi• 47.4 million tons of Class I waste management, besides prodifferent complementary solutions, ronmental protection and recoWaste (hazardous waste) 66 67 G4-DMA, G4-EN23, G4-EN27 Estre has collected approximately 3 million tons of waste (including residential waste, selective collection and healthcare waste). The company has also collected 2.7 million tons of waste, as part of the SOMA consortium, which is responsible for urban cleaning and sweeping in the southeast region of São Paulo. PONTO VIVO PROJECT Estre’s waste MACEIÓ (AL) collection truck Attend Ambiental The protection of the environment PUBLIC COLLECTION AND CLEANING SERVICES and quality of life begins when garWaste management begins in nerized collection. Selective collecbage is placed outside of homes. the cities, where public cleaning, tion services are available in some The citizens needs to be informed TREATMENT OF LIQUID WASTE USING sweeping and waste collection are cities, which rely on advisory serviabout how collection works and STATE-OF-THE-ART TECHNOLOGY AND essential services that contribute ces for the organization of recycling how to dispose of waste, to avoid RESPECT FOR THE ENVIRONMENT to a city’s sanitation, quality of life, cooperatives. Ecostations, where creating uncontrolled waste and Besides managing solid waste to minimize its adverse public health and environmental waste that should not be sent to rubbish disposal sites. In Maceió, the impacts on the environment, Estre also treats liquid preservation. common landfills (furniture, used local team of Viva Ambiental creawaste produced by the manufacturing processes of Public cleaning is a basic city electronic appliances, lamps and ted the Ponto Vivo project in 2010 many industries. This liquid (effluent) requires maintenance service that depends batteries, etc.) is taken, can also to reduce the number of these special treatment before being disposed of in the largely on the support of citizens. be installed. inappropriate waste disposal sites. regular sewage system. Solutions from Attend It covers everything from washing In 2016, Estre collected urban The team educates the public about Ambiental, a joint venture between Sabesp and public monuments, including solid waste in ten cities (Américo waste collection and the conseEstre Ambiental, allow clients to treat their effluents painting sidewalks and curbs, Brasiliense, Aparecida de Goiânia, quences of inappropriate waste dissafely and reuse water. to cleaning and unclogging Aracaju, Curitiba, Maceió, Ribeirão posal. They also revitalize areas that storm drains. Preto, Salvador, São José dos have been used as waste disposal In 2016, Attend Ambiental treated 1.8 million tons Waste collection, in turn, is a key Campos, São Paulo, Taboão da sites by planting trees and providing of effluents. aspect of waste management. Estre Serra), including its own operations general maintenance. In 2016, there offers manual, automated or contaiand affiliates. were 128 Pontos Vivo in Maceió. 68 69 INNOVATIVE G4-DMA, G4-EN27 PROCESSES INNOVATION IN WASTE MANAGEMENT One of the main guidelines of the PNRS is to reduce the generation of waste and, when this is not possible, to seek out the best alternatives for treating a given waste and exhaust all possibilities before the waste is subject to final disposal. Tyrannosaurus operation, producing refuse-derived fuel (RDF) 70 71 REFUSE-DERIVED FUEL (RDF) Estre was the first Brazilian company to acquire a piece of machinery called Tyrannosaurus, which is capable of crushing large quantities of urban waste (residential and commercial) and non-hazardous industrial waste (Class IIA and IIB). Waste is mechanically treated and homogenized, ensuring a blend with the best proportion between dry and wet materials. RDF can be used in cement furnaces, boilers and biomass plants. Besides having a high calorific value when compared to other alternative fuels, the use of RDF reduces the generation of environmental liabilities and also preserves natural resources, such as petroleum coke. Today, the Tyrannosaurus is housed in Paulínia, in the state of São Paulo, and has a daily processing capacity of between 300 and 600 tons of solid waste In 2016: • more than 50,000 tons of RDF were produced, corresponding to an installed capacity of 261.6 MW. CO-PROCESSING For the treatment and recovery of unserviceable, non-hazardous, hazardous products or waste (Class II or I), there is a blending service for the purposes of co-processing. Waste such as contaminated soil, oil sludge, Brazil has the potential for extraorgeneration from landfills and Resicontrol liquid resins, glues, latex, paint sludge, cosmetics and drugs can be subject to dinary progress in terms of waste production of fuel using waste. co-processing operation co-processing, which ensures the transformation of products and safety management, mainly with resBesides making better use of of the client’s brand. The result is similar to that of Tyrannosaurus, a solid pect to the development of reverse some resources, which without or liquid blend with high calorific value and appropriate for use in cement logistics processes that enable a treatment would reach the end kilns. The burning of this material emits less gaseous pollutants than natucircular economy. Estre is at the of their life cycle, the treatment ral fossil fuels and the energy from the burning creates the clinker used in forefront of some of these value processes enable environmental cement production, contributing to a reduction in CO2 emissions. recovery processes, with energy impacts to be mitigated. In 2016, 45,000 tons of solid and liquid blend were produced. 72 73 Reverse logistics Recycling of REVERSE LOGISTICS OF ELECTRONIC WASTE of electronic waste RECYCLING OF CONSTRUCTION WASTE construction waste When the PNRS came into effect, priority groups for reverse logistics meaConstruction is one of the most important sectors of the Brazilian ecosures were established, due to the high level of contamination of such nomy and also one that produces the most waste. It is estimated that the waste in the environment. Electronic products are one type of priority city of São Paulo alone produces 2,500 truckloads worth of construction waste, since they are used intensively and become obsolete in a short waste per day. This material can (and should) be reused as raw material for period of time. However, TVs, cell phones, refrigerators, laptops and many the construction industry. other products contain materials that can be fully reused, even when the Estre has a mechanized recycling system capable of processing various equipment no longer works. In the Reverse Logistics of Waste Electric and types of construction materials. Sand, gravel, rocks, mortar, concrete and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), Oxil, a Estre Group company, is responsible ceramic materials are crushed and can be used again. for the transformation, disassembly and final disposal; collection, transportation and storage; destruction of confidential documents; supervised ENERGY destruction; and development of customized projects to serve customers Decomposing waste from homes, tree pruning and other organic comwith specific demands. pounds in the landfills generate a biogas composed of methane and carbon dioxide, which contribute to the greenhouse effect if directly released In 2016, 580 tons of electronic waste were received. into the atmosphere. Estre has the technology to generate clean, renewable energy from Currently, at least 85% of the materials received are recycled and the biogas. It is captured by drains installed inside the landfill and then sent remainder is sent for value recovery. through pipes to an electric power plant, where it is filtered and cooled. It is then ready to be used as fuel in engine generators, which burn the biogas and produce electric energy. 74 75 Aerial view of biogas Management of industrial burning facility in waste involves the entire Paulínia (SP) chain, from generation to Biogas plants are also more stable, safer sources of energy as they do not WASTE MANAGEMENT FOR PRIVATE COMPANIES final disposal depend on weather conditions, as is the case with hydroelectric power Waste management is aimed at industry and commercial establishments plants and wind farms. These plants can work safely at full power, 24 hours of any size. It covers the entire waste chain, from generation to final desa day. tination, while tracking every process. The entire flow of waste manageIn 2014, the company started the operation of its first biogas plant at ment undergoes all diagnosis phases, characterization, environmental the Guatapará landfill, close to Ribeirão Preto, in the state of São Paulo. A licensing, internal handling, temporary storage, collection, shipping, final second plant was activated two years later in Curitiba. Today, they have an destination at certified units and value recovery of waste. installed capacity of 10 MW, equivalent to the energy needs of approximaThe continuous improvement process provides for a periodic review to tely 120,000 inhabitants. In the coming years, Estre intends to build plants improve environmental and economic efficiency for our clients, including on all its landfills with a potential installed capacity of 80 MW. new projects on circular economy, where waste can become an input for production. In 2016, Estre managed 103,075 tons of waste, of which Results for 2016: 50.61% was recycled or processed for value recovery. • Production of 55,557 MWh . • We avoided the release of 9,867 tons of methane, which is the equivalent of 246,690 tons of CO2 76 77 INDEX OF GRI-G4 CONTENT G4-32 ‘In accordance' option (core or comprehensive) the organization has chosen Organization's policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assu6 and 7 Global G4-33 rance for the report The report was not subject to external assurance. Contents – General Standards Pages / Omissions Compact Governance Strategy & Analysis G4-34 Governance structure of the organization 12 and 13 Statement from the Chief Executive Officer of Estre about the relevance of sustainabilG4-1 ity to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability 4 and 5 Ethics & Integrity Organizational Profile G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10, 11, 38-41 G4-3 Organization Name 10 and 11 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 10, 11, 18-21 Specific Standard Contents G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 10 Category: Economic Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Pages / Omissions Global Treaty G4-6 where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically Estre operates in Brazil only. Disclosure on Management Approach 52 and 53 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services offered 52-59 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form of the organization. 10 and 12 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 52-59 G4-8 10, 11, 16-21 customers and beneficiaries) Category: Environmental G4-9 Organization profile Back cover, 14-17 Aspect: Biodiversity Pages / Omissions Global Treaty G4-10 Employee profile 46 and 47 Principle 6 Disclosure on Management Approach 64-67 100% of employees are covered by collective barOperational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements gaining agreements, which are managed by HR Principle 3 G4-EN11 areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 67 Principle 8 and Management and abide by applicable laws. G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 22 and 23 Aspect: Products and Services Pages / Omissions Global Treaty Disclosure on Management Approach 64-69 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s G4-13 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain No changes in the report period. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 66-69 Principle 8 Aspect: Products and Services Pages / Omissions Global Treaty Commitment to External Initiatives Disclosure on Management Approach 60-77 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the Estre does not adopt the Precautionary G4-14 organization Principle. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 64-77 Principles 7, 8 and 9 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or G4-15 36 Disclosure on Management Approach 64-67 Global Treaty other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Disclosure on Management Approach 64-67 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or G4-16 international advocacy organizations 36 In 2016, Estre invested R$ 87 million on environmental Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries management: 52% on leachate G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type treatment, 15% on environmenPrinciples 7, 8 and 9 Entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equiG4-17 valent documents Back cover tal monitoring and project and 33% in waste treatment. G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 6 and 7 Category: Social – Work practices and decent work G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content The materiality matrix was not constructed in this first publication, considering Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Pages / Omissions Global Treaty G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization consultation with stakeholders, for this Disclosure on Management Approach 44-47 reason, these indicators were not reported G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 46 This information was not Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, fully disclosed due to lack of Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the G4-LA6 Principle 8 G4-22 reasons for such restatements Not applicable as this is the first time that and total number of workrelated fatalities, by region and by gender consolidated information relating to 2016. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Estre has published its report G4-23 Aspect: Training and Education Pages / Omissions Global Treaty Boundaries. Disclosure on Management Approach 42-45 Stakeholder Engagement G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning 44, 45, 47 Principles 7, 8 and 9 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Estre does not have a list of all the stakeholThis information was not ders engaged by the organization. However, the Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development fully disclosed due to lack G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage most engaged audiences currently in a longG4-LA11 reviews, by gender and by employee category of consolidated informaPrinciple 6 term structured relationship are local communities, employees, clients and shareholders. Estre tion relating to 2016. G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement strives for a transparent and constructive relationship with all of them. There are project to Category: Social – Society support communities development, employees are valued and have development opportunities, Aspect: Local Communities Pages / Omissions Global Treaty Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagethere is a constant search for better and more G4-27 ment, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and coninnovative solutions for the clients, and the busiDisclosure on Management Approach 52 and 53 cerns, ness is conducted seeking to add value to its shaPercentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact reholders. G4-SO1 assessments, and development programs 60 Principle 1 Report Profile G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities 52-55 Principle 1 G4-28 Reporting period 6 and 7 Aspect: Anti-corruption Pages / Omissions Global Treaty This is the first time that Estre has publiDisclosure on Management Approach 38-39 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report shed its report Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption G4-30 Reporting cycle 6 and 7 G4-SO3 and the significant risks identified 38 Principle 10 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 6 and 7 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 38-41 Principle 10 78 79 General Supervision Julio Volotão – Executive Director of HR and Management, Legal, Compliance, Sustainability and Institutional Affairs Marcello D’Angelo – Chief Communication and Marketing Officer General Coordination Mariana Rico – Sustainability and Instituto Estre Cecilia Soares Braga – Sustainability Text Editing Maurício Gonçalves – Communication and Marketing Manager GRI Consulting and Strategy Cecilia Seravalli Soares Cristina Fedato Philippe Lisbona Graphic Design Fajardo Ranzini Design GRI indicators and content team Imagens André Visoni – Strategic Planning J.A.S. Filmagens e Fotografia p. 37 Angélica Kelly Pimentel Viva Ambiental Paulo Vitale – p. 3, 5, 7, 13, 19a, 21a, 24a, 26/27, 31, 32/33, 49, Antônio Januzzi – New Technologies 64/65, 66, 70/71, 74 and 76 Breno Palma – Landfills Pei Fon p. 54 Daniel Mantovani – Affiliates, Bidding and Concessions Rafael Salvador -p. 39 and 40 Eduardo Azevedo – Compliance and Risk Management Renê Junior p. 8, 19, 20, 25, 34, 44, 51, 55, 68, 72 and 77 Elaine Vallerini – People and Management Simone Ezaki p. 58 Emília Carvalho – Institutional Relations Wanessa Gouveia p. 21 and 24 Flavio Beannucci – Private Businesses Arquivo ESTRE p. 21, 25, 35, 37, 42, 45, 53, 56, 63, 69 and 75 Gabriela Leite – Communication Igor Urasaki – Energy Jaqueline Soares – Communication and Marketing Juliana Maciel – People and Management Leonardo Patrício – People and Management Marcos Goldfarb – Instituto Estre Marlon Silva – People and Management Plinio Nicolosi – Compliance and Risk Management Plinio Oliveira – Value Recovery Raquel Turano de Souza – Financial Planning Roberto Panini – People and Management Sonia Manastan – Institutional Relations Tadeu Rago – Institutional Relations LIXO É SÓ O COMEÇO Avenida Presidente Juscelino Kubitschek, 1830 Torre I – 2º e 3º andar – Itaim Bibi 04543-900 – São Paulo – SP – Brasil +55 11 3709 2300
