Richards Bay Coal Terminal Proprietary Limited Sustainability Report 2016 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Contents Contents 2 COMPANY PROFILE 5 TERMINAL ACHIEVEMENTS 6 STATEMENT FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (CEO) 10 RBCT STRATEGY 11 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 18 HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE 32 OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE 34 VALUING AND EMPOWERING OUR PEOPLE 45 DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE SOCIAL VALUE 50 DRIVING ENTERPRISE AND SUPPLIER DEVELOPMENT 51 GLOSSARY 54 BOUNDARY AND SCOPE Page 1 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Company Profile Company Profile Johannesburg Richards Bay Coal Terminal (RBCT) is a world class coal export terminal situated in the Port of Richards Bay. The terminal was opened in 1976 with an original Richards Bay capacity of 12 million tons per annum (mt/a). Durban The terminal provides South Africa’s Coal Exporting Mining Companies (CEP’s) with a world class logistics service that facilitates the export of coal to Asia, Europe and other regions. RBCT is positioned at one of Cape Town the world’s deep sea ports, and handles large ships and large volumes of coal. The 276 hectare site currently boasts a quay that is 2,2 kilometres long with six berths and four ship loaders, with a stockyard capacity of 8,2 million tons (mt). RBCT shares a strong co-operative relationship with South Africa’s national utility, Transnet, which provides the railway services linking the coal mines to the port, 276 2,2km 6 and the shipping coordination of Hectares Quay Berths more than 900 ships per annum. All RBCT’s operations and administrative functions are 4 8,2mt >900 Ship Loaders Stockyard Ships per annum conducted in Richards Bay. RBCT 1976 1979 1984 1991 History RBCT officially opened. Phase The terminal completed Phase The terminal further expanded Phase III was upgraded 1 of the terminal; II expanding its capacity increasing with a capacity of its exporting to Phase III the exporting 12 Mt/a; started capacity from taking its export capacity to exporting coal 12 Mt/a to capacity to 53 Mt/a 24 Mt/a 44 Mt/a Page 2 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Company Profile Stock Yard Capacity 2 x Stackers INBOUND 5 x Tandem Tipplers with a tipping 5 500 tph capacity of 5 500 tph 1 x Reclaimer OUTBOUND 4 x Ship loaders 8 500 to 12 000 tph 6 000 tph 5 x Cape Size Vessels 7 x Stacker Reclaimers 4 500 to 6 000 tph 1995 1999 2008 2010 2015 2016 CAPANCO The Brownfield’s Through the The Phase Machinery Celebration enhanced its expansion project Quattro project V Expansion Replacement of 40 years capacity and was completed, the terminal increased the Project launched increased increasing increased its design capacity Replacement its exporting exporting design capacity to 91 Mt/a of original 1976 capacity to capacity to to 76 Mt/a machines 63 Mt/a 72 Mt/a Page 3 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Our Mission, Our Vision, Our Core Values Our Mission Moving coal in a safe, cost effective and efficient manner, safeguarding the environment and stakeholders. Our Vision Moving coal passionately through a world class Port Terminal. Our Core Values We will not engage in any unsafe activity. We work to the best of our ability. We treat each other with respect and dignity. We are innovative and pro-active. We care for the wellbeing of employees. We care for the environment Page 4 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Terminal Achievements 2016 Terminal Achievements Achieved 5 Million LTI free man-hours Celebrated our 40th Anniversary moving coal Record 8 Million Tons of Coal exported in November 2016 Launch of New RBCT/SGS Laboratory Achieved an all time record Train Handling Time of 2h33 in October Obtained our WUL (Water Use License) Hosted the 16th Annual CETOA Conference Premium award winner at the ZCCI Business Excellence Award ceremony Page 5 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Statement by the Chief Executive Officer In this message to our stakeholders we reflect on key areas of our performance as it relates to our sustainability over the current year, and provides an outlook on our prospects going forward. We continue to tackle the issues that are most material to our business; this incorporates safety, economic, environmental and social imperatives. Providing a safe working environment Providing a safe workplace remains one of our core values and is a high priority at RBCT. I am pleased to report that we achieved 5 million LTI Free Man-Hours in May 2016, with no fatalities. We incurred one lost time injury during the year and ended the year with a lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) of 0.05 per million man-hours worked. The minor injury frequency rate for the year was 0.30 per million man-hours worked. The overall total injury frequency rate (TIFR) improved from 2.25 in 2015 to 2.05 in 2016 with the total number of injuries decreasing from 39 to 36. During 2016, we launched the Fatal Risk Control Protocols (“FRCP’s”). These protocols provide the controls deemed necessary to prevent fatalities, serious incidents as well as injuries arising from common hazards and associated risk levels encountered by our business activities. Eleven fatal risks, applicable to RBCT’s operations and associated control protocols, were identified. The rollout of the FRCP’s has commenced and will continue through 2017. As per our plan we will again solicit the views of our employees on the overall safety culture through a Culture Survey to be conducted in 2017. Our last survey in 2015 indicated that we had moved from a culture of Compliance to that of Proactive and even Resilient in certain areas. Again with the significant progress that has been made over the past four years, the emphasis is on sustainability with continuous improvement. Managing our environment Moving coal in a safe, cost effective and efficient manner, safeguarding the environment and stakeholders is our mission. RBCT recognises that by its very nature, the movement of coal can and will have an impact on the environment. RBCT’s coal logistics activities are conducted within the framework of ISO 14001:2004 and a site specific Environmental Management Program. Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 is audited annually and recertified every 3 years. Protection of the environment and compliance to environmental legislation remains paramount to RBCT. A new certification for ISO 14001 was granted by Soaété Générale Surveillance (“SGS”) during September 2016, with no major findings. This is in line with RBCT’s commitment to maintaining excellence in environmental management systems. RBCT seeks to comply with, and remains committed to environmental legislation, regulations and permits that govern its operations. RBCT has prevention strategies which, together with ongoing mitigation Page 6 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation measures, are aimed at reducing and mitigating the and employees remain cost sensitive. We are in this impact of its activities on the environment. together. Natural resources Over 90% of colleagues took part in the 2016 Organisational Health Survey. The staff results Water and Energy remain, both a challenge and an improved (from 2015) by 5.8% in the overall mindopportunity. Kwazulu Natal continues to experience set of employees. What signifies this achievement is significant drought conditions with 2016 recorded as the fact that this improvement was achieved during the worst drought in the past 100 years. This continues the year in which Wage Negotiations were held. to pose a challenge to all industries to reduce water The Organisational Health Survey assessed the consumption, with potable water consumption at RBCT following elements: Direction, Leadership, Culture and being reduced by a massive 59% compared to 2015. Climate, Accountability, Coordination and Control, A significant milestone was the issuing of the RBCT Motivation, Learning as well as Innovation and Building Water Use Licence in 2016. Capabilities. We aim to continue to engage, nurture and develop our people to enable our terminal to With regards to energy consumption the goal remains perform at it best. In line with our skills development to reduce energy consumption by up to 15%. We are during 2016, RBCT recorded 38 262 training hours. on track to meet our energy-reduction objectives and Over and above our own staff, we trained a total of targets. 17 Apprentices, 12 Operator Trainees and 4 Post Graduate/Diploma Trainees in Engineering and Human Valuing and empowering our people Resources. Our labour turnover increased from 6.7% in 2015 to 8% in 2016. We continue to communicate closely with employees and unions regarding our progress as a Company; and Small businesses are crucial to RBCT because they also about the continuing economic downturn. remain critical to economies, and to communities. In our direct buying business dealings relationships, We see employees as partners in innovation and we give preference to small enterprises. Our longcost optimising measures. We are proud to report term growth is dependent on small business to grow that many of the cost optimising solutions that came and thrive with us. This is in line with our responsible directly from our employees have been implemented procurement strategy. Page 7 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation At RBCT, our purpose is to contribute to the economy’s infrastructure with continued focus on proactive growth through moving coal, if we do this passionately maintenance as opposed to reactive response that and safely we will improve livelihoods and help build maybe imposed by breakdowns. This strategy and local communities. practice remains in place and effective. Enterprise development Plant availability and reliability remains the integral measure of maintenance performance. Plant One of our major initiatives facilitated through our availability of 96.51% was achieved against a target shareholders is to make available four million tons of 90%, plant reliability of 95.7% against the target of export capacity to junior miners at commercially of 95%. These results are showing continuous attractive rates. This means that junior miners can improvement against the 2015 results, where we have access to export markets through RBCT. The achieved Plant availability of 95.23% against a target allocation of this capacity contributes significantly to of 90%, and plant reliability of 95.31% against the enterprise development within the mining environment. target of 95%. Unfortunately, the economic downturn has adversely impacted on the utilisation of this tonnage. Equipment Replacement Our product and performance The Phase 1 Machine replacement project is at an advanced stage, with the project currently, on time RBCT received a total tonnage of 72,58mt in 2016 and within budget. Although global markets remain which translates to a decrease of 2% from the 73,93mt challenged, there has been some upside in commodity that was achieved in 2015. This performance is prices including coal. The commodity industry is indicative of the partnership between Coal Exporting a long term industry and the strategic replacement Parties (“CEPs’’) and Transnet Freight Rail (“TFR”) in of these machines will stand the South African Coal delivering coal to the terminal while acknowledging the Export industry in good stead for many years to come. overall downturn in world commodity markets. The capital expenditure ,although significant, ensures the long term sustainability and efficiency of RBCT Rail performance together with the greater SA coal export industry. RBCT achieved an average of 3 hours, 42 minutes It is also important to remember that RBCT operates Train Turnaround Time in 2016. This is 8 minutes (3%) on a cost break-even basis and although the capital better than the targeted turnaround time. expenditure will have an impact on its cost per tonne, increased projected tonnage will progressively lower Coal Exports that impact. RBCT exported 72,57mt in 2016, which is marginally To be installed are two 6 000 tonnes per hour (tph) raildown by 4% from the 75,37mt that was exported in mounted stacker reclaimers, with the capacity to stack 2015. This sterling performance was achieved in the at an average rate of 5 500 tph and reclaim at 4 500 face of an economic downturn. RBCT continues to tph and two new 10 000 tph rail-mounted shiploaders, strive and make meaningful contributions to the lives of which will have a capacity to load ships at an average all its stakeholders. rate of 8 500 tph. The machinery now in service will not be taken out of service until the new machinery Shipping performance is ready to operate resulting in minimal operational delays during the transition period. The turnaround time of the vessels is what the terminal uses to measure world class performance and RBCT This project is on track and is due for completion by achieved an average of 36hrs in 2016 compared to the end of quarter one 2018. 45hrs in 2015, as a result of the efficient performance of RBCT and the reduced parcel sizes. Finance Plant maintenance 2016 was yet another challenging year for us and we continued to optimise costs. The year was dominated In the previous years we noted that through the by the unprecedented depressed price of coal, maintenance of our machines we continue to improve although there was some relief in the second half with the overall reliability and availability of the terminal prices starting to recover. RBCT management together Page 8 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation with employees continued to join forces, and through Despite the ongoing economic challenges facing this we were able to contend with the difficulties we our industry, we remain optimistic. Our efficient faced. The majority of costs saving initiatives were organisation and value-driven strategy aims to create successfully implemented with the benefits reflecting in a sustainable, competitive and profitable business the overhead cost. The hard work has been done, and that will deliver value to all our stakeholders in the the intention is to maintain a lean organisation into the short, medium and long term. In the next year, we will future. continue to focus on infrastructure development, plant health and cost optimisation strategies. Our five year Looking ahead strategy remains relevant and aligned. The events of the past year as with previous years The year ahead will continue to be challenging have further highlighted the business significance and we thank all our employees for their continued of societal issues, and underlined the importance of commitment to the Company. We also wish to thank maintaining a strong focus on sustainability. We will our partners, shareholders, contractors and suppliers continue to build on the good work we have done, for their substantial contributions in supporting our reflected in this report, in building relationships efforts to create sustained value. We will continue with our employees, unions, government and to work to the best of our abilities to ensure the local communities. In pursuing this goal, we will sustainability of the Terminal. draw on all our past and present investments: in safety, employee development, union engagement, Alan Waller community development, enterprise development and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer environmental management. Richards Bay Page 9 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation RBCT Strategy 2015 2017 Our Strategy Framework of RBCT Strategy In 2016, we continued our focus on working safely, the machinery RBCT STRATEGY replacement project and cost 2015 2017 optimization. We believe the focus on these core critical areas will Increase Lifetime Valu e deliver value for all stakeholders in Increased Utilisation Decrease Total Cost the short, medium and long term. 2015-2017 We were successful in 2016 in Growth and of Assets maintaining and improving on Sustainability safety and on organizational health results we had achieved in 2015. Maintenance Stakeholder and Operations Management 2013-2015 On safety we achieved 5 Million Stabilising Lost-Time-Injury Free Man-hours. Organisational Plant Safety Health Health We were audited and found fully compliant to ISO, OHSAS and to the Railway Safety Regulator (RSR) requirements. Our target remains Zero Injuries. Our Labour turnover rate at •R 7.06% is respectable against an ail p • S erf acceptable 10% industry rate. s hip orm ce es pin an Our Occupational Health Survey an elln nt g ce pe • C r m w e rfo o indicated a 5.8% improvement. rfo nd nm rm al E y pe lth a viro an xp t a en ce or afe he he y • A ts • A further 3 Year Wage agreement • S yee for t fet t Op va Re was reached enhancing the m plo ing r , Sa men e Effi rat ila bil liab • E • Ca h n i alt iro cie on ity ility stability of the Terminal. He Env nc a ies l d an The true value of RBCT lies in the Our Core EFFICIENCY and RELIABILITY • Bra • Ef e n fe Strategic anc • Su d mana ctive c with which the Terminal can move inten a ton of coal. Record breaking Focus gem om e stain Cycl • De able ent • St munica Stak t ma Export performance in November Areas Life ing e Man holder men Cor po akeho 2016 Exporting 8.03Mt. At an n liver tion n Plan agem quip tilisatio ing valu rate So lder eng annualized rate of 96MT/a this ent nd e record cements the Terminal u e fo c a r all ial Inv gemen nt a Asset ability to meet its design capacity • Pla sha e t reho stment Human Resource • of 91MT/a. Development lder A total of R3 million was invested s in Corporate Social Investment • Attract, develop and retain right talent • Employee engagement programmes in our local • Stable management-employee relations communities. The main focus was • Healthy workplace climate on Education and Early Childhood Development. Page 10 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance Organisational Profile The Board of Directors General Managers There are 12 director positions, of which 10 AJ Waller (CEO) have been filled: 6 non-executive directors C Mbuyazi (with two vacancies), together with their J Mdaki 6 alternate directors, 2 independent nonZ Mthiyane (Ms) executive directors, 1 executive director and the W Murphy independent Chairman of the Board K Naidoo J Nzimande (Ms) Directors Company Secretary N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (Chairman) MS Teke AD du Toit (Ms) ND Baloyi Z Docrat CM Ephron Registered Office MJ Fraser FJ Lopez Campo (Spanish) South Dunes KT Nondumo (Ms) Richards Bay Harbour AJ Rogan IA Swanepoel P O Box 56 P van der Merwe Richards Bay 3900 AJ Waller Auditors Alternate Directors Deloitte and Touche RV Chetty P O Box 10167 MJ Houston Meerensee PK Masia 3901 MR Walker J Lucini Baquerizo (Spanish) Registration No. 1973/014256/07 Visionary Leadership Page 11 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance Ownership Anglo Operations (Pty) Ltd ARM Coal (Pty) Ltd Exxaro Coal (Pty) Ltd Exxaro Coal Mpumalanga (Pty) Ltd Exxaro Coal Central (Pty) Ltd Glencore Operations South Africa (Pty) Ltd Kangra Coal (Pty) Ltd Koornfontein Mines (Pty) Ltd Optimum Coal Terminal (Pty) Ltd Sasol Mining (Pty) Ltd South 32 Coal SA (Pty) Ltd South Dunes Coal Terminal (SOC) Limited South African Coal Mine Holdings Limited Tumelo Coal Mines (Pty) Ltd Umcebo Mining (Pty) Ltd Page 12 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance Our Board Nosipho Siwisa-Damasane RBCT Board Chairman Standing from left: Swanepoel S, Ephron C, Rogan AJ, Lopez F, Fraser M, Siwisa-Damasane N, Chetty R (alt) and Marrian G (alt) Seated from left: Teke MS and Waller AJ Absent: Nondumo KT, Baloyi ND, Docrat Z and van der Merwe P Page 13 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance RBCT Senior Management as at 31 December 2016 Back Row, from left: Casper Mbuyazi (GM Finance) Kuben Naidoo (GM Asset Management) Alan Waller (Chief Executive Officer) Jabu Mdaki (GM Operations) Bill Murphy (Gm Capital Projects) Front Row, from Left: Judith Nzimande (GM Human Resources) Zanele Mthiyane (GM HSEC) Page 14 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance Board Purpose and Function The Board of Directors carry out fiduciary duties with a sense of objective judgement and independence in the best interests of the company, providing strategic direction to RBCT though quarterly Board meetings and the delegation of authority to Board sub-committees and executive management. The Board reviews and directs the company’s strategic objectives and annual budget. Professional standards and corporate values are put in to place that promote integrity of the Board, Senior management and employees, it further provides guidance on the performance of the company and ensures that RBCT adheres to triple bottom line reporting. During 2016 N Siwisa-Damasane served as the CEO (ex-officio director) for the period 1 January 2016 to 30 June 2016, where after AJ Waller took over as CEO (ex-officio) with effect from 1 July 2016. OPCO Board Committees The OPCO operates in terms of its mandate from the To enable the Board to efficiently carry out its Board of Directors. The Committee deals with mutual responsibilities and duties, certain responsibilities matters relating to the operations of the Terminal in have been delegated to the sub-committees as order to provide an effective and efficient service to all recommended by King III. Each subcommittee has a RBCT users. The following members form part of the detailed terms of reference approved by the Board. Operations Committee: Our Sub-Committees are as follows: Members Alternates • Operations Committee (OPCO) Chaired by the CEO N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (Chairperson) • Finance Committee (FINCO) Chaired by one of the AJ Waller (Chairperson from July 2016) Shareholder nominated members A Bernic N Gooding (Ms) • Remunerations Committee (REMCO) Chaired by an N Burger (Ms) Independent Board member • Social and Ethic Committee (SECOM) Chaired by RV Chetty J Ramdass an Independent Board member B Dalton V Deeplaul • Projects Committee (PROCOM) Chaired by the CEO J Jonker SJ Ferreira M Lamprecht R Essay These sub-committees do not diminish the Board’s overall responsibilities. The Chairman of each subKC McNeice committee reports, as well as makes recommendations A Moepadira L Andrews to the Board at each Board meeting. The minutes of all M Netshipale sub-committee meetings are submitted to all directors R Nothnagel prior to Board meetings and any matters of concern or progress are discussed by the Board. M Steyn (Ms) E Theron S Mely (Ms) H Viljoen (Ms) C Taljaard GFT Warnasuriya D Yiotopoulos C Burns (Ms) N Ziphethe FINCO The FINCO functions include matters relating to finance, Shareholders Agreement ( governing relations between shareholders and the company ), taxation and various administrative matters. The audit committee of FINCO assist the Board on Page 15 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance matters of monitoring and control as well as the In accordance with these objectives, the REMCO practice of good corporate governance. annually reviews and evaluates the contribution of the executive director, as well as the General Management The committee also oversees the internal audit members and determines their annual salary function. adjustments. Anglo Operations (Pty) Ltd, through their assurance For this purpose, it considers salary surveys compiled division ABAS, was the Risk and Assurance provider by independent organisations. No executive director or for the past three years, their term came to an end general manager is involved in any decisions as to his/ on 31 December 2016. During November 2016, the her own remuneration. Finance Committee approved the appointment of Glencore Operations South Africa (Pty) Ltd as the Risk The committee also determines the annual and long and Assurance provider for a period of three years, term performance bonus of the executive director however, FINCO will review the performance of the while it confirms that of the General Management, as Service provider on an annual basis. The mandate determined by the executive director. of the Risk and Assurance provider is to review the reliability and integrity of financial and operating The following members form part of the Remuneration capabilities, as well as systems of internal control Committee: and the safeguarding of RCBT’s assets and financial information. Members Alternates The following members form part of the Finance AJ Rogan (Chairperson) Committee: MS Teke Z Docrat R Chetty Members Alternates C Ephron MJ Houston R Cohen (Chairperson) MJ Fraser PK Masia Z Bhorat (Ms) NG Schneider SECO N Cebekhulu (Ms) I Desai M Tshabalala At the annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2016, E Hanekom (Ms) M Teke was appointed as the Chairman of the Social M Immelman (Ms) and Ethics Committe for a period of one year, as was approved by the Board of Directors. M Lamprecht RJ Langford V Chaithram (Ms) The responsibilities of the committee are as follows: R Lawson FJ Lopez Campo • Monitoring the Company’s activities with regard to matters relating to: P Mohan KT Nondumo (Ms) Social and economic development, including N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) RBCT’s standing in terms of the goals and G van den Heever purposes of MR Walker I Coetzee (Ms) »» The ten principles set out in the United Nations AJ Waller Global Compact Principles REMCO »» The recommendations of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, RBCT’s philosophy is to set remuneration levels that regarding corruption are able to attract and retain the executive director and General Management needed to manage RBCT »» The Employment Equity Act successfully. A portion of executive director and General Management’s remuneration is structured »» The Broad-Based Black Economic so as to link corporate and individual performance Empowerment (BBBEE) Act ensuring a sustainable organisation. Page 16 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Corporate Governance Good corporate citizenship, including PROCOM the Company’s commitment to the promotion of equality, prevention of PROCOM members deal with Major Projects , as well as unfair discrimination, reduction of Engineering and other matters referred to it by the Board, corruption, contribution to development recommendations are also made by the Committee for the of the communities in which its activities Boards final decision. The Committee is required to hold quarterly are predominantly conducted, the meetings. environment, health and public safety, including the impact of the company’s The following members form part of the Projects Committee: activities and of its products or services like: Members Alternates »» Consumer relationships, including N Siwisa-Damasane (Ms) (Chairperson) the Company’s advertising, public AJ Waller (Chairperson from July 2016) B Murphy (Vice Chairman) relations and compliance with W Bezuidenhout consumer protection laws, AE Conradie BH Miles »»Labour and employment M du Plessis A Butcher • Monitor the company’s performance P Venter and interaction with its stakeholders and RP Hugo ensure that this interaction is guided by the Constitution and Bill of Rights GC Leibbrandt N naicker J Lucini Baquerizo • Determine clearly articulated ethical T Schmidt D Power standards and ensure that RBCT takes measures to achieve adherence to these in L Turvey all aspects of the business, thus achieving a sustainable ethical corporate culture within the company • Provide effective leadership based on an ethical foundation and ensure that the company is a responsible corporate citizen RBCT subscribes to the highest ethical standards and behaviour and requires total honesty and integrity from its employees at all times. A “Code of Business Conduct and Ethics” has been approved by the Board of Directors and all employees are required to subscribe to the code. The following members form part of the Social and Ethics Committee: Members Alternates AJ Rogan (Chairperson before May 2016) MS Teke (Chairperson from May 2016) Z Docrat R Chetty C Ephron MJ Houston MJ Fraser PK Masia Page 17 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance Health and Safety Performance RBCT continued to focus on safety, health and wellbeing of employees as well as on environmental stewardship during 2016. RBCT’s HSEC Management systems are assessed against the requirements of OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2004. In 2016 RBCT was successfully certified to ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Safety Providing a safe and healthy workplace is a core RBCT value and remains our priority. Effectively and efficiently managing workplace safety is a direct objective in our workforce and the business. RBCT’s HSEC policy sets out our commitment to eliminating illnesses, injuries and fatalities from our business. RBCT maintains a comprehensive HSEC management system which is fully aligned to OHSAS 18001:2007. Delivering on our Safety Strategy Our safety strategy and management approach focuses on improving our ability to anticipate and prevent injuries to our people. Our principal safety risks relate to railway, vehicles and mobile equipment, rotating machinery, working at heights, energy and machinery isolation, lifting equipment and material handling. In 2016 RBCT focused on the following golden safety rules: • Lifting equipment and material handling • Railway safety • Vehicle safety • Working at Heights 2016 Objective 2016 Target 2016 Performance Comment SAFETY Maintain OHSAS 18001: OHSAS 18001 certification Certification to Achieved 2007 certification OHSAS 18001 Fatality free year No fatality No fatality Achieved Reduce Loss Time Injury LTIFR = 0 LTIFR at 0.05 Not Achieved Reduce Minor Injuries MIFR</=0.41 MIFRat 0.30 Achieved Reduce Total Injury Frequency Rate (TIFR) TIFR</= 3.65 TIFR = 2.05 Achieved ENVIRONMENT Maintain ISO 14001:2004 Certification ISO 14001:2004 Certification Achieved Achieved No public No public environmental Zero environmental public complaints Achieved environmental complaints received complaints received Page 18 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance Safety Performance Lifting and Railway safety Workshop RBCT is proud to report that we continued to make a In the first quarter of 2016 a safety workshop was significant improvement in safety performance. Our conducted with Operations railway employees to quest to create and sustain an injury free environment discuss issues affecting rail employee safety and areas for our employees and contractors continued during of improvement. The workshop involved Loco drivers, 2016 and our safety performance improved. There Shunters, Rail Controller and the Rail Supervisor. This were no fatalities at RBCT and we incurred one lost has yielded improvements in the RBCT rail yard. time injury. The Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for the year was 0.05 and the Minor Injury In the last quarter of 2016 a safety workshop was Frequency Rate (MIFR) was 0.30. conducted with the asset management division to discuss RBCT safe lifting requirements and other Ensuring the safety of our employees and contractors challenges that can cause safety incidents. in the workplace is of paramount importance and RBCT continues to focus on leading and lagging 5 Million LTI Free Man-hours and Business Excellence indicators as tools to improve safety performance. Award Safety Awareness LOST TIME INJURY FREQUENCY RATE On 19 May 2016 RBCT achieved a significant milestone in our safety performance i.e. we achieved 5 Million LTI-Free man-hours. We are exceptionally proud LTIFR of this safety achievement and attribute it to our pursuit for a safe workplace together with our target of zero injuries. We have had impressive gains with the implementation of the COBRA process, near miss reporting, hazard YEAR identification and risk assessments, and an overall interaction amongst the workforce on health and safety MINOR INJURY FREQUENCY RATE issues. The above great achievement was also recognised by RBCT winning the Business Excellence Safety Award, this award is given to an organisation that demonstrates diligence in safety awareness. MIFR Fatal Risk Control Protocols RBCT’s Vision is to achieve Zero Harm through the effective management of safety in our operations. RBCT has developed a set of mandatory standards to address hazards and to eliminate or minimise the YEAR risk of fatalities and injuries. RBCT’s Fatal Risk Control Protocols have been developed by examining industry TOTAL INJURY FREQUENCY RATE best practice and by utilising our own experience of fatal incidents. These Fatal Risk Control Protocols focus on control of specific identified fatal risks and these controls have been derived from detailed risk assessments, past incidents and the experiences of TIFR other industries. The Fatal Risk Control Protocols set the minimum performance requirements for managing the identified fatal risks. Managing our Environment RBCT has a legal and social responsibility to minimize YEAR Page 19 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance the impact on the environment, as services can be attributed to the good environmental performance well as to eliminate during the year. The environmental systems upgrade project to harness all processed water to prevent pollution of the harbour and to recycle unplanned events, such as water, was commissioned in 2009. An analysis carried out in 2016 shows unsanctioned water discharges and that potable water consumption has been reduced by approximately exceeding air emission standards. 59% compared to 2016. A serious drive towards conservation of energy was also maintained during the year and significant savings have been Delivering on our Environmental realised. Energy saving programmes continue with the goal being to Strategy achieve the site’s objective for reducing energy consumption by up to 15%. RBCT’s coal logistics activities are conducted within the framework of WATER USAGE ISO 14001:2004 and a site specific Environmental Management Plan. Water Usage Compliance with ISO 14001:2004 is audited annually and recertified Kilolitres every 3 years. Protection of the environment and compliance to environmental legislation remains paramount to RBCT. In 2016, the ISO 14001 certification audit was a success. This is in line with RBCT’s commitment YEAR to maintaining excellence in Environmental Management Systems. RBCT seeks to comply RBCT is firmly committed to protecting the environment together with with, and remains committed resource conservation. RBCT has assessed the environmental impacts of to environmental legislation, our operation and keeps an environmental impacts and aspects register. regulations and permits that Controls have been put in place to reduce the negative impact of our govern its operation. RBCT has business on the environment. prevention strategies which, together with ongoing mitigation Currently, our primary environmental focus areas are: measures, are aimed at reducing • Air quality management and mitigating the impact of its • Reducing the impact of coal handling on the environment activities on the environment. • Controlling the water quality of our storm water Responsibility for environmental • Reducing our fresh water usage management at RBCT rests with • Energy efficiency senior management, supported by • Waste management the HSEC team. Operations and maintenance departments also play Water Usage and Management a vital role in the management of our environment. The Integrated Waste and Water Management Plan (IWWMP) is central to the application process for a water use licence with the Department of Our Environmental Performance Water and Sanitation (DWS). During the year, there were no The main objectives of the IWWMP are to: major environmental incidents or • Provide technical and management related information to underpin the external environmental complaints. application for the water use licence This performance comes under • Update RBCT’s water balance plan extremely unfavorable conditions • Identify (qualify and quantify) water and waste related impacts from where we experienced the lowest RBCT’s activities average rainfall per annum in 24 • Comply with Regulation 704 of the National Water Act 36 of 19 years. Stringent environmental monitoring and site cleaning The nature of the product we handle has a potential to contaminate storm Page 20 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance water. To prevent contamination of Air Quality the surrounding environment, storm water and water collected from the Dust management is a priority at RBCT. There was a slight decrease in coal stockpiles does not go directly dust fallout recorded in 2016 compared to 2015, the results averaged well into the marine environment; instead below 0.6 g/m2 which is the maximum allowable residential level. In line it is drained into settling ponds. In with RBCT’s focus on the well-being of employees and our stakeholders, the settling ponds, contaminants RBCT monitors ambient dust through real time particulate dust monitors. are separated from the water before RBCT Monitors PM10 as well as PM2.5 to effectively deal with dust ambient it can be pumped into an offsite and currently uses RDC20 as a dust suppressant on dirt roads around the storage dam known as “the ESUP stockpiles. RDC20 is a water based binding agent that forms a layer on the dam”. At the ESUP dam water is road surface to suppress dust. further chemically treated through a chlorination process and RBCT AVERAGE DUST FALLOUT LEVEL uses this recycled water for the suppression of dust, mostly from Avg Buckets Residential Limit Industrial Limit Avg Rainfall Dust Level (mg/m2/day) coal stockpiles. RBCT treats and recycles its sewage effluent and Rainfall (in mm) the quality of the final effluent has in the past 12 months met the requirements of the National Water Act, 1998. The quality of our underground water is monitored quarterly through borehole sampling to ensure no adverse pollution of the underground water. The results are sent to independent laboratories RESOURCE AND ENERGY USE for analysis and all samples were within legal limits. In 2016 RBCT Accord Target Electricity % Reduction received a Water Use License for Dust Level (mg/m2/day) Diesel % Reduction Total the following water uses: Petrol % Reduction a) impeding or diverting the flow of Diesel % Reduction RBCT water in a watercourse, (Section 21 c); b) (g) disposing of waste in a manner which may detrimentally impact on a water resource (Section 21 g); c) disposing of waste in a manner which may detrimentally impact on a water resource (Section 21 i). Signed the EE Engaged with PSEE on accord on 01 Aug a Energy Management Potable Water Usage ‘06 Campaign The quality of potable water is continuously monitored and treated Waste Management to prevent and minimize the risk of potable water contamination. The management of waste remains one of RBCT’s environmental In 2016, 7352 kilolitres of potable challenges. RBCT believes that protection of the environment is an integral water were used compared to part of good business practice and that it has a duty to minimize and 17927 kilolitres used in 2015. This is manage waste without any environmental risks. RBCT provided separate a 59% improvement in water usage waste bins for different types of wastes generated that can be recyclable. during a tough year in which the site Improving waste sorting and disposal has become an extremely important experienced low rainfall. aspect for RBCT. Page 21 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance RBCT’s waste streams are, but not limited to the OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND WELLNESS following: • Used oil Effective management of health risks protects our • Oil contaminated waste people, enhances productivity and is essential for • Clinic waste minimising potential long term liabilities. • Sewerage effluent • Settling pond effluent Delivering On Our Health and Wellness Strategy • Electronic waste • Paper In 2016, RBCT put a number of occupational health • Rubber and wellness strategies in place, including: • Biggest loser competition – all employees are In 2014 RBCT obtained a Waste License 59 of 2008, encouraged to adopt a healthy lifestyle by RBCT improved its waste management programmes exercising and eating healthy. A healthy workforce by improving its waste audits and implementing is a happy workforce sustainable plans. The implementation of a • An ongoing occupational hygiene programme for comprehensive waste management strategy aims to monitoring stressors in the workplace i.e. noise, reduce the amount of waste being consigned to local gravimetric dust and silica, ergonomic, illumination, dumpsites. The generated waste is measured on a vibration, diesel, belt splicing and welding fumes , monthly basis and targets have been set to reduce the thermal stress, fatigue risk assessment and health quantities. Some waste is recycled and some disposed risk assessment of in an environmentally responsible manner. • Development of a plan to reduce the above based on recommendations from the occupational On the 27 May 2016 HSEC, Asset Management hygienist Departments and General Management collaborated • Risk based medical surveillance programme in making RBCT a clean and safe place to work • A programme to manage and reduce the impact in. We conducted a walkabout of sections of our of musculoskeletal disorders such as repetitive plant to address areas that require the necessary strain injuries and backaches of our workforce housekeeping. RBCT employees cheerfully gave of through early identification, tracking and incidence their time to ensure RBCT plant is safe and clean. reporting. Page 22 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance A qualified Biokineticist is working with RBCT medical Health screening and promotion programme including staff on an ongoing basis to identify opportunities to vaccination of our employees and tests such as: improve employees’ posture through adjustments to • Blood pressure the working environment and individual behaviours. • Blood sugar • Cholesterol Occupational Health and Hygiene • HIV counselling and treatment • Emergency care The health and well-being of our employees is • Chronic disease monitoring (Anaemia, diabetes, important to us and a healthy workforce means hypertension, gout, high cholesterol, TB etc.) a productive, efficient, and energized workforce. RBCT aims at providing a working environment that Non-Occupational Disease Management maximizes wellness and minimizes incidents, illnesses and disorders through health related activities. Our RBCT continued to focus on Wellness for both occupational health programme seeks to prevent and employees and contractors during 2016. Monitoring mitigate occupational health risks that may impact the and management of employees with clinical risk health and wellbeing of our employees. factors (Body Mass Index (BMI), Blood Pressure (BP), glucose, cholesterol) remained a priority during the The wellness management programme focused on the year. We saw some improvements in these chronic overall wellness of employees and contractors. RBCT conditions during the year 2016 compared to 2015. has an onsite Biokineticist working hand-in-hand with the company doctor and clinic to improve the wellness Lifestyle related conditions of employees and contractors in order to sustain a healthy and productive workforce. BMI remained the same at 56% for the year 2016; however, an increased number of employees committed RBCT’s approach to managing health related issues in to lose weight and are seeing the Biokineticist and the workplace covers the following: adopting a controlled exercise regime. • Health risk management which focuses on occupational health and hygienethus ensuring BMI legal compliance • Employee wellness programme (EWP) is a promotive exercise that seeks to optimize employee productivity • Primary Health care (support services) provides for treatment of health issues thus minimizing lost time through ill heath • Strategic management includes environmental health, HIV/Aids, incapacity and any other conditions which may affect the long-term success of the business. Our Occupational Health and Hygiene Performance Primary Healthcare Management (PHC) RBCT provides a first level/essential diagnostics and therapeutic Health Care Service founded on the principals of evidence based medicine to accurately In 2017, we will continue to focus on awareness diagnose and treat acute/ common ailments. Our PHC of healthy lifestyle programmes, especially weight programmes include the following components: control management. Awareness and engagement of • Assessment and treatment of illnesses;-e.g. (Colds, employees on these clinical risk factors, as well as the diarrhoea, headaches etc.) top 4 wellness risks, which are the major contributors to • Reproductive health programme the burden of disease at RBCT, is an ongoing process. Page 23 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance There was an improvement in the number of employees biological monitoring and specific testing (such as doing monthly checks for their chronic conditions. lung function and audiograms) are scheduled and conducted in order to meet legal and company The status of the 2016 medical surveillances is at requirements. Lung function testing by spirometry is 100%. The HIV prevalence rate at RBCT is 14.34%, carried out regularly to address concerns regarding with 82 % of the HIV positive employees on Antidust and silica exposure in conjunction with chest retroviral (ARV’s). 80% of our employees know their HIV X-rays. Last year, no occupational illness or noisestatus. induced hearing loss (NIHL) cases were identified. HIV TESTING Health Risk Assessment (HRA) The review of the HRA and occupational risk and exposure profiles (OREP) is an ongoing process. Preliminary preparation for HRA and OREP was conducted and medical baselines per position at RBCT identified. Each year RBCT conducts a HRA in order to identify, evaluate, quantify and control all nonoccupationally induced health risks that may impact negatively on RBCT employee’s health status. HRA Conducted by RBCT risk Assessment Process utilising the following Methodologies – SANS 16001:2013 Wellness and Disease Management System (WDMS) Staff Complement NEW HIV Complement e.g. SANS 16001: 2013 certification Known Status VCT Ergonomics Management Programme Occupational Health Management An onsite Biokineticist works with Clinic staff with Occupational Hygiene surveys conducted for the year the aim of improving the wellness of our employees were Lighting whole body vibration, diesel emission, thereby ensuring a healthy and productive workforce. Noise for Rail Operations, dust, silica monitoring and The Biokineticist operates from our fitness centre welding fumes. and runs the rehabilitation programme for employees recovering from different conditions i.e. stroke, Coal Dust and Silica musculoskeletal injuries etc and conducts various ergonomic assessments of employees driving and Our principal occupational health risks relate to coal operating mobile equipment. and silica dust, ergonomics and noise. RBCT has taken reasonable steps to ensure dust and silica RBCT’s EWP exposures to employees and contractors are kept to a minimum. Dust and silica monitoring takes place SANS16001:2013 (Wellness and disease management annually, and where dust levels are found to be high, system standard – including HIV and TB) requires measures to minimize dust are applied. the employer to assess non-occupationally induced health risks that may negatively impact the workplace. Noise Research has shown that most workplace health cases are not caused by occupationally induced injuries or Accredited occupational health and hygiene illnesses but by non-occupationally induced illnesses specialists conduct baseline, periodic, transfer and or injuries. exit audiometric examinations on employees. Noise is generally treated at source but where noise cannot The key priority areas identified from our risk be eliminated, signage is posted to remind employees assessment analysis were headaches, BMI, flu and and contractors to wear their hearing protection. All financial wellbeing. To mitigate the risk our areas affected personnel are appropriately trained and of intervention are on prevention, early diagnosis, provided with the necessary personal protective treatment, care and support. As at end of 2016 equipment to deal with possible dangers. significant improvements in these areas were noted. Medical surveillance, including examinations, RBCT recognizes that personal problems may have Page 24 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance an impact on work performance, production and behaviour thus RBCT has an onsite EWP which works in partnership with Careways. This service is an integral part of the EWP and operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week and 365 days a year. Employees and their immediate family members are able to access the service via short message sending (SMS), telephone or e-mail. The purpose of the EWP is to have a referral system in place through which RBCT employees can use the services provided by Careways to overcome personal, performance and behaviour problems. The EWP is a voluntary and confidential programme that provides problem identification and referral services for RBCT employees and their families. The scope of interventions provided within the EWP addresses all aspects of health and wellbeing. % RESPONDENTS WHO ARE SATISFIED WITH CAREWAYS SERVICES ZCCI Business Excellence Awards RBCT is committed to employee wellness and has taken related initiatives in ensuring a healthy and productive workforce hence the recognition afforded. The award recognised that RBCT has successfully demonstrated leadership in health and Employee satisfaction results-2016: Wellness Week wellness programmes and services by implementing related initiatives that have The first step to improving the health status of our employees is resulted in significant and measurable to identify the areas of risk. Unlike reactive health care, RBCT benefits to the organization. proactively identifies the symptoms of diseases, providing the opportunity for maximizing prevention and aims to treat the root HIV Counselling and Testing cause of the disease followed by the implementation of measures to prevent the progression of the disease. HIV/Aids remain a significant risk to the South African society. RBCT recognises Annual RBCT wellness week offered the following services: that the management of HIV/Aids is an • Health screening and assessments integral part of its approach to ensuring • Vision screening the wellbeing of its employees and • V Box classes raising awareness of HIV/Aids among • Psychological assessments employees remains a high priority. Access • Flu vaccines to help regarding HIV related problems • Free massages & Beauty care treatment is available on a 24hr basis at our onsite • Biokineticist services occupational health centre where we are • Financial wellness and wills working in partnership with the Life sense • Awareness on drug and alcohol abuse disease management programme. The purpose of the programme is to assist RBCT employees with maintaining ARV adherence, to help them overcome any Page 25 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance developed for RBCT. In 2016, we continued our efforts through initiatives such as our World aids day campaign, wellness week, clinic consultations and annual medical testing. At the same barriers that may prevent time we ceased providing employees adherence to coordinate with incentives when testing. In 2016, 80% of our and centralize the HIV employees tested without being incentivised. RBCT is treaters and treatment targeting 100% of employees to know their status by records and to ensure the end of 2020. that employees are able to maintain a healthy, World Aids Day productive lifestyle. On 30 November 2016, RBCT commenced a week of RBCT has a WDMS voluntary HIV/Aids testing in commemoration of World policy in place thus Aids Day. On 1 December, a candle lighting ceremony ensuring that the was held in every division in remembrance of those workplace is free of unfair who have lost their lives to HIV/Aids. Pamphlets were discrimination of HIV/Aids also handed out with information pertaining to HIV/ sufferers. Our policy aims Aids. to create and sustain a work environment that will support and promote quality of life, healthy development and healthy behaviours through various programmes Page 26 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance RBCT’s Progress towards 90-90-90 target is promising. • Psychosocial factors e.g. substance abuse (the The UNAIDS 90-90-90 target calls on countries to abuse of medication, drugs and alcohol) reach the following goals: • Psycho physiological factors e.g. chronic, acute • 90% of people living with HIV diagnosed by 2020 and life threatening illnesses, impact of medication • 90% of diagnosed people on antiretroviral treatment on the ability of affected employees to execute their by 2020 duties • 90% of people in treatment with a fully suppressed • Physical environmental factors e.g. noise, lighting, viral load by 2020 vibration, toxic substances and thermal conditions • Organizational factors e.g. shift pattern, procedures Employees who tested for HIV 80% and policies Employees on ARV. Treatment 82% The RSR conducted a human factors audit at RBCT % Viral suppression 79% during September 2015 and the audit report confirms that we have made good progress. The RSA audit for SANS 3000-4: 2011 RAILWAY SAFETY REGULATOR (RSR): 2016 was a success. Human Factors RISK MANAGEMENT SANS 3000-4 is a national standard for health Risk Management previously reported to the Strategy assessment of rail safety workers that RBCT and Compliance Division and now reports within the subscribes to and is based on a risk management Health Safety Environment and Compliance Division. approach. RBCT has adopted this standard and has The change in the reporting structure has seen Risk developed procedures for the management of human Management separating from Internal Auditing. factors in order to mitigate the potential effects of these RBCT considers risk management as an essential factors on railway safety. These factors include: practice in compliance with King IV Corporate • Human factors in design (human-system interface) Governance requirements. The risks are identified • Psychological factors: e.g. shift work, physical when work is carried out daily, measured and and mental stress, return to work after a period of managed. The risks are classified into two main absence categories: Page 27 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance • Strategic risks including a possible source of loss internal control in place to mitigate significant risks that might arise from the pursuit of an unsuccessful faced by the company to an acceptable level, together business plan. For example, strategic risk might will oversee regular review of risk management arise from making poor business decisions, activities. Systems are designed to manage, rather from the substandard execution of decisions, than eliminate, the risk of failure or to maximise from inadequate resource allocation, or from a opportunities to achieve business objectives. failure to respond well to changes in the business environment. RBCT management team is inherently accountable • Operational risks including a probability of loss to the Board of Directors for designing systems, occurring from internal inadequacies of a business implementing and monitoring the process of effective or a breakdown in its controls, operations or Risk Management and integrating this process procedures. into daytoday activities at RBCT including the management of risks to ensure adherence to the risk The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for tolerance levels set by the Board. governance of Risk Management. Risk governance defines the parameters of acceptable risk, monitors Risk Management Gap Analysis strategic alignment and sets the overall risk management expectation. The Board of Directors A Risk Management gap analysis was conducted liaise with the Chief Executive Officer and General by Kwanto Risk Management to assess RBCT’s risk Management to identify, assess, manage and monitor maturity level. The gap analysis identified areas where all forms of known risks. Risk appetite and tolerance RBCT’s Risk Management is properly embedded as are high on RBCT Board’s agenda. well as areas of improvement. An action plan was compiled and RBCT is progressing well with the The FINCO (through its Audit Committee function) implementation of the identified improvements. seeks to ensure that there are adequate systems of Page 28 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance ISO 31000 Risk Management Process RBCT Risk Management has been aligned to comply with ISO 31000:2009. The purpose of ISO 31000:2009 Establish context Communication and consultation is to provide principles and basic guidelines of Risk Management. By aligning Risk Management with ISO Monitoring and review 31000:2009, RBCT will implement risk management Risk Assessment consistently and effectively. Risk identification Risk Management Framework Risk analysis The Risk Management framework details the systems that RBCT uses to manage risk. The purpose is to Risk evaluation provide the structure and tools that will facilitate the use of a consistent risk management process whenever decisions are made at RBCT. The framework Risk treatment will be applied across all activities, projects, functions and processes at all levels of RBCT to ensure resources to treat risks are applied efficiently and effectively. INTENT CAPABILITY • Risk management Policy STRATEGIC • Training • Risk Management Standards / • Stakeholder Engagement procedures • Information System • Risk Managment Plans TACTICAL • Measuring and Reporting • Assurance Plans • Risk Management Network Establish the context Communicate & Consult Communicate & Consult Identify the risks STRATEGIC STRATEGIC TACTICAL Analyse the risks TACTICAL Evaluate the risks Treat the risks CONTINUAL IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNTABILITY • Performance Measures TACTICAL • Governance Committee(s) • Maturity Evaluation • Risk Committee • Assurance Processes • Risk management Personnel • Formal Review STRATEGIC • Risk management Champions • Revision • Risk and Control Owners Risk Management Policy The Risk Management Policy was also developed to emphasise that risk management is an important process at RBCT. The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance regarding the management of risk to support the achievement of corporate objectives, protect staff and business assets and ensure financial sustainability. An effective risk management culture is important and a good practice for corporate governance, which supports the Page 29 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance achievement of RBCT’s objectives and ensures that we RBCT embarked on an exercise of identifying data of remain relevant and sustainable into the future. personal information that each department handles. This exercise is done to ensure compliance to the Transnet Freight Rail and RBCT Interface Risk Assessment Act, identify gaps and compile a RBCT compliance guide. A PoPI policy was formulated to ensure that In our pursuit to export and move coal through a RBCT complies with the law and good practice while world class Terminal efficiently while meeting our protecting the company from the consequences of a customer’s needs, RBCT relies on TFR to deliver breach of its responsibilities. the trains. The interface risk assessment is aimed at understanding each other’s business as well risks that The PoPI process is currently in the implementation may affect our collective daily operations. An interface stage. risk assessment was conducted with TFR to identify, measure and assess those risks as well as risks that Risk Management Tools could prevent both businesses from achieving their objectives. The controls that are currently in place were RBCT uses a number of business tools in the identified as well as future actions aimed at further management of risk which include: minimising or mitigating the risks identified. • Declaration of interest annually or whenever there is a change in the conflict of interest status of the South Dunes Business Continuity Plan Forum employee. • A Code of Conduct booklet issued to employees The residents of South Dunes (RBCT, Engen Oil, BTT, annually. TFR and TNPA) met to formulate a combined Business • Formal policies and procedures are in place to Continuity Plan. The primary objective is to review assist with the application of company standards. risks which would affect the South Dunes Region, as • Gift registers to manage gifts received by these risks will have an impact on the respective value employees and management with reports issued chains in which these organisations operate. This to the RBCT Risk Committee to ensure adequate meeting is facilitated by TNPA who is the South Dunes monitoring is in place to comply with RBCT policy. Landlord. A detailed risk assessment was done in • Monthly inspections are conducted by management order to understand the scenarios that might occur. to identify risk areas. • Through Jardine Lloyd Thompson (JLT) as an CURA System insurance broker, RBCT runs an insurance program which covers Assets and Liabilities. The Cura system version was updated from 3.7 to • Monthly reviews of the Operational Risks Report the latest 3.9. All risk registers and risk information is with General Management which address the captured using the CURA system which is our chosen operational risks at RBCT. risk management tool. The risk assessments were • RBCT has zero tolerance on fraud, bribery, done with relevant divisions and Cura was updated corruption and unfair business and labour accordingly. The system also sends out reminders for practices. All employees can anonymously the tasks due that were identified to minimise the risk report such issues through our secure tip off line or its impact should it materialise. “Whistleblower”. • Risk registers are kept in Cura and action items are Protection of Personal Information (PoPI) monitored. Protection of Personal Information Act (PoPI), No Functional Structures 4 of 2013 gives effect to the constitutional right to privacy, regulates the manner in which personal RBCT has standing committees that are assigned information may be processed, and provides rights to manage, monitor and guide the organisation and remedies to protect personal information. RBCT with regard to good corporate governance. These is obliged to comply with the Protection of Personal committees are tasked to discuss matters related Information Act. RBCT guarantees its commitment to their respective mandate and make decisions in to protecting personal information and ensuring compliance with RBCT values and business strategy. that it is used appropriately, transparently, securely and in accordance with the Law. The Regulator was Tender Committee appointed on 01 December 2016 and we have a year to ensure compliance to the Act. The Terms of Reference of the committee ensure Page 30 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Health and Safety Performance procurement activities are in compliance with RBCT environment specialists. The divisional committees procurement processes and procedures. are an important link between the executive SHE committee and employees. The divisional committees The Committee comprises of: meet monthly and the meetings are attended by the • General Manager Capital Projects section managers, safety representatives, employee • General Manager Finance wellness representatives and site contractor • General Manager Health, Safety, Environment and representatives. Compliance • General Manager Human Resources RBCT Business Continuity Plan • General Manager Asset Management • General Manager Operations Every organization is at risk from potential disaster. RBCT has a developed Business Continuity Plan Risk Committee that contains critical information that is needed to stay running in spite of adverse events. The testing As part of risk management strategy, RBCT uses the is essential to ensure that the plan is current, fully Risk Committee as the final gate keeper of risk within functional, addresses the current operational the company. This committee consists of the Chief processes and procedures and that staff have a good Executive Officer, GM Finance, GM Health, Safety, understanding of their responsibilities as defined in the Environment and Compliance, Risk Officer and Senior Business Continuity Plan. The selected three scenarios Internal Auditor. Any matter that may implicate a GM or were tested and documented accordingly in 2016. The CEO is elevated to the Chairman of Remco as well as next phase is to develop the departmental Business the Chairman of the Board. Continuity Plans and the testing thereof. Corporate Social and Investment Committee RBCT Woman’s Month 5km Walk The committee is responsible for executing RBCT’s CSI On Friday, 12 August, RBCT ladies supported by the initiatives. RBCT men gathered outside the Clinic to participate in the first ever RBCT Woman’s Month 5km Walk. The committee is made up solely of RBCT employees. In keeping with the RBCT wellness theme, it was Executive Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) Committee decided to hold a 5km walk to celebrate woman’s month this year. This event attracted ladies from all The executive SHE committee is the custodian of ranks at RBCT. health, safety and environment compliance at RBCT. The committee meets monthly to discuss, evaluate Health and wellness talks were conducted and a and make decisions pertaining to occupational health, wellness pledge was signed on the day to commit to safety and environmental matters. This Committee change aspects of each ladies health and wellness. is Chaired by the CEO. The committee comprises of 22 members, including all General Managers, 7 The ladies all then signed the Wellness Pledge Board x divisional committee chairpersons, 2 x union shop promising to change one aspect of wellness in their stewards, 2 x health representatives, 4 x safety and lives. Page 31 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Operational Performance Operational Performance COAL DELIVERIES TO RBCT RAIL PERFORMANCE The tonnage received in 2016 decreased from 73.92 Mt in 2015 to 72.58 Mt (2% lower). The 2016 tonnage is the second highest tonnage delivered by TFR within a calendar year. The Train Turnaround Time (“TTT”) remained at 3 hours 42 minutes in 2016 against the target of 3 hours 50 minutes. The TTT is the contracted duration for handling the train after it is handed over to RBCT by TFR, offload it and hand it back to TFR. The TTT is reflected in the signed Service Level Agreement between the terminal and TFR and the target is an average of 4 hours 18 minutes. Trains that were tipped and bypassed directly to the vessels were 17% in 2016 compared to 18 % achieved in 2015. We continue to be aligned with our business partner, TFR, to ensure the supply chain performs well and contributes to increasing volumes. The rail budget for 2017 is 77 Mt. COAL DELIVERIES TO RBCT 73 925 548 72 435 941 72 588 485 70 810 805 62 860 748 68 518 354 65 705 933 TRAIN TURNAROUND TIME TRAIN TURNAROUND TIME vs NUMBER OF TRAINS 9 104 9 164 9 022 8 875 8 718 8 413 8 325 03:42 03:16 03:27 03:02 03:24 03:41 03:42 TTT No. of Trains Page 32 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Operational Performance COAL EXPORTS SHIPPING PERFORMANCE Exported tonnage in 2016 decreased by 4%, from 75.37 Mt in 2015, to 72.57 Mt. The export performance is strong considering the tough economic conditions that persisted throughout 2016. The exports recovered in the last quarter of 2016 as we exported at an annualized rate of 82 Mt/a. The terminal achieved a Port Load Rate (“PLR”) of 778 tons per hour and Terminal Load Rate (“TLR”) of 2216 tons per hour. In 2016 RBCT introduced TLR and revised the PLR measure making it more representative of the bonus/penalty as felt by the CEP’s. The previous PLR cannot be compared to the revised PLR, therefore the true comparison of annual PLR and TLR performance can only start at the end of 2017. The challenging market conditions impacted on the Terminal operating efficiencies, requiring the Terminal to adapt to market requirements. RBCT cleared 280 stock piles during the year, a 12% increase from 2015. There was a significant increase in the number of smaller vessels visiting the Terminal with the average cargo size reducing by 2.4% from 81 491 tons to 79 489 tons in 2016, this puts increased pressures on the operational efficiencies. The average vessel turnaround time improved from 45 hours in 2015 down to 36 hours in 2016, largely impacted by the efficient performance of RBCT and the reduced parcel sizes. COAL EXPORT 75 379 067 72 573 525 65 511 840 71 286 142 63 427 448 70 234 625 68 340 710 VESSEL TURNAROUND TIME AVERAGE VESSEL TURNAROUND TIME vs NUMBER OF VESSELS 925 913 783 716 636 646 658 47 57 65 59 42 45 36 Avg PLR per hr per Vsl No. of Vsls Page 33 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People Valuing and Empowering our People Pillar 7: Performance and Talent Management In a skills constrained environment such as South Africa, effective management of talent is critical to Employment Equity Consultative Committee achieving business goals. (EECC) Talent management assists not only in identifying talent EE is one of RBCT’s strategies towards achieving in middle management but also assists in creating operational excellence and it is through the a talent pool from the lower levels right up to top implementation of EE that we can achieve diversity in management. the workplace. Organisational Health Survey The objectives of EECC at RBCT are: RBCT conducts an annual Organisational Health • To eliminate employment practices and procedures Survey that is aimed at validating how healthy RBCT is. that are barriers to employment equity The process is built on a test-action-re-test approach. • To review career management practices Organizational Health of RBCT improved by 5.8% in • To ensure equitable access to training and 2016. development opportunities • To eliminate employment barriers for people with Overview disabilities • To promote a culture that values diversity in the workplace • To ensure effective communication of the objectives of EE to all staff in order to ensure understanding and buy-in Talent Management Elite Ailing 27% 25% At RBCT we apply a rigorous approach to managing employees, especially in identifying those employees who bring competitive advantage to the business. The talent management strategy continues to add significant value to the organisation. The process embodies a nine box matrix and requires open and Able transparent discussions between managers and 48% subordinates while at the same time incorporating the greater view of the larger organisation. Employees are provided with a clear understanding of their performance while at the same time formulating individual development plans. This also provides a key input into future succession planning which is part of the process. Ailing: Below Expectations Our formal talent management process yields benefits Able: Meeting Expectations for both employees and the business. Employees Elite: Exceeding Expectations enjoy increased satisfaction with current and future career development opportunities. RBCT’s health was rated by both employees and management as healthy in the following categories: The business benefits from improved workforce skills • Direction and competencies, long-term planning, cost saving • Leadership through staff retention and narrowing of the skills gap. • Culture and climate • Accountability Page 34 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People • Coordination and control • Motivation • Learning and innovation • Building capabilities In 2016, the results showed a 5.8% improvement in the overall attitude of employees. What makes this achievement more impressive is the continued difficult economic climate, together with the pressures that this places a business and its people under. Communication A transparent and open line of communication with all our stakeholders remains integral in fostering a shared vision. In 2015, RBCT management and employees were informed, consulted and provided with feedback about company performance. Cost optimisation measures were discussed with employees and all employees were given an opportunity to ask questions, and to suggest more cost optimising ideas. In each department, employees are empowered to run their area of operation as a mini business and to be entrepreneurs in their area of operation. This is further embedded in their teams through the Mission Directed Work Teams (MDWT) process. Information was communicated swiftly and in an open and honest manner. Training and development was provided in line with the Pillar 8: Training and Development following guidelines: • All training and development will be based on the The overall goal of training and development at RBCT needs of the company, as well as wider stakeholder is to ensure that RBCT permanent staff have the engagement, especially, at strategic levels, as correct skills, knowledge, motivation and alignment to established through a needs analysis. perform optimally in support of the company’s vision, • Managers are responsible for the competency mission, values and strategic/operational objectives. levels of their staff in order to ensure adequate succession management in their departments. Training and Development is primarily carried out • All activities will aim at optimally satisfying the long to meet the business needs of RBCT while, where and short term needs of various competencies necessary and possible, also addressing the wider required by RBCT. skills development needs of the country. Training and development at RBCT is delivered through the most appropriate medium for the organisation in Our focus is to facilitate continual operational line with national requirements. improvement through the development of intellectual capacity. Therefore it is our aim to provide everyone in In order to maximise the investment in our staff and RBCT with an environment in which they can flourish training development programs, managers and staff based on well-defined and developed competencies. who have attended training or development programs may be requested to provide mentorship and coaching Our process offers employees a clear purpose where necessary. and roles that will develop knowledge, skills and attributes in a focused manner while providing clear Specific policies and programs for skills management objectives that are linked to the concept of reward for or for lifelong learning are designed to empower performance. employees who aspire to be in management positions. Page 35 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People To achieve Operational Excellence, Superior People Performance becomes key to succeeding in a challenging business environment. As part of RBCT’s company-wide commitment to attract, develop and retain valuable talent, skills management programs are in place in all divisions. Average Hours of Training for 2016 The average hours of training per year per employee by Occupational Category of employee as at 31 December 2016 were: NB: While 10000 is not a standard category we have used this to show hours done by interns and trainees on SETA contracts. Occ. Category Occ. Cat. Text Total No. Staff Avg. Hours 1000 Legislators, senior officials and managers 1419 29 48.93 2000 Professionals 228 5 283.80 3000 Technicians and associate professionals 2824 72 19.71 4000 Clerks 2282 44 32.25 7000 Craft and related trades workers 6732 74 19.18 8000 Plant and machine operators and assemblers 7731 172 8.25 9000 Elementary occupations 7754 42 33.79 10000 Craft and related trades workers 7503 10 141.90 Plant and machine operators and assemblers 153 1 1419.00 Technicians and associate professionals 1636 12 118.25 Grand Total 38262 461 3.08 Staff Development RBCT’s career development strategies continued to focus on management development, supervisory and leadership development, the Employee Development Program (EDP), operator training, technical and general skills development of employees. The implementation of the coaching and mentoring processes are on-going. Management Development During 2016 the focus was on leaderComparison EDP, CORE and BMS last 5 years ship and growing the CORE skills of supervisors and potential supervisors. Map Assessments and 360 degree sessions followed up by training where completed for the DL and CU employees. Due to cost saving, programs such as MDP and FMP were put on hold except where people were completing programs. EDP Core BMS Management Development Program (MDP) RBCT continues to develop Management and Supervisory skills, through an intense Management Development Program aimed at creating critical management capacity amongst our employees. The main aim is to bridge gaps Page 36 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People in previous qualifications and to address those who areas of the community. We sponsor learners, in fields do not have any formal qualification, in particular in such as Engineering, Industrial Psychology, Finance, management science. The Formal Program being the Education and Nursing. Employment equity targets UNISA MDP and FMP programs, while Foundational require at least 80% of bursaries to be awarded to Skills are laid through more hands-on SAQA previously disadvantaged persons; during 2016 RBCT accredited skills programs at the Supervisory (CORE) achieved 100% in this area. and Management (BMS) levels. To ensure that bursars succeed in their studies, Employee Development Program (EDP) individual progress is monitored and assistance is provided where required. During holidays, bursars Having begun as a program for staff from previously work at RBCT where they are helped to grow their disadvantaged groups, this program has developed knowledge through practical application. This into a company-wide program, taking employment approach helps each bursar bridge the gap between equity requirements into account. The aim of the education and the world of business. program is to develop the core competencies required by employees making the transition to management or Closed Bursary Scheme supervisory positions. The key focus is on managing yourself and a project is identified, investigated As an extension of the bursary system, each year and where possible completed. After completion RBCT offers 20 study grants to employees’ children of this program, delegates present their projects to who are registered to study at a recognised tertiary the General Managers, those requiring further work institution, 50% of which should be focused on or CAPEX and deemed suitable are then further continued education. developed via the bright ideas system. Education Assistance Program Bursaries Employees have access to funding for part-time RBCT grants bursaries in various forms, Open Bursary education through our Education Assistance Scheme, Closed Bursary Scheme (Study Grants) and Programme (EAP) where RBCT pays for tuition and Staff Education Assistance. employees are only required to repay should they Open Bursary Scheme not pass the courses. This encourages employees to improve their knowledge and work-related skills and to RBCT grants bursaries to assist with sourcing and prepare them for the next step in their careers; 84 staff developing bright young talent in anticipation of members participated in this scheme during 2016. meeting our future skills requirements and in key Page 37 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People candidates were sent on the apprenticeship modules with the aim to write Section 28 Trade tests in 2015/16, depending on the individuals pace of learning and application of the skills. Technical Training Infrastructure With RBCT technical training being outsourced, it was identified that staff have difficulty transferring the knowledge learnt into plant specific equipment. Taking this into consideration, RBCT created a Technical Training Workshop during 2013, a mini substation, PLC racks and small conveyor system were completed to assist with Electrical Fault Finding and Apprenticeships and Traineeships a larger number of RBCT specific technical training programs were run with the aim to improve the quality At RBCT we have an apprenticeship system registered of artisans and reduce down time, based on a skills set with TETA (Transport Education and Training Authority); identified by line managers. During 2014/15 this was apprentices are registered with the MERSETA further developed to include backstops training and (Manufacturing, Engineering and Related SETA) via basic Hydraulics Training. During 2015 we applied for a Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) between the MERSETA accreditation, This was granted in March SETA’s. Bursars who have completed their Degrees 2016 and we have Trained the first pilot group of MA’s and Diplomas are often given opportunities to gain the in the center in 2016, reducing costs and disruption experience required. to the sections, by matching the release requirements of the line managers. This training will now to be In 2016, RBCT’s commitment was as follows: moderated by the MERSETA. Trainee Type Number Comment Bursar The centre is also used as an artisan assessment Millwright centre to test new artisan during the recruitment phase Apprentices 16 Apprentices ensuring they have the appropriate minimum skills. Electrical 1 Diploma Technician Y Plant Operator Traineeships Engineer Current maintenance RBCT also has a one year training program for ART/AIT assistants identified plant operators to ensure succession is in place 10 Trainees for artisan and operations are therefore not interrupted in the development event of a resignation. RBCT has reviewed and implemented Key Operations Training Programs as Electrical Diploma Technician 1 Y part of our ongoing continuous improvement program. Technician doing P1 and P2 A learnership in logistics was registered with the TETA and the first 6 Operations Trainees were registered Artisan Recognition Training/Artisan in Training (ART/AIT) and have completed the learnership, once again the outcomes need to be moderated by the TETA in 2017 The Artisan Recognition and Artisan in Training before a qualification will be awarded. program was introduced with potential Maintenance Assistants being selected for Artisan Training. These Training Accreditation Page 38 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People the existing workforce, by In addition to being accredited with the MERSETA for on-site training of minimising extra-ordinary hours Millwrights and Boilermaker Apprentices, RBCT is also a fully accredited of work and the reduction of training provider with the TETA for Operations Training courses that include associated costs. courses in Ship-loading, Bulldozing, Tipping, Stacking and Reclaiming, Shunting and Loco Operating. All trainees who undergo this training can In the 2016 financial year, have their credits registered on the National Learner Record Database. 48 new recruits, from local Assessments on the programs above are done by accredited line assessors communities, joined RBCT and with a training assessor in attendance. The assessments are then internally 5 employees were promoted to moderated and are further moderated by the TETA on an annual basis. senior roles, thus contributing During 2016 RBCT’s TETA accreditation was reviewed and renewed. to a reduction of unemployment Furthermore we had audits from the Auditor General and the TETA on figures and boosting the local Discretionary Grants, with no findings. economy. Our People Remuneration Policy Recruitment and Selection Our remuneration policy is based on decision making Recruitment and selection forms a core part of the central activities model and employee underlying human resource management, including but not limited to, talent performance. In our effort to attraction, employee remuneration, training and development. All these ensure that the Company’s activities play a supportive role towards RBCT’s operational strategy. In an remuneration philosophy increasingly global competetive market there is a constant endeavour for remains competitive, every operational efficiencies, the role of recruiters becomes more pressurised, as aspect within the remuneration they are expected to identify and recruit people with high-quality skills and framework is: capacity to deliver and achieve RBCT’s goals and objectives. • Analysed – remuneration Hiring a competent workforce is of paramount importance and this is packages are designed to meet each job task intended purposes and how it would Actual Manpower serve RBCT’s performance. • Quantified – the remuneration framework is based on meeting Company and employee needs and to find common business rationale. • Compared – participation in salary surveys and local benchmark enables AM CM IM WM AF CF IF WF the Company to attract Top Management 2 0 1 1 2 0 0 0 talent and retain key skills. Benefits of comparing our Senior Management 3 1 5 5 3 0 2 2 remuneration framework and Professionally qualified 22 3 14 3 5 0 0 1 strategy play a major role in Skilled technical 71 4 15 34 31 3 7 12 our IR climate. Semi-skilled 117 7 10 20 33 7 3 13 • Monitored – remuneration philosophy is a dynamic Unskilled 12 1 1 0 7 1 1 0 practice that is permeable to external factors that could influence internal decision dependent on effective recruitment and selection procedures and practices. making in this regard. It is through these procedures and practices that we were able to identify Therefore, RBCT constantly job candidates with the right skills, right behavioural traits for the right jobs. monitors these factors, such Another important factor in the recruitment and selection process is the speed as, statutory changes and of closing vacancies. Recruitment speed could translate into better use of other employee benefits that Page 39 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People could affect the Company’s remuneration philosophy and its ability to compete for skills. Employment Equity Analysis • Communicated – where needs be, changes in the remuneration philosophy were communicated clearly and timeously. Monthly and annual performance achievements are communicated to keep employees abreast of company performance. The communication motivates employees to identify under-performing areas, whilst sustaining good performance. Employment Equity Diversity and transformation are critical imperatives in the company. Significant progress has been made in building a more representative workforce. We continue to identify occupational levels that are having challenges in meeting and maintaining EE targets. Our new EE Plan commenced in October 2016 and ends in September 2019. The under-achieving occupational levels, in relation to 2016, were reported to management, to sensitise them on the potential Top management Semi-skilled impact on the 2016 2019 EE Plan. Senior management Unskilled Professionally qualified NEAP Skilled technical PEAP Page 40 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People Pensioners’ Lunch RBCT honored all retirees on the 27 September. It has become RBCT custom to host an annual pensioners lunch with their retirees. Page 41 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People LAB LAUNCH On Wednesday, 22 June 2016 Richards Bay Coal Terminal (RBCT) unveiled a new world class coal sampling laboratory. This is a R49-million, state-of-the-art laboratory which will bring a 25% improvement in sample turnaround time. This top-notch facility was built in partnership with a leading sampling service provider SGS South Africa. CETOA RBCT hosted the 16th assembly of the Coal Exporting Terminal Operators Association event with members from different terminals across the globe, facilitating exchange and sharing of best practice management. All in attendance had a memorable experience. Page 42 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People 40th Anniversary Imbizo RBCT commemorated their 40th anniversary on 1 April 2016. It was a prestigious day where a host of events were planned to mark the occasion, reflecting upon the companies achievements and its evolution over the last 40 years. This landmark year serves an an indication of economic development, job creation, skills development and the importance of sustainable development and the harmonious relationship between communities and the environment. The real heroes of the celebration where honored , the employees, who have worked so hard to achieve their current goals. The 40 year celebration was really a show stopping event and will go down as one of the greatest functions on the RBCT calendar. Page 43 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Valuing and Empowering our People ZCCI Business Excellence Awards The prestigious Business Excellence Awards held on 27 October is a platform established by the Zululand Chamber of Commerce and Industry (ZCCI) to highlight and celebrate the outstanding performance and results achieved by local businesses. RBCT was awarded the Premium Award for the Night being the Company to have received the most awards of the evening. Well Done to the RBCT team for flying the RBCT flag high we do not just move coal, we move it with zeal, passion and dedication. These Accolades are testament to the passion of the people of RBCT. We came first in the following categories: • SABCOHA WELLNESS AWARD • LOGISTICS BUSINESS OF THE YEAR • SAFETY AWARENESS AWARD We were runners up in the following awards: • EMPLOYER OF THE YEAR AWARD • CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AWARD Page 44 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Delivering Sustainable Social Value Delivering Sustainable Social Value ENGAGING OUR COMMUNITIES THROUGH CORPORATE environment, crime prevention, HIV/Aids as well SOCIAL INVESTMENTS as sport development. Our employees also play a significant role through our CSI Committee, consisting As part of our commitment of being a responsible of volunteers from all levels within the company, as corporate citizen, it is our policy to conduct business in well as union and employee representatives. Our a manner that is compatible with the economic, social main aim is to promote the development of self reliant and environmental needs of the communities in which communities and to facilitate sustainable community we operate. development programmes. RBCT’s corporate social investment strategy plays a The CSI committee is guided by the CSI procedure constructive role in enhancing the quality of life in the that is in place. Strict adherence to the CSI procedure communities within which our people live. The purpose is maintained and followed when making a decision of CSI at RBCT is to promote the development of pertaining to funding of projects. Again, committee the quality of the underprivileged communities living members are required to, from time to time, plan visits around us. to projects to monitor the progress and make further recommendations where applicable. Our criteria for Over the past few years, RBCT’s approach to Sociofunding of projects are as follows: Economic Development (SED) has moved towards a philosophy that is fully accountable and geared • It must benefit a wider community towards providing sustainable solutions to real needs • It must be developmental in nature identified in the community. The success of this • It must be sustainable philosophy hinges on the recognition that any social involvement should make a meaningful improvement Our Commitment to the lives of the people and communities that it is designed to benefit. Our slogan, “Coal to the world, growth to the nation” depicts our sustainable commitment to community Our primary focus is on education, early childhood development over the years. Our aim is to participate development, skills development, community welfare, in programmes that benefit the wider community and Trees for Life Project Page 45 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Delivering Sustainable Social Value sustainable projects that can build a better South Africa. In 2016 we recognised the need to focus on early childhood development, education and environment. Due to the Water Shortages we faced, we regarded this as an integral component in building a better future and life for all. RBCT’s CSI Investment Our relationship with our local community has been substantially boosted by various social involvement initiatives: Trees for Life Facelift for Ikhwezi Welfare Organisation RBCT currently sponsors over 850 learners identified from the Dube and Esikhawini In 2016, RBCT once again supported this project by areas to participate in the Indigenous Trees for Life donating R350 000 to the Wildlands Conservation project which is run by the Wildlands Conservation Trust who oversees the management and long term Trust. This really shows that RBCT does not only make sustainability of this project. The handover took place a difference to the lives of people, but also to the at Ntabeni Primary School in December 2016 and the environment. Each year RBCT is a catalyst for many Ndidima community was there in large numbers to be Treepreneurs to be able to feed their families, buy part of this annual occasion. school uniforms, receive bicycles, and purchase basic building materials for their homes. This is achieved Ntabeni Primary School by Treepreneurs growing indigenous trees and then exchanging the trees for items or consumables they Prior to RBCT’s involvement with Ntabeni Primary need. The project aimed at giving the poorest of the School, lessons were conducted under a tree. Over poor the opportunity to literally “grow” their way out of the years RBCT, through the CSI Committee has poverty. assisted the school to the value of over R4.5 million for the construction of classrooms, ablution facilities, playground equipment, fencing, a kitchen, an administration block as well as a fully equipped computer centre. Currently, more than 850 students are registered at the school which is a truly remarkable achievement for the community of Ndidima, clearly depicting RBCT’s commitment to community development. Umfolozi College Training Aids Handover Page 46 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Delivering Sustainable Social Value Facelift for Ikhwezi Welfare Organisation RBCT supported Ikhwezi welfare organisation with much required paintwork on their buildings to the value of R169 000. This is a home for the elderly as well as children and youth who are living with a disability (mental and physical). Taking firm action to address imbalances by caring for the previously Amangwe Village disadvantaged is a journey that RBCT continues with tirelessly. taken towards saving water. Walk for Water Amangwe Village RBCT was one of the local businesses who stepped RBCT once again showed commitment to Amangwe up to help answer the desperate calls for water from Village by donating R350 000 in 2016. Amangwe communities heavily affected by the drought. Five local Village renders services to people infected by HIV/Aids schools who entered the Walk for Water best saving through strengthening communities by implementing initiative competition won Jojo water tanks, two of activities that will enable and empower communities to which were sponsored by RBCT. These donations will take care of their vulnerable members. help the schools minimize the effects of the drought. The funds will be used to support numerous projects Jojo Tanks Handovers run by Amangwe including home based care, self help groups, HIV Aids awareness and early childhood RBCT handed over 2 Jojo Tanks to the winners of development to name a few. the Walk for Water competition. One was donated to Arboretum Primary School and the other to Enhlanzini Eniwe Primary School Shoes Project Primary School. Both school principals thanked RBCT for being a responsible corporate citizen and for In May 2016, RBCT came to the aid of Eniwe Primary doing their part in the fight to save water as the City of School by responding to the plight of the Faith, Hope Umhlathuze were badly affected by the drought and and Love organisation (FHL) to support Eniwe by thus every citizen needed to take accountability for donating 342 pairs of school shoes to learners in need. saving water. They applauded RBCT for the initiatives Jojo Tanks Handovers Eniwe Primary School Shoes Project Page 47 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Delivering Sustainable Social Value Thambolini High School – School Desks Project RBCT supported a science school by the name of Thambolini High School situated at Esikhawini. The donation comprised of 10 x Desktop computers as well as 180 school desks and chairs to the value of R208 000. RBCT highlighted the importance of supporting education to the local schools because it is in their best interest to invest significantly in education spectrum as these are our future employees and entrepreneurs. Umfolozi Tvet College Thambolini High School RBCT donated training aids to the value of R150 000 to the 29 visually impaired learners at the Umfolozi Tvet College in Esikhawini. These training aids will afford them an equal opportunity towards further Training and Development. Zimeme High School RBCT assisted in keeping a girl child in school when they donated sanitary towels to girl learners at Zimeme High School in Kwa Dlangezwa. Research has shown that at least nine million girls aged between 13 and 19 miss a week of school every month due to lack of sanitary pads. They further supported the school by donating a photocopy machine as well as 3 desktop Zimeme High School computers to the school. Mobile Libraries As part of Mandela Day initiative, RBCT donated 3 mobile libraries to the value of R100 786 to local primary schools. These were: • Floraton Primary School (Aquadene) • Nguluzana Primary School (Enseleni) • Ntabeni Primary School ( Ndindima Reserve Esikhawini) All donated mobile libraries were branded according to the individual school and have the artwork quote “Education is the most powerful weapon we can use to change the world” Nelson Mandela. Mobile Libraries Page 48 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Delivering Sustainable Social Value Annual Standard Donations • Uthungulu Community Foundation • Pathways School for Autism RBCT fully understands that it is operating within local • Business Against Crime communities and thus always strives to ensure growth • Hluhluwe Hilltop Honorary through its community development initiatives. • Ikhaya Likababa • Izulu Orphan Projects In September 2016, RBCT invested an amount of • Richards Bay Round Table R747 500 in its local communities through the annual • Richards Bay Sea Scouts standard donations. These funds go a long way in • Richards Bay Rotary Club helping charities with all the wonderful work that they do in the communities. 2016 TOTAL BUDGET SPENT = R3 079 409 The receiving charities were: • Richards Bay Family Care 52 000 • Empangeni Family Care • Richards Bay SPCA Community • Zululand SPCA Welfare • The SA Red Cross Society • SANCA Zululand 1 014 996 1 130 115 Early Childhood • National Sea Rescue • Siyabonga Shelter Development • Thuthukani Special School • Zululand Mental Health Education • Zululand Hospice 882 297 • Life Line Zululand Other • University of Zululand Science Centre • DICE Annual Standard Donations Page 49 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development Driving Enterprise and Supplier Development Procurement Where commercial criteria are the same, preference is given to the higher BBBEE rated supplier. RBCT 2016 has been a challenging yet rewarding year within does not pay a premium to empowered companies, RBCT’s procurement environment. There has been as commercial competitiveness is a key determinant increased procurement activity due to the extensive in decision making. From time to time, RBCT may Capital Projects spend, combined with understanding require long-term contractors and suppliers to share and executing on the initiatives aligned to the changes their plans to maintain and improve their empowerment within the elements of the Department of Trade and ratings. Industry’s Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Codes of Best Practice. RBCT has worked Standard Procurement Criteria closely with our suppliers to ensure compliance • Compliance with RBCT’s health, safety and thereby embracing the changes within the codes environmental standards and assisting in the empowerment of our business • Adherence to RBCT’s quality specifications partners. • Competitive market related pricing • Valid BBBEE verification certificate Aligned with driving sustainability in the Zululand • Service excellence environment, procurement preference is often focused on local suppliers with additional considerations to the Enterprise and Supplier Development small and medium enterprise categories where ever possible. Enterprise development remains a key focus at RBCT, and one of our ongoing initiatives facilitated through RBCT has actively and progressively driven our shareholders was making available four million preferential procurement spend for the past 14 years tons of export capacity to junior miners at commercially and insists on suppliers providing approved verification attractive rates. The allocation of the four million ton certificates to ensure compliance within the Codes. capacity is managed by the Department of Mineral We maintain an extensive, customized database in Resources. our SAP system and are able to continuously improve our position with up to date and reliable statistics on This means that junior miners can now have access to the various criteria as defined in the codes. Decision export markets through RBCT, and maintain improved making is therefore easily facilitated when considering operational performance and profitability within their elements such as black ownership, as well as black businesses. The South African export facilities are woman controlled businesses that are suppliers or often constrained due to infrastructure challenges, so potential suppliers to RBCT. To ensure maximum the allocation of this capacity contributes significantly procurement spend contributes towards RBCT’s to enterprise development within the mining empowerment performance, it is our preference to environment. engage with businesses that maintain a minimum level four BBBEE rating. Supplier and Enterprise developments initiatives within the procurement area further contribute to RBCT’s B-BBEE Procurement Spend 2004 2016 responsible procurement strategy. We partner with Black owned micro enterprises and qualifying small enterprises that are both suppliers and potential suppliers to RBCT in developing self sufficient business partners. This is achieved through working with committed suppliers, and ensuring that the all selection criteria are adhered to. Due to the nature of the terminal’s maintenance spend being predominantly on specialized high quality engineering items, managing the achievement of the quality standards and specifications presents RBCT with good mentoring opportunities to develop and grow the skills within our suppliers. Page 50 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Glossary Glossary Aids Acquired Immune Deficiency CURA Governance Risk and Compliance Syndrome, a disease of the immune Software/Enterprise Risk and system caused by HIV infection Compliance Software AIT Artisan in Training DID LOWER This is a grading statement level, a level assigned to a manager ART Artisan Recognition Training responsible for the department ARV Anti-retroviral DWS Department of Water and Sanitation BBBEE Broad-based black economic EAP Education Assistance Programme empowerment. This represents a broadening of earlier BEE (see below) EDP Employee Development Programme policy and attempts to spread the benefits of economic empowerment to EE Employment Equity the widest possible spectrum of black South Africans EECC Employment Equity Consultative Committee BMI Body Mass Index ESUP An Offsite storage dam known as BMS Best Management Skills ESUP Dam BP Blood Pressure EWP Employee Wellness Programme BTT Bidvest Tank Terminals FHL Faith Hope and Love Organization CAPEX Capital Expenditure FINCO Finance Committee Fuels Diesel, petrol and paraffin consumed by processes CEO Chief Executive Officer and utilities CEP Coal Exporting Parties FMP Fundamental Management Program CETOA Coal Exporting Terminal Operators GM General Manager Association HIV/Aids Human immunodeficiency virus/ COBRA Change of behaviour reduces acquired immune deficiency syndrome Accidents HRA Health Risk Assessment CSI Corporate Social Investment HSEC Health, Safety, Environment and CU-C UPPER This is a grading statement level, Community a level assigned to a manager responsible for the department IDPS Individual Development Programs Page 51 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Glossary IMBIZO An open forum chaired by the CEO to LTIFR Lost-time injury-frequency rate. The address all employees on business number of lost-time injuries (see performance and all key matters. above) per 200,000 hours worked. ISO International Standard for Organisation. MDP Management Development Programme Published in 1996 by the International MERSETA Manufacturing, Engineering and Organisation for 14001 Environmental Related SETA Standardisation, it specifies the actual requirements for an environmental MI Minor Injury management system. MIFR Minor Injury Frequency Rate ISO 14000 An environmental management system standard published by the ISO MOA Memorandum of Agreement IWWMP Integrated Waste and Water Mt Million Tons Management Plan Mt/a Million ton per annum JLT Jardin Lloyd Thompson NEAP National Economically active King Report The King Report on Corporate Population Governance is a ground-breaking booklet of guidelines for the NIHL Noise-induced Hearing Loss governance structures and operation of companies in South Africa. It is OHS Organisational Health Survey issued by the King Committee on Corporate Governance. The Institute OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety of Directors in Southern Africa (IoDSA) Assessment Specification owns the copyright of the King Report on Corporate Governance and the OPCO Operations Committee King Code of Corporate Governance. Compliance with the King Reports is OREP Occupational Risk and Exposure a requirement for companies listed on Profiles the Johannesburg Stock Exchange PEAP Provincial Economically Active LT Lost-time injury. Refers to an injury Population resulting in the injured person being PHC Primary Healthcare Management unable to attend/return to work to perform the full duties of his/her regular PLC Programmable Logic Controller work, as per the advice of a suitably qualified medical professional, on the PLR Port Load Rate next calendar day after the injury. Page 52 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Glossary PM2.5 is particulate matter 2.5 micrometers or TFR Transnet Freight Rail less in diameter TIFR Total Injury Frequency Rate PM10 is particulate matter 10 micrometers or less in diameter TLR Terminal Load Rate PoPi Protection of Personal information TNPA Transnet National Port Authority PROCOM Projects Committee TTT Train Turnaround Time RBCT Richards Bay Coal Terminal UNAIDS The Joint United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS RDC20 A dust suppressant used onsite to suppress dust on the ground VSLS Vessels REMCO Remunerations Committee WDMS Wellness and Disease Management System RSR Railway Safety Regulator WUL Water Use License SABCOHA SA Business Coalition on Health and Aids ZCCI Zululand Chamber of Commerce and Industry SANS South African National Standard SECOM Social and Ethic Committee SED Socio-Economic Development SETA Sector Education and Training Authority SGS Societe Generale Surveillance SHE Safety, Health and the Environment SMS Short Message Sending SPCA Society of Prevention to Cruelty to Animals S.A TB Tuberculosis TETA Transport Education Training Authority Page 53 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Boundary and Scope of this Report Boundary and scope of this report The 2016 Sustainability Report covers the period 1 January to 31 December 2016. This report shows a brief analysis of the companies operational logistics and performances in the following criteria’s. • The Health and Safety of employees and the environmental impact on surrounding areas. • Strategies and policies that have been implemented to achieve optimal results in the above regard. • Current goals that have been achieved and future goals to be obtained. • Outreach program’s, delivering social value by giving back to schools and charities, empowering local communities. Structure of the board and Management, Employee and Recruitment program’s. • Operational Activities such as: Rail performance, Coal is handled effectively and efficiently once it is in our possession from the TFR, no data has been captured for this report on derailments as it is not a direct part of our operational activities. Shipping performance, The arrival and departure of all vessels is managed and coordinated by the TNPA. The quality and analysis processes of the coal is excluded from this report as it is conducted independently by an on-site laboratory. Page 54 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation Page 55 Coal to the World, Growth to the Nation To share your views or comments, contact: Corporate Affairs Department Richards Bay Coal Terminal (Pty) Limited South Dunes, Richards Bay Harbour P O Box 56, Richards Bay, 3900 Tel: 035 904 4122 Email: communications@rbct.co.za Visit our website: www.rbct.co.za
