AKE R BIO MAR INE IMPROVING HUMAN AND PLANETARY HEALTH ANNUAL R E PO R T 20 16 A K ER BI OMA RI NE I S A LEA DI NG S UPPLI ER OF K RI LL-DERI V ED P RO DUCTS TO THE C ONS UMER HEA LTH A ND WELLNES S A ND A NI MA L NUT RI TI O N M ARK ETS. TABLE OF CONTENTS PERFORMANCE AND OUTLOOK 10 Key Figures 13 Highlights 14 CEO’s Letter THIS IS AKER BIOMARINE 20 Business Model 24 Strategic Focus Areas 26 Risks and Opportunities 29 Sales and Marketing 37 Science and Innovation 43 Cost and Quality 53 People and Purpose HUMAN HEALTH MATTERS 60 A Window to Your State of Health 64 Krill Challenge for the World's Toughest 66 Securing Growth and Quality in Farmed Fish 70 A Dog as Part of Your Health Plan PLANETARY HEALTH MATTERS 74 Krill in the Antarctic Ecosystem 76 Self-Imposed Scrutiny 80 A Force for Good 82 Taking Care of Your Workplace 84 Carbon Footprint Reduction in Sight PROFIT MATTERS 88 Aligning Profitability and Sustainability 90 Corporate Governance 94 Board of Directors' Report CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS 102 Financial Performance 125 Social Performance 127 Environmental Performance This report follows the principles of the UN Global Compact, the International Integrated Reporting Council’s IR framework (IIRC), and the Global Reporting Initiative’s sustainability standard (GRI-G4). OUR MISSION We improve human 6 and planetary health 8 Performance and Outlook 2016 Key We believe in a world where all have access to quality nutrition and good health without Figures compromising the future of our planet. PEOPLE PROFIT Total revenues and other income (USD thousand) Profit for the year (USD thousand) 2016 116,737 2016 (2,055) 282 23% 25 Number of Gender Number of 2015 105,121 2015 805 employees balance nationalities 2014 112,299 2014 (17,258) 2013 117,198 2013 (19,340) 2012 81,121 2012 (31,759) PLANET EBITDA (USD thousand) EBITDA-margin (%) 1.6 million 15.5 million 6.0 million 25.7 million 35.5 million 2% 13% 5% 24% 30% 152,190 2 million USD 2010–2020 Krill Catch Research Sustainable (tonnes) Antarctic Ecosystem Certified by MSC 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 10 TH I S I S A KE R BI O MA RI NE Business Office travel Oslo, Norway 622 tonnes CO₂ EUROPE 54 USD million in revenues Factory & sales Electricity offices Houston, Texas 12 tonnes CO₂ UNITED STATES 33 USD million in revenues Natural gas and electricity 7,615 tonnes CO₂ Sales OTHER REGIONS 6 USD million in revenues Logistics Hub Montevideo, Uruguay Electricity warehouses 19 tonnes CO₂ Sales ASIA AND AUSTRALIA 57 USD million in revenues Transportation Fishery of goods Southern Ocean 140,768 tonnes CO₂ Fuel use 64,575 tonnes CO₂ 11 H I GH LI GH TS 12 H I GH LI GH TS 2016 IMPROVED FINANCIAL RESULTS U.S. ARMY RANGERS “STRESS-TEST” KRILL OIL In 2016, ten years after its establishment, Aker BioMarine Scientists from the Medical University of South Carolina generated revenues of USD 117 million, which yielded an (MUSC) and the National Institutes of Health launched a Highlights EBITDA of USD 36 million. The company managed to grow comprehensive research study to evaluate the effects of its sales and improve its operations in the still-challenging Aker BioMarine’s krill oil omega-3 phospholipids on the omega-3 market. resilience and performance of more than 400 recruits at the U.S. Army Infantry Basic Officer Leadership Course and SUPERBA BOOST LAUNCHED the U.S. Army Ranger Training School. – TASTE AND SMELL FACTORS IMPROVED Aker BioMarine launched its first krill oil concentrate, AKER BIOMARINE AND NEPTUNE REACH PATENT ACCORD ­Superba Boost in 2016. The pure Antarctic krill product Neptune Technologies & Bioressources Inc. and Aker contains significantly more phospholipids and omega-3s BioMarine entered into a settlement and patent cross-­ than previous product generations. Superba Boost tastes licensing agreement, thus ending all outstanding litigation and smells better, and just two capsules deliver the between the companies. The 2016 agreement concludes ­benefits of four EU-authorized health claims. patent disputes and facilitates both companies’ growth and business value creation. SUPERBA LANDS NOVEL FOOD APPROVAL In 2016, Superba received Novel Food Approval for AKER BIOMARINE LEADS GLOBAL OMEGA-3 AWARENESS ­extended use. Carrying Novel Foods Approval and EU-­ Aker BioMarine kicked off the Omega-3 Index Project authorized health claims, the new Superba Boost krill with several industry partners in 2016 to promote greater concentrate can seize many market opportunities for Aker awareness of health issues associated with low omega-3 BioMarine and its customers. levels, which is a global health concern. Studies worldwide indicate that most people are omega-3 HOUSTON MANUFACTURING PLANT deficient. That’s why Aker BioMarine and its O3i project – NOW 100 PERCENT OWNED partners are informing the public about the risks inherent Aker BioMarine acquired complete ownership of the in having a low Omega-3 Index – and recommend company’s krill-products manufacturing facility in Houston, remedial action. Texas, by purchasing the 50 percent joint-venture interest held by extracts specialist Naturex in 2016. The ultra-modern AKER BIOMARINE’S YOUNG TALENTS AWARDED 180,000 square foot facility enables Aker BioMarine to expand Three Aker BioMarine employees received Young its product range, improve quality and delivery volume. Leadership Talents “Top-10” awards. Aker BioMarine was the only company in Norway to receive so many awards. “A” RATING FROM SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES PARTNERSHIP A strategic pillar of Aker BioMarine’s business model is the For the second year in a row, Aker BioMarine received an commitment to foster employee talent and development. “A” rating from the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership (SFP). The NGO’s annual sustainability review of reduction fisheries for 2016 confirmed, as in the previous year, that a mere 3.8 percent of the total global catch volume of reduction fisheries comes from stocks in “very good condition.” That figure corresponds solely to the catch of Antarctic krill. 13 C E O ’ S LE T TE R Challenges In 33 years, there will be 10 billion people on this planet, including heart and brain-related issues. In 2016, about one which means food production will need to increase by 69 billion doses of Superba Krill were sold worldwide, improving percent in the same period. This is in addition to already the health of millions of people. A 2016 study published Accepted stretching Earth’s resources. According to The Global by Food Supplements Europe demonstrated that for every Footprint Network, we are already consuming 60 percent Euro a consumer spends on omega-3 products, savings more resources than what is renewed each year. of €2.3 are generated in the healthcare system. Based on this estimate, Aker BioMarine potentially reduced society’s We might feel that we are getting healthier, going to the healthcare costs by more than USD 1 billion in 2016. gym, drinking our smoothies, but the reality is the opposite. Statistics show that we are becoming unhealthier because PRODUCING AND CONSUMING RESPONSIBLY Managing and developing a business of the lifestyles we choose to live. Currently, lifestyle diseases With help from our peers, suppliers, and customers, we are overwhelming people as well as society at large. A report are taking steps to reduce our environmental footprint such as Aker BioMarine is challenging. from the World Economic Forum says that during the next throughout our entire value chain. In 2016, we mapped the But the challenges we are up against 15 years healthcare costs related to treating lifestyle diseases company’s global energy consumption and greenhouse gas to secure health and wellbeing for will accumulate to more than USD 22 trillion globally. emissions, and in 2017 we will continue our journey to make our company even greener. Our next goal is to complete a generations to come are massive. THERE IS HOPE comprehensive review of our waste streams and water use. The future looks gloomy right now, but what if we could find a way to change it? That’s what we are striving to do at Aker THE NEW STANDARD FOR SUSTAINABLE HARVESTING BioMarine, starting out with oceans. Seventy percent of The Antarctic krill fishery is one of the world’s most the planet’s surface is covered by oceans, but it accounts sustainable fisheries. Aker BioMarine is specifically noted for just two percent of the calories we consume and is for near-zero by-catch, fully transparent operations, and a source for less than 0.5 percent of all pharmaceutical MSC certification, the highest sustainability standard for products. We need to look toward our oceans for solutions. fisheries worldwide. In 2016, for the second year in a row, the krill fishery received an “A” rating from the Sustainable Businesses that are addressing the global challenges today Fisheries Partnership as the only reduction fishery in the will be more profitable and have greater growth potential in world in “very good” condition. the future. That’s why Aker BioMarine’s products, strategy and mission are focused on solving the global challenges. BUSINESS CHALLENGES FOR AKER BIOMARINE Pioneering is demanding. For every victory, there are CONTRIBUTING TO MORE EFFICIENT FOOD PRODUCTION numerous disappointments. 2016 was a year with both Aker BioMarine’s QRILL Aqua products are documented disappointments and great victories. to drive growth and enhance health and quality of farmed marine species. For example, our feed ingredients helped The omega-3 market where we compete with our Superba boost our customers’ salmon production by an additional ingredient continued to be weak. Lack of market growth and 175 million servings in 2016. tough competition resulted in decline in our nutraceutical business. When the headwinds were the strongest, we HELPING PREVENT LIFESTYLE DISEASES decided to invest in innovations – innovations that were The unique phospholipid-bound omega-3s in our Superba demanding for our organization to implement within our Krill Oil products reduce the risk of several lifestyle diseases, ambitious timelines and costly for our company. But new 14 C E O ’ S LE T TE R innovations have paid off and in 2016 we successfully launched our new Superba products with the objective to turn around our nutraceutical business. Growing global aquaculture production at high prices resulted in a good year for our aquaculture business. Strengt­hened scientific documentation of the QRILL products and positive customer experiences have lifted demand. Across all of our product divisions, we have shifted gears regarding the way we work with customers. It is not enough to just deliver an attractive ingredient, we also need to provide relevant market insights, marketing and product ideas and contribute actively to our customers’ success. In 2016 we started transforming our sales and marketing functions to build relevant content and stronger, interactive customer relationships. Even if 2016 was a good year for Aker BioMarine, with USD 117 million in revenue and USD 35.6 million in EBITDA, we posted slightly negative earnings after tax. The investments needed to build a supply chain for krill-based products, the resources needed to innovate and document their biological effects, and the time needed to develop new markets are reflected in our earnings. Having a supportive owner in Aker ASA that has a long-term vision has been vital to Aker BioMarine’s development. In 2016 we became stronger both financially and organizationally and we are ready for the new challenges and victories ahead. MATTS JOHANSEN CEO, AKER BIOMARINE 15 16 17 18 This is Aker BioMarine TH I S I S A KE R BI O MA RI NE Global Strategic Challenges Direction Opportunities Aker BioMarine has decided to use the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to guide its strategy. In 2016, all employees were engaged in the process of integrating the goals. The company has prioritized four SDGs. RESOURCE SCARCITY NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES Feeding the world’s growing population increasingly Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are disorders demands ­resource-efficient, low-carbon food that cannot be passed from person to person, and the systems. Diets are shifting, replacing meat with four main types are cardiovascular diseases, cancers, less carbon-intensive substitutes from fishing and diabetes, and chronic respiratory diseases. Every year agriculture. Meanwhile 75 percent of global fish 37 million lives are lost to NCDs, of which 42 percent stocks are either overfished or fished to its capacity. is lost before the age of 70 and can be prevented by making healthy lifestyle choices. SDG 2 SDG 3 End hunger, achieve food Ensure healthy lives and security and improved nutrition promote well-being for all at and promote ­sustainable all ages Risks agriculture CLIMATE CHANGE LOSS OF BIODIVERSITY From 1880 to 2012, the average global temperature Biological diversity in the oceans has decreased SDG 12 SDG 14 increased by 0.85°C. Oceans have warmed, the dramatically since ­industrialization began in the 19th amounts of snow and ice have diminished, and sea century. Primary causes for the losses include the Ensure sustainable consumption Conserve and sustainably use levels have risen. Ocean acidification, resulting from destruction of habitats by trawler fishing, fishing and and production patterns the oceans, seas and marine more carbon d ­ ioxide in the atmosphere, changes pollution of the seas, as well as the steady progress resources for ­sustainable the oceans’ chemistry and disrupts the biome’s of climate change. Biological diversity is probably development plant life and the ability of animals to form shells and declining more rapidly than ever before in the history ­skeletons of calcium carbonate, and dissolves shells of the Earth. and reefs already formed. 20 TH I S I S A KE R BI O MA RI NE Strategic Resources Focus Areas Aker BioMarine outlined its strategic focus areas in 2015, 01 HUMAN CAPITAL 04 INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL with the collective goal of strengthening its growth and People and purpose are central to Aker BioMarine’s Innovation is part of Aker BioMarine’s DNA. From solving global challenges. strategy. The company recognizes that engaged pioneering the Eco-Harvesting system to developing employees are a core asset. The employee journey new extraction technology, Aker BioMarine proudly is designed to ensure that all employees receive credits its people for their in-house innovation. necessary support, are empowered in their daily Intellectual property rights are protected through the work, and have ample opportunities to grow. company’s patent and copyright strategy. COST & 02 NATURAL CAPITAL 05 MANUFACTURED CAPITAL QUALITY Aker BioMarine harvests Antarctic krill in the Aker BioMarine has made major infrastructure Southern Ocean. The company safeguards the krill investments throughout the value chain. Capital biomass and the sustainability of the krill fishery investments span from the company’s Antarctic by adhering to the most stringent sustainability factory trawlers to port facilities in Montevideo, the standards for wild-caught fisheries, as determined factory in Houston, and all the way to customers by the Marine Stewardship Council. Additionally, worldwide. Aker BioMarine leases warehouses Aker BioMarine facilitates and promotes research and office space at headquarters in Oslo and sales on the entire Antarctic ecosystem through the offices in the United States, Australia, and Asia. The Antarctic Wildlife Research Fund, which the company company’s two krill vessels, the Antarctic cargo PEOPLE & established with WWF-Norway and the Antarctic and freighter, and the new manufacturing plant in Houston PURPOSE Southern Ocean Coalition (ASOC). are wholly owned by the company. 03 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL 06 FINANCIAL CAPITAL SALES & SCIENCE & MARKETING INNOVATION Fishing in Antarctic waters requires good relationships Aker BioMarine appreciates having a dedicated with governmental and regulatory agencies, the owner who never lost faith in the krill fishery. research community, and environmental NGOs. Aker Powerful financial muscles have been required to BioMarine is attentive to these key stakeholders to reach the scale at which the company now operates. ensure the fishery’s future. Antarctic fishing licenses Strong financial backing has been essential to are issued by national governments. Aker BioMarine achieving across-the-board excellence in Aker holds Antarctic krill fishing licenses issued by Norway. BioMarine’s capital resources, as described above. At Aker BioMarine, there is no doubt that strong financial and sustainable performance are interlinked and reinforce each other. 21 TH I S I S A KE R BI O MA RI NE Our Value Creation Products in Society SUPERBATM KRILL ANTARCTIC ECOSYSTEM RESEARCH Aker BioMarine’s Superba Krill Oil Sound research covering the entire Antarctic marine ecosystem is vital for Aker BioMarine’s is a pure, natural source of health business. Along with ensuring responsible harvesting of the Southern Ocean’s krill biomass, promoting omega-3s. The unique Aker BioMarine established the Antarctic Wildlife Research Fund together with WWF-Norway phospholipid-bound EPA and DHA and The Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalitiion (ASOC) to promote and facilitate research on are documented to be a readily the Antarctic ecosystem. absorbable source of the important long-chain omega-3s. The Superba SCIENCE BOOSTING AWARENESS Krill Oil contributes to a balanced diet and supports a healthy lifestyle, In 2016, Aker BioMarine spent 5 percent of its revenues on science and innovation projects. boosting heart, brain, and joint Such funding builds scientific knowledge and has the potential to spur popular awareness and health. consumption of omega-3. The company launched a research study to evaluate the effects of Aker BioMarine’s krill oil omega-3s on the resilience and performance of some of the world’s toughest Army recruits. Hopefully, the study will motivate a younger generation to boost their QRILLTM AQUA omega-3 levels. Aker BioMarine produces nutrient­ rich feed ingredients made from PROMOTING INDUSTRY RESPONSIBILITY Antarctic krill that increase aqua­ In a united krill-industry drive, Aker BioMarine is promoting effective sustainability practices culture efficiency. QRILL Aqua through the Association of Responsible Krill Harvesting Companies (ARK). Efforts in 2016 products promote faster growth and include the implementation of a voluntary no-fishing zone around penguin colonies threatened enhance the health and quality of by climate change. farmed marine species. PREVENTION OF LIFESTYLE DISEASES QRILLTM PET More than 80 percent of the world’s population is deficient in omega-3. Adequate o ­ mega-3 ­intake is considered important to maintaining a healthy lifestyle that can help prevent Made of whole dried Antarctic krill, ­non-communicable diseases (NCDs). In 2016, Aker BioMarine delivered one billion doses of QRILL Pet is a functional ingredient Superba Krill to the market. for pet food. Products enriched with QRILL Pet provide natural source of omega-3 fatty acids, marine BETTER RESOURCE UTILIZATION proteins and the powerful a ­ nti­ oxidant ­astaxanthin. The ingredient In 2016 alone, fish farmers using Aker BioMarine’s krill meal produced an additional 175 million offers great health benefits for pets, servings of salmon – without increasing the amount of feed they used. An independent study ­including healthy organs, joints conducted by the research institute Nofima, showed that farmed salmon grow 10–25 percent and fur. faster due to the company’s feed supplement, QRILL Aqua krill meal. We improve human and planetary health Aker BioMarine is a biotech­­innovator sustainable krill harvesting in pristine and Antarctic krill-harvesting company, Antarctic waters through its Montevideo ­dedicated to securing h ­ uman and ­logistics hub, Houston production plant, planetary health. The company and all the way to customers around the develops krill-based ­ingredients for world.­Aker BioMarine is fully owned by nutraceutical, aquaculture, and a ­ nimal Aker ASA, an industrial pioneer since its feed applications. The company’s fully ­establishment in 1841. transparent value chain s ­ tretches from 22 23 Strategic Focus Areas COST & QUALITY Aker BioMarine outlined its strategic focus areas in 2015, with the collective goal Cost and quality of strengthening its growth and solving leadership global challenges. All of the company’s departments are responsible for setting strategic initiatives that support the corporate strategy. PEOPLE & PURPOSE STRATEGY 26 Risks and Opportunities 29 Sales and Marketing 37 Science and Innovation 43 Cost and Quality 53 People and Purpose SALES & SCIENCE & People at the heart of MARKETING everything we do INNOVATION Drive customer success through Innovation that expands marketing and sales excellence the marketplace 24 “Being the leader places a major responsibility on our shoulders to drive the category forward in a well-respected and responsible manner. Our success is demonstrated not only by our results, but by our ability to foster growth in the category.” KRISTINE HARTMANN EVP TRANSFORMATION AT AKER BIOMARINE 25 Material Risks and Opportunities Through dialogue with our stake­holders we have identified risks and opportunities, that inform our strategy. The list reflects material aspects to Aker BioMarine. noe her? 26 TH I S I S A KE R BI O MA RI NE Sales and Cost and Science and People and Stakeholders Risks Materiality marketing quality innovation purpose Response Taking care of the Antarctic ecosystem is essential to We established the Antarctic Research Fund Loss of biodiversity both stakeholders and our long-term business (SDG14). (AWR) together with WWF-Norway and ASOC. The Antarctic ecosystem, We monitor the krill biomass with a five day survey every We drive responsible fishing through ARK researchers, environmental Need for new scientific data season, but the total biomass in area 48 has not been (industry organization) and actively engage NGOs, regulators, Norwegian on krill biomass undertaken since 2000. with researchers and regulators. ministry of fisheries and coastal affairs. The temperature in the Antarctic is rising, and might We are mapping our operations and starting have significant impact on the ecosystem, and it is the journey to significantly reduce our CO₂ Climate change therefore important that we do our part in taking down footprint and costs related to energy, waste and CO₂ emissions (SDG12). water use. We have a compliance training programme and Compliance on ethics and With an international and diverse workforce there is a risk have hired a new legal councel responsible for social responsibility of different perceptions and ways of handling situations. compliance. Owner, management Controlling our value chain from harvest all the way to our We have merged onshore and offshore logistics Operational down-time customers makes us vulnerable in terms of down-time. to get better overview and unlock synergies. Opportunities Growing demand for healthy Delivering high quality health nutrients in a sustainable We work together with customers to drive and sustainable food way is both good for our business and society (SDG2). sustainability. Society, customers and consumers Increasing awareness on healthy lifestyles and We run science projects and campaigns that Omega-3s as component prevention of lifestyle diseases can save society costs increase awareness in the general public on the of a healthy lifestyle and help grow our market (SDG3). importance of healthy lifestyles and omega-3s. Attracting and retaining the right people is a challenge in We have built a culture based on freedom Attracting and retaining a flat organization and it is important to us that we build and trust to retain talent and attract the talent an organization that can provide our people with the right new generation of job seekers. We create opportunities for growth. opportunities in-house. We have structured our recruitment and Companies where women account for over 15 percent of internal promotion processes to ensure Existing and potential senior management show higher returns. This represents equal opportunities together with updating employees Gender equality an opportunity for our company to ensure democratic and improving our employee handbook, representation and diversity in management. implemented performance review and leadership development program. We implemented @workplace, Superba­ When the new management team took over in 2015, Transparency and Connect and SharePoint as tools for information the feedback from the employees was that more information sharing sharing and BambooHR to facilitate employee transparency and information sharing was needed. development. 27 28 SA LE S A ND MA RKE TI NG Sales and Marketing 29 SA LE S A ND MA RKE TI NG “Aker BioMarine should be perceived as a partner who brings valuable insights, ­introduces new market opportunities, and guides its ­customers for growth and product ­expansion.” TROND ATLE SMEDSRUD EVP, MARKETING AND COMMUNICATION AT AKER BIOMARINE 30 SA LE S A ND MA RKE TI NG Facilitating In 2016, Aker BioMarine implemented a new customerClose partnerships strengthen Aker BioMarine's customers centric Sales and Marketing strategy that applies the via product innovation and value-adding services. company’s global product expertise and market insight to “Understanding our clients – and their customers – Customer promoting each customer’s success. Knowledge transfer streamlines the delivery of the right product and correct ranges from krill product development, features, and product format,” Norton explains. benefits through consumer preferences, retail know-how, Success and branding techniques. Aker BioMarine Sales and Marketing teams also help customers inform the public about the benefits of krill oil, Getting consumers excited about Antarctic krill and its which in turn strengthens product demand. According health benefits is another aspect of Smedsrud’s tasks. to the Superba sales chief, tailor-made products evolve Aker BioMarine Sales and Marketing teams are uniquely from listening to each customer’s needs, understanding qualified to help customers demonstrate Antarctic krill’s market conditions and trends, handling challenges, and health and wellbeing benefits and meet consumer demand trans­lating this information into customized products and The traditional transaction-based for sustainable product processes and manufacturing market support. transparency. sales model is outdated. Instead, Aker Consistent, long-term efforts to foster stronger customer ­BioMarine is investing in interactive, “Aker BioMarine should be perceived as a partner relationships have an impact: An independently long-lasting customer partnerships. who brings valuable insights, introduces new market conducted customer satisfaction survey in 2016 gave opportunities, and guides its customers for growth and Aker BioMarine a solid 4.5 score, on a scale from 1 to a “The mission is to become part of our product expansion,” says Smedsrud. Strategic 2016 maximum of 5. customers’ success,” explains Trond investments by Aker BioMarine’s Sales and Marketing Atle Smedsrud, EVP ­Marketing and departments in their people, technology, and competence Communication. reinforce this commitment to the company’s customers. KNOW YOUR CUSTOMER Aker BioMarine is more than a B2B supplier. The company has carried out several studies to document customers’ market environments. The findings stimulate marketspecific products, value propositions, and targeted marketing support. Japan, for example, has quickly become one of the top ten countries for Superba sales. “It’s exciting to see rapid growth in new markets when consumer insight and close cooperation with our customers begin to pay off,” says Todd Norton, EVP Superba Sales. 31 SA LE S A ND MA RKE TI NG Innovation Through Partnership In 2011, BioMar and Aker BioMarine A recent case in point is an innovation grant for USD 1.9 Vidar Gundersen, Group Sustainability Manager at BioMar million that BioMar and Aker BioMarine obtained together Group comments, “Instead of having to solve challenges began working together to develop an with other industry partners to unlock the nutritional and on our own, we found it natural to share responsibilities ­advanced high-performance ­salmon technical quality potential of marine components from krill with our krill supplier. The feed innovation project is a feed using Aker BioMarine’s QRILL and other sources used in sustainable salmonid feed. great example of how we can combine our experience and know-how to come up with completely new solutions.” ­ingredient as a key c ­ omponent. The “The unexploited potential in marine ingredients including partnership has been a great success krill meal can reduce the stress on wild fish stocks used in BioMar is a pioneer in developing new high-performance – and the companies have worked traditional marine raw material,” says Sigve Nordrum, EVP feed for the global aquaculture industry, supplying feed to together to drive the aquaculture feed QRILL Sales at Aker BioMarine. “Moreover, farmed fish will around 80 countries for more than 45 farmed species. benefit from the great nutritional value of the new, highindustry forward, emerging as i­nnovative performance feeds.” Aker BioMarine and BioMar are also fostering Antarctic role models that ­showcase sustainability. ecosystem research through their support for the Antarctic The innovation project addresses two current aquaculture Wildlife Research Fund (AWR). The fund’s objective is to challenges: promoting eco-responsible farmed production secure the krill fishery’s long-term sustainability. According that efficiently employs underutilized marine raw materials, to Sigve Nordrum, the companies’ sustainability efforts are and developing future feeds that promote superior fish truly a win-win for Aker BioMarine, BioMar, salmon farmers, performance and health. and last but not least, the environment. “We are pooling our scientific and practical understanding of fish species and marine ingredients in order to develop feed products that address key aquaculture challenges,” says Nordrum. 32 SA LE S A ND MA RKE TI NG “We are pooling our ­scientific and ­practical ­understanding of fish ­species and marine ­ingredients in order to ­develop feed products that address key aqua­ culture challenges.” SIGVE NORDRUM EVP QRILL SALES AT AKER BIOMARINE 33 34 35 36 SC I E NC E A ND I NNOVATI O N Science and Innovation 37 SC I E NC E A ND I NNOVATI O N We Are Aker BioMarine’s science and innovation strategy stands “These Superba and QRILL studies are more than on three pillars: Value Innovation, Market Innovation, and attention-grabbers. They add great value to current Greenfield Innovation. Torbjørn Furuseth, EVP Innovation at omega-3 documentation and suggest such tests can Explorers Aker BioMarine, explains, “A key factor driving our products’ bolster other product categories,” says Aker BioMarine’s strong growth in 2016 has been Aker BioMarine’s effective innovation chief. documentation of health and nutrition benefits. Value propositions throughout the Superba and QRILL product EXPLORE NEW ARENAS segments – whether for people, pets, or aqua­culture – will “Aker BioMarine’s Greenfield Innovation projects explore become even more substantiated, as a result of ongoing completely new areas suitable for high-value krill-derived scientific projects.” products. Greenfield multi-disciplinary teams push the Innovation and entrepreneurship have envelope to imagine and develop new product entries,” STUDIES ALSO TARGET ATYPICAL USERS says Furuseth. “Toward year-end 2017, Aker BioMarine ­always been integral to Aker BioMarine’s The second strategic pillar – market innovation – explores plans to commercialize one of several products in the DNA. In recent years, the company has groundbreaking science that could drive demand and innovation pipeline,” Furuseth reveals. ­expanded its pipeline of exciting science launch new market segments. A study initiated in 2016 and innovation projects that will drive the by the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC), Innovation remains key to driving growth in the krill oil the National Institutes of Health and Aker BioMarine market. Aker BioMarine is considered a visionary leader krill category forward. investigates the effects of Superba Boost on the resiliency in Value, Market, and Greenfield Innovation. The company and performance of a group of elite soldiers in the United has significantly expanded its patent portfolio in key States Army. markets, including the United States, Europe, and Australia. Having invested 2 percent of its revenues in research and According to Torbjørn Furuseth, “Real performance studies development in 2016, Aker BioMarine is an Antarctic krill 5% can inspire new role models among young people, as buyers R&D frontrunner. Innovation of omega-3 supplements have been typically women capacity around 50 years of age. Business-wise, such studies expand USD 2 the ­customer base, but they are even more important for million Antarctic society because they could help prevent lifestyle diseases Research 1,800 before they become irreversible,” he says. Omega-3 Index tests Also in 2016, evaluation testing under tough conditions was conducted on man’s best friend. Data collected from a QRILL Pet trial involving dogs competing in the Iditarod dogsled race in Alaska showed less muscle damage and significantly less inflammation among the dogs that consumed QRILL Pet compared with the control group. 38 SC I E NC E A ND I NNOVATI O N “Real performance studies can inspire new role models among young people, as buyers of omega-3 supplements are typically women about 50 years of age. Business-wise, such studies expand the customer base, but they are even more important for society because they could help prevent lifestyle diseases before they become irreversible.” TORBJØRN FURUSETH EVP INNOVATION AT AKER BIOMARINE 39 SC I E NC E A ND I NNOVATI O N “Superba 2 and Superba Boost are just the beginning of Aker BioMarine’s nextgeneration products that deliver superior benefits in the health and wellness space.” MATTS JOHANSEN CEO AT AKER BIOMARINE 40 SC I E NC E A ND I NNOVATI O N Breaking Flexitech™, a patented Aker BioMarine technology platform introduced in 2016, is transforming production and speeding the introduction of breakthrough products derived from Antarctic krill. the Barriers The first product released using the new Flexitech process PUSHING THE ENVELOPE was Superba 2 – considered the next generation of “Superba 2 and Superba Boost are just the beginning of Superba Krill Oil. Aker BioMarine’s next-generation products that deliver superior benefits in the health and wellness space,” says “Offering several improvements over traditional krill oils, Aker BioMarine CEO Matts Johansen. “By continually Superba 2 possesses enhanced encapsulation properties pushing the envelope with unparalleled krill harvesting along with improved smell, taste, and visual appearance,” techniques, product development experience, Flexitech says Dr. Nils Hoem, Chief Scientist at Aker BioMarine. extraction technology, and scientific work, the company’s Like all Superba products, Superba 2 is certified 100 products will continue to stand out in the marketplace.” percent sustainable and traceable, and produced through Momentum grew in 2016 when Superba received Novel a vertically integrated supply chain that is 100 percent Foods Approval at extended use levels. In the EU market, owned and controlled by Aker BioMarine. this approval will allow daily dosages of Superba krill oil to exceed 250 mg EPA/DHA – and up to 3,000 mg per day. Recently introduced, Superba Boost is the company’s first krill oil concentrate product. Superba Boost contains Stronger market positioning backed by EU-authorized significantly more phospholipids and omega-3s compared health claims and Novel Foods Approval for Superba to the previous generation of Superba Krill Oil, as well and Superba Boost are creating numerous market as higher amounts of choline. “In fact, two capsules opportunities for Aker BioMarine and its customers. of Superba Boost krill oil will cover most of the daily Furthermore, a wide range of companies that had been recommended intake of the essential omega-3 fatty acids reluctant to launch a krill oil product due to a difficult EPA and DHA,” says Dr. Hoem. regulatory environment now can partner with Aker BioMarine. In the EU market, two capsules of Superba Boost qualify for four health claims regarding normal heart function, normal liver function maintenance, lipid metabolism, and homocysteine metabolism. 41 0 424 C O ST A ND Q UA LI T Y Cost and Quality 43 C O ST A ND Q UA LI T Y Fortune Entering unchartered waters more than a decade ago, Aker MASTERS OF THEIR OWN DESTINY BioMarine’s unconventional approach to krill harvesting The most recent multi-million-dollar decision is and ship-to-shore logistics were dismissed as foolhardy the ­company’s investment in its state-of-the-art Favors and not financially viable. Ten years on, the company manufacturing plant in Houston, Texas. Owning the entire has set the industry standard for best practices in krill value chain, from harvesting to end-customer, ensures full harvesting and achieved record efficiency. transparency and a unique ability to optimize operations. the Brave Aker BioMarine operates its own cargo transport ship that brings semi-finished krill products from Antarctic waters to the company’s logistics hub in Montevideo, Uruguay. From “We quickly realized we were better off producing the krill oil ourselves and that we must invest in technology to deliver next-generation Superba Krill Oil products,” 2014 to 2016, the per-ton cost of Montevideo offloading says Aker BioMarine’s head of Harvesting, Production and was slashed by 22 percent. The efficiency team leaders Supply Chain. – Tore Hetland, Aker BioMarine’s Logistics and Operations Aker BioMarine has succeeded at both Manager; Robert Ernstsen, Montevideo Warehouse Reconstruction at the Houston plant started in 2014; in late Manager; and Sverre Johansen, Production and Operations 2015, the 180,000-square-foot facility began producing cost and quality leadership. From Day Advisor – share with us their three success criteria. “the best possible quality krill oil at the right cost,” as One, the company has executed a brave Webjørn Eikrem puts it. ­strategy to imagine, invest, and sail forth “We made full transparency the norm for all Montevideo cost elements; specificity helped us trim cost-sensitive With the final element of its supply chain owned with a ­determination to always do decisions such as Sunday work. Secondly, offload planning and operated by Aker BioMarine, the company could things better. had to begin several weeks in advance; and thirdly, we confidently proclaim complete control over operations made sure to have Aker BioMarine personnel overseeing – from catch to product. the entire offload.” “Traceability is very important in our markets and being GO BIG OR GO HOME able to trace each and every end-product back to where it Aker BioMarine reinvented the entire mechanics of krill was fished is, frankly, priceless,” says Eikrem. and at-sea production. Along with inventing a new way to gently bring krill onboard, the company fine-tunes “People want to know what they’re consuming these days; USD 141 how long the factory trawlers are at sea, the size of their they want to know what their dogs are eating and they thousand nets, towing speed, and how krill oil is extracted. “Aker want to know what the salmon they’re eating was fed on,” BioMarine did not become the leader by leaving anything Eikrem concludes. USD 340 million to chance,” Tore Hetland summarizes. 22% Cost savings in offload Fortune does, however, favor the brave. “There’s no cheap 2014–2016 way to fish krill in the Antarctic, only the expensive way. It’s all or nothing, and we were committed enough to go all in,” asserts Webjørn Eikrem, EVP Harvesting, Production and Supply Chain at Aker BioMarine. 44 C O ST A ND Q UA LI T Y “There’s no cheap way to fish krill in the Antarctic, only the expensive way. It’s all or nothing, and we were committed enough to go all in.” WEBJØRN EIKREM EVP HARVESTING, PRODUCTION AND SUPPLY CHAIN AT AKER BIOMARINE 45 46 47 C O ST A ND Q UA LI T Y “With a growing world population, it has never been more important to make healthy food and nutrients available while also keeping our planet’s ecosystems healthy.” CILIA HOLMES INDAHL DIRECTOR SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER BIOMARINE 48 C O ST A ND Q UA LI T Y It’s a Krill harvesting has traditionally relied on trawl nets. “Spotting a major problem that Aker BioMarine could However, this method has caught a number of other potentially solve, generates enthusiasm and pulls ­together species, such as fish and seals. In the Antarctic’s fragile employees’ valuable expertise and skills to make gameTeam Effort marine eco-system, unwanted by-catch represents a changing innovation,” says Eikrem. significant challenge. SUSTAINABILITY IS ESSENTIAL It took major investments over the course of a decade Only two percent of the world’s food supply and 0.5 for Aker BioMarine to complete development of its Ecopercent of pharmaceuticals are derived from the oceans. Harvesting® technology. The trawl system gently conveys Moreover, 85 percent of fish stocks worldwide are either krill onboard for processing while the submerged trawl overfished or fished to capacity. Historically, we humans To protect its Antarctic fishery, Aker module eliminates by-catches. have failed to protect our marine resources. ­BioMarine decided early on to invent According to Webjørn Eikrem, EVP Harvesting, Production Cilia Holmes Indahl, Director Sustainability at Aker a new way to catch krill. and Supply Chain, the Eco-Harvesting system is so BioMarine, reminds us that, “With a growing world effective that last year’s total by-catch, “could swim population, it has never been more important to make around in a small bucket.” healthy food and nutrients available while also keeping our planet’s ecosystems healthy.” Indahl’s assignments INTERNAL ENGAGEMENT include monitoring the company’s global operations and Working across disciplines, job roles, and time zones, working with other industry participants to insure best Eco-Harvesting became a reality entirely due to staff ideas practices. and engagement. “Saga Sea crew members took the initiative to create a new trawler technology and invited Indahl notes that Antarctic krill is considered one of the all skippers, mates, and deck crew from both our boats most environmentally-sound resources for supplying to a brainstorming session,” says Eikrem. Engineering, humankind with marine omega-3s – but only if harvesting operations, and funding support directed from Oslo maintains the long-term sustainability of the Southern headquarters sustained the visionary project. Ocean’s ecosystem and protects all Antarctic species. Eikrem recalls how ideas kept flowing during 4 a.m. phone conferences among project team members worldwide. Proposals were drafted in cooperation with Aker Bio­ Marine’s partners, evaluated by the management team, and tested – all in record time. When the first Eco-Harvesting system was ready for testing in Hirtshals, Denmark, everyone involved in the project turned up – from as far away as South America, the United States, and Iceland. 49 50 51 52 PE O PLE A ND PURPO SE People and Purpose 53 PE O PLE A ND PURPO SE Motivation “We believe people want to do their best, and it is our managers’ responsibility to identify the motivation triggers for each and every employee. Establishing a culture of open and honest Triggers feedback is key to allowing new thinking to surface,” says Kristine Hartmann, EVP Transformation at Aker BioMarine. “When we look for inspiration from the most successful FREEDOM TO OPERATE and fastest growing companies in today’s business world, A dynamic organization is a must for success in a fast-­ 282 Employees we z­ ero-in on Silicon Valley. Aker BioMarine learns from moving environment. “To avoid unnecessary bureaucracy, such ­leaders about building a purpose-driven, dynamic Aker BioMarine is modifying its organizational structure 25 organization that fosters growth,” says Kristine Hartmann. and leadership philosophy to empower employees to bring Nationalities decision-making as close as possible to operational issues 23% To share in the spirit of these companies and stay close to and opportunities at hand,” Hartmann relates. Gender balance the latest technological developments, Aker BioMarine has invested in StartupLab, a hub for technology startups in Aker BioMarine’s employee handbook has been revised to Norway. Hartmann firmly believes in using new digital tools foster a corporate culture based on trust, transparency, and to enhance efficiency and engagement among company freedom. Gone are words such as “shall” and “must” and employees in order to accelerate realization of new ideas references to mandatory 9–15:00 work hours. “Disruptive and concepts. ideas are not necessarily generated sitting in front of an office computer,” Kristine Hartmann acknowledges. FOSTERING PERSONAL GROWTH New tech­nology provides a handy way to foster employee Aker BioMarine takes pride in the way it trusts employees growth and develop­ment. In 2016, Aker BioMarine to deliver results when given flexibility. Hartmann points implemented BambooHR, a cloud-based administrative out that, “Scientists may require time for silent thought HR and performance tool that supports each employee’s when writing a paper, and that may be best accommodated development process. at home or at a library, while marketing people may be inspired by visits to other companies or sitting at a busy When selecting a new HR tool, Hartmann prioritizes ­userdowntown coffee shop.” friendliness and ability to drive motivation. “We aren’t interested in tools that just rank our employees according “Great ideas are often generated in discussion with to a criteria list.” ­others,” Aker BioMarine’s EVP Transformation affirms. We encourage our employees to spend a lot of face-time with In 2016, Aker BioMarine initiated a leadership and each other and to compensate for the physical distance employee engagement program that reinforces trust, between our crew in the Antarctic oceans and our global transparency, empowerment, and engagement across sales offices we were one of the first companies who the entire organization. started to use @workplace. 54 PE O PLE A ND PURPO SE 55 PE O PLE A ND PURPO SE “We go out of our way to think ­differently about how to attract talent and then ­challenge them to make a real ­difference.” HEGE SPAUN HR MANAGER AT AKER BIOMARINE 56 PE O PLE A ND PURPO SE Caring for Talent People are the heart of ­­Aker BioMarine, Three Aker BioMarine executives were recognized as Spaun believes young professionals in particular want to Top 10 professionals in the 2016 Young Leadership Talents help solve global problems, such as scarce resources, food which is why attracting, fostering, and awards in Norway. Aker BioMarine was the only company to security, and health and climate challenges. “Because building talent are key to the ­com­pany’s have three candidates receive the prestigious Norwegian the company pursues sustainable, transparent resource success. Bringing ­together ­experienced nominations. practices and safeguards the marine ecosystem in which it operates, we appeal to like-minded talent.” personnel and young staffers, fishermen Trond Atle Smedsrud (34), Executive Vice President of and millennials, generates ­innovative and Marketing and Communications, made the overall topMILLENNIALS AND LONG-TIME STAFFERS sustainable solutions. ten list of talented young leaders and was second in the Sharing know-how and hands-on training are considered marketing leader category. Erik Digman (35), Director key success factors at Aker BioMarine. Spaun has noted Product Innovation, held third place in the innovation that most innovative ideas emerge from teams that are category, and Cilia Holmes Indahl (28), Director of inter-departmental, multinational, and draw on employees Sustainability, ranked among the top-ten list of company in all age groups. developers. Aker BioMarine’s human resources chief comments “One of the company’s strategic pillars is dedicated to on Aker BioMarine’s collaborative approach: “Bringing employee development and conscious commitment to together teams of experienced fishermen, scientists, ­talent,” says Hege Spaun, HR Manager at Aker BioMarine. millennials, and former management consultants from “We go out of our way to think differently about how to companies such as McKinsey and PwC, creates the attract talent and then challenge them to make a real combination of business-case development, product difference.” innovation, marketing skills, and project management that are vital to company growth.” As a global company employing 25 nationalities, Aker ­BioMarine is proud of its diversity and uses its global ­network to recruit the best talent. 57 58 Human health matters A Window to Your State of Health Much of the world’s population e ­ xhibits low blood levels of the omega-3s EPA and DHA, according to a study published in the May 2016 issue of Progress in Lipid Research. Omega-3 deficiency is associated with several major chronic disorders. The study’s mapping of countries and ­regions reinforces growing concern that low omega-3 status is a global public health problem. 4 percent gives higher risk for sudden cardiac death. 8 percent ≤4% 4–6% 6–8% >8% and above is the desired level. 60 H UMA N H E A LTH MAT TE RS “Unfortunately, most people globally have a low or very low Omega-3 Index, which in some cases could increase their risk of cardiac death by up to ninety percent.” DR. BILL HARRIS, AN INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED OMEGA-3 EXPERT, CO-INVENTOR OF THE OMEGA-3 INDEX TEST, AND PRESIDENT OF OMEGAQUANT ANALYTICS Given these findings, it has been suggested that low Index Test and President of OmegaQuant Analytics. member of the O3i Project, the O3i has been identified as omega-3 status is as much a public health issue as vitamin ­“Unfortunately, most people globally have a low or very a bona fide risk factor for heart disease, with several peerD deficiency, and that it is imperative to get these nutrients low O3i, which in some cases could increase their risk of reviewed papers to support it. But it doesn’t stop there. As into the hands of as many people as possible. cardiac death by up to 90 percent,” Dr. Harris explains. Dr. Harris puts it, the health implications of low omega-3 There is of course a variety of ways to do this. The first Regions with these low levels include but are not ­limited status include higher rates of other chronic diseases such is to engage government authorities to get them to change to North America, Central and South America, Europe, the as dementia, various eye diseases and more. health policies so that these omega-3s – specifically EPA Middle East, Southeast Asia, Africa, Australia and China. “We believe anyone selling omega-3s has an obligation and DHA – become as accessible as possible to as many Invented by Dr. Harris and Dr. Clemens von Schacky, to address this public health issue and help do something people as possible, whether through food fortification or the Omega-3 Index was brought to life a little more than about it,” says Wright. other means. Another way of elevating the importance a decade ago when they discovered not only that these “The ultimate goal of The O3i Project is to get its of these nutrients is to get health authorities to make ­nutrients could be measured in the blood, but that the partners to communicate through their channels about the ­recommendations on their daily intake to the public. And actual O3i level correlated directly with the risk of not only importance of the O3i. In most cases, once consumers know yet another way to get the word out on the importance cardiac death but death from any cause. Between these their O3i they are motivated to act,” Wright explains. of these omega-3s is to engage doctors and other key two internationally recognized experts, they have published “At this stage, it is the goal of Aker BioMarine to connect opinion leaders to communicate to consumers about the more than 250 scientific papers on Omega-3 Index. the O3i test with krill oil specifically as a legitimate EPA/DHA importance of knowing what their omega-3 EPA/DHA level omega-3 option because we know through clinical study is by using a nutritional tool called the Omega-3 Index Test. ADDRESSING A PUBLIC HEALTH ISSUE that it has been shown to raise the O3i.” “Aker BioMarine decided to form The O3i Project A WINDOW INTO STATE OF HEALTH with several industry partners, such as companies, “The Omega-3 Index (O3i™) Test is a blood test that associations, and non-profits to bring more awareness to ­measures the amount of EPA and DHA in the red blood the ramifications of having low omega-3 levels – an issue cells. A low Omega-3 Index correlates with a higher risk that doesn’t discriminate, is globally relevant, and costs of cardiac death, while a high O3i is ideal for maintaining healthcare systems around the world billions of dollars,” a healthy heart,” explains Dr. Bill Harris, an internationally says Becky Wright, Marketing & Communications Director recognized omega-3 expert, co-inventor of the Omega-3 – Superba. According to Dr. Harris who is also an active 61 62 63 Krill Challenge for Some of the World’s Toughest Scientists from the Medical U ­ niversity of The goal of the study is to determine whether krill oil “We are particularly interested in studying krill oil concentrate can improve the cognitive processes concentrate because it is phospholipid-bound and is South Carolina (MUSC) and the National underlying performance of students in the U.S. Army reported to be absorbed more readily,” MUSC co-principal Institutes of Health have launched a Infantry Basic Officer Leaders Course and Ranger School. investigator, neuropsychologist, Dr. Travis Turner adds. This randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled study comprehensive research study, sponsored involves more than 400 recruits from both programs and is CIVILIAN APPLICATIONS by Aker BioMarine, which will evaluate expected to be completed in March 2018. While the potential benefits for the U.S. military are obvious, “Of concern is that U.S. food production practices over ­the physical and cognitive effects omega-3 fatty acid the effects of krill oil omega-3s on the the last century have resulted in a dramatic change in the supplements could have on the wider population are resilience and performance of recruits fatty acid profile in the American diet with increases in significant. omega-6 fatty acids and decline in omega-3 fatty acids in “In the big picture, intake of omega-3s is essential for at the U.S. Army Infantry Basic Officer the food supply. At the same time, a viable hypothesis is that living a productive and healthy life. For instance, sustained Leadership Course and the U.S. Army omega-3s help in emotional state, cognitive function, and attention, inhibition, and cognitive control are essential mental health homeostasis,” says Capt. Joseph Hibbeln, MD, for everyday things like safe driving, parenting, academic Ranger Training School. co-principal investigator, National Institutes of Health. achievement, and handling challenges at work,” Marriott “The purpose of this study is to investigate whether explains. supplementation with krill oil concentrate can improve According to Marriott, the study can potentially provide specific cognitive processes that underlie key elements of invaluable data supporting the role of omega-3 fatty acids soldier performance that may have a measureable impact in contributing to improved performance under stress, on performance and mental health under the extreme not only among military personnel but also throughout the psycho-physiological stress of military officer training,” general population. says study lead Bernadette P. Marriott, PhD, Professor and Director, Nutrition Section, Department of Medicine and Military Division, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Medical University of South Carolina. 64 H UMA N H E A LTH MAT TE RS “While the potential benefits for the U.S. military are obvious, the physical and cognitive effects omega-3 fatty acid supplements could have on the wider population are significant.” BERNADETTE P. MARRIOTT, PHD, PROFESSOR AND DIRECTOR, NUTRITION SECTION, DEPARTMENT OF MEDICINE AND MILITARY DIVISION, DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHIATRY AND BEHAVIORAL SCIENCES, MEDICAL UNIVERSITY OF SOUTH CAROLINA 65 Securing Growth and Quality in Farmed Fish The future is looking bright for the Norwegian fish farming industry. Since its infancy in the 1970s, the industry has advanced rapidly, making Norway the world’s biggest producer of farmed Atlantic salmon. 66 H UMA N H E A LTH MAT TE RS “It is rare to find one single solution to a biological problem. Antarctic krill, with its many health benefits, could become an indispensable tool in the battle against several health challenges.” HÅVARD BJØRGEN, PRE-PHD CANDIDATE AND VETERINARY STUDENT AT THE NORWEGIAN VETERINARY COLLEGE In 2016, the value of Norway’s exports of farmed salmon and FISH HEALTH – CHALLENGES AND ADVANCES conditions are leading to stronger demand for new, trout soared to NOK 65.3 billion (USD 7.8 billion). To illustrate Despite its overall success, fish farming still faces some sustainable marine proteins and oils. the massive scale of Norwegian production, it is estimated serious challenges, particularly regarding fish health issues that the equivalent of some 37 million servings of fish are exacerbated by fish growing to maturity in permanently COULD KRILL BE PART OF THE SOLUTION? produced daily. Farmed salmon and trout have become moored, near-shore pens. “Krill is about to become a treasured fish feed component,” an increasingly important part of people’s diet worldwide, Considerable efforts have been invested in increasing says Bjørgen. “Farmed fish are subjected to multiple providing consumers with nutritious, protein-rich fish our knowledge concerning diseases and other productionstressful conditions; the main challenges include stressful abundant in omega-3 fatty acids and essential vitamins. related challenges. handling during treatment for sea lice and viral and Contrary to popular belief, plant-based sources of EPA While fish farmers and industry suppliers are investing bacterial agents, and in transit,” Bjørgen explains. and DHA are not complete substitutes for marine oils high heavily in technical and pharmaceutical measures to “Stress may lead to a generally weakened resistance to in EPA and DHA. The omega-3s in fatty fish and Antarctic overcome disease challenges, fish-feed ingredients that disease and we see that quality feed may contribute to a krill in particular, are considered better at preventing a promote growth, improve the quality of maturing fish, and healthier and more robust fish population, less susceptible variety of common lifestyle diseases. reduce mortality rates represent a more sustainable way to to developing health problems,” Bjørgen adds. Furthermore, because wild fish stocks are being improve aquaculture. Fish feed that incorporates krill gains an element of exploited ever closer to – and sometimes beyond – their “Studies have shown that using feed that deviates taste palatable to fish. More attractive (as well as nutritious) sustainable catch limits, fish farming holds tremendous substantially from the fish’s natural marine diet may feed leads to increased appetite, size, and robustness. promise for meeting the food needs of the world’s cause health problems and lower the quality of the Faster growth results in shorter production times, which in burgeoning human population. final product,” says Håvard Bjørgen, Pre-PhD candidate turn means less exposure to stress and disease. The final In Norway, it is an expressed ambition to drive a five-toand veterinary student at the Norwegian Veterinary product, the fish filet, is likely to be firmer, of enhanced six fold expansion of aquaculture by 2050. Sustainability College. Bjørgen held a professional internship with Aker quality, and richer in omega-3 fatty acids. factors that need to be addressed include: how to keep BioMarine in 2016. “It is rare to find one single solution to a biological penned fish healthy, how to reduce demand for processing The aquaculture industry is confronted with an overall problem. Antarctic krill, with its many health benefits, could ocean-caught fish into aquaculture fish feed, switching shortage of marine-sourced fish-food compounds, as become an indispensable tool in the battle against several to new feed ingredients, and how to protect affected their availability relies on traditional fisheries, which have health challenges,” Håvard Bjørgen asserts. ­ecosystems. plateaued in production. According to Bjørgen, these 67 68 69 Is a Dog Part of Your Health Plan? The history of dogs as pets stretches back Dogs were the first animals domesticated by humans. physical activity, depression, or obesity. “Several studies “This early alliance between humans and dogs was certainly ­suggest that growing up in a home with a pet reduces the at least 27,000 years, when dogs were first mutually beneficial, especially at a time when hunting risk of suffering from allergies or asthma. Besides reducing domesticated from grey wolves. Initially, and protection were vitally important. Today most people allergy and eczema risk, one-year old babies who grew up ­recognize that the benefits of sharing a close friendship with a pet in the home, had a stronger immune system,” the tamest wolves might have approached with a dog run much deeper,” says Dr. Lena Burri, Director Burri explains. human settlements in search of food. R&D, Animal Nutrition and Health at Aker BioMarine. “Today, dogs are even trained to assist people with SUPERFOOD FOR MAN’S BEST FRIEND Our pre-historic ancestors soon realized disabilities and to become therapy dogs that help deal with Omega-3 fatty acids have become a common ingredient the usefulness of dogs for hunting and a person’s mental illness. As companion animals, studies in a wide range of pet food products. QRILL Pet, though, have shown that dogs benefit human health by promoting is a unique, natural, and sustainable source of proteins, warding off predators. physical activity, helping to cope with difficult life situations, long-chain omega-3 fatty acids, and other important diminishing heart disease risk factors, as well as alleviating nutrients. Proven in numerous studies to benefit pet health, depression, anxiety, and social isolation,” Burri notes. the omega-­3s help to maintain heart health and promote For example, a study that compared married couples kidney, liver, joint, brain, eye, skin, and coat health. that had a pet vs. couples that did not, concluded that “While dietary supplementation of dogs with omegaresting heart rates and blood pressure were lower among 3s from QRILL Pet is good for dog health, indirectly it also pet owners than in the control group, and that pet owners benefits dog owners’ health, since owning a pet has been recovered faster from stress. Further, among pet owners proven to be good for human health,” Burri concludes. aged 50–83 with mild hypertension, the presence of a dog was associated with lower blood pressure, increased happiness, and reduced feelings of anger, frustration, and irritation. The risk of heart disease may also be linked to allergies and asthma, due to higher levels of inflammation, reduced 70 H UMA N H E A LTH MAT TE RS “As companion animals, studies have shown that dogs benefit human health by promoting physical activity, helping cope with difficult life situations, diminishing heart disease risk factors, as well as alleviating depression, anxiety, and social isolation.” DR. LENA BURRI, DIRECTOR R&D, ANIMAL NUTRITION AND HEALTH AT AKER BIOMARINE 71 72 Planetary health matters Krill in the Antarctic Ecosystem Krill is a keystone species in the A ­ ntarctic. STRONG REGULATIONS PREVENT OVERFISHING ecosystem research. Ongoing research is essential to Aker All catches of Antarctic krill are reported to the Commission BioMarine and the company’s customers, the scientific Aker BioMarine has always considered it on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources community, and environmental-protection organizations. vital to protect the krill biomass as well as (CCAMLR). CCAMLR uses a precautionary, ecosystemTwo new research grants were awarded in 2016; a total of the many species that ultimately depend based approach designed to prevent fishing that will have five research projects focusing on vital fishery issues are a negative impact on harvested species or other species in currently funded. on krill as a food source. the ecosystem. The management of the fishery is robust, as the consensus of 25 governments is needed to change any “A” RATING FROM SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES PARTNERSHIP of the fishery regulations in the Antarctic. For the second year in a row, the krill fishery in the Antarctic Harvesting is currently concentrated in the South is the only reduction fishery (to produce meal or oil) Antarctic (CCAMLR Area 48). The annual precautionary worldwide to receive an “A” rating for sustainability from quota for Antarctic Krill set by CCAMLR is 5.61 million the Sustainable Fisheries Partnership, an NGO that advises tonnes and amounts to approximately 10 percent of the industry, compiles industry data, and publishes an annual total biomass in area 48. The catch is further limited to overview of reduction fisheries. 620,000 tonnes in any one season until a mechanism is found to distribute the catch throughout the area. For the 2015/2016 season the recorded krill catch for all vessels fishing for krill was 225,646 tonnes and only 0.3 percent of the total biomass of krill in the South Atlantic. LOOKING AFTER THE BIOMASS In 2015, Aker BioMarine partnered with the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition (ASOC) and WWF-Norway to establish the Antarctic Wildlife Research Fund (AWR). The fund’s purpose is to facilitate and promote Antarctic marine 74 PLA NE TA RY H E A LTH MAT TE RS Krill Quota BIOMASS IN AREA 48: TOTAL ALLOWABLE CATCH: 60.3 million metric tons 620,000 tonnes (<1% of the biomass) Krill fishery TOTAL ANNUAL CATCH: 225,646 tonnes (<0.3% of the biomass) Area 48 ANTARCTICA 75 Self-imposed Scrutiny Aker BioMarine regards having independent observers onboard its vessels to document compliance with the Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR) as an opportunity, rather than an inconvenience. 76 PLA NE TA RY H E A LTH MAT TE RS “What I did encounter is a very professional approach to the krill fishery, supported by standard procedures and processes that fully incorporate the CCAMLR conservation measures and a willingness by the crew to provide the information I requested.” GEORGIA ROBSON, MARINE BIOLOGIST AND CCAMLR SCIENTIFIC OBSERVER CCAMLR requires independent observers to be aboard krill scientists at a later date.” Adding, “To obtain krill biometric disposal regulations along with “providing clarification of harvesting vessels 50 percent of the vessel deployment data, I collect samples of 200 krill every few days, to record CCAMLR conservation measures as needed.” time. Aker BioMarine goes a step further – it has length frequency, sex, maturity ratios, and feeding state.” Vital to its ongoing operations in the Antarctic, hosting independent observers on its vessels 100 percent of the Now on her second rotation with Aker BioMarine CCAMLR observers such as Georgia Robson, has become time. Ensuring that the company harvests sustainably is vessels, Robson’s evaluation of their performance is standard for Aker BioMarine. Their feedback and guidance crucial. And by monitoring the health of the Antarctic krill consistently favorable. benefit the krill fishery and Antarctic welfare as a whole. fishery, the observers’ work is invaluable to krill industry “During my time onboard I did not identify any specific Aker BioMarine urges all fishing vessels in the region to join long-term sustainability. issues. However, what I did encounter is a very professional in and welcome onboard observers. Typically deployed for two months at a time, CCAMLR approach to the krill fishery, supported by standard Scientific Observers are a constant feature on both Aker ­procedures and processes that fully incorporate the BioMarine’s fishing vessels. Marine biologist Georgia CCAMLR conservation measures and a willingness by the Robson is one of the program’s newest recruits. crew to provide the information I requested.” NO EASY TASK ONBOARD OBSERVERS – THE NEW STANDARD Working side-by-side Aker BioMarine’s deck crews, In addition to monitoring Aker BioMarine’s impact on Robson and her fellow CCAMLR observers’ days are the krill fishery and by-catch species, Georgia Robson arguably as tough as the crew’s. assesses the potential effect vessels are having on other Gathering data on the by-catch caught in the fishery Antarctic wildlife. She says, “I record the interaction of and krill biometrics is a laborious task. Georgia Robson seabirds and mammals with the fishing gear and monitor explains, “My daily responsibilities are to collect several 25 vessel compliance with seabird mitigation measures. I do kg samples of krill as they come onboard, before they enter this through conducting daily observations of the gear the factory for processing. To identify all finfish by-catch while fishing, as well as each time the trawls are deployed present, I sort each sample several times by hand. The byand hauled.” catch is then counted, weighed, and measured, with some If all that weren’t enough, CCAMLR observers monitor of the juvenile fish samples frozen for further analysis by vessels’ adherence to MARPOL pollution and waste 77 78 79 A Force for Good With 25 years of krill conservation Stephen Nicol is an adjunct professor at the Institute for if I got to a point where I felt people weren’t paying any Marine and Antarctic Studies and an honorary fellow at the attention to my advice or were doing things I thought were research experience with the Commission Antarctic Climate and Ecosystems Cooperative Research wrong, I would stop. The reason I haven’t stopped is that for the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Centre, University of Tasmania. He is also an independent Aker BioMarine and ARK are actually forces for good in scientific advisor to Aker BioMarine and the Association of terms of the krill industry.” Living Resources (CCAMLR) to draw upon, Responsible Krill Harvesting Companies (ARK). Professor Stephen Nicol, PhD, was an HONESTY IS THE BEST POLICY WORKING FOR “THE OTHER SIDE” Working in an industry with a dubious reputation among obvious choice for Aker BioMarine when Tasked with helping Aker BioMarine to successfully the general public, Nicol believes being vocal about seeking an independent scientific advisor. navigate the difficult waters of sustainable fishing, Nicol sustainability is vital for companies like Aker BioMarine. has found that “working for the other side,” as he puts it, “Whether it is having independent CCAMLR observers could more rapidly realize conservation goals than working onboard its fishing vessels, developing its Eco-Harvesting for years within a national delegation. fishing method, which all but eliminates by-catch, sharing “When you work for government institutions within its research publicly, or working with NGOs, Aker BioMarine’s ­ CCAMLR, things happen slowly,” Prof. Nicol relates. “But dedication to sustainability is dragging the industry once the fishing industry understand what’s the right thing forward,” Nicol remarks. to do, they can start doing it tomorrow.” He adds, “You can “A lot of individuals and groups would prefer that achieve conservation goals by working with the fishing the Antarctic krill industry ceased to exist,” Nicol notes. ­industry much more quickly than working through the He would rather the public showed greater support for normal channels.” CCAMLR and its environmental treaty, which were created Apparent industry willingness to meaningfully approach in response to the growing krill fishery. “If you take away sustainability was the main reason Nicol could reconcile the fishery, you take away that convention, meaning that his proactive attitude with the decision to come out Antarctic marine life would no longer be protected by a of retirement. Hesitant at first, for obvious reasons, he comprehensive convention. Having a limited, sustainably explains why he agreed to assist Aker BioMarine. managed krill fishery is a small price to pay for such a “What I’m doing is providing independent advice, and comprehensive environmental agreement.” 80 PLA NE TA RY H E A LTH MAT TE RS “Whether it is having independent CCAMLR observers onboard its fishing vessels, developing its Eco-Harvesting fishing method, which all but eliminates by-catches, sharing its research publicly, or working with NGOs, Aker BioMarine’s dedication to sustainability is dragging the industry forward.” PROFESSOR STEPHEN NICOL, PHD, PROFESSOR AT THE INSTITUTE FOR MARINE AND ANTARCTIC STUDIES, AND HONORARY FELLOW AT THE ANTARCTIC CLIMATE AND ECOSYSTEMS COOPERATIVE RESEARCH CENTRE, UNIVERSITY OF TASMANIA 81 ­ Taking Care of Your Workplace A renewed krill harvesting industry, climate change, demand for healthier foods, and even eco-tourism have highlighted the need for more A ­ ntarctic ecosystem research. 82 PLA NE TA RY H E A LTH MAT TE RS “Aker BioMarine sets the bar high for the standards and investment that WWF expects from all Southern Ocean and Antarctica industry.” DERMOT O’GORMAN, CEO, WWF-AUSTRALIA ESTABLISHING A RESEARCH FUND DOING IT THE RIGHT WAY FROM DAY ONE KRILL RESEARCH UNDERWAY Aker BioMarine supports krill-related research and Even before the company deployed its first trawl in the In the fund’s second year, the Antarctic Wildlife Research contin­ually evaluates innovative ways to protect the Southern Ocean more than a decade ago, Aker BioMarine Fund awarded two new grants: AWR provided USD 150 Antarctic krill biomass and its surrounding ecosystem. had initiated a dialogue with WWF to support the 000 in 2016 to two research projects on krill population According to Cilia Holmes Indahl, Sustainability Director development of a responsible fishery area. flux. According to Claire Christian, the Chair of AWR, the at Aker BioMarine, taking care of the ecosystem in which The WWF partnership’s accomplishments include funding will increase understanding of variations in the we work is the best way to ensure the future of the by-catch reduction, lessening the environmental footprint spatial distribution of krill, which is important for long-term Antarctic fishery. of operations, and hosting observers onboard Aker management of the krill fishery. This leaves a total of five The Antarctic Wildlife Research Fund (AWR) was BioMarine’s vessels, in addition to cooperation with several research projects supported so far, with three projects established in 2015 by Aker BioMarine in partnership WWF branches. receiving funds in 2015. with the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition (ASOC) “Now that WWF Australia hosts the Antarctica and and WWF-Norway. The fund’s mission is to ensure a Southern Ocean program, our team will continue the resilient Antarctica through filling critical gaps in eco­ ­dialogue with Aker BioMarine,” says Dermot O’Gorman, system research and monitoring. “Only through better CEO of WWF-Australia. He endorses Aker BioMarine’s understanding of the role of Antarctic krill in the Southern track record for improving fishing practices and pursuing Ocean,” Indahl asserts, “can society comprehensively scientific research. “Aker BioMarine sets the bar high for protect the animals that feed on krill and ensure the standards and investments that WWF expects from all precautionary fishery management.” Southern Ocean and Antarctica industry.” AWR’s initiatives promote critical scientific work in Aker BioMarine’s Southern Ocean operations were one of the planet’s most vulnerable and rapidly changing certified as sustainable by the Marine Stewardship Council regions. “The commitment by Aker BioMarine to eco­ (MSC) in 2010. MSC is an independent body responsible for system-wide protection is encouraging,” says Claire investigating and certifying compliance with standards for Christian, Chair of The Antarctic Wildlife Research Fund sustainable fishery practices. and Acting Executive Director of the Antarctic and Southern Ocean Coalition. 83 Carbon Footprint 141,390 tCO₂ emissions transport 0.47 Reduction in Sight Carbon intensity tCO₂/t catched 72,182 tCO₂ emissions energy consumption Aker BioMarine is embarking on a ­journey The company has decided to report on carbon every not only has control over its operations, but also the right third year, to leave as much room as possible for efforts incentives to reduce energy, waste, and water use. Aker to significantly reduce and o ­ ­ffset its to reduce its carbon footprint. Aker BioMarine will report BioMarine has started to map win-win opportunities to carbon emissions. With a long-term on ­carbon reduction projects when they occur, hoping improve environmental performance at the factory and cut to motivate more middle-sized companies to work on costs,” Indahl explains. Reducing the carbon footprint of ambition to improve ­planetary health, ­reducing emissions. the factory will be a priority moving forward. the company is ­evaluating infrastructure STAYING ON THEIR TOES EMBRACING TRACEABILITY upgrades and partnering with third “In Aker BioMarine, we are not only working to reduce our From the company’s logistics hub in Montevideo, ­products parties to reduce their carbon footprint carbon emissions, but also to make it easier for others to are transported to Houston for further ­processing, or sold start reducing theirs,” says Cilia Holmes Indahl, Director directly to customers around the world. Aker B ­ ioMarine across the value chain. The focus of ­Sustainability at Aker BioMarine. Plans to invest in a new embraced traceability back in 2010 and now reaps action and reporting will be key projects and more environmentally friendly Aker ­BioMarine factory ­additional benefits by being able to trace the source of trawler began in 2016. A goal for the vessel is to improve each end‑product to a precise krill harvesting l­ocation. that reduce CO₂ ­emissions, rather than carbon efficiency. This will be achieved through more fuelGiven this level of detail over the movement of ­products, making incremental improvements. efficient engines, ­energy ­recycling in onboard production it came as no surprise that substantial carbon ­emissions processes, and ­relocating trawl nets and towing points to originatee at third-party transportation. As a strong believer the vessel’s sides, eliminating stern deployment. in ­collaboration, Aker ­BioMarine will work closely with third parties to bring down indirect CO₂ emissions from WIN-WIN OPPORTUNITIES distribution of their products. In 2014, reconstruction began on the company’s 180,000-square-foot manufacturing facility in Houston. Since going online in late 2015, the plant has ­delivered the best possible quality krill oil at the right price. “With production in its own manufacturing plant, Aker ­BioMarine 84 PLA NE TA RY H E A LTH MAT TE RS AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Global tonnes CO2 2016 Direct emissions (Scope 1) Fishery 64,575 Production 2,082 Total direct carbon emissions Scope 1 66,657 Indirect emissions (Scope 2) Purchased electricity factory 5,533 Purchased electricity Warehouses 19 Purchased electricity Offices 12 Total indirect carbon emissions Scope 2 5,564 Total gross emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 72,182 “In Aker BioMarine, we are not only working to Indirect emissions (Scope 3) Transport of goods 140,768 reduce our carbon emissions, but also to make it Business travel 622 Total indirect carbon emissions Scope 3 141,390 easier for others to start reducing theirs.” Carbon intensity CILIA HOLMES INDAHL, DIRECTOR SUSTAINABILITY AT AKER BIOMARINE. Tonne CO₂ per tonne krill catched 0.47 85 86 Profit matters Aligning Profitability and Sustainability With sustainability hardwired into its DNA, “When building sustainability into a competitive advantage, CONTROL SUPPLY-CHAIN COSTS whether you succeed or not comes down to the company’s A sustainable and cost-effective supply chain is essential Aker BioMarine intends to drive the krill priorities. We cannot do all the things that are desirable, we to earning a margin that supports major investments in business forward in a responsible manner. have to do the desirable things that are good for business,” science, innovation, and marketing. Furthermore, a lean says Matts Johansen, CEO at Aker BioMarine. organization is gentler on the environment. In 2017, Aker As the global leader in krill harvesting and BioMarine will reduce energy and emissions where feasible krill oil manufacture, the company focuses DESIGNING PRODUCTS FOR HUMANS while also reducing costs. “Actively aligning with your market, however fragmented, “Maintaining supply-chain cost leadership alongside on the four following areas in order to is an absolute business necessity,” says Trond Atle greening our operations is vital to staying competitive with drive growth and sustainability. Smedsrud, EVP Marketing and Communication. Profitability regard to both existing and emerging players,” says Webjørn and sustainability goals are achieved by learning from Eikrem, EVP Harvesting, Production and Supply Chain. customers about their goals and specific product requirements. Smedsrud adds, “Successful products that INVEST IN THE BEST PEOPLE promote health as well as business growth result from Having the very best people for the job is key to everything close customer partnerships.” Aker BioMarine does. “Establishing a culture in which talent is developed and everyone’s full potential is realized, is KEEP LOOKING FOR NEW MARKETS fundamental to our success,” says Kristine Hartmann, EVP Through investments in research and development of krill’s Transformation. bioactive components, Aker BioMarine’s scientific team “We are krill-industry pioneers that innovate, commit, is able to identify potential new products and document and achieve. Development of our Eco-Harvesting technology, product benefits. “The search for new product applications krill-harvesting vessels, and onshore production facility and groundbreaking advances is just one aspect of our are the result of years of experience – and a keen ability to mission to improve global health by making omega-3 think outside the box,” says Hartmann. products more available,” says Torbjørn Furuseth, Aker BioMarine’s EVP Innovation. 88 PRO FI T MAT TE RS “When building sustainability into a competitive ­advantage, whether you succeed or not comes down to the company’s ­priorities. We cannot do all the things that are desirable, we have to do the desirable things that are good for business.” MATTS JOHANSEN, CEO AT AKER BIOMARINE 89 Corporate Governance Corporate governance defines the framework of rules, financial statements for the Aker BioMarine Group. procedures, and organizational structure for Aker ­BioMarine’s business. Continuous improvement of Aker BioMarine AS and its business entities are collect­ively corporate governance is critical to develop and maintain a referred to as Aker BioMarine. high level of confidence in our company among investors, customers, employees, and other stakeholders. Good Aker BioMarine’s compliance with the recommendations corporate governance promotes value creation over time. of the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Aker BioMarine’s governance principles are stated in our Governance is presented below. The presentation follows key governing documents, which include our Corporate the same order of topics as the 15 items in the Code. Governance Policy and the Code of Conduct. Everyone Where deviations from Code recommendations occur, they conducting business on behalf of Aker BioMarine must are discussed under the item in question, along with the act according to the company’s Code of Conduct. ­justification and alternative procedure. Aker BioMarine AS’ corporate governance guidelines were updated on 20 January 2015. 1. Implementation and reporting on corporate governance Aker BioMarine AS’ corporate governance principles comply with the Norwegian Public Limited Liability Aker BioMarine’s key corporate governance principles are Companies Act and are based on the most recent determined by the Board of Directors and are set forth in Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance the company’s governing documents. (“Code”), published 30 October 2014 Aker BioMarine’s governing documents constitute the Aker BioMarine AS is the holding company for Aker ASA’s framework of the governing bodies on how business krill operations. The Aker BioMarine Group consists of the shall be conducted in and by Aker BioMarine. The principal legal entities Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS and all purpose of the governing guidelines is to set out the its subsidiaries, as listed in Note 24 to the 2016 consolidated allocation of roles and responsibilities between Aker 90 C O RPO RATE GOV E RNA NC E BioMarine’s share­holders, governing bodies, and executive “The objectives of the Company comprise owning Aker BioMarine has sustainable equity and liquidity. management and to define the basic requirements for Aker and o­ perating industry and other associated business Because we are a holding company without our own BioMarine’s operations and reporting. Aker BioMarine’s activities, the management of capital and other functions, business operations, we are dependent upon cash divid­ends, corporate ­governance principles cover fundamental and also participating in or acquiring other businesses.” distributions, or other transfers we receive from our sub­ processes such as strategy, risk management, financial sidiaries in order to make dividend payments on our ordinary reporting, and other matters: communication, internal The function of Aker BioMarine’s business purpose shares. The ability of our subsidiaries to make dividend control, development and implementation of governing clause is to ensure that shareholders have control of the payments, distributions, or other transfers to us will depend documents, governing bodies’ work and interaction, the business and its risk profile, without limiting the Board or on their operating results, cash requirements, financial auditor’s work, as well as requirements in a possible management’s ability to carry out strategic and financially condition, contractual restrictions, and other relevant factors. take-over situation. An ap­propriate division of roles and viable decisions within the defined purpose. satisfactory control contri­bute to the greatest possible BOARD AUTHORIZATIONS value creation over time, to the benefit of owners and In the event that a Board authorization is proposed for a other stakeholders. 3. Equity and dividends capital increase, acquisition of own (treasury) shares, or the like, or to mandate multiple purposes, each purpose should CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY: VISION, VALUES, The Group’s equity as of 31 December 2016 amounted to be treated as a separate issue. Board authorizations are AND ETHICAL GUIDELINES USD 74.0 million, which corresponds to an equity ratio of valid until the next annual shareholders’ meeting. Aker BioMarine is a leading biotechnology company 26 percent. Aker BioMarine considers the capital structure developing krill-derived omega-3 products for human and to be appropriate and adapted to its objectives, strategy, animal nutrition. The company is committed to operat­ing and risk profile. 4. Equal treatment of shareholders and in Antarctic waters in a sustainable manner. In 2010, Aker transactions with close associates ­BioMarine became the first krill harvesting company whose DIVIDENDS POLICY operations were certified by the Marine ­Stewardship The Board of Directors may propose the payment of future Aker BioMarine AS only has one class of shares and Council (MSC). By making deliberate, responsible choices, dividends on Aker BioMarine’s ordinary shares, and will all shares carry the same rights in the company. Aker we will achieve profitability over time while taking care of determine the dividend amount, if any, in light of: ­BioMarine AS is 99.5 percent owned by Aker ASA. the environment and society. Responsible conduct will not be undermined by prospects of short-term gain. Requirements contained in the Norwegian Public In the event of material transactions between the com­pany ­ Aker BioMarine’s vision is to improve human and planetary Limited Liability Companies Act and its shareholders, Directors, members of executive health. Our company culture is based on our values: proud, Any applicable contractual restrictions limiting management, or parties closely related to any of the determined, diverse, and sustainable. our ability to pay dividends aforementioned, the Board shall ensure that indepen­dent Our earnings and cash flows valuations are available. This practice applies to all Our capital requirements transactions between Aker BioMarine and Aker ASA and 2. Business Our financial condition, and other Aker companies. Aker BioMarine AS has prepared Other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant guidelines designed to ensure that members of the Board Aker BioMarine owns and operates integrated value of Directors and executive management notify the Board chains, independently or via strategic partnerships. Our Under the Norwegian Public Limited Liability Companies Act, of any material direct or indirect stake they may have in focus is to ensure efficient business processes and to the distribution of dividends on our ordinary shares must agreements entered into by the Group. deliver value-adding solutions to our customers. be approved by a majority of the ordinary shares present at a General Meeting of our shareholders based on a proposal Additional information on transactions with close Aker BioMarine’s business purpose clause, as it appears in presented by our Board of Directors. Dividends may only be ­associates appears in Note 22 to the 2016 consolidated the company’s articles of association is as follows: distributed to the extent that, following such distributions, accounts. 91 5. Freely negotiable shares The majority of the members of the Board of Directors The Board has not performed an evaluation of its own are considered independent of the company’s execu­tive ­ performance and expertise in 2016. The Board of Directors Aker BioMarine AS’s shares are freely negotiable. manage­ment and material business contacts under held five meetings during 2016. Norwegian law. In 2016, the Board consisted of three Aker ASA employees, the majority owner of Aker ASA, Pursuant to Norway’s Public Limited Liability Companies 6. Annual general meeting and two employee representatives. This represents a Act, Aker BioMarine is not required to have an audit deviation from section 8 of the Code of Practice, which ­committee. The responsibilities of the audit committee are Aker BioMarine AS is majority owned by Aker ASA and recommends that at least two of the members of the board handled by the Board of Directors. Accordingly, the Board of hence the company’s practices deviate from the be independent of the company’s main shareholder. No Directors is to review financial information to be reported recom­mendation in section 6 of the Code. company executives are Directors. to investors, regulatory bodies, and other stakeholders and oversee the work of the external auditors and review their Holding the annual general meeting as soon as possible The current composition of the Board is presented on qualifications and independence. The Board of Directors after the close of the accounting year is a priority. page 32 of this annual report. Directors’ expertise and shall ensure that the company has in place policies and capabilities are also presented. Directors represent a procedures that provide good corporate governance, Pursuant to Aker BioMarine AS’ articles of association, ­combination of know-how, capabilities, and experience ­effective internal controls, and risk management. The the Chairman of the Board or a person appointed by the from finance and industry. Board of Directors shall also ensure that management Chairman of the Board, chairs shareholders’ meetings. has implemented procedures to handle complaints and To the extent possible, Directors and the auditor attend Given Aker BioMarine’s current ownership structure, the concerns ­reported by employees and other stakeholders shareholders’ meetings. members of the Board are not encouraged to own shares (whistle­blowers) regarding possible breaches of the in the company. company’s ethical guidelines, governing policies, laws, or regulations. 7. Nomination committee 9. The work of the Board of Directors As Aker BioMarine AS is majority owned by Aker ASA 10. Risk management and internal control after the January 2013 merger, the former nomination The Board of Directors annually adopts a plan for its work, commit­tee was dissolved in 2013. emphasizing goals, strategies, and implemen­tation. The Board of Aker BioMarine AS considers good cor­porate ­Further, the Board has adopted board instructions that governance as invaluable and necessary for internal and ­regulate areas of responsibility, tasks, and division of external credibility and trust, as well as a foundation for 8. Board composition and independence roles of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, and the creating value throughout the Group’s value chain. The company’s CEO. The Board instructions also feature rules Board is to ensure that the company maintains effective Aker BioMarine does not have a corporate assembly, in governing Board schedules, notice and chairing of Board internal control practices and appropriate risk manage­ment accordance with section 6-35.1 of the Norwegian Public meetings, decision-making, the CEO’s duty and right to systems tailored to the company’s business activities. Aker Limited Liability Companies Act. disclose information to the Board, professional secrecy, BioMarine’s corporate values and ethical guidelines, and impartiality, and other issues. key governing documents are subject to such evaluation. Pursuant to the company’s articles of association, the Board comprises between three and nine members. The In cases where matters of a material character in which the RISK MANAGEMENT Board elects its own Deputy Board Chairman. Directors are Board Chairman is, or has been, personally involved, the The Board conducts an annual review of the company’s elected for a term of two years. Board’s consideration of such matters should be chaired risk exposure and internal controls. Strategic and by a Director other than the Board Chairman. business, operational, and financial risks are considered. 92 C O RPO RATE GOV E RNA NC E The purpose of the risk assessment is to make sure that 12. Remuneration of executive personnel The auditor participates in the Board meeting that our operations are safe, in compliance with external and deals with the annual accounts. The auditor reviews the internal requirements, and optimize value creation. Aker The Board has adopted guidelines for remuneration of company’s internal control with the Board. In addition, the BioMarine’s overall risk management approach is to executive management in accordance with section 6-16a auditor reviews and discusses any material changes in assess and manage the risks related to our value chain in of the Norwegian Public Limited Liability Companies Act. the company’s accounting principles and assessments of order to achieve our corporate objectives. Based on the material accounting estimates with the Board. The auditor findings of the risk assessment, corporate management Aker BioMarine AS does not have stock option plans or discusses with the company’s Board of Directors all in cooperation with the Board agree on action plans to other such share award programs for employees. Further material issues in which disagreement has arisen between ensure that the identified risks are handled efficiently and information on remuneration in 2016 for the CEO is the auditor and management. The auditor had one meeting transparently. The status of the action plans are discussed presented in Note 23 to the consolidated accounts. with the Board without the presence of representatives of in Board meetings. Aker BioMarine’s executive management in 2016. FINANCIAL REPORTING 13. Information and communications No guidelines have been prepared for executive The Board’s control and supervision of the company’s management’s access to use the auditor for services other operating and financial activities is based on the The company’s reporting of financial and other information than auditing. However, the auditor provides an annual monthly, quarterly, and annual reports provided by to the financial community and other interested parties overview of services other than auditing rendered by the the administration. In addition to financial reporting, is based on transparency. Aker BioMarine AS is majority auditor to the company. the reports include a review of the key operational owned by Aker ASA; hence the company’s practice figures throughout Aker BioMarine’s value chain. The ­deviates from the recommendations found in section Remuneration for auditors, presented in Note 3 to the Aker administration’s reporting to the Board is based on a 13 of the Code. BioMarine AS consolidated accounts, is stated for the two thorough management review of all business areas. categories of auditing and other services. Such details are presented to the annual shareholders’ meeting. 14. Take-overs 11. Remuneration of the Board of Directors In light of the current ownership structure, the Board Board remuneration is only provided to external D ­ irectors. has not deemed it necessary to prepare specific The remuneration reflects the Board’s responsibility, guidelines as to how the company would respond in the expertise, time spent, and the complexity of the business. event it becomes subject to a takeover bid. Pursuant to Remuneration does not depend on Aker BioMarine’s Aker ­BioMarine’s articles of association, any transfer of ­financial performance. Directors and companies with company shares is subject to Board approval. whom they are associated do not take on any special ­­ tasks for the company beyond their Board appointments. 15. Auditor Additional information on remuneration paid in 2016 to Directors who have resigned, is presented in Note 23 to The auditor makes an annual presentation of the auditing the consolidated accounts. plan to the Board. Further, the auditor provides the Board with written confirmation that the requirement of independence has been met. 93 Board of Directors’ Report Revenues and other income totaled USD 116.7 million Bio­Marine AS responsibilities include management and in 2016 compared with USD 105.1 million in 2015. The administration, as well as the finance department; all increase in revenues is due to growth in QRILL sales. functions are well integrated into daily operations and EBITDA (operating profit before depreciation and special decision-making. Management, together with the Board of operating items) amounted to USD 35.5 million in 2016, Directors of Aker BioMarine AS, is the forum for strategic compared with USD 25.7 million in 2015. At year-end 2016, analysis and decisions. Aker BioMarine AS also owns Aker Bio­Marine’s equity ratio was 26 percent, down from the intellectual property rights for CLA Tonalin®, which it 29 percent 31 December 2015. Cash and cash equivalents licenses out and receives royalty income. amounted to USD 3.5 million, compared with USD 2.8 million at year-end 2015. Aker BioMarine, through its subsidiary Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS, owns and operates the krill-harvesting BUSINESS AND LOCATION vessels Saga Sea and Antarctic Sea in Antarctic waters. Aker BioMarine has its headquarters at Fornebu, Norway. Both vessels have onboard production of krill meal. Aker The company’s supply chain stretches from krill harvesting BioMarine also owns the freighter vessel La Manche, operations in Antarctica through the logistics hub in which refuels and offloads the krill harvesting vessels at Montevideo to its krill oil manufacturing facility in Houston. sea and performs crew changes. The integrated value chain allows for efficient adaption to changing market demands and high product quality with The Company holds two krill harvesting licenses issued by full traceability. the Norwegian Government. In May 2016, the company acquired the remaining 50 FINANCIAL INFORMATION percent ownership interest in its krill oil production facility Profit and loss account in Houston, Texas. Previously a joint venture, the acquisition Total revenues and other income amounted to USD 116.7 gives Aker BioMarine full control of the value chain. million, compared with USD 105.1 million in 2015. Group Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation, Aker BioMarine’s core business activities comprise Aker Amortization and special operating items (“EBITDA”) was BioMarine AS and Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS. Aker USD 35.5 million in 2016, compared with USD 25.7 million 94 BOA RD O F DI RE CTO RS’ RE PO RT in 2015. The increase relates to improved gross margin and Balance sheet and liquidity is dependent on its largest customers; the three largest lower production costs, partly offset by increased salaries. As of 31 December 2016, the equity ratio was 26 percent, represent about 53 percent of 2016 revenues. compared with 29 percent at year-end 2015. Cash and Depreciation and amortization totaled USD 19.4 million cash equivalents as of 31 December 2016 amounted to Aker BioMarine has adopted a risk management policy to in 2016, compared with USD 15.9 million in 2015. The USD 3.5 million, compared with USD 2.8 million as of yearidentify, measure, and mitigate risks. For a more detailed increase is attributable to retirement of certain assets end 2015. Total assets amounted to USD 279.3 million as discussion on market risk, credit risk, and liquidity risk, while the affected vessels were drydocked in the fourth of 31 December 2016, and total equity was USD 74 million. see Note 20 (Financial risk) to the consolidated financial quarter of 2016, and the consolidation into the Group Corresponding 2015 figures were USD 258.4 million in total statement. accounts of depreciation related to fixed assets at the krill assets and USD 76.2 million in total equity. oil facility in Houston, as of the May 2016 acquisition date. EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE Interest-bearing debt amounted to USD 172.0 million as of On 14 February 2017, Aker BioMarine announced that it will Other expenses in 2016 totaled USD 7.1 million, and are 31 December 2016, of which USD 155.7 million is long-term build a new krill harvesting vessel. The 130-meter-long mainly related to the settlement of the patent dispute and USD 16.3 million is short-term interest-bearing debt. factory trawler will be equipped with the latest and most with Neptune Technologies and Bioressources Inc. The As of year-end 2015, total interest-bearing debt amounted advanced eco-friendly technology. The vessel is expected corresponding 2015 figure was USD 1.0 million. to USD 158.3 million. to be in operation in Antarctic waters for the 2019 krill harvesting season. Financial income amounted to USD 1.8 million in 2016, Net interest-bearing debt (interest-bearing loans less down from USD 9.2 million in 2015 due to lower foreign cash and cash equivalents) amounted to USD 168.5 million AKER BIOMARINE AS exchange gains. Financial expenses in 2016 of USD 11.8 as of 31 December 2016, up from USD 155.6 million as of The profit and loss account for Aker BioMarine AS shows million include interest cost, guarantee fees, and other 31 December 2015. a USD 13.9 million loss for the 2016 accounting year. Aker financial expenses and are down from USD 12.3 million in BioMarine AS had external operating revenues of USD 2015, mainly due to lower FOREX losses. As of year-end 2016, net working capital (non-interest1.5 million in 2016. Payroll and other operating expenses bearing assets less non-interest-bearing current debt) amounted to USD 10.8 million. Net loss from financial items The net loss in 2016 amounted to USD 2.1 million, exclusive of bank deposits, amounted to USD 33.5 million, amounted to USD 7.5 million in 2016. The book value of the compared with a profit of USD 0.8 million in 2015. compared with USD 36.3 million as of 31 December 2015. company’s fixed assets totaled USD 326.0 million as of 31 December 2016. Current assets amounted to USD 2.4 Cash flow GOING CONCERN ASSUMPTION million as of 31 December 2016. Long-term debt amounted Aker BioMarine reported a cash flow from operations of USD Pursuant to section 3-3a of the Norwegian Accounting Act, to USD 126.4 million at year-end 2016. 20.9 million in 2016, compared with USD 18.3 million in 2015. the Board of Directors confirms that the going concern assumption, on which the financial statements have been The Board will recommend to the company’s annual Net cash flow from investments amounted to minus USD prepared, is deemed appropriate. general meeting on 3 March 2017 that no dividend be paid 10.9 million in 2016, compared with minus USD 21.9 million for the 2016 accounting year. in 2015. FINANCIAL RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT Aker BioMarine is in a development and commercialization Based on the above recommendation, the Board of Net cash flow from financing activities amounted to minus phase. As such, the company remains exposed to several Directors proposes the following allocation of the loss for USD 9.2 million in 2016, compared with USD 4.0 million in risks and uncertainties relating to harvesting and offshore the year: 2015. processing technologies, fluctuations in annual krill harvesting, onshore production processes and product Allocation for dividends quality, ability to develop new products, and general Loss for the year USD 13.9 million market demand, growth, and competition. Aker BioMarine Transferred to accumulated loss USD 13.9 million 95 HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT ORGANIZATION The krill-harvesting vessels Saga Sea and Antarctic Sea as Aker BioMarine aims to be an attractive workplace. Oslo; March 3, 2017 well as the freighter La Manche operate in rough Antarctic ­Fundamental to Aker BioMarine’s human resources The board of directors and CEO of Aker BioMarine AS waters. Crew health and working environment are policy is ensuring equal opportunities for all employees, important concerns. Despite the demanding conditions, regardless of ethnicity, gender, religion, or age. Aker illness and accident rates onboard are low. Safety first! is BioMarine’s human resources policy includes measures a key focus throughout the company’s value chain. Sick aimed at preventing gender discrimination in terms of pay, leave rates are low both at the factory in Houston and at ­promotion, recruitment, or other workplace-related issues. global office locations. Aker BioMarine recruits employees from professional environments that include both men and women. Aker To keep illness and accident rates low, the company BioMarine believes it has, and aims to maintain, a balanced MATTS JOHANSEN FRANK GREBSTAD carefully examines and improves work tasks and working workforce. Aker BioMarine does not tolerate discrimination CEO Director, elected by the employees environments. Aker BioMarine has put in place systems or harassment of any kind. to ensure that crew members have access to medical attention in case of injury or illness when vessels As of 31 December 2016, Aker BioMarine had 282 are operating far from shore. The onboard working employees (2015: 215), of whom 59 worked in Norway, 67 environment is deemed good, as evidenced by the low in the United States, 4 in Uruguay, 2 in Australia, 1 in China crew turnover rate. and 149 onboard the two krill harvesting vessels and the FRANK O. REITE TORILL NIELSEN freighter La Manche. Aker BioMarine has employees from Director Director, elected by the employees Aker BioMarine’s objective is to minimize personnel approximately 25 different nationalities and 18.5 percent injuries, environmental harm, and vessel or property of employees are women. Group management had one damage. The company conducts systematic safety drills female member as of 2016. There are no women among that prepare crew and onshore personnel for handling shareholder-elected Board members; however, one of the demanding scenarios that might occur on board or Board’s two employee representatives is female. onshore. Personnel safety is important to Aker BioMarine, OLA SNØVE KJELL INGE RØKKE and efforts to further improve safety are ongoing. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Chairman Director Aker BioMarine’s corporate governance policy is There were seven injury incidents on board company intended to ensure an appropriate division of roles vessels in 2016; the overall sick leave is very low. The sick and responsibilities among shareholders, the Board of leave rate also is low at the onshore plant in Houston; Directors, and executive management. three personnel incidents occurred at the plant. Aker BioMarine views accidents and hazardous conditions with As of 31 December 2016, Aker BioMarine is wholly owned by ØYVIND ERIKSEN great concern; incidents and procedures are reviewed and Aker ASA and the executive management of the company. Director measures implemented to avoid reoccurrences. 96 BOA RD O F DI RE CTO RS’ RE PO RT OLA SNØVE ØYVIND ERIKSEN FRANK GREBSTAD TORILL NIELSEN FRANK O. REITE KJELL INGE RØKKE Chairman Director Director, elected by the Director, elected by the Director Director employees employees Ola Snøve (born 1977) is Øyvind Eriksen (born 1964) Frank Grebstad (born 1968) Torill Nielsen (born 1968) is Frank O. Reite (born 1970) Kjell Inge Røkke (born 1958), Investment Director of Aker joined Aker ASA in January is the Operations Manager Crew Manager in Aker ­BioMarine first joined Aker in 1995, and Aker ASA’s main owner, has ASA. Mr. Snøve was previously 2009. Mr. Eriksen holds a law at Aker BioMarine Antarctis Antarctic AS. Mrs. Nielsen has became CFO in Aker ASA in been a driving force in the President & CEO of Epax – a degree from the University of AS. Mr .Grebstad has spent been with Aker BioMarine August 2015. He holds a B.A. development of Aker since joint venture between Aker Oslo. He joined Norwegian law years as Captain of the “FV since December 2007. Initially, in business administration the 1990s. Mr. Røkke launched and Lindsay Goldberg that was firm BA-HR in 1990, where he Antarctic Sea”, one of our she was part of the financial from Handelshøyskolen BI in his business career with the divested to FMC Corp. Prior became a partner in 1996 and two krill harvesting vessels in team, but later joined the Oslo. Mr. Reite came from the purchase of a 69-foot trawler to joining Epax, Mr. Snøve had a director/chairman in 2003. Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS. operational department position of President & CEO in the United States in 1982, been with Aker since January At BA-HR, Mr. Eriksen worked Mr. Grebstad has been with as Crew Manager. Prior to of Akastor, and has previously and gradually built a leading 2008. He is currently Chairman closely with Aker and Aker’s Aker BioMarine since 2008. joining Aker BioMarine, Mrs. held a variety of executive worldwide fisheries business. of Aker BioMarine. Mr. Snøve main shareholder, Kjell Inge Prior to joining Aker BioMarine Nielsen worked as a financial positions in the Aker group, In 1996, the Røkke controlled holds M.Sc. and Ph.D. degrees Røkke. Mr. Eriksen is chairman he was with a joint venture controller at Global Blue and including overseeing and company, RGI, purchased from the Norwegian University of the board in Aker BP ASA, between Aker Seafoods and as a finance responsible at developing Aker’s investments enough Aker shares to become of Science and Technology, Aker Solutions ASA and Aker JFK of Faeroe Island. Between Springhill Textiles. Mrs. Nielsen in Converto Capital Fund AS, Aker’s largest shareholder, as well as an MBA (Dist.) Kværner Holding AS, and a 1995 and 2003, Mr. ­Grebstad is a ­Norwegian citizen. Havfisk ASA, Norway Seafoods and later merged RGI with from I­ NSEAD. Mr. Snøve is director of several companies, worked for several joint AS and Aker Yards ASA. Mr. Aker. Mr. Røkke is currently a Norwegian citizen. including The Resource Group ventures ­between American Reite also has experience director of Aker Solutions, TRG AS, TRG Holding AS and Seafoods and different Russian from banking and served as Aker BP, Kvaerner and Ocean Reitangruppen AS. Mr. Eriksen Companies. Mr. Grebstad has a Operating Director at Paine & Yield. Mr. Røkke is a ­Norwegian is a Norwegian citizen. Master Mariner education and Partners, a New York-based citizen. is a Norwegian citizen. private equity firm. Mr. Reite is chairman of Ocean Yield and of Akastor ASA. Mr. Reite is a ­Norwegian citizen. 97 MANAGEMENT MATTS JOHANSEN TORBJØRN FURUSETH FREDRIK DOKK NYGAARD WEBJØRN EIKREM KRISTINE HARTMANN SIGVE NORDRUM Chief Executive Officer EVP Innovation Chief Financial Officer EVP Harvesting, Production EVP Transformation EVP QRILL Sales and Supply Chain Before being named the CEO Torbjørn has been with Aker Fredrik has been with Aker Webjørn joined Aker BioMarine Kristine joined Aker BioMarine Sigve has been with Aker in 2015, Matts was the COO BioMarine since 2014. He BioMarine since 2009. He is in 2007. He oversees Aker in 2011. She is responsible for BioMarine since 2007. He is of Aker BioMarine. As the oversees the company’s responsible for the company’s BioMarine’s entire supply increasing Aker BioMarine’s responsible for the sales, CEO of Aker BioMarine, Matts Innovation department Finance and Accounting chain from harvest to transparency, connecting the marketing and R&D for krill takes on a mission to discover, including product innovation, function overseeing treasury, production, including the day-to-day operations with products for the animal and develop and commercialize the science and the IP-portfolio. tax, legal, accounting and vessels in Antarctica, the the company’s strategy and aquaculture markets globally. krill business. Prior to joining Before he joined Aker business intelligence. During krill oil factory in Houston, transforming the business to Prior to joining the company, Aker BioMarine in 2009, he BioMarine, Torbjørn held senior his years at Aker BioMarine, product quality and global meet increasing expectations Sigve worked at BioMar and was the CMO at Telefonica positions at Trygg Pharma Fredrik has led refinancing logistics. Webjørn has been from customers, employees the Norwegian Ministry of O2. Before that he studied at and was a consultant at projects, mergers and instrumental in establishing and other stakeholders. Prior Fisheries. Sigve has a Master’s Oslo University College and McKinsey & Co. Torbjørn is a acquisitions (M&A), listings Aker BioMarine’s offshore to joining Aker BioMarine, degree from the Norwegian Columbia University. medical doctor from Norwegian and de-listings. Prior to joining operations, which is regarded Kristine held several senior School of Life Sciences and University of Science and Aker BioMarine, he worked as one of the world’s most consulting positions at PwC a PhD from the Norwegian Technology with three years with the parent company Aker sustainable and effective and Accenture. Kristine has Veterinary College. of clinical practice. ASA. He has a Master’s degree fisheries. He has a Navigational a Master’s degree from the from the Norwegian School of education from the Maritime Norwegian University of Management. Academy in Ålesund and Science and Technology and previously worked as a Captain University of New Orleans. and Fleet Captain for American Seafoods. 98 “Managing and developing a business such as Aker BioMarine is challenging. But TODD NORTON TROND ATLE SMEDSRUD EVP Superba Sales EVP Marketing and Communication the challenges we are Todd has been with Aker Trond Atle joined Aker BioMarine since 2010. He is BioMarine in 2015 to run responsible for global Superba the global marketing and sales. Prior to joining Aker communications department. up against to secure BioMarine, Todd was the He plays a central role in President and COO at Sabinsa. building the understanding of He also has more than 35 the end users of the company’s years’ experience working products and developing in the nutraceutical industry. insight-driven concepts. Prior health and wellbeing Todd has a B.A. degree in to joining Aker BioMarine, Business Management. Trond Atle worked in senior positions at Coca-Cola and PwC. Trond Atle has a Master’s for generations to degree from BI Norwegian School of Management. come are massive.” MATTS JOHANSEN CEO, AKER BIOMARINE 99 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT 102 Income statement 103 Balance sheet 104 Statement of cash flows 106 Notes to the consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL STATEMENT (SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION) 124 Statement of social performance 125 Notes to the consolidated social statement CONSOLIDATED ENVIRONMENTAL STATEMENT (SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION) 126 Statement of environmental performance 127 Notes to the consolidated environmental statement 10 0 C ONS OLI DATED F I NA NC I A L, S OC I A L A ND ENVI RONMENTAL STATEM EN TS 201 6 10 1 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Statements of profit or loss Statements of other comprehensive income for the year ended 31 December for the year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Note 2016 2015 Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Note 2016 2015 Revenues from sale of product 2 115,188 103,180 Net loss (2,055) 805 Other income 2 1,549 1,941 Total revenues and other income 116,737 105,121 Other comprehensive income (loss) Defined benefit plan income gains (losses)1) (77) 128 Net change in inventories 3,146 7,202 Total items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss (77) 128 Production and misc. operating expenses 3 (54,309) (63,953) Salaries and payroll expenses 4 (30,028) (22,649) Other comprehensive income (loss) (77) 128 Other expenses 5 (7,140) (991) Total operating expenses before depreciation, Total comprehensive income (loss) (2,132) 933 amortization and impairment (88,330) (80,391) 1) The Defined benefit plan income gains (losses) have no income tax impact as it is part of the Depreciation and amortization 10,11 (19,353) (15,911) unrecognized deferred tax asset, see Note 9. Impairment charges 11 (596) (905) Operating profit (loss) 8,458 7,913 Net financial expenses 6 (9,941) (3,016) Share of loss from equity accounted investees 7 (4,010) Net profit (loss) before tax expense (1,482) 887 Tax expense 9 (573) (82) Net profit (loss) after tax expense (2,055) 805 Earnings per share to equityholders of Aker BioMarine AS Basic (0.03) 0.01 Diluted (0.03) 0.01 10 2 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Balance sheet as of 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Note 2016 2015 Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Note 2016 2015 ASSETS LIABILITIES AND OWNERS' EQUITY Cash and cash equivalents 14,20 3,506 2,752 Accounts payable and other payables 17 26,625 17,912 Current interest-bearing receivables 8 10,410 Interest-bearing current liabilities 15,20 16,255 11,109 Accounts receivable and prepaid expenses 13,20 25,729 19,387 Total current liabilities 42,881 29,021 Inventories 12 39,035 35,889 Other non-interest-bearing non-current liabilities 16 6,693 6,046 Total current assets 68,270 68,438 Interest-bearing debt 15,20 155,742 147,197 Investments in equity-accounted investee 7 106 395 Total non-current liabilities 162,435 153,243 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 8 4,833 Total liabilities 205,315 182,264 Other non-interest bearing non-current receivables 20 2,085 1,585 Intangible assets 11 67,695 69,886 Share capital 18 63,684 63,684 Property, plant and equipment 10 141,185 113,286 Other paid-in equity 18 156,486 156,486 Total non-current assets 211,070 189,984 Total paid-in equity 220,170 220,170 Total assets 279,341 258,422 Translation differences and other reserves 18 154 154 Retained earnings 18 (146,299) (144,166) Total equity 74,025 76,158 Total equity and liabilities 279,341 258,422 10 3 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Statement of cash flow for the year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Note 2016 2015 Net income (loss) before tax (2 055) 805 Taxes expense 573 82 Net interest and guarantee expenses 6 7 671 7 051 Interest and guarantee premiums paid (5 764) (6 057) Interest received 373 99 Impairment charges 596 905 Depreciation and amortization 10,11 16 829 15 911 Share of gain (loss) from equity accounted investees 7 4 010 Foreign exchange loss (gain) 4 855 (5 802) Change in accounts receivable, other current receivables, inventories, accounts payable and other (2 198) 1 266 Net cash flow from operating activities 20 880 18 269 Payments for property, plant and equipment (10 788) (17 422) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 149 Payments for intangibles (109) (96) Instalment to joint ventures (receivable) (4 576) Net cash flow from investing activities (10 897) (21 945) Proceeds from issue of debt and change in overdraft facility 15,20 1 147 (2 953) Repayment of debt 15,20 (10 376) (2 022) Proceeds from owners 8 995 Net cash flow from financing activities (9 229) 4 020 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 754 345 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents as of January 1, 14 2 752 2 408 Cash and cash equivalents as of December 31 14 3 506 2 752 10 4 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Statements of changes in equity for the year ended 31 December Share Share Other paid-in Other Retained Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars capital premium capital reserves earnings Total Balance as of 31 December, 2015 63,684 192,102 (35,616) 154 (144,166) 76,158 Net profit for the year (2,055) (2,055) Other comprehensive income (loss) (77) (77) Total comprehensive income (loss) 63,684 192,102 (35,616) 154 (146,299) 74,025 Balance as of 31 December, 2016 63,684 192,102 (35,616) 154 (146,299) 74,025 10 5 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements NOTE 1 – BASIS FOR PREPARATION Revenue recognition from the sale of statements of each subsidiary are made in its Acquisition-related costs are expensed as These financial statements consolidate the Superba™ Krill oil and Qrill™ branded ingredifunctional currency, i.e. the currency which best incurred. Identifiable assets acquired and profit or loss statements and balance sheets ents (note 2) reflects the primary economic environment in liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in for Aker BioMarine AS (the “Company”) and its Measurement of our krill based products held which the entity operates. The financial a business combination are measured initially subsidiaries (together, the “Group”). The as Inventories at year end (note 12) statements are presented in U.S. Dollars at their fair values at the acquisition date. The Company is a limited liability company domiciled Recognition and measurement of expenditure (“USD”), which is the Group’s presentation excess of the consideration transferred, the in Norway with its registered office at on vessels and machinery included in currency as the Group’s cash flow and ecoamount of any non-controlling interest in the Oksenøyveien 10, 1327 Lysaker, Norway. Property, plant and equipment (note 10) nomic returns are principally denominated in acquiree and the acquisition date fair value of Impairment of intangible assets (note 11) USD, and is the functional currency of each any previous equity interest in the acquiree The financial statements have been prepared in subsidiary. over the fair value of the Group’s share of the accordance with IFRS and IFRS Interpretation Critical accounting estimates and judgments identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as Committee (IFRS IC) interpretation as adopted The preparation of consolidated financial Foreign currency transactions are translated goodwill. by the EU. statements in conformity with IFRS requires into the functional currency using the exchange management to make estimates and assumprates prevailing at the date of each transaction. Inter-company transactions, balances and The financial statements have been prepared tions that affect the reported amounts of Receivables, liabilities and other monetary unrealized gains and losses on transactions on a going concern basis under the historical revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities. items in foreign currencies are translated into between Group companies are eliminated. cost convention, except as otherwise described The estimates and judgments are based on histhe functional currency at the exchange rates Accounting policies of subsidiary undertakings in the sections below. torical experience and other factors, including on the balance sheet date. Foreign currency have been changed where necessary to ensure expectations of future events that are believed exchange gains or losses resulting from such consistency with the policies adopted by the Significant changes in the current reporting to be reasonable, and constitute management’s transactions are recognized in the statement of Group. period best judgment at the date of the financial profit or loss. The financial position and performance of the Group statements. In the future, actual experience New standards and interpretations not yet was particularly affected by the following events could differ from those estimates. Inter-company balances and transactions, and adopted and transactions during the reporting period: any unrealized revenues and expenses arising The following IFRS standards, amendments and Patent dispute settlement with Neptune The principal estimates and judgments that from inter-company transactions, are eliminated IFRS IC interpretations issued by the IASB, have Technologies & Bioressources (note 5) could have a significant effect upon the Group’s in the financial statements. not been early adopted: Extension and amendment of the revolving financial results relate to: credit facility with DNB (note 15) Expenses included in indirect production Consolidation IFRS 9 Financial instruments addresses the Acquisition of remaining 50% share of cost recognized to inventories (note 12) Subsidiary undertakings are entities over which classification, measurement and derecognition Aker BioMarine Manufacturing LLC and Technical assessment of the useful life of the the Group has the power to govern the financial of financial assets and financial liabilities and Aker BioMarine Financing LLC (note 7) Group’s vessels and machinery (note 10) and operating policies. Subsidiary undertakings introduces new rules for hedge accounting. Calculating the fair value of tangible and are fully consolidated from the date on which The standard will be applied 1 January 2019. It Summary of significant accounting policies intangible assets allocated to the Krill cash control is transferred to the Group. They are is not expected to have a material impact on Accounting policies that relate to the financial generating unit (note 11) de-consolidated from the date that control the Group’s results. statements as a whole are set out below, while ceases. those that relate to specific areas of the financial Where appropriate, present values are calculated IFRS 16 Leasing will change how the Group statements are shown in the corresponding using discount rates reflecting the currency The acquisition method of accounting is used account for lease contracts for land and note. All accounting policies have been and maturity of the items being valued. Further to account for business combinations by the buildings currently accounted for as consistently applied to all the years presented. details of estimates and judgments are set out Group. The consideration transferred for the operating leases. Under IFRS 16, an on-balance in the related notes to the financial statements. acquisition of a subsidiary undertaking is the sheet model that is similar to current financial Management regards the following as the most fair values of the assets transferred and the leases accounting will be applied to all lease significant accounting policies for these Foreign currencies liabilities incurred by the Group, including those contracts, only leases for small items such financial statements: Transactions recorded in the financial from any contingent consideration arrangement. as PC’s and office equipment will be exempt. 10 6 As a result, assets and liabilities will increase amounts have been rounded to the nearest Revenues from sale of products Other income based with a value close to the net present value thousand, unless otherwise stated. As a result Geographic information based on customer location on customer location of future lease payments and EBITDA will of rounding differences, amounts may not add Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December increase as the lease payments will be up to the total. Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 2016 2015 presented as depreciation and finance cost. The standard will be applied 1 January 2019. Norway 29,541 22,174 110 NOTE 2 – REVENUE EU 24,671 15,676 1,126 1,395 The IASB has issued a new standard for the Revenue represents amounts recoverable recognition of revenue, IFRS 15 Revenue from primarily from the sale of Superba™ Krill oil United States 33,096 34,485 313 546 Contracts with Customers, with an effective and Qrill™ branded ingredients during the Australia 9,195 13,916 date of 1 January 2018. IFRS 15 replaces year. Revenue is measured at the fair value of Asia 13,162 6,481 IAS 18 Revenue which covers contracts for consideration received or receivable on sale, Other regions 5,522 10,449 goods and services and IAS 11 Construction including rebates, fair value adjustments and Total 115,188 103,180 1,549 1,941 Contracts. IFRS 15 is based on the principle excluding VAT. Revenue is recognized when that revenue is recognized when control of the amount can be reliably measured and it is a good or service transfers to a customer. probable that future economic benefits will flow In 2016, the two largest customers comprised 32% and 11% of the Group’s total revenues from sale This concept of control replaces the existing to the Company. of products (2015: 27% and 17%). IAS 18 notion of risks and rewards, and is a broader concept that includes the transfer Revenue recognition occurs in the period when In addition to revenue from the sale of krill derived products, the Group receives royalty income of risk and reward as one of the control the product is delivered and the main risks and from certain trademarks and licenses. Royalty income is recognized in accordance with the relecriteria. IFRS 15 permits entities to apply benefits of ownership are transferred to the vant agreement. the guidance using the cumulative effect customer. The revenue recognition conditions method, which means all potential impact of are reviewed for each individual sale based the new standard will be recognized in the on the individual contracts and other actual Geographic information Year ended 31 December financial statements for 2018. Aker Biomarine circumstances such as Incoterms on delivery. Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Group will adopt IFRS 15 as of 1 January 2018 Revenues are deferred until all the criteria are using the cumulative effect approach. The met. Royalty 1,439 1,840 implementation of IFRS 15 is not expected Other 110 101 to have a material effect on total reported revenues, costs, assets or liabilities. There Total 1,549 1,941 will potentially be some changes in presentation and additional disclosures. However, the The Group’s operations occur in one reportable segment, the production and sale of krill products. detailed effect of IFRS 15 has not yet been As such, the production and sale of krill based products is managed as an integrated business. fully determined. The Executive Management Team (EMT), assesses the performance based on Underlying EBITDA. Disclosure materiality This measurement basis is defined as operating profit before depreciation, amortization, writeManagement provides specific disclosures downs and impairments, and special operating items. Special operation items include gains or losses required by IFRS unless the information is on sale of assets, restructuring expenses and other material transactions of either non-recurring considered immaterial to the economic nature or special in nature compared to ordinary operational income or expenses. The following decision making of the users of these financial information has been provided by the EMT at December 31, 2016 and 2015. statements or not applicable. In these consolidated financial statements 10 7 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements Year ended 31 December NOTE 3 – PRODUCTION AND MISC. OPERATING EXPENSES Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Operating expenses are presented based on nature of the expenses in the statements of profit or loss. Production and operating expenses are recognized in the same period as the corresponding revenue from sale of product is recognized, while salaries and payroll expenses, production and other Total revenue and other income 116,737 105,121 operating expenses, and other expenses are recognized when they occur or when the Group has a Total operating expenses before depreciation, amortization and impairment (88,330) (80,391) liability for future expenses. Special operating items 7,140 964 Underlying EBITDA 35,547 25,693 Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Other financial information: Depreciation and amortization (19,353) (15,911) Fuel (10,561) (16,687) Impairment charges (596) (905) Maintenance and services (9,684) (7,533) Total assets 279,341 258,422 Sales, marketing, freight and other selling costs (6,870) (7,896) Travel expenses (3,159) (3,058) Insurance (2,260) (1,981) The following table reconciles Underlying EBITDA to Net income (loss) in the statements of profit or loss. Office rent and administration (3,431) (2,122) Extraction, capsulation and other production costs (10,356) (17,726) Year ended 31 December Other operating expenses (7,987) (6,951) Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Total production and misc. operating expenses (54,308) (63,953) Net income (loss) (2,055) 805 Tax expense 573 82 Government grants Share of loss from equity accounted investees 4,010 During 2016 the Group received grants of USD 0.7 million (2015: USD 1.1 million). The grants are Net financial items 9,941 3,016 included in the ‘Production and misc. operating expenses’ line item to match the costs that the grants are intended to compensate. There are no unfulfilled conditions or other contingencies on these Depreciation and amortization 19,949 16,816 grants. The Group did not benefit directly from any other forms of government assistance. Special operating items 7,140 964 Underlying EBITDA 35,547 25,693 Remuneration to the Group auditors (excluding VAT): Special operating items mainly include legal and settlement fees as specified in Note 5. These costs Year ended 31 December are not included in management’s assessment of Underlying EBITDA. Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Audit fees (155) (172) Other audit and attestation services (10) (47) Total (165) (219) (a)Fees for tax services consist of fees for tax filing services and other tax assistance. 10 8 NOTE 4 – SALARIES AND PAYROLL EXPENSES NOTE 6 – FINANCIAL INCOME AND EXPENSES Year ended 31 December Financial income comprises interest income on financial investments and net foreign exchange gains Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 recognized in the statement of profit or loss. Financial expenses include interest expense and payable guarantee fees. Financial income and expenses are presented on a net basis in the statement of Salaries (15,697) (9,799) profit or loss. Crew salaries (11,073) (10,563) Year ended 31 December Employer's social security contribution (1,060) (1,166) Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Pension expenses (530) (544) Other benefits (1,668) (577) Interest income, bank deposits 7 10 Total (30,028) (22,649) Interest income loans and receivables (amortized cost) 87 163 Foreign exchange gains (realized and unrealized) 1,747 9,072 Pension plans The Group has a combination of defined contribution and defined benefit plans that cover virtually all Other financial income 1 employees. These schemes comply with laws and regulations set forth in the different countries of Total financial income 1,841 9,247 operations. The Group’s defined benefit obligation cover three employees. At the end of the year the defined benefit obligation was USD 0.8 million and the assets were USD 0.6 million. The fair value of Interest expense on financial liabilities valued at amortized cost (7,497) (7,224) the net obligation has been calculated using an appropriate discount rate. During the year the Group Foreign exchange losses (realized and unrealized) (1,809) (2,751) expensed USD 51 thousand, net of settlements and curtailment, on the defined benefit plan (2015: 47 thousand), and USD 0.5 million for the defined contribution plan (2015: 0.5 million). In addition USD Other financial expenses (2,474) (2,288) 77 thousand is expensed over other comprehensive income due to changes in actuarial assumptions. Total financial expenses (11,780) (12,262) Net financial expenses (9,940) (3,016) NOTE 5 – OTHER EXPENSES Year ended 31 December Other financial expenses includes guarantee fees payable to the parent company Aker ASA. Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 NOTE 7 – BUSINESS COMBINATIONS Gain on sale of fixed assets 215 Legal and settlement fees (7,355) (991) On 2 May 2016 AKBM completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% of shares in the krill oil factory Total (7,140) (991) in Houston, Aker BioMarine Manufacturing and Aker BioMarine Financing, together “AKBMM”, prior to the transaction a Joint Venture with Naturex S.A. The carrying value of the equity interest, which has On 30 September, Aker BioMarine and Neptune Technologies & Bioressources Inc. entered into a settlement been accounted for as a joint venture in accordance with IFRS 11 (equity accounting), was USD 0.5 and broad patent cross-licensing agreement, thus ending all outstanding litigation between the companies. million at the time of the acquisition and AKBM had receivables on AKBMM with carrying value of USD 19.9 million . The purchase price for the remaining 50% interest in AKBMM for USD 13.4 million Key elements of the settlement and licensing agreement: financed by a seller credit towards Naturex Inc. amounting to USD 13.4 million The fair value of the • Agreement ends all outstanding litigation, with continued access for AKBM to Neptune’s composition 50% previously held equity interest is therefore determined to be 20.3 million. The net aggregate patents, in consideration of a settlement payment of USD 10m payable over a period of 15 months. value of the identifiable assets and liabilities after debt conversions measured in accordance with • Neptune acquires rights to use AKBM’s selected krill oil-related patent portfolio in consideration of IFRS 3 is determined to be USD 33.8 million on a 100% basis. a settlement payment of USD 4m payable over the same 15-month period. Total value of AKBMM and consideration paid: The net amount of USD 6.0m of the settlement is fully recognised by AKBM as a special operating expense in 2016. 10 9 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements Consideration: NOTE 9 – INCOME TAX Shares in AKBMM 450 The Group is headquartered in the Norway and pays taxes according to the rates applicable in the countries and states in which it operates. Most taxes are recorded in the statement of profit or loss Receivables converted to equity 19,875 and relate to taxes payable for the reporting period (current tax) but also deferred taxes. Deferred tax Cash consideration 13,439 is calculated based on the differences between the accounting value and tax value of assets and Total consideration 33,764 liabilities at the balance sheet date using the applicable tax rate. The major components of income tax expense for the years ended 31 December 2016 and 2015 are: Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed: AKBMM AKBMF Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Actual Actual Elim AKBMM Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 346 122 468 Income tax expense for the period Account receivable and prepaid expences 10,255 (794) (2,280) 7,182 Current income tax expense in respect of current year (573) (89) Inventories 29 29 Prior period adjustments Property, plant and equipment 34,853 1,147 36,000 Current income tax expense (573) (89) Accounts payable and other payables (2,113) (58) (2,170) Interest-bearing current liabilities (3,086) 3,086 Reconciliation of nominal statutory tax to effective tax rate: Interest bearing debt (27,480) 19,735 (7,745) Year ended 31 December Total indentifiables net assets 12,805 19,005 1,953 33,764 Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 NOTE 8 – INTEREST-BEARING RECEIVABLES Profit (loss) before tax (1,482) 887 Current and non-current interest bearing receivables as 31 December 2015 were entirely related to the financing of the Group’s joint ventures in Houston and are thus eliminated in the consolidated Calculated income tax at statutory rate of 25% 371 (240) accounts for 2016. See note 7 for additional information. Change in tax regulations (2,973) 3,532 Year ended 31 December Unrecognized change in deferred tax assets 12,310 (4,041) Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Income not subject to tax (3,381) Agio (1,295) Current interest-bearing receivables 10,410 Other (5,604) 659 Total 10,410 Total tax expense (573) (89) Effective tax rate -39 % -10 % Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Non-current interest-bearing receivables 4,833 Total 4,833 110 Deferred tax assets on a gross basis (not tax-effected) are comprised of: Major inspections of vessels are done on a regular basis as required by the classification society, such as Det Norske Veritas, Year ended 31 December and laws and regulations and the costs of such inspections are, including replacement spares and labor costs, capitalized and amortized over the average expected life between major inspections. All other costs relating to maintenance of vessels is Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 charged to the statement of profit or loss on consumption or as incurred. PPE and intangible assets 1,639 (616) Assets that will be disposed, which are classified as held-for-sale, are reported at the lower of their book value and their fair Inventory 112 value less cost to sell. Depreciation of vessels is included in the cost of inventory conversion (see Note 14). Other (38) (92) Movements in property, plant and equipment in 2016 and 2015 are shown below: Tax losses carried forward 66,380 57,319 Interest rate deductability carry forward 3,258 2,432 Vessels, transportation Assets under Buildings Deferred tax assets 71,352 59,042 Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars equipment, etc Machinery contruction and land Total Unrecognized deferred tax assets (71,352) (59,042) Recognized deferred tax assets Acquisition cost as of 1 January, 2016 105,204 55,296 15,610 176,110 Investments 3,651 2,376 4,925 10,952 The movement in deferred tax assets from USD 59.0 million to USD 71.4 million is mainly due to changes in the USD/ NOK foreign exchange rate Investments from merger & acq. . 19,430 16,570 36,000 and taxable losses. Asset retirements (5,231) (13,234) (18,465) Other reclassifications 76 26,289 (14,562) (8,706) 3,097 Based on the historical losses of the Group it was concluded that deferred Acquisition cost as of 31 December, 2016 103,700 90,157 5,973 7,864 207,694 tax assets could not be recognized in the balance sheet as of 31 December 2016 or 2015. The Norwegian tax authorities have questioned USD 78.8 million of the tax loss carried forward from 2008. The Group believes that Acc. depreciation and impairment as of 1 January, 2016 (35,040) (27,785) (62,825) the deductions are in accordance with the tax laws. If the view of the Depreciation for the year (7,912) (7,020) (224) (15,156) Norwegian tax authorities prevails, the unrecognized deferred tax asset Asset retirements 3,924 11,782 15,706 will be reduced by USD 18.9 million. Other reclassifications (1,438) (2,430) (367) (4,235) Acc. depreciation and impairment as of 31 December, 2016 (39,028) (24,461) (2,654) (367) (66,510) NOTE 10 – PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost, less any accumulated Book value as of 31 December, 2016 64,672 65,697 3,319 7,497 141,185 depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Depreciation is recognized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of Depreciation period 10–20 years 3–20 years each major component of property, plant and equipment. Assets under Depreciation method Straight-line Straight-line construction are not depreciated until the items are available for use as intended by management. Expenditures to replace a component of property, plant and equipment are included in its cost if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow to the Group and the costs can be measured reliably. Gains and losses are recognized upon asset de-recognition. The costs of consumables used and day-to-day maintenance of property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred. Costs incurred for major inspections and overhauls or to improve a vessel’s operating efficiency, functionality or safety are capitalized. 111 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements Movements in property, plant and equipment in 2015 are shown below: NOTE 11 – INTANGIBLE ASSETS Vessels, Goodwill transportation Assets under Buildings Goodwill resulting from business combinations is allocated to each of Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars equipment, etc Machinery contruction and land Total the cash generating units (“CGU”), which are expected to benefit from synergies of the combination. Each unit to which goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level within the Group at which goodwill is Acquisition cost as of 1 January, 2015 108,398 55,106 1,521 165,025 monitored for internal management purposes. Investments 387 2,314 14,721 17,422 Asset retirements (3,449) (2,255) (21) (5,725) Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if events or Other reclassifications (131) 131 (612) (612) changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment. Impairment is Acquisition cost as of 31 December, 2015 105,204 55,296 15,610 176,110 determined for goodwill by assessing the recoverable amount of each unit to which the goodwill relates. When the recoverable amount of the unit is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognized. Impairment Acc. depreciation and impairment as of 1 January, 2015 (30,917) (23,165) (54,082) losses relating to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods. Depreciation for the year (7,388) (6,837) (14,226) Asset retirements 3,240 2,243 5,483 Development Other reclassifications 25 (25) Expenditures for research activities performed to gain new scientific or Acc. depreciation and impairment as of 31 December, 2015 (35,040) (27,785) (62,825) technical or other knowledge are expensed when incurred. Development expenditures are capitalized only if the expenditure can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, Book value as of 31 December, 2015 70,164 27,512 15,610 113,286 future economic benefits are probable and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to complete development and to use or sell the Depreciation period 10–20 years 3–20 years asset. The amount capitalized includes the cost of materials and external Depreciation method Straight-line Straight-line expenses. License agreements The main additions of property, plant and equipment in 2016 arise from the acquisition of Aker BioMarine Manufacturing LLC, License agreements acquired separately are measured at cost. Following see note 7. In addition, USD 4.9 million was invested in the vessel during docking. initial recognition, the Groups license agreements are recorded less any accumulated amortization and impairment losses. The Group’s license In the profit and loss statement the Group have recognized USD 15.2 million (2015: USD 14.3 million) as depreciation expenses agreements are amortized on a straight-line basis and tested for on fixed assets, USD 2.5 million (2015: 0) as asset retirements and USD 1.7 million (2015: USD 1.7 million) in amortization of impairment if impairment indicators exist. intangible assets, see note 11 for further details. As of 31 December 2016, the Group has no significant commitments for further investments in property, plant and equipment (2015: USD 0). For details on mortgages and pledging of security, see Note 15. 112 Movements in intangible assets for 2016 and 2015 are shown below: Licence Licence Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Goodwill Development agreements Total Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Goodwill Development agreements Total Acquisition cost as of 1 January, 2016 65,153 5,941 23,118 94,212 Acquisition cost as of 1 January, 2015 65,153 6,630 23,118 94,901 Additions – external cost 109 109 Additions – external cost 96 96 Asset retirements (316) (316) Asset retirements (785) (785) Reclassifications Reclassifications Acquisition cost as of 31 December, 2016 65,153 5,734 23,118 94,005 Acquisition cost as of 31 December, 2015 65,153 5,941 23,118 94,212 Amortization and impairment losses as Amortization and impairment losses as of 1 January, 2016 (4,929) (19,397) (24,326) of 1 January, 2015 (5,331) (18,121) (23,452) Amortization for the year (432) (1,276) (1,708) Amortization for the year (384) (1,276) (1,660) Impairment (596) (596) Asset retirements 786 786 Asset retirements 319 319 Reclassifications Reclassifications Amortization and impairment losses as Amortization and impairment losses as of 31 December, 2015 (4,929) (19,397) (24,326) of 31 December, 2016 (5,042) (21,269) (26,311) Book value as of 31 December, 2015 65,153 1,012 3,721 69,886 Book value as of 31 December, 2016 65,153 692 1,849 67,694 Amortization period 5–10 years 10–12 years Amortization period 5–10 years 10–12 years Amortization method Straight-line Straight-line Amortization method Straight-line Straight-line Impairment testing The group tests whether goodwill has suffered any impairment on an annual basis. Goodwill is allocated to the Krill business which represents all business operations of the Group as of 31 December 2016 and 2015, with the exception of the CLA/Tonalin licensing agreements which generate royalty income (see Note 3) and is separate from the Krill business cash generating unit. The recoverable amount for the Krill business as a cash generating unit is estimated on the basis of its value in use. The estimated value in use is based on discounted future cash flows. The following assumptions were applied in 2016 and 2015: Projected cash flows are based on management’s best estimates of budget and the business plan for the Krill business for the subsequent five year period. The budget is based on detailed budgets prepared by the various departments in the Krill business. For subsequent periods, the model is based on estimated terminal growth of 2.0 percent, which is in line with long-term forecasts for growth in GDP. 113 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements In the 2017 budget and for the period 2018–2021, revenue projections for the first year are based Licensing agreements/production technology on agreements entered into the first year of the budget period, along with a management evaluaThe net amount recognized in the financial statements for license agreements/production technoltion and information from external sources as to the potential for new agreements. The budgeted ogy of USD 1.8 million (2015: USD 3.7 million) relates to two existing license agreements which will operating margin is in accordance with management`s forecast which is based on the scalability expire in 2018. Based on realized royalty revenue in 2016 and projections received from the licensee in the business model. As large proportion of the Group’s operating expenses are independent of partners, impairments of USD 0.6 million were identified in 2016 (2015: 0). production volumes means that increased sales levels will contribute to higher operating margins. The terminal value in the model used to calculate value in use in 2016 is based on a stable NOTE 12 – INVENTORIES operating margin which is on a par with the projected operating margin for 2021. Investment levels Inventories are measured at the lower of actual production cost (including freight) and net realizable have also been set at the same level as projected depreciation to maintain sales and production value. Acquisition cost is based on the actual cost of warehoused materials. The cost of finished capacity. goods and work in progress comprises the costs of raw materials, direct labor and other direct costs, and related production overheads (based on normal operating capacity). Indirect costs allocated to A 11.5 percent discount rate before tax has been applied to calculate the recoverable amount inventories, includes salaries, depreciation and certain other operating expenses. (2015: 12.9 percent). The discount rate is estimated based on a weighted average of equity return Net realizable value is the estimated sales price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of requirements and expected costs of debt, assuming a projected debt-to-equity ratio of 1 (2015: 50 completion and sales such as freight and commission. The impairment from actual production cost percent). The equity return requirement is estimated using the capital asset pricing model (CAPM) (including freight) to net realizable value is recognized in production and other operating expenses. and accordingly adjusted from postto pre-tax. The cost of debt is based on risk-free interest rates (10-year U.S. treasury government bonds), adjusted upwards to reflect long-term financing costs The production of both Superba™ Krill oil and Qrill™ branded ingredients is highly complex where the and the asset’s risk profile. Group controls the entire value chain from harvesting of raw krill in the Antarctic, to the onboard krill meal processing, and quality control. Furthermore, the process is very sensitive to harvesting condiThe sensitivity of the value in use has been tested using simulations of various combinations of sales tions, such as length of the fishing season and other external factors. These factors all influence the volume, sales price, discount rates and terminal value growth. No reasonably possible combination of parameters for capitalization of indirect production costs in the Group and full cost of the products. these factors results in a value in use being lower than the value recognized in the balance sheet as When calculating total inventory, management make certain judgments about cost of production and of 31 December 2016 and 2015. The recoverable amount of the Krill business would equal its carrying idle capacity when estimating indirect production costs for capitalization. Changes in the parameters amount if the discount rates and growth rates were to change as follows: for calculation of indirect production costs could have an impact on the gross margin and the overall valuation of inventories. 2016 2015 Inventory balances as of 31 December 2016 and 2015 are shown below: Figures in % From To From To Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Pre-tax discount rate* 10.0 % 15.3 % 10.5 % 17.2 % Long term growth rate* 2.0 % -7.1 % 2.0 % -6.7 % Raw materials 13 965 13 285 * Holding all other variables constant Finished goods 25 070 22 604 Total 39 035 35 889 Development In 2016, the Group capitalized USD 109.000 in development costs related to development of production processes, production technology for krill oil and maintenance of patents and licenses (2015: USD Carrying value of inventories recognized at net realizable value 96,000). The Group expensed USD 3.5 million in 2016 (2015: USD 2.1 million) relating to research and Write-down of inventories recognized towards net change in development costs. inventories in the period* 664 2 388 Carrying value of inventories pledged as security 27 375 33 603 * Includes weight corrections, replacements to customers and obsolesence 114 All finished goods are recognized to inventories at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 The impairment of inventories is included in net changes in inventory in the statement of profit or loss. Non-current liabilities NOTE 13 – ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE AND PREPAID EXPENSES Secured bank loans 133,840 124,604 Year ended 31 December Non-current NOK-denominated loan from Antarctic Harvesting Holding AS 1,334 1,334 Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Other secured debt 20,567 Non-current USD-denominated debt to Aker ASA 21,259 Accounts receivable 16,874 13,308 Book value total interest-bearing non-current liabilities 155,741 147,196 Prepaid expenses 8,854 6,079 Total 25,728 19,387 Current liabilities Current portion of secured bank loans 6,029 2,005 Overdraft facility, NOK 10,226 9,104 NOTE 14 – CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Book value total interest-bearing current liabilities 16,255 11,109 Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet and the cash flow statement comprise cash at banks, including restricted deposits, and on hand. Book value total interest-bearing liabilities 171,996 158,305 Cash and cash equivalents comprise the following items: In June 2016, the Group extended and amended the revolving credit facility to USD 120 million and the Year ended 31 December overdraft facility was converted from NOK 100 million to USD 15 million. The new termination date is set Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 to 30 September 2018. Cash and bank deposits 2,794 1,846 Restricted bank deposits 712 906 Cash and cash equivalents 3,506 2,752 Restricted bank deposits relate to employee tax withholdings which are used to settle tax remittances with the tax authorities on a periodic basis. As of 31 December 2016, the Group had drawn USD 10.2 million (2015: USD 9.1 million) out of a total of USD 15 million available in an overdraft facility. For a discussion of interest risk and sensitivity analysis associated with financial assets and liabilities, see Note 20. NOTE 15 – INTEREST BEARING DEBT The Group recognizes interest bearing debt initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Subsequently the debt is carried at amortized cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is recognized in the statements of profit or loss over the period of the debt using the effective interest method. 115 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements Terms and debt repayment schedule: Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Normal Year of Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars interest rate maturity Installments Secured bank loans 139,869 126,608 Non-current liabilities and repaid liabilities Other secured debt 20,567 Secured USD-denominated bank loan – CAT LIBOR + 1.89% 2017 Semi-annual Overdraft facility 10,226 9,104 Secured USD-denominated bank loan – DNB LIBOR + 3.4% 2018 Bullet Total 170,663 135,713 Secured NOK-denominated loan from Innovation Norway – 1 5.2% (fixed) 2026 Semi-annual from 2017 Secured NOK-denominated loan from Innovation Norway – 2 5.2% (fixed) 2026 Semi-annual from 2017 Book value of assets pledged as security Secured NOK-denominated loan from Innovation Norway – 3 5.25% (floating) 2023 Semi-annual Operating assets 193,462 149,174 Overdraft facility with DNB NIBOR + 2.5% n/a n/a Seller credit Naturex LIBOR +1.1% 2019 Quarterly Operating lease commitments Leases in which a significant proportion of the risks and benefits of ownerLOAN TERMS AND CONDITIONS ship are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments All financial covenants presented below are the ones currently applied to the Group. The covenants compliance tests referred to made under operating leases, net of any incentives received from the below are all based on historical figures for the Group. lessor, are charged to the statement of profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. Secured USD-denominated bank loan (Caterpillar Finance) covenants The Caterpillar Finance loan agreement features covenants on equity and debt to equity ratio and minimum net worth and insurThe lease agreements summarized below are for several office and storage ance requirements. The Group complied with all covenants in 2016 and 2015. locations the Group rents around the world. Secured USD-denominated bank loan (DNB) covenants Operating lease payments have the following schedule: The DNB loan agreement features covenants on EBITDA (“Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortization”). For Minimum lease payment purposes of the DNB loan agreement, EBITDA is operating profit before depreciation, amortization, write downs and impairments, Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 and Special Operating Items.The loan covenants also have leverage ratio requirements. The Group is compliant with all loan covenants. Within one year 1,538 1,354 Loans from Innovation Norway In 1–5 years 4,578 5,224 The loans from Innovation Norway do not feature any restrictive covenants associated with key financial performance figures. Five years or more 3,592 3,073 Total 9,708 9,651 Overdraft facility Total amount drawn on the overdraft facility from DNB shall not exceed the sum of: Lease expense recognized in 2016 amounted to USD 1.5 million 1. 75% of external accounts receivable; and (2015: USD 1.5 million). 2. 60% of total inventory. The Group’s borrowings did not exceed the borrowing base in 2016 or 2015. The following table display debt secured by mortgaged assets: 116 NOTE 16 – OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES NOTE 18 – EARNINGS PER SHARE Year ended 31 December The Group presents basic and diluted EPS for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. The diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting share capital in issue for additional weighted average number of ordinary shares that are likely to be issued Guarantee premium payable to Aker ASA 6,505 4,629 as of the balance sheet date. As of 31 December, 2016 and 2015, the Group had no dilutive shares or Pension liabilities 188 197 dilutive effects on shares. Other 1,220 Total 6,693 6,046 Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Aker has issued a guarantee for the secured bank loan with DNB. The Group pays a guarantee fee to Aker of 5 percent of NOK 305 million (guarantee amount). The fee accrues up to the maturity date of Continued operations: the DNB loan in September 2018, and become payable at the same time. Net profit from continued operations (2,055) 805 Majority interests' share of profit (2,055) 805 NOTE 17 – ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND OTHER PAYABLES Accounts payable and other payment liabilities comprise the following items: Total, majority interests' share of operations (2,055) 805 Year ended 31 December Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Ordinary shares as of 1 January, 69,053,544 69,053,544 Ordinary shares as of 31 December, 69,053,544 69,053,544 Accounts payable 6,653 4,729 Weighted average no. of shares as of 31 December, 69,053,544 69,053,544 Accrued expenses 11,424 8,491 Other current liabilities 8,548 4,692 Earnings per share: Total 26,625 17,912 Basic (0.03) 0.01 Diluted (0.03) 0.01 Foreign exchange and liquidity risks are described in Note 20. Aker ASA own 99.5% of the shares in the parent company, Aker BioMarine AS. Remaining shares are owned by the Group’s executive management through their fully owned companies. As of 31 December 2016 the number of shares issued was 69 053 544 with a par value of NOK 5.50 per share. All shares carry equal rights and obligations. 117 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements NOTE 19 – FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES Aging profile of accounts receivable and bad debt provisions: In preparing the Group’s financial statements, the following exchange rates have been applied: Gross accounts Bad debt Gross accounts Bad debt Average Average receivable provision receivable provision Exchange exchange rate Exchange exchange rate year ended year ended year ended year ended year ended rate as of year ended rate as of 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2016 2015 2015 Country Denomination 2016 2016 2015 2015 Not at maturity 13,768 10,501 Norway NOK 1 0.119 0.116 0.124 0.114 Due within 0–30 days 1,315 1,527 European Union (EU) EUR 1 1.106 1.054 1.109 1.092 Due within 31–120 days 551 809 Due within 121–365 days 1,240 643 The monthly average exchange rates and the exchange rates as of 31 December have been used in More than one year 38 translating profit or loss and balance sheet items, respectively. If the monthly average fails to provide Total accounts receivable 16,874 13,518 a reasonable approximation of the exchange rate to apply to the nominal transaction price, then the Bad debt provision 325 210 exchange rate on the date of the transaction will be applied. The Group`s two most significant customers account for USD 3.9 million of the receivables carrying NOTE 20 – FINANCIAL RISK amount at 31 December, 2016 (2015: USD 6.3 million). The Group has exposure to the following financial risks from its ordinary operations; market risk (including foreign exchange rate risk, interest rate risk and bunker risk), credit risk and liquidity Transferred receivables: risk. To manage these risks, risk management is carried out in order to create predictability and The carrying amounts of the trade receivables include receivables which are subject to a factoring stability for operating cash flows and values. Management can use financial derivatives to hedge arrangement. Under this arrangement, the Group has transferred the relevant receivables to the factor against risk relating to operations, financing, and investment activities if the financial derivative has in exchange for cash and is prevented from selling or pledging the receivables. been approved by the board of directors. In 2016 and 2015, the Group did not engage in any hedge accounting. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its financial liabilities as they mature. Credit risk In the past the Group has been dependent on obtaining subordinated debt and equity from the The Group’s main credit risk relates to receivables from customers. Exposure to that risk is monitored parent company Aker ASA to meet its financial obligations. The Group does not hedge against on a routine basis and credit evaluations are performed on customers as appropriate. When entering exposure to interest-rate fluctuations on debt and is therefore exposed to fluctuations on the into significant sales contracts, the sales department seeks to reduce credit risk through more variable-rate amount of interest-bearing liabilities, which was USD 145 million as of 31 December stringent payment terms including requirement of up-front payments. The Group has had low losses 2016 (2015: USD 125 million). on receivables as the sales department is maintaining close contact with each customer and by routine billing and cash collection. The book value of financial assets represents the maximum credit exposure. 118 Overview of maturities including estimated interest payments by category of liability: 2016 maturity structure — loans and interest Book value year ended 31 December, Nominal Up to More than Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 values 6 month 6–12 months 1–2 years 3–5 years 5 years Not at maturity 139,841 154,032 8,493 3,861 128,049 4,080 9,549 Due within 0–30 days 20,567 20,567 500 1,000 11,267 7,800 Due within 121–365 days 1,334 1,874 90 180 270 1,334 More than one year 10,226 10,226 10,226 Total accounts receivable 171,968 186,699 19,309 4,861 139,496 12,150 10,883 Due within 121–365 days 26,625 26,625 26,625 More than one year 6,693 6,693 6,505 188 Bad debt provision 205,286 220,017 45,934 4,861 146,001 12,150 11,071 2015 maturity structure — loans and interest Book value year ended 31 December, Nominal Up to More than Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2015 values 6 month 6–12 months 1–2 years 3–5 years 5 years Secured bank loans 126,608 137,889 3,511 3,630 115,404 4,012 11,332 Other non-current interest bearing liabilities 21,259 22,322 22,322 Interest bearing debt, non-current, related parties 1,334 1,334 1,334 Overdraft facility 9,104 9,104 9,104 Total 2015 maturity of loans and interest on interest-bearing debt 158,305 170,649 12,615 25,952 115,404 4,012 12,666 Accounts payable and other current liabilities 17,912 17,912 17,912 Non-current non-interest-bearing liabilities 6,046 6,046 1,417 4,629 Total liabilities 182,263 194,607 31,944 30,581 115,404 4,012 12,666 119 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements Market risk Interest rate profile i) Foreign exchange risk At the close of the year, the interest rate profile for the Group’s interest-bearing financial instruments The Group operates in a global market and is exposed to currency fluctuations, primarily through was as follows: fluctuations in the USD, NOK and EUR exchange rates. In addition the Group has operations with Effective Effective exposure to local currencies in Uruguay, Australia and China, but these exposures are regarded interest rate interest rate minimal. The Group has USD as its presentation and functional currency in the main group companies. Year ended year ended Year ended year ended The Group has NOK denominated financial instruments, thus the balance sheet is exposed to changes 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, 31 December, Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2016 2015 2015 in NOK/USD exchange rate. The Group seeks to ensure that revenues and expenses are in the same currency. Future cash flows Fixed-interest instruments are estimated and offset. The Group periodically assesses the need for foreign currency hedging; Secured loans from Innovasjon Norge (14,343) 5.20 % (14,206) 5.50 % entering into foreign currency derivative contracts is generally subject to Board approval. Currency Loan from Antarctic Harvesting Holding AS (1,334) 7.00 % (1,334) 7.00 % risk is managed on an overall Group level. Net fixed interest (15,677) (15,540) The Group’s exposure to foreign exchange risk, based on nominal amounts of 1,000 is shown in the table below (all amounts presented in USD): Floating-interest instruments Financial assets Euro NOK Euro NOK Cash and cash equivalents 3,506 variable* 2,752 variable* Year ended Year ended Long-term interest bearing receivables variable** 4,833 variable** 31 December, 2016 31 December, 2015 Short-term interest bearing receivables variable** 10,410 variable** Financial liabilities Additions – external cost 1,058 71 1,325 108 Secured bank loan – Innovasjon Norge (1,218) 5.00 % (1,183) 5.83 % Asset retirements 463 1,033 965 Secured bank loan – Caterpillar Finance (4,583) 3.20 % (6,417) 2.20 % 218 248 544 499 Secured bank loan – DNB (119,697) 6.20 % (104,802) 6.10 % (15,590) (15,218) Liquidity loan from Aker ASA (21,259) 5.50 % (1,470) (2,920) (603) (3,658) Seller Credit Naturex (12,767) 2.10 % Reclassifications (272) (7,479) (1,953) Overdraft facility (10,226) variable** (9,104) variable** Acquisition cost as of 31 December, 2016 (466) (25,207) 2,299 (19,257) Net variable interest (144,985) (124,770) Book value as of 31 December, 2016 (466) (25,207) 2,299 (19,257) Total interest-bearing debt (160,662) (140,310) Sensitivity analysis *) different cash and cash equivalents carry different interest rates, as such no effective interest rate A 10% increase or decrease in USD relative to the Euro and the NOK would have reduced or increased has been calculated the Group’s profit before tax with USD 0.05 million and USD 2.5 million, respectively. **) different loans/ receivables carry different interest rates, as such no effective interest rate has been calculated ii) Interest rate risk The Group’s borrowings and any surplus cash balances are held at variable and fixed interest rates iii) Bunker risk linked to the Norwegian or London interbank offered rate (NIBOR and LIBOR). A movement of 100 One of the Group’s significant operating costs is the bunker cost. As such, the Group is exposed to basis points in the interest rate on borrowings and surplus cash balances through the year would bunker price fluctuations since the vessels use bunkers as fuel. The profitability and cash flow of the have impacted the Groups profit before tax with USD 1.6 million. Group will therefore depend upon the market price of bunkers. The Group does not hedge the bunker price risk, but monitor movement in prices closely in order to implement other actions. 12 0 Fair values Book value and estimated fair value of financial instruments: The fair values quoted in the table below are categorized within the fair value hierarchy, described Year ended 31 December, 2015 below, and based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a Fair value whole: measurement Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Book value Fair value using • Level 1 – Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. • Level 2 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value Asset carried at amortized cost: measurement is directly or indirectly observable. Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,585 1,585 Level 2 • Level 3 – Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. Asset carried at amortized cost: All fair values using Level 2 valuation techniques are based on discounted cash flow models. Loans and receivables 34,630 34,630 Level 2 Cash and cash equivalents 2,752 2,752 Level 2 The short-term nature of financial instruments such as cash and bank deposits results in the book Total financial assets 38,967 38,967 value approximating fair value. The same approach applies to receivables and debt associated with the business cycle. Financial assets that are classified as held for sale and financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are recorded at fair value. Liability book carried at amortized cost: Secured bank loans (126,500) (120,321) Level 2 Book value and estimated fair value of financial instruments: Other non-current interest bearing liabilities (21,259) (21,259) Level 2 Year ended 31 December, 2016 Interest bearing debt, non-current, related parties (1,334) (1,334) Level 2 Fair value Overdraft facility (9,104) (9,104) Level 2 measurement Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars Book value Fair value using Accounts payable and other liabilities (17,911) (17,911) Level 2 Total financial liabilities (176,108) (169,929) Asset carried at amortized cost: Assets designated at fair value through profit or loss 1,433 1,433 Level 2 Capital management One objective of the group’s asset management is to build and maintain financial flexibility to realize Asset carried at amortized cost: its strategic goals. The capital structure should reflect the Group’s operational risk, and offer flexibility Loans and receivables 25,729 25,729 Level 2 for potential investments. The Group’s liquid funds should be readily available and subject to a Cash and cash equivalents 3,506 3,506 Level 2 conservative investment strategy involving low risk. As a wholly owned subsidiary of Aker ASA, the company has been dependent on financial support relating to fund expansion. Total financial assets 30,668 30,668 The Group manages its capital structure and makes any necessary modifications based on an ongoing Liability book carried at amortized cost: assessment of the financial conditions under which the business operates, and shortto medium Secured bank loans (139,841) (138,773) Level 2 term projections. The capital structure is managed through adjustment of dividend payout, issuance Other non-current interest bearing liabilities (20,567) (20,469) Level 2 of new shares, or repayment or incurrence of new debt, (including subordinated debt from Aker). The company intend to commence payment of regular dividends as soon as it is able; however, the Interest bearing debt, non-current, related parties (1,334) (1,334) Level 2 company is in a development and growth phase and thus subject to higher volatility in its net cash Overdraft facility (10,226) (10,226) Level 2 flows than a mature company. Accounts payable and other liabilities (26,625) (26,625) Level 2 Total financial liabilities (198,593) (197,427) 12 1 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated financial statements NOTE 21 – CONTINGENCIES AND LEGAL CLAIMS NOTE 23 – SALARIES AND OTHER REMUNERATION TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND The Group recognizes a provision when it has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT event, where it is probable that payment or the transfer of other assets will be required to settle the Remuneration paid to board members and employee representatives in 2016 totaled USD 19,406 obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. (2015: USD 24,080). With worldwide operations, the Group is involved in disputes in the ordinary course of its business Board remuneration activities. Provisions to cover projected losses arising from such disputes are made to the extent Year ended 31 December negative outcomes are probable and reliable estimates can be prepared. However, the final outcome Amounts in of U.S. Dollars Board membership 2016 2015 of any such dispute is inherently uncertain, and the resulting liability may exceed any provision made. As of 31 December 2016 and 31 December 2015, no provisions were made for legal claims. Ola Snøve Chairman of the Board Gabriella T. Bastiani* Board member 7,507 NOTE 22 – RELATED PARTIES Bjørn Flatgård* Board member 11,899 24,080 The Group’s financial statements include the following transactions and intercompany balances with Kjell-Inge Røkke** Board member Aker and companies controlled by Aker. Refer to Note 23 for remuneration to key management. Øyvind Eriksen** Board member Aker is the controlling shareholder of the Group. Frank O. Reite** Board member Frank Grebstad Employee representative Transactions with Aker and affiliates Torill Nielsen Employee representative Year ended 31 December Total 19,406 24,080 Amounts in thousands of U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 *Resigned at annual general shareholder meeting 19 February 2016 ** Elected at annual shareholder meeting 19 February 2016 Office rent, facilities services and IT (633) (1,227) Interest expenses and guarantee fee (2,591) (3,039) Remuneration paid to the CEO Total (3,224) (4,266) The CEO is member of the collective pension and insurance plans that cover all employees. The Group uses standard employment contracts; customary terms govern severance pay for the Group The interest expense relates to the interest bearing debt to Aker, refer to Note 15 for details on CEO in the event of resignation or dismissal. The Group does not offer any share incentive programs amounts due as of 31 December 2015. The guarantee fees relates to the guarantee provided from for employees. However the Board of Directors has adopted an Executive Management CompensaAker related to the Group’s long-term loan with DNB (see Note 16). tion Program consisting of a short term (“Annual Bonus”) and long term (“Value Creation Bonus”) incentive scheme. The Annual Bonus is up to 50% of base salary for the CEO. The Annual Bonus is Management believes that the services are provided on arms-length principles and conditions. based on specific bonus criteria for each fiscal year. For 2016, 100% of the Annual Bonus is related to Through its fully owned company Antarctic Harvesting Holding AS, TRG AS, a company in September EBITDA performance for 2016. Maximum payout is reached if actual EBITDA for 2016 reaches 100% of 2015 subscribed to 555,900 new shares in Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS for a cash consideration the 2016 budget EBITDA. of NOK 11 million. Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS is a subsidiary of Aker BioMarine AS. The shares subscribed to constitute a separate share class with rights to an annual preferential dividend of The Value Creation Bonus applies to the five year period 2012–2016. The payable bonus in cash is 7 per cent of the invested capital, but with no economic rights to any profits above this level. The dependent on the Group’s EBITDA for the year 2016. An EBITDA of minimum NOK 250 million for the structure enables Aker BioMarine to access foreign capital while remaining in compliance with its accounting years 2016 will provide 20% of the maximum payout, linearly increasing to 100% payout fishing licenses. ratio for a consolidated EBITDA of NOK 500 million. Based on the achieved EBITDA, see note 2, the company have accrued NOK 8552 064 for the Value Creation Bonus for the CEO at the end of 2016. 12 2 The Value Creation Bonus is compensation linked to the financial performance at the end of a NOTE 24 – GROUP COMPANIES five-year period. The eligible executives have all been with the company since the inception of the The consolidated financial statements for the Group in 2016 included the following subsidiaries: program. As such, any compensation paid out is a retention bonus for the period. The Group’s The Group’s Administrative headquarters The CEO may be dismissed upon three months’ notice. In the event that the company terminates the shareholding share of voting employment, the CEO is entitled to three months’ severance pay after the end of the notice period. Amounts in of U.S. Dollars in % rights Location Country The CEO is covered by the company’s collective service pension plan. The pension is capped at a salary of 12 times the National Social Security base amount Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS 100 100 Lysaker Norway Aker BioMarine Antarctic S.A. 100 100 Nueva Palmira Uruguay Payments to the CEO for the year ended 31 December 2016 and 2015: Aker BioMarine Antarctic US Inc 100 100 Issaquah USA Aker BioMarine Antarctic Services AS 100 100 Lysaker Norway Year ended 31 December Aker BioMarine Antarctic Australasia Pty Ltd 100 100 Melbourne Australia Amounts in U.S. Dollars 2016 2015 Aker BioMarine Manufacturing LLC 100 100 Houston USA Aker BioMarine Financing LLC 100 100 Houston USA Fixed salary 264,607 223,538 Odalson S.A. 100 100 Montevideo Uruguay Variable salary (bonus) 85,065 19,412 Aker BioMarine US Holding Inc 100 100 Issaquah USA Other remuneration 2,497 1,708 Net pension cost 9,030 9,403 The consolidated financial statements for the Group in 2015 included the following subsidiaries: Total 361,199 254,061 The Group’s The Group’s Administrative headquarters shareholding share of voting Amounts in of U.S. Dollars in % rights Location Country Aker BioMarine Antarctic AS 100 100 Lysaker Norway Aker BioMarine Antarctic S.A. 100 100 Nueva Palmira Uruguay Aker BioMarine Antarctic US Inc 100 100 Issaquah USA Aker BioMarine Antarctic Services AS 100 100 Lysaker Norway Aker BioMarine Antarctic Australasia Pty Ltd 100 100 Melbourne Australia Aker BioMarine Production LLC 100 100 Issaquah USA Odalson S.A. 100 100 Montevideo Uruguay Aker BioMarine US Holding Inc 100 100 Issaquah USA NOTE 25 – EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE On 14 February 2017, Aker BioMarine announced that it will build a new krill vessel. The new 130-­metre-long vessel will be equipped with the latest and most advanced eco-friendly technology. The vessel is expected to be in operation in the Antarctic for the 2019 harvesting season. 123 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Statement of social performance for the year ended 31 December Note 2016 Society Additional servings of salmon from use of Aker BioMarine’s QRILL Aqua feed ingredient (millions) 2.1 175 People reached with Aker BioMarine’s Superba krill oil products (millions) 2.2 2.3 Number of Omega-3 tests 2.3 1,800 Science to raise Omega-3 awareness (USD) 2.3 910,000 Employees Employees (total) 3.1 282 Employee turnover 3.1 9% Gender balance (ratio women:men) 3.1 23/77 Diversity (No. of nationalities) 3.1 25 Number of Fatalities 3.2 0 Number of Lost time injuries (LTI) 3.2 6 Number of Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) 3.2 4 Employees trained in Compliance and Business Ethics 3.3 72% 12 4 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated social statement In the consolidated social statement, Aker BioMarine reports on two dimensions of performance: Diversity society and employees. Progress is reported on three long term-targets: Improving human health, Diversity at Aker BioMarine is reported as the percentage split by gender among all employees and offering a healthy and engaging working environment and providing assurance that responsible the number of different nationalities business practices are in place. NOTE 3.2 – HEALTH AND SAFETY The social statement contains additional performance information of strategic importance, such as Number of Fatalities social impact of our products, employee turnover, diversity and compliance training. Number of deaths resulting from a work related injury or illness SOCIETY Number of Lost Time Injuries (LTI) NOTE 2.1 – ADDITIONAL SERVINGS OF SALMON FROM USE OF QRILL AQUA Work related injury that lead to lost workdays The number is estimated based on Aker BioMarine’s annual sales of QRILL Aqua and the average added growth in QRILL trials from a Nofima Study showing 10–25% increased growth when Salmon is Number of Medical Treatment Cases (MTC) fed with QRILL Aqua. The total volume added by the use of QRILL Aqua is then divided by the average Work related injury which does not lead to lost work days but requires medical treatment. size of a salmon meal (0.2 kg). Despite the uncertainty, Aker BioMarine assesses this to be the most consistent way of reporting the impact of its products in society. NOTE 3.3 – TRAINING Number of employees receiving training in compliance and business ethics, both on the ground and NOTE 2.2 – PEOPLE REACHED WITH SUPERBA KRILL OIL online. The number is estimated based on Aker BioMarine’s annual sales of Superba Krill oil and the daily recommended intake of EPA and DHA (500 mg), divided by the number of days in a year. Despite the uncertainty, Aker BioMarine assesses this to be the most consistent way of reporting the impact of its products in society. NOTE 2.3 – RAISING OMEGA-3 AWARENESS Number of Omega-3 tests This number is an estimate of the number of Omega-3 tests Aker BioMarine purchased in relation to the Omega-3 Index project which you can read more about on page 60. By giving people and doctors the opportunity to test their Omega-3 level we are hoping to further raise awareness on Omega-3. Science to increase Omega-3 awareness This number is accumulated costs and investments in research studies with the potential and aim to increase awareness of the positive health benefits of Omega-3. One such example is the Rangers study which you can read more about on page 64. EMPLOYEES NOTE 3.1 – EMPLOYEES Number of Employees The number of employees is recorded as all employees except externals, employees on unpaid leave, interns, bachelor and master thesis employees, and substitutes at year-end. Employee Turnover The rate of turnover is measured as the number of employees, excluding temporary employees, who left the Group during the ﬁnancial year compared with the average number of employees, excluding temporary employees. 12 5 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Statement of environmental performance for the year ended 31 December Note 2016 Biodiversity Aker BioMarine krill catch (tonnes) 2.1 152,190 Sustainability Score Fishery Management (SFP ranking: A, B1, B2, and C) 2.2 A Funding research on Antarctic ecosystem (USD) 2.3 2,033,000 Relevant certification: MSC 2.4 Environmental footprint CO2 emissions from energy consumption (tonnes) 3.1 72,182 CO2 emissions from transport (tonnes) 3.1 140,390 Carbon intensity (tCO2/tCatch of krill) 3.1 0.47 12 6 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated environmental statement In the consolidated environmental statement, Aker BioMarine reports on two dimensions of perforNOTE 2.2 – “A” RANKING FROM THE mance: Biodiversity and Emissions. Progress is reported on three long term-targets: Improving planeSUSTAINABLE FISHERIES PARTNERSHIP tary health, reducing our environmental footprint and operating according to the highest standards for The Sustainable Fisheries Partnership (SFP) acts as Non-governmental organization and indepensustainability. dent third party in rating the sustainability of fisheries worldwide. The organization publishes an annual sustainability overview of all reduction fisheries. The fisheries are ranked into four sustainability The environmental statement contains additional performance information of strategic importance, categories (A, B1, B2, and C) according to scores on FishSource, the SFP public database of fisheries such as the resource use, condition of krill biomass and emissions. information. The categorization is based on the quality of management (scores 1 to 3) and status of the target stock (scores 4 and 5). While information on the environmental impacts of fishing activities BIODIVERSITY is also captured in the narrative sections of the FishSource fishery profiles, it is not currently captured NOTE 2.1 – AKER BIOMARINE KRILL CATCH by the scoring system. The categories, defined within the context of FishSource’s 10-point scoring In 2016 Aker BioMarine harvested 152,190 tonnes of Antarctic Krill. In total registered catch for the scale, are: entire fleet of krill-harvesting companies for the season 2015/2016 (December to December) was 225,646 tonnes according to CCAMLR (The Convention on the Conservation of Antarctic Marine Living Resources). Categories Criteria Category A Very well managed fisheries Score 8 and above across all FishSource scores OFFSHORE OPERATIONS Category B1 Reasonably managed fisheries with stock Score ≥ 6 across all FishSource scores, and ≥ 8 Krill catch Krill meal produced in good condition in terms of biomass Category B2 Reasonably managed fisheries Score 6 or above across all FishSource scores 2016 26,595 152,190 Category C Poorly managed fisheries At least one FishSource score is below 6 25,217 2015 146,261 23,217 In 2016, the krill fishery received an “A” rating by the Sustainable Fishery Partnership as the only 2014 144,765 reduction fishery in the world with a biomass deemed to be in very good condition. 17,185 2013 117,444 12,125 2012 82,675 12 7 AKER BIOMARINE GROUP Notes to the consolidated environmental statement NOTE 2.3 – FUNDING OF ANTARCTIC ECOSYSTEM RESEARCH GLOBAL CO2 EMISSIONS 2016 The total expenditure related to research on the Antarctic Ecosystem is calculated from the alternative cost of using our fishing vessels for conducting biomass surveys five days in the fishing season, Direct emissions (scope 1) the grants rewarded by the Antarctic Wildlife Research Fund (AWR), and research projects funded in partnership with educational institutions. Fishery 64,575 Production Houston 2,082 NOTE 2.4 – MSC CERTIFICATION Total direct carbon emissions Scope 1 66,657 Aker BioMarine was the first krill fishery to be certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) in 2010 , and was recently recertified for a new five-year period with no conditions. More about MSC and Indirect emissions (Scope 2) the certification can be found online at www.msc.org Purchased electricity Factory 5,533 EMISSIONS Purchased electricity Warehouses 19 NOTE 3.1 – EMISSIONS Purchased electricity Offices 12 CO2 emissions energy consumption Total indirect carbon emissions Scope 2 5,564 The amount of CO2 emissions in scope 1 covers energy consumption at production sites measured in metric tons. CO2 emissions in scope 2 covers purchased electricity at our factory in Houston, warehouses and offices. Total gross emissions (Scope 1 and 2) 72,182 CO2 emissions transportation Indirect emissions (Scope 3) CO2 emissions in scope 3 covers the transportation of personnel and goods, both carried out by third Transport of goods 140,768 parties. CO2 emissions from air travel are calculated by the travel agency. CO2 emissions from transBusiness travel 622 portation of goods are calculated from shipments registered in our accounting system and covers transport by air, sea and road from production sites and to our warehouses. Emission factors used for Total indirect carbon emissions Scope 3 141,390 the estimate for transportation of goods are submitted by external transportation suppliers. Carbon intensity All CO2 numbers are calculated according to the GHG Protocol. Tonne CO₂ per tonne krill catched 0.47 Distributing as many products as possible by sea remains a priority for Aker BioMarine, as sea transport reduces both CO2 emissions and costs. Oslo, 3 March, 2017 The Board of Directors and CEO of Aker BioMarine AS Matts Johansen Frank Grebstad Frank O. Reite Torill Nielsen Ola Snøve Kjell Inge Røkke Øyvind Eriksen CEO Director, Director Director, Chairman Director Director elected by employees elected by employees 12 8 12 9 Contact information Photo & credit AKER BIOMARINE AS ODALSON SA BY AKER BIOMARINE EMPLOYEES Oksenøyveien 10 Circunavalacion Durango 1389 of 301 Inge Severinsen P.O. Box 496 Montevideo Kjell Rune Venås NO-1327, Lysaker Norway Uruguay Erik Digman Tel: + 47 24 13 00 00 Tel: +598 29162279 Fax: + 47 24 13 01 10 EXTERNAL PHOTOGRAPHERS post@akerbiomarine.com AKER BIOMARINE ANTARCTIC Abel Aga, Andreas Bastian Nordberg from The Oslo Company www.akerbiomarine.com Øivind Haug AUSTRALIA PTY LTD www.isctockphoto.com Suite 2, 7/3 Torca Terrace AKER BIOMARINE ANTARCTIC AS Mornington VIC 3199 Oksenøyveien 10 Australia RANGERS P.O. Box 496 NO-1327, Lysaker Norway Tel: +61 418 781 088 Ken Woods Photography Tel: + 47 24 13 00 00 Fax: + 47 24 13 01 10 DESIGN AKER BIOMARINE ANTARCTIC AS Shanghai Representative Office Redink AKER BIOMARINE ANTARCTIC US Room 1008, Kerry Parkside 312 Amboy Avenue 1155 Fang Dian Road PRINT Metuchen, New Jersey, 08840 Pudong RK Grafisk United States Shanghai 201204 Tel: +1 732 917 4000 P.R. China customer.service@akerbiomarine.com Tel: +86 (0)21 6035 6300 info.us@akerbiomarine.com info.china@akerbiomarine.com AKER BIOMARINE MANUFACTURING LLC 4494 Campbell Road Enquiries and feedback concerning the Annual Report should be addressed to: Houston, TX 77041 USA Tel: 346-802-6643 AKBMMUS@akerbiomarine.com Katrin Berntsen Cilia Holmes Indahl Director Communication Director Sustainability katrin.berntsen@akerbiomarine.com cilia.indahl@akerbiomarine.com
