COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS FOR THE UNGC Reporting Period: December 2015 – December 2016 TABLE OF CONTENTS About ITG & the UNGC COP ............................................................... 1 About ITG 1 Joining UNGC 2 About this report 2 Letter of Commitment ........................................................................ 3 Letter of commitment CEO statement Our CSR Strategy ................................................................................ 4 The 10 Principles ................................................................................... 5 HUMAN RIGHTS ............................................................................................................................................................. 6 Equal employment opportunity 6 Ethical work environment 7 Healthy & safe environment 7 LABOUR ............................................................................................................................................................................... 8 Recruitment & selection far from discrimination 8 Ensuring team growth & career development 8 Encouraging our employees continuous education 8 Activities towards young generation 9 Collaboration with universities and employees involvement 10 Additional benefits to employees 10 CSR activities 11 Employees sports activities 12 Celebrating team success 12 ‘ITG Offers’ for employees 12 ENVIRONMENT .............................................................................................................................................................. 13 ITG green headquarters 13 ITG green slogan 14 Recycling Initiatives 14 Environmental events & activities 15 ABOUT ITG Information Technology Group (ITG) is a Lebanese holding company. We combine an array of autonomous affiliates dedicated to providing a large portfolio of solutions and services in the MENA region, in the areas of hardware, system software, and application software, in addition to building automation and office solutions. Being a highly diversified group, ITG’s professionals are specialized in numerous technological fields and business sectors. Strong with our established reputation, proven track-record, and our solid partnerships with leaders in the ICT industry, we can offer the full spectrum of solutions to most businesses, ranging from office furniture to the full-fledged data center. Throughout its successful history, ITG has built solid partnerships with leaders in the ICT industry. This enables us to service our varied clientele with state-of-the-art solutions in the areas of hardware, system software, application software and related professional services, in addition to building automation and office solutions. ITG derives additional strength and reach thanks to its affiliation with the HOLCOM group of companies which has a 50 year history in diligently serving clients in the EMEA region with its 5,700 professionals. For more info: www.itgholding.com Claude J. Bahsali Internal Human Information Finance Marcom Audit Resources Technology DISTRIBUTION & RETAIL ENTERPRISE & SERVICES SITE & POWER SOFTWARE & SOLUTIONS Interlink Allied Computer ECOsys Bahr Al Amwaj (Iraq) Apple Computers & Solutions, Services Renewable Energy IT Infrastructure Solutions, Canon Photo & Video Systems Maintenance & Support Services & Power Solutions Application Software & Services PC DealNet Mideast Energy Information Cirrus Management Solutions Distribution of Hardware, Solutions Cloud Services & Networking Solutions Distribution of Industrial Batteries Banking Software Solutions Smart Tech Systems Mideast Power IT & Beyond Image Systems Systems (Lebanon & UAE) Distribution of Application Software Imaging & Printing Solutions Critical Power & Cooling, Building Automation Systems & Distribution of IT Solutions Data Centers Setup & Electric Switchgear 460 Midware SysPro The Multimedia Store Data Systems MDSL Smart Building & Office Solutions Application Software & Services Computer Retail Store IT Infrastructure Solutions The Mac Shop TeleSupport PrimeWare International Oracle Technology Apple Computer Store & Applications Call Center Services Xtreme Logistics Logistics, Warehousing & Distribution Services ABOUT ITG | 1 JOINING UNGC On December 2015 ,3, ITG joined the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative of the United Nations Global Compact-Lebanon (UNGC). ITG is committed to making the Global Compact and its ten Principles in the field of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Fighting Corruption, part of the strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations of the company. ITG is also committed to communicate with its stakeholders all the efforts made to engage with the UNGC, through an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report, which describes the company’s efforts to implement those principles. ABOUT THIS REPORT Through this ITG first COP report, we aim to present the actions / achievements we did so far in the process of implementing the ten UNGC principles, and indicate when possible our future goals and the various means for attaining them. JOINING UNGC | 2 TEM STA CEO ENT LETTER OF COMMITMENT We realize that joining the UNGC initiative back in 2015, is an important step in making ITG a more socially responsible company. We at ITG recognize that our activities affect our society: Employees, customers, community, environment, business partners, shareholders and the public sector. We know that our decisions can contribute to the social good, to our wealth,and also to the overall society prosperity. We are conscious of our Corporate Social Responsibility. Some of our CSR principles are included in the ITG code of conduct but we still have a lot to do. Joining the UNGC gives us an important framework for our internal and external policies, based on universal and recognized principles related to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. It is an incentive to achieve more, advance step by step in the area of CSR, in a difficult country and environment, where many internationally accepted values are not respected. But we know that good private initiatives can contribute to a better tomorrow. By doing positive steps, we can influence our people, our community and encourage other corporates to join this initiative. our activities Claude J. Bahsali Chairman & CEO affect ITG s.a.l. (Holding) our society LETTER OF COMMITMENT | 3 T R ATEGY OUR CSR S We at ITG recognize that our activities and those of the private sector have an impact on society: On employees, customers, community, environment, business partners, shareholders and the public sector. We know that our decisions can contribute to the social good, to our wealth, and also to the overall society wealth. We are conscious of our Corporate Social Responsibility. We aim to apply our commitments for a positive influence on society, at every level of the enterprise, from strategy, to day-to-day operational practice. And that is a big challenge. Our mission statement reflects our commitment to our customers, business partners, employees, and the environment. One of ITG’s main objectives is to keep our people motivated, give them the chance to grow and enhance their skills, and encourage them to excel in what they do. We strive to offer them a flexible working environment and a positive and pleasant atmosphere. Values such as integrity, respect and trust, as well as adherence to high moral standards and business ethics, far from any discrimination, are part of ITG culture. Compliance and transparency are key elements when dealing with the public institutions. ITG complies with applicable laws and regulations and expects its directors, executives, and employees to conduct business in accordance with the letter, spirit, and intent of all relevant laws, and to refrain from any illegal, dishonest, or unethical conduct. We are aware of the necessity to ‘Go Green’, to contribute in protecting the environment and saving our country’s natural resources. We try to identify responsible ways to act in our offices to fight against waste and massive consumption. In addition, our new headquarters in the Holcom building are designed with the latest technologies in mind to ensure energy saving. Also, one of ITG affiliates provides renewable energy solutions, thus helping promote the green initiative culture among our clients and fellow citizens. OUR CSR STRATEGY | 4 UNGC COMMITMENT & THE 10 PRINCIPLES, IN THE ITG ‘EMPLOYEE HANDBOOK’ Before highlighting our actions related to the 10 principles, it is important to mention that we included ITG commitment to the UNGC and its 10 principles, in our company handbook, which outlines the ITG code of conduct, policies and culture. TH E This document is made available to any new employee, 10 joining the ITG family, as part of the induction training, and the employee is responsible for reading and understanding CIPL its content, and applying the ITG internal rules and policies. IN PR In addition, we formally informed ITG staff of this initative, ES and posted the news on our social media platforms. The 10 principles | 5 Equal Employment Opportunity 1. EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GENDER EQUALITY • ITG gives equal chances when hiring people. This is clearly stated in the ITG • ITG believes & encourages gender equality, and makes not discrimination Employee Handbook: when hiring. ITG offers equal chances to women, by giving them access to “ITG is an equal opportunity employer. Religion, age, gender, national positions that are traditionally reserved for men. origin, sexual orientation, race, or color does not affect hiring, promotion, development opportunities, pay, or benefits. ITG is strongly committed to • ITG signed the “Women in Boardroom” initiative, from the Lebanese HU League for Women in Business (LLWB), which seeks to push women MA fair treatment of employees based on merit”. empowerment further in Lebanon. The initiative rallies support from NR • ITG has stopped mentioning the religion of its employees in the official businesses that will commit to increase the number of women on their IG Board of Directors (BOD), and in the managerial positions, by 2025. HT papers sent to the Social Security institution. S • 22% of managerial positions at ITG are held by women (General Managers • We posted several ‘Human Rights’ messages on our social media and head of departments at group level). platforms, to raise awareness among our employees and followers. • 28% of ITG Staff are women, and this is Women at ITG considered a good ratio for a group in the IT • Principle 1: business. In addition, 11% of the women are 11% Businesses should support engineers. and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed • We posted several ‘Gender Equality’ human rights messages on our social media platforms, to raise awareness among our employees and 89% • Principle 2: Make sure that followers. they are not complicit in human rights abuses Other positions Engineers HUMAN RIGHTS | 6 Ethical work environment 2. AGAINST DISCRIMINATION • ITG is against any form of discrimination, as stated in the ITG Employee Handbook: “ITG is committed to providing a work environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and conduct that can be considered harassing, intimidating, or disruptive. Harassment in the workplace is a form of discrimination. It is unwelcome and unwanted. It affects the individual’s ability to learn and work. It can also be an expression of abuse of power, authority, or control and is coercive in nature”. • ITG’ HR Department has an open door policy, in which any employee can address any complaint related to discrimination, in order to be resolved. MAINTAINING RESPECT & A POSITIVE WORK ENVIRONMENT Healthy & safe environment 3. ITG strives to have a good working environment where SMOKING respect, courtesy, and positive attitudes prevail, as stated in the ITG Employee Handbook: • “In order to protect and enhance our indoor air quality and “ITG strives to maintain a positive work environment where to contribute to the health and well-being of all employees, employees treat each other with respect and courtesy, smoking is prohibited in all of the below areas within ITG sites, and therefore, having good etiquette at the workplace without exception and at all times. This includes common is extremely important. Sometimes issues arise when private offices, open work areas, conference and meeting employees are unaware that their behavior in the workplace rooms, cafeteria, hallways, stairs, restrooms, parking shuttle may be disruptive or annoying to others. buses and all other enclosed facilities”. This is stated in the ITG encourages all employees to keep an open mind and ITG Employee Handbook. graciously accept constructive feedback or a request to change behavior that may be affecting another employee’s • ITG dedicates an isolated outdoor area for smokers. ability to concentrate and be productive”. HUMAN RIGHTS | 7 Recruitment & selection far from 1. Encouraging our employees continuous 3. discrimination education • ITG ensures that the required human capital meet its PURSUING ADVANCED STUDIES AT UNIVERSITIES operational and strategic goals. We adopt a strategic approach for the recruitment and selection process, whereby ITG strive to establish fruitful collaboration with major the right person is matched to the right job based purely on universities, signing mutual agreement whereby the his/her inherent qualifications, and disregarding any form of universities grant special discounts for our staff wishing to LA discrimination whilst recognizing equal opportunities for all. continue their education. Thus we provide our employees BO the opportunity to pursue their advanced education (MBA and others). UR • ITG provides job opportunities for fresh graduates as well as senior profiles, in order to ensure diversity in Agreements were signed with the below universities to its workforce. grant special discounts for undergraduates and graduate studies, varying from 10% to 25% : • In 2016, we recruited a total of 116 employees. Antonine University • Principle 3: AUST Businesses should uphold the • The company groups 684 employees, in which 28% are USEK freedom of association and females, and 72% are males. ITG ACADEMY AND STAFF TRAINING the effective recognition of the Female vs Male right to collective bargaining In our continuous efforts to develop the potential of our employees, we provide them with constant training and • Principle 4: courses through “ITG Academy” programs in various fields, The elimination of all forms of 28% with the support of major local learning centers. The training forced and compulsory labour programs are delivered internally or externally, depending on the topic, and the graduates are provided with official • Principle 5: 72% certifications. Some of the training topics: The effective abolition of child Legal issues course labour English course Corporate events and exhibitions organization • Principle 6: Female Male Social media platforms, advertising, and digital marketing The elimination of discrimination Project management course in respect of employment and Competency based recruitment & interviewing workshop occupation Ensuring team growth & career 2. Finance & audit courses development Training courses were delivered to 156 persons, since the establishment of the ITG Academy. One of ITG’s main objectives is to keep our people motivated, give them the chance to grow and enhance their skills, create a sense of ownership in their work and encourage them to excel in what they do. ITG adheres to the principle of promoting from within as the basis for sharing expertise, giving employees new opportunities within the group, and Person's Name developing their talents throughout the organization. January 18, 2016 labour | 8 Activities towards young generation 4. “GIRLS GOT IT” EVENT PROJECT MANAGEMENT WORKSHOP 460 The Multimedia Store & Image Systems, both ITG On November 9 & 16, 2016, ITG organized a 2 days’ affiliates, sponsored “Girls Got IT” event, organized by workshop at ULF-Université Libano-Francaise, about 5 women associations, on March 12, 2016 at Palais des Project Management, and handed ITG Academy certificates Congrès, Dbayeh. The event gathered 400+ girls (10th & to the students. 11th graders) from 38 public & private schools, for a full day of technology related hands-on activities. The aim was to encourage young girls to select IT, Science, Technology & Engineering subjects as career choices, in order to bridge the gender gap in technology-related fields, by bringing awareness on the importance of Information Technology. INTERNSHIPS PROGRAMS ITG HR dept.-Learning & Development division, provides yearly internships programs in collaboration with major local universities. The program is set for 2 months or more if needed, and the successful interns are later interviewed “ARDUINO DAY” by the Recruitment dept. for a possibility to become an ITG employee. ITG sponsored Arduino day, organized by the dept. of Computer & Communications Engineering at AUST, on − 2014: 25 hosted interns April 2, 2016. Arduino is the internationally renowned − 2015: 37 hosted interns microcontroller. 10 teams of 5 members each, from 5 public − 2016: 50 hosted interns schools, competed to create within 2 hours, and using ITG Internship Program Arduino, a robot that follows light and avoids obstacles. 60 Students were under the supervision of 10 AUST senior CCE 50 50 students. Prizes from 460 The Multimedia Store & The Mac 37 Shop (both ITG affiliates), were granted to the 3 winning 40 Hosted Interns teams from Laure Moughaizel Official School, Zahlé Official 30 25 School, and Dhour Shweir School. 20 10 0 2014 2015 2016 labour | 9 Collaboration with universities & employees 5. Additional benefits to employees 6. involvement SCHOOLING ALLOWANCE ITG HR dept. along with the Marcom dept. organize every year several presentations at local universities discussing ITG contributes in part to its employees children’s tuition different topics & presenting available vacancies at the company. fees, by covering the below: Nursery and School: Up to 1,000,000 LBP per year per • In December 2015, ITG and the Antonine University Faculty • In February 24, 2016, ITG & USEKThe Holy Spirit University child of Engineering, organized a symposium under the title “From of Kaslik signed a partnership for the mutual benefit of both University: Up to 1,500,000 LBP per year per child (for Academia to Professional Life” in which ITG HR presented institutions aiming at facilitating the exchange of expertise among the first two years only) an overview about ITG solutions and the internship professors and students, in the fields of engineering, management, opportunities. Moreover, ITG employees that are Antonine computer science, IT and business, as well as promoting the INSURANCE alumni, shared their experience within the group, their roles placement of students in training sessions, internships, workshops, and challenges they face, and the way to address them. senior projects and seminars. − Medical insurance plan for the employees and their direct dependents (Spouse, Children) − Life insurance plan END OF YEAR BONUS As part of the employee benefits program, ITG and its affiliates may grant their employees an end of year bonus, to reward them for their personal efforts and their contribution to the company’s performance, and for their renewed commitment and involvement in the company’s future. MILEAGE REIMBURSEMENT FOR SALES & TECHNICAL POSITIONS • In February 2016, ITG organized a symposium in Given that some functions (Technicians, after sales support, collaboration with NDU-Notre Dame University, under consultants …) require the personnel to use their personal the title “Preparing yourself for job hunting”, in which they • Noting that earlier in June 2015, ITG & AUST signed a mutual cars to visit customers, allowances are paid to the entitled introduced ITG to NDU students, and gave them several agreement for the benefits of both parties in terms of students employees, based on the number of Km covered. interviews tips that can enhance their chances for getting hired. placement and expertise sharing. labour | 10 CSR activities 7. BLOOD DONATION ACTIVITY IN COLLABORATION WITH “DSC SUPPORTING THE LOCAL APPLE FARMERS LEBANON” We enhance employees’ awareness on social responsibility In November 2016, ITG supported the local apple farmers by continuously organizing activities that benefit the society. In June 2016, as part of ITG’ CSR plan for 2016, we hosted during their ongoing distribution crisis, by offering free apples a blood drive at our premises, in partnership with Donner to our employees, from a local farmer from the Akkar area, MARATHON 2015: PARTICIPATION WITH “MY SCHOOL PULSE” Sang Compter (DSC Lebanon) & AUBMC. The participants North of Lebanon. Apples were distributed during a one day underwent a medical screening checking the temperature, activity at our cafeteria. ITG employees participated in the 2015 marathon, in blood pressure and hemoglobin level. Only the candidates collaboration with My School Pulse, a non-profit organization who have met the criteria were able to donate. bringing school to hospitals in Lebanon, for children undergoing treatment for a life-threatening illness. The fees covered by ITG went to the support of My School Pulse. 47 participants enjoyed the 10K Fun Run. − We also generated several Social media posts to celebrate WORKSHOP ON THE INCLUSION OF DISABLED PEOPLE AT THE “World Blood Donor Day” & to raise awareness on the importance WORKPLACE of giving blood more often. ITG HR and Marketing & Communication departments CHRISTMAS 2015 ACTIVITY: FOOD DONATION WITH attended the workshop on the inclusion of disabled people “FOODBLESSED” at the workplace. ITG’ offices are well built and equipped to receive disabled workers, and the company is planning on During the festive season, ITG brought true Christmas spirit recruiting several candidates with disabilities, by 2017. to its employees by asking them to donate food to people in need through FoodBlessed. The employees were provided with a list of food essentials and we were able to collect 505 Kilos of the required items within a week. This activity proved that with a minimum effort, we can make a huge difference. labour | 11 Employees sports activities 8. Celebrating team success 9. ITG encourages its employees to interact with each other, ITG celebrates successes and important achievements of its and to participate to yearly sport tournaments, competing affiliates’ teams, by organizing gatherings outside the company, internally within ITG group, or externally with other corporate joining the company team with ITG upper management. companies. ITG Basketball team, consisting of 12 players, and Football team, 11 players, participated in several tournaments in 2015 and 2016: • Sports Mania tournament, competing with several corporate companies from various sectors • Holcom Group tournament, competing with other companies of the group. ITG investment for its sports activities is $15,000 per year. ‘ITG Offers’ for employees 10. ITG initiated the concept of “ITG Offers” in 2016. The idea is to negotiate special discounts for ITG staff, ranging from 10 to 25%, with several external companies such as shops, restaurants, fitness centers, and other services providers. labour | 12 ITG Green Headquarters 1. • A Solar Photovoltaic system installed on the building rooftop over an area of 1,250m² (113kW), in addition to 100m² (7kW) of Solar Photovoltaic vertical thin film on the façade. En Total power of 114 kWp, for a yearly energy production vi ro of 159 MWh Providing 25% of the building energy demands nm Savings per year are: en t 25 planted TREES • Principle 7: Businesses should support a Co2 emission: 145,000 kg precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives ITG relocated its offices in mid-2015, to new eco-friendly to promote greater and sustainable Headquarters, the Holcom Building (Holcom environmental responsibility is ITG mother holding), which is conceived to save energy 40,000 litres of OIL 200,000 kWh and to provide the best work conditions. The green aspects Environment • Principle 9: of the new building in terms of energy efficiency, is centered on Solar Energy, and Lighting Management solutions, in • The building architecture includes an external skin (metal Encourage the development addition to other green elements. panels), on all the façades, allowing to manage the sun light, and diffusion of where and how the light enters, while reducing the sun heat environmentally friendly impact. In addition, external blinds protect the glass façade technologies from the heat. • Lighting Management & Shading solutions with a strategy to optimize energy usage based on 4 elements: Scheduling/ time clock, occupancy sensing, high-end tuning, and daylight harvesting. The lighting level is automatically set according to the natural daylight level, and shadings are automatically adjusted based on solar position. The solutions save 47.6% of the lighting energy consumption of the building, which represents 506,808 kWh/year. • Many greenery plantations for more shading and less heat: 80m² of green wall at the main entrance, in addition to many Bamboo & trees planting. ---> Take a tour inside our building : http://bit.ly/2fUq0KC ENVIRONMENT | 13 ITG Green SLOGAN 2. TECHNOLOGY RECYCLING To spread the ‘green’ culture among its members, ITG In 2015, ‘460 The Multimedia Store’ the ITG group retail introduced the eco-slogan “ITG = I Think Green”, which is store, collaborated with ‘Beeatoona’, an NGO supportive of included in the electronic signature of all its employees. green environment, to launch a technology recycling initiative encouraging everyone to recycle their old technology items, and help reduce electronic waste. The campaign was promoted online through 460 website and ITG social Recycling Initiatives 3. media platforms, to encourage individuals to drop their old technology for recycling (desktops, laptops, printers …) at ITG commitment towards a greener Lebanon has our shop, and receive a discount from 460 eStore. been continuous since 2012 through several actions: PAPER RECYCLING OTHER RECYCLING INITIATIVES In cooperation with ‘Terre Liban’, ITG gathered 41,650 Kgs of paper in 5 years, equivalent to: • Starting 2016, we have also displayed bins for plastic, glass, nylon, to recycle them with ‘L’Ecoute’, an NGO that finances their projects through recycling to serve handicapped people. 708 planted TREES • ITG retail and distribution affiliates, replaced their traditional 73,012 litres of OIL plastic bags with new environment-friendly biodegradable plastic bags. • ITG (Holding) conducted awareness training sessions to staff regarding Reduce /Re-use /Recycle habits, as well as the appropriate use of the existing cardboard & other recycling bins. 1,103,641 litres of WATER 166,600 kWh 95.8 m³ of LANDFILL space ENVIRONMENT | 14 Environmental events & activities 4. SPONSORING ‘EARTH HOUR LEBANON 2016’ • ECOsys, an ITG company, sponsored ‘Earth Hour Lebanon 2016’ that took place at Überhaus–BIEL, Beirut on March 19, 2016. ECOsys contribution transformed Earth Hour Lebanon into a carbon neutral event, by installing 20 solar Photovoltaic Panels on top of the club for a period of 10 days. The energy gathered during this period was equivalent to the electricity used during the 6 hours event. ECOsys & ITG signed the Earth Hour Pledge prior to the event. • In this context, Holcom & ITG headquarters were turned off for 1 hour, from 20:30 until 21:30, in parallel with public and private institutions. ---> Check this video: http://bit.ly/2fyFnIq JOINING THE ‘LEBANON CLIMATE ACT’ INITIATIVE (LCA) SIGNING THE GREEN PLEDGE OF ‘LEBANON OPPORTUNITIES’ ITG joined the Lebanon Climate Act initiative (LCA), on In October 2016, ITG signed the ‘Green Pledge’ and joined July 26, 2016, in line with Lebanon’s climate change the Green Club created by Lebanon Opportunities. The engagement at the international COP21 conference. LCA aim of this initiative is to inform and enable the business encourages companies to reduce their environmental and community on ways to become environmentally friendly carbon footprint, deploy more clean energy, and build more in an economically feasible manner, and to provide sustainable businesses. A team from ECOsys attends the them with practical tools and independent support that ongoing workshops, organized by LCA, to learn more about would have a positive contribution to their profits when the dangerous effects of climate change. Check out the list engaging in an environmentally sustainable conduct. of participants: http://bit.ly/2fN60tx The initiative was also announced on our social media platforms by posting the LCA interactive video to raise awareness on climate change: http://bit.ly/2eT2SKp ENVIRONMENT | 15 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS MESSAGES Several environmental awareness massages were posted on social media throughout the year. ENVIRONMENT | 16 www.itgholding.com
