Communication On Progress Report TABLE OF CONTENTS ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 INTRODUCTION 4 Message from the CEO 4 ABOUT BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORKS 6 Vision 7 Business motto 7 Mission 7 Core Values 7 Our Products and services 8 Sustainability Pillars 8 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 9 General 10 Key revenues by segment 10 Environmental 10 Social 10 Other 10 OUR MATERIAL MATTERS 11 Human Rights 12 Labour 12 Environment 13 Anticorruption 13 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 14 Human Rights 15 Labour 19 Environment 21 Anticorruption 22 Community Engagement 23 Social Responsibility Policy 24 GOING FORWARD 26 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 27 2 Broadband Communication Networks COP ABOUT THIS REPORT This report has been developed to provide summarized information on the sustainability performance of Broadband Communication Networks. The report highlights our key material matters under the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and provides insight on our approach in addressing these matters. It covers the period July 2016 – June 2017 and forms our first Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. Broadband Communication Networks COP 3 INTRODUCTION MESSAGE FROM THE CEO & MANAGING DIRECTOR “Our Organization’s objective is to provide Products, Services and Solutions that contribute to sustainability for our customers, our Country and the world at large. Indeed our sustainability vision is to provide products, services and solutions that contribute to the success of our own customers, and the quality of life of each person affected by our actions. The foundation of this vision is our continued commitment to managing our operations responsibly and ethically. We are dedicated to add value to our customers’ technology needs. Welcome to our Communication on Progress Report.“ As the founder and CEO of Broadband Communication Networks, I am pleased to present to you our 1st UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) report covering 2016 – 2017 period. In this regard, I wish to confirm that our organization is totally committed to the 10 principles of the UNGC covering Human Rights, Environment, Labour Standards and Anticorruption. In this annual COP, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We strive at all times to ensure adherence to these principles. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Our organization mission is, to be the preferred provider of innovative and superior technology solutions and services in East & Central Africa. We continue to deliver Technology Solutions addressing; Telecom, Utilities, Broadcasting, UN bodies and large businesses in the region. Indeed we are pretty much a one Stop shop for ICT in the region. In general the last one year has been a good year for Broadband. However, the last two months of the year were challenging as we lost a substantial scope with our major customer. The main reason for loss of business is the demand for more discounts and pressure from new entrants to lower prices yet our costs are increasing. Our organization’s sustainability is hinged on six pillars that include: Customer Focus, Products and Services Excellence, Our human Resource, Innovation, Governance, Health Safety and Environment. These pillars are also aligned with the UNGC requirements. Indeed we have policies that cover Human Resource, Health, Safety, Environment and Business Ethics among others. 4 Broadband Communication Networks COP Human Rights We require all our employees to adhere to Our organisation is committed to continue administration requirements, to the letter respecting the protection of internationally and spirit, in order to avoid opportunities for proclaimed human rights and do not tolerate corruption. To further eradicate corruption, we human rights abuse of any form. We are ready have requested our suppliers to register with to report any person involved in human rights UNGC and in particular sign the Code of Ethics abuses if it ever happens in our operation. for business in Kenya. I am pleased to report Labour Standards that two suppliers have already registered and other 10 suppliers are in the processes of We are committed to ensure that, in our registering with UNGC. We commit to continue recruitment; we do not employ children, to train all staff to ensure they adhere to the 10 discriminate in employment, advocate for forced UNGC principals. Indeed we look forward to a labour, block employees from having collective world where corruption is totally eradicated. bargaining among other international labour standards. The Bigger Picture The Environment We know we cannot succeed in isolation. Our organization has been engaged in Corporate Our activities have the capacity to degrade the Social Responsibility (CSR) activities in support of environment. We however believe in ensuring the less fortunate members of Society. Indeed we protect the environment so that we leave the we have done several projects, including some earth if possible better than we found it. Indeed jointly done with our customers. The ripple effect we may be the 1st Telecom Company in Kenya to is that when these groups of people succeed have an active Health, Safety and Environment they increase the demand for ICT services, (HSE) policy. We are totally compliant as far as directly supporting our Customers who in turn HSE is concerned and in accordance with the gives us jobs, therefore forming a sustainable best practice in environmental conservation eco-system into the future. requirements. Conclusion Indeed our staff must read, understand and sign our HSE handbook before they can be allowed to In conclusion, I take this opportunity to thank my go to the field. We have all required Health and team for the effort so far. I believe that there is a Safety Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) tools lot of room to be covered and we are committed for the people going to the field and especially and willing to go that extra mile. I however climbing towers. believe that we need each and every Corporate, Small and Medium Enterprises, Government to Our organization has invested in energy efficient follow suit in order to achieve the desired global solutions that enable us and our customers goals. My commitment is that we will ensure we to go green. Initiatives include; Sale of LED do our part and look forward to reporting on our lighting solutions, Solar, hybrid solutions and progress next year. efficient cooling solutions for data centers and telecom application. All these solutions reduce “Yes we can” the carbon foot print for our customers. We will continue investing in green energy solutions for telecom, homes and grid connection into the future. Anti-Corruption Corruption remains a key challenge in our Bernard G. Wahome operation. This is a key issue especially when Founder and Chief Executive Officer dealing with government officers and some customers. This is especially true when getting development approvals and licenses in our operations among others. This often causes work to delay resulting in our organization incurring undue losses and poor performance appraisal by our customers. As the CEO of the company I have ensured that my management and staff have, zero tolerance to corruption in all forms concerned. In the year 2016-2017, we trained our senior and middle management staff on Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya. Broadband Communication Networks COP 5 ABOUT BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORKS 6 Broadband Communication Networks COP ABOUT BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORKS Broadband Communication Networks is a Communication Technologies Organization dedicated to provide Complete Communication Network Solutions for:• Network Operators, • Communication Regulators, • Broadcasting Houses, • Internet Service Providers (ISPs) • Utilities, Governments, • UN bodies and • Large business organizations in East & Central Africa. The company covers the full telecom life cycle through three main business divisions each headed by a General Manager. These three divisions are:• Implementation which covers physical network planning, deployment and optimization. • Maintenance and Support involves active and passive Maintenance and Support. • Network Solutions includes End to End 2G, 3G and 4G Mobile Broadband Network, Conformance Testing, Network Monitoring, Performance Management, Telecom Power and Green Energy among others. We have headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya and have implemented large Telecom Network Projects across East & Central Africa. This includes Cameroon, Rwanda, Burundi, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Congo B, Gabon and Sudan besides many in Kenya. To achieve our objectives, we have partnered with major global tier 1 manufacturers to deliver the desired Solutions to our Customers. Our partners include, Rohde & Schwarz, Nokia, Infinera, Calix, Aviat, Emerson (Vertiv), Viavi and Netscout among others. Vision Mission To be the model of excellence To be the preferred provider in delivering superior of innovative and superior technology solutions and Business motto: technology solutions and services in Africa. Services in East and Central Dedicated to add value to Africa. your technology needs Core Values • Honesty • Hard work • Integrity • Maintenance of good health • Sincerity • Safety and wellbeing • Superior quality • Protection of the environment • Competence • Respect of our internal and external customers • Timely • Superior customer satisfaction Broadband Communication Networks COP 7 Our Products and services:• Network Implementation (Deployment) • Network Maintenance • Network Solutions • Green Energy Solutions Field Technicians installing micro wave dish Our Sustainability Pillars 8 Broadband Communication Networks COP PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS Broadband Communication Networks COP 9 General Key revenues by segment Network solutions KES 32.6 M Implementation KES 427M Country of operation (Kenya) Maintenance KES 933.7M Environmental 58 Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) conducted in 2017 Green products Solar products wind energy LED lighting products products Social Number of employees Employee diversity by position Employee diversity (M/F) Ex Male Female er ec 93 12 at ut ive 90 ions 4 Op 105 Management Average Employees 11 Age 34 Years Employee training spend KES 2,728,000/= Man hours on employee training 720hrs CSR initiatives spend KES 5.2 million, 10 desktop computers and 5 laptops Employee volunteering hours 500hrs Other ISO 9001 QMS 2015 – certified in 2017 10 Broadband Communication Networks COP OUR MATERIAL MATTERS A sustainability issue is considered material if it could substantively affect the organization’s ability to create value in the short, medium or long term. Material matters in this report have been developed under the four key themes of the UN Global Compact, namely Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Material matters are determined by considering the sustainability impacts and opportunities of the company, stakeholder concerns and assessments of key issues within the operating environment. These themes reflect key relationships, spheres of influence, footprints or impacts of our operations, stakeholder concerns and our operating context. Broadband Communication Networks COP 11 Human Rights Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, whatever their nationality, place of residence, sex, national or ethnic origin, colour, religion, language, or any other status. All human beings are equally entitled to human rights without discrimination. These rights are all interrelated, interdependent and indivisible. Material matters as relates to human rights and business in Kenya are hardly documented. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) highlights issues for businesses including workplace rights, local communities / business relations, human rights and sustainable land use, human rights and sustainable environment and human rights and smalland medium-sized enterprises. The Commission also noted that manufacturing and agricultural companies are more prone to human rights challenges. Although Broadband Communication Networks operates in the service arena that is hardly considered in respect to matters of human rights, the company considers human rights as being important especially with respect to employees. Key rights issues of concern to the company include health and safety of employees, sexual harassment and management of grievances. Labour Labour relations and labour rights remain a highly emotive subject in Kenya. In 2016 alone, the national government faced key labour challenges with major employee segments including teachers, university lecturers, nurses and doctors. In terms of child labour, the U.S. Department of Labor reported that 32 percent of Kenyan children, from 6 and 14 years old, were working. Freedom of association is enshrined in Bill of Rights under Chapter 4 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010 which states that (1) Every person has the right to freedom of association, which includes the right to form, join or participate in the activities of an association of any kind; and (2) A person shall not be compelled to join an association of any kind. Association through trade unions is also catered for in the Labour Relations Act (2007). In addition, the country has several labour related laws that support freedom of association and prohibit all forms of forced and compulsory labour, infringements of employee rights and protection of employees. Team building at Maanzoni Lodge, Machakos County December 2016 Broadband Network teambuilding activity at Maanzoni Lodge in December 2016 12 Broadband Communication Networks COP As an employer, Broadband considers labour relations as a key facet of long term sustainability. Observance of labour legislation and consistent engagement of employees is considered an essential part of sound business practice by the company. In addition, the company has identified unique features of its labour performance that require additional attention and management. Environment Article 42 of the Constitution of Kenya (2010) states that every person has the right to a clean and healthy environment. This reinforces the provision of the key environmental legislation, the Environmental Management and Coordination Act (EMCA), 1999 which states that every person in Kenya is entitled to a clean and healthy environment and has a duty to safeguard and enhance the environment. Despite these robust provisions, Kenya faces severe environmental challenges including deforestation, soil erosion, desertification, water shortage and degraded water quality, flooding, poaching and domestic and industrial pollution. Given this context, it is imperatives for companies in the region to embrace sound environmental practices. Increasingly, stakeholders are demanding for companies to be more proactive in their environmental practices. For example, in early 2017, the national government issued a ban on the use, manufacture and importation of all plastic bags used for commercial and household packaging on environmental grounds. Broadband therefore considers the natural environment as a key material concern requiring the requisite policies and procedures. We have on board the HSE policy that drives the organization to protect the environment. LED lights enabling up to 90% energy saving Anticorruption Corruption in Kenya has been characterised as endemic and systemic covering the entire swath of petty to grand corruption. The Business Anti-Corruption portal states that “one third of all firms regularly experience extortion and have to make facilitation payments and give gifts to carry out basic business operations such as obtaining operating licences, construction permits and utility connections”. The private sector has been characterized as being both a perpetrator and a victim of corruption in the country. According to a survey on prevalence of economic crimes by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PwC), Kenya has a high prevalence of embezzlement, bribery and procurement fraud. Transparency international 2016 corruption perception index ranked Kenya at 145 out of 154 countries. Given this challenging environment for business, anti-corruption measures become a pertinent component for businesses that seek to operate in an ethical and responsible manner. Broadband is particularly vulnerable to this context due to its operations as a business to business service provider in a highly competitive sector. In addition, it’s business dealings with the government and participation in competitive bidding creates a facilitative environment for corruption. The company therefore considers corruption as a key challenge. Broadband Communication Networks COP 13 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE This section looks at our sustainability performance by focusing on the four core themes (Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption) and ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We have prepared this information by presenting three key facets of our sustainability performance model. Firstly, we have provided insights on our understanding of the core sustainability issues and why we believe it is important to our business. We realize that different businesses have different explanations of the terms used by the UN Global Compact. We therefore want to highlight our understanding of the core themes and the necessity for our engagement in each of these themes. Secondly, we have highlighted our policy position on each of the themes. This is in recognition of the need for companies to develop internal policy commitments in respect to each of the core themes of the UN Global Compact. Policy statements and policy highlights are provided to underscore the seriousness with which we take each of the core themes. Without policies, implementation tends to be ad-hoc and guided by personal vision of those charged with implementing. By developing and publicising our policies, we intend to ensure that our stakeholders understand our position and approach on diverse issues. Finally, we have provided insight on some of the activities we have undertaken to implement our policies. We appreciate that policies that are not implemented are simply “wish lists”. Instead, we want to show our commitment through specific and targeted actions that seek to address the sustainability agendas incorporated in the Compact. This provides our core measurement of our sustainability performance in 2017 through qualitative narrative and quantitative data (where applicable). We believe that this three-part design provides holistic and logical insight on our sustainability performance in the course of the year. 14 Broadband Communication Networks COP Human Rights Broadband has put several strategies in place to attain the objectives of the health and safety Principle 1: Businesses should support and policy. These include: respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Providing suitable working tools and protective equipment Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit • Liaising and adhering to relevant government in human rights abuses. and regulatory authorities to ensure compliance to health and safety standards Our understanding • Sensitizing staff through continuous training We understand human rights as universal and and updating all policies and procedures on minimum standards aimed at securing dignity safety, health and environment practices. and equality for all human beings. In this regard, • Providing and maintain plant systems and we endeavor to assess and determine any procedures of work that are safe and without human rights risks that may occur due to our risks to health. operations and activities. Our intention is to ensure we respect human rights and avoid any The policy sets out clear responsibilities for the infringements. We have placed our emphasis Managing Director, General Managers, Heads of on issues that present key human rights risks and Departments and employees on issues of health report on them accordingly. and safety, ensuring that overall responsibility is vested in the top leadership of the company. It Our policy also provides for the establishment of Health and Safety Committees, Environmental Health and Broadband Communication Networks takes Safety (EHS) trainings and EHS guidelines. A set cognisance of the importance of adhering to of EHS rules have been developed with specific sound human rights practices in our business emphasis to the following safety concerns undertakings. The company has developed several human rights related policies to underpin Sexual harassment policy its commitment to observing, protecting and respecting human rights. Among these policies The Company has developed a sexual are: harassment policy that seeks to ensure that all employees are protected from sexual Health and safety policy harassment. Sexual harassment is defined as “unwelcome and unreciprocated sexual This policy seeks to comply with the advances, requests for sexual favours, either Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2007 verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature (OSHA) and all other relevant legal requirements. that results in the individual feeling threatened or compromised in any way. Through the policy, the company commits to: • Comply with all relevant statutory The policy recognizes instances of sexual requirements and quality standards. harassment as occurring if an if the employer • Ensure each employee is given information, of that employee or a representative of that instruction and training necessary for safe employer or a co-worker; performance of work. • Uses language whether written or spoken of a • Protect health and safety of all employees. sexual nature • Adequately enable employees raise issues • Shows physical behaviour of a sexual nature of the health and safety through health and which directly or indirectly subjects the safety committees. employee to behaviour that is unwelcome or • Ensure assessment of risks on health and offensive to that employee that by its nature safety at workplace and taking necessary has a detrimental effect on the employee’s action. employment, job performance or job • Provide of Personal Protective Equipment satisfaction. (PPE) to employees and ensuring properly • Uses visual material of sexual nature used. • Directly or indirectly requests that employee • Reduce the losses caused by consequences for sexual intercourse, sexual contact of occupational diseases, accidents and or any other form of sexual activity that improving the general environment. contains an implied or express, promise of preferential treatment in employment, threat of determined treatment in employment; or threat about the present or future employment status of the employee. Broadband Communication Networks COP 15 Examples of sexual harassment covered by the In general, we ensure that all sites are well policy include verbal, unwanted propositions, secured and a safety induction is conducted language of a suggestive or explicit nature, before commencement of work. Where jokes of a suggestive or explicit nature, questions necessary, safety signage is also erected on site. or comments of a personal nature, pin-ups, offensive publications, unsolicited and unwanted Working at height is acknowledged as one of gifts and staring/leering. the most dangerous activities in the construction, maintenance and facilities management scope Complaint and grievance policy of work. Amongst many hazards and associated risks, working at height exposes workers to the This policy is designed to provide guidelines and risk of falls from height, and others being hit procedure to ensure workplace disciplinary, by objects that may fall from height. Working complaints and grievance issues that affect at height is a predominant aspect of our work the company’s performance are received and since we provide support to telecommunication appropriately dealt with in a timely manner for companies by building and maintaining the mutual interest of both the company and the their infrastructure. Construction, equipping employee. and maintenance of this infrastructure and subsequent maintenance creates the need It provides for grievances to be handled and for working at height. In this respect, we have settled near the point of origin and as soon as developed a clear set of practices including possible with the immediate manager in the compulsory use of protective equipment like first instance. It also provides clear timelines harnesses, specific requirements on the type of for addressing grievances. All work-related harnesses that can be used and clear guidelines complaints and grievances should be reported on working positions when working at height. within three working days from the date of In addition, all employees involved in working occurrence of the incidence and hearing held at height are certified for this type of work and within seven working days after the reporting undergo site induction meeting before each date and feedback given within the next three assignment. Certification is renewed annually working days after the hearing. with refresher courses undertaken after every three years. A clearly defined grievance mechanism is in place ensuring confidentiality and nonPersonal Protective Equipment (PPE) are an victimization of those who highlight grievances. essential part of our safety practice and are provided to all personnel as required. Use Our performance of PPE is compulsory based on task and site Health and safety is a critical concern of requirements. Employees have been trained Broadband Communication. This is because in the proper use of PPE to ensure that they our work entails various forms of health and accrue the safety benefits intended from the safety risks that need constant vigilance and use of these equipment. On site, an induction adherence to our safety policy. Among the process is conducted at the commencement of critical issues include safety concerns for tasks in which PPE usage is covered among key persons working at height, handling of electrical induction facts. Where necessary, all persons on appliances and electricity, driving including a site including visitors, suppliers and inspectors long distance and night driving and proper are required to observe PPE requirements for use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). We them to access the site. currently have a HSE Manager and field team leaders are HSE supervisors responsible for their Other considerations that are essential for safe teams practices include safety procedures around site construction, excavation and working with Managing safety concerns at our client’s sites electricity. We have ensured that our employees is a key consideration. This work includes many are appropriately qualified for these functions hazardous tasks and conditions such as working and also invested in their skills around safety with height, excavation, noise, dust, power tools practices. and equipment. The most common fatalities are caused by the fatal four: falls, struck by object, In addition, our assignments call for driving in electrocutions and caught-in/between. We various forms of terrains, for diverse distances have developed clear procedures for ensuring and at different hours, since we also provide safety within sites based on the tasks at hand emergency support to telecommunication and risks associated with these tasks. companies. This creates several forms of driving and road related risks. 16 Broadband Communication Networks COP To address this issue, we have developed a comprehensive procedure for each journey which includes pre-journey assessment of all vehicles based on a clear assessment template. The subsequent vehicle inspection report must be completed and submitted. In addition, journey planning is undertaken to determine safety risks and mitigation needed for each journey. Drivers are expected to make journey breaks as a key part of safe driving. At a company level, all drivers undergo defensive driving courses as a prerequisite for working in that role. We also ensure the safety of our personnel who work in areas that are prone to insecurity or during night hours. Our overall safety performance in 2016 was as shown below: Other Incident / Near 2016 Road Traffic Accident Fatalities LTIFR Miss JUL 0 0 0 0 AUG 4 4 0 0 SEPT 0 1 0 0 OCT 3 1 0 2 months NOV 2 3 0 0 DEC 0 0 1 0 TOTAL 9 9 1 Overall safety performance in the first half of 2017 was as shown below: Other Incident / Near 2017 Road Traffic Accident Fatalities LTIFR Miss JAN 0 1 0 0 FEB 1 0 0 0 MAR 2 0 0 0 APR 0 1 0 0 MAY 0 1 0 0 JUN 0 1 0 0 TOTAL 3 4 0 0 Training and development on health and safety topics in 2016-2017 were as follows: Training Attendees No. OSH Induction Training All Employees 105 Fire Marshals Nominated Fire Marshals 9 Incident Investigation Health and Safety Champions 4 Health and Safety Committee Training All H&S Representatives’ (1 -50 ratio) 0 First Aider All Nominated First Aiders (1 per team) 10 Working at Heights All Riggers/ Persons who work at height 11 All drivers and persons authorized to drive Defensive Driving Training 4 company vehicles Toolbox meetings (HSE Awareness) All technical employees 81 Health Awareness All employees 105 Business Ethics Managers 6 Broadband Communication Networks COP 17 BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORKS HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY Ensuring a safe and healthy working environment for its workers, customers and the company at large 18 Broadband Communication Networks COP Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our understanding We are committed to respecting international and local legislation on labour relations and practices. Several international and national policies, treaties, regulations and legislation provide an overarching framework for sound labour practices. Key legislation in Kenya include the Employment Act, Labour Institutions Act, Labour Relations Act, Occupational Safety and Health Act and Work Injury Benefits Act. these laws and the Constitution of Kenya (2010) provide for key labour rights including freedom of association, prohibition of forced and compulsory labour and discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. In respect to child labour, Section 10 of the Children Act 2001 (Chapter 141) states that all children must be protected from economic exploitation that would have a detrimental effect on their wellbeing or access to education. Furthermore, Part VII of the Employment Act 2007 sets out the standards for the protection of children in the workplace and prohibits employment of children under the age of 13. Our policy The Human Resource Manual sets out the company’s comprehensive approach to the management of human capital to ensure achievement of complete and appropriate communication, comprehensive records and controls with an objective of attracting, recruiting and retaining of competent staff that meet both the company and individual goals. The Manual caters for a wide variety of labour related issues including freedom of association, non-discrimination, child labour and forced and compulsory labour. a) Freedom of association Employees of the company are permitted to form or join any trade union of their choice. This is in adherence with local legislation and best labour practice. No restrictions or requirements have been put in place to prevent or prohibit employees from collective engagements. b) Child labour The company has a child labour policy that acknowledges the existence of child labour and the need to address it proactively. The company has assessed its risks in regards to child labour and determined that the highest risks may be attributed to our suppliers. However, Broadband does not accept child labour, and works actively against it. The company recognizes that the complexity of the child labour issue requires a consistent, long-term effort to create sustainable and broadbased solutions in order to reach its goal; that no products delivered to Broadband Communication Networks are produced by child labour. General principle Broadband Communication Networks Ltd does not accept child labour. The company supports the United Nations (U.N.) Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989) and has developed its child labour policy based on this Convention, which stipulates: • “All actions concerning the child shall take full account of his or her best interests.” Article 3. • “The right of the child to be protected from economic exploitation and from performing any work that is likely to be hazardous or to interfere with the child’s education, or to be harmful to the child’s health or physical, mental, spiritual, moral or social development”. Article 32.1. In addition, the policy is based on the International Labour Organisation (ILO) Minimum Age Convention no. 138 (1973) and incorporates the ILO Convention on the Worst Forms of Child Labour no. 182 (1999). The policy also covers issues of young workers, labour, monitoring and remediation. Broadband Communication Networks COP 19 In terms of implementation, the policy provides as follows: • All actions to avoid child labour shall be implemented by taking the child’s best interests into account. • Broadband Communication Networks requires that all suppliers shall recognise the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that the suppliers comply with all relevant national and international laws, regulations and provisions applicable in the country of production. • Suppliers are obliged to take the appropriate measures to ensure that no child labour occurs at suppliers’ and their sub-contractors’ places of production. • If child labour is found in any place of production, Broadband Communication Networks will require the supplier to implement a corrective action plan. If corrective action is not implemented within the agreed time-frame, or if repeated violations occur, Broadband Communication Networks will terminate all business with the supplier concerned. The corrective action plan shall take the child’s best interests into consideration. • The supplier shall effectively communicate to all its sub-contractors, as well as to its own coworkers, the content of Broadband Communication Networks No Child Labour Policy, and ensure that all measures required are implemented accordingly. We have written to our suppliers and requested them not to engage child labour in any of our projects. Additionally, when vetting our suppliers they have to declare that they do not engage child labour. c) HIV/AIDS Policy The objective of this policy is to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on infected and affected parties. The policy prohibits HIV testing as a prerequisite for recruitment, access to training or promotion. It also provides for the promotion and facilitation of Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) for all employees. The policy also provides for: • Confidentiality in handling of information pertaining to infected and affected employees • Non-discrimination under any and all circumstances • Continuation of employment as long as the employee is able to perform in accordance to the job requirements. • Training and awareness on HIV/AIDS for employees d) Non-discrimination Broadband Communication Networks is an equal opportunity employer committed to the elimination of discrimination of any nature during the recruitment and selection process and in general employment practices. Broadband Communication Networks guarantees equality in employment opportunities based on the following grounds: Race, Colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, nationality, ethnic or social origin, disability, and marital status or HIV status. Our performance The company is committed to the best interest of employees through observation of national legislation and ethical business practices. In 2016-2017, there were no incidences of child labour in the direct work force. In addition, we continued with our staff engagements through monthly General Managers’ and weekly departmental meetings. These engagements provide employees with opportunities to raise issues of concern in the workplace. We maintain an open-door policy for employees allowing them to address concerns and grievances to managers of their choice. In 2016-2017, we engaged in several training and development sessions aimed at developing the skills of our employees. Key trainings undertaken in 2016-2017 are as follows: Training session Attendees NO. Project Management Line Manager 3 Solar PV Training Technicians 2 Kaizen Training Senior Managers 6 Emerson Power Systems Technicians 28 We also engaged in an employee of the year awards, as a key effort to recognize and motivate staff. Performance is measured using the balanced score card which covers four pillars, namely Finance, Customer, Internal Processes and Learning & Growth. 20 Broadband Communication Networks COP Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our understanding The natural environment is a key resource for posterity that provides resources for business today. We believe in environmental stewardship that enables us to responsibly use and protect the natural environment in the course of doing our business. Our policy The company’s environmental policy states that it shall conduct its business in a manner that is compatible with the balanced environmental and economic need of the environment it operates in. it also indicates that the company will engage in continuous efforts to improve the environment. Our performance Our work has several direct impacts on the natural environment. We have therefore developed specific procedures for addressing these impacts mostly aimed at avoiding or mitigating the impacts. Before embarking on construction activities, we undertake an environmental impact assessment to assess the environmental and social consequences (positive and negative) of the proposed project prior to the decision to move forward with the proposed action. The EIA involves environmental studies and stakeholder engagement to ensure that environmental and social data is generated to inform the project plan. In 2016-2017, we conducted 58 EIAs. The deployment function of our work entails construction and development of physical infrastructure for our clients. This results into activities such as excavation, site development and construction that create environmental impacts. For example, bush and landscape clearance, excavation and other site disturbances can create adverse conditions. These include soil erosion, silty storm water runoff, site flooding, soil dumping and polluted soils. We undertake mitigation efforts in this effect including disposal of soil to designated dumping areas, clearance of all construction sites from materials used during the construction and general cleaning of sites. Additionally, we dispose waste oil from our maintenance services through a professional and registered disposal company. Waste oil is particularly pollutive and needs specialized handling. Other forms of waste are disposed through an authorised waste disposal company. Apart from the impact of our work, we have proactively engaged in improving the natural environment through the provision of green technology products and services. We have partnered with world renowned green energy products manufacturers to assist our clients reduce their dependence on diesel generated electricity. This includes providing micro and macro solar power systems and wind turbines and associated technology. We also provide LED lighting which consumes 70% less energy on average as compared to traditional lighting technologies, lasting up to 10 times longer, contains no toxic materials and are 100% recyclable. In 2016-2017 we sold 8,000 LED products. Broadband Communication Networks COP 21 Anticorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our understanding Ethical practices remain a key driver for long term value creation and business sustainability. We believe in doing business in a way that is above reproach, ensuring that we adhere to legal requirements and ethical consideration. We realize that our business context is plagued with ethical challenges affecting business and society in general. Ethics is therefore championed from the top management and all employees are expected to adhere to the highest ethical standards. Our policy It is the policy of the Company to conduct its business activities in all sectors we operate in with honesty, integrity and adhering to the moral, ethical and legal standards of the sector and country. Our ethical principles 1. All employees shall at all times uphold the Company vision, mission and core values. 2. All employees are required to behave in a responsible manner to both the external and internal customers. 3. All employees must adhere to the laid down rules and regulations that exist and as amended from time to time. 4. Employees must be courteous to customers both internal and external giving correct and timely information regarding the goods and services offered by the Company in performance of their duties. All communication from the customer must be dealt with expeditiously and courteously to a logical conclusion. 5. All employees must accept accountability for their actions, decisions and appreciate positive criticism 6. Employees should encourage and challenge others when they behave in unethical ways, report any nonconformity to rules and regulations. However, employees should not suppress unnecessarily any positive and constructive contributions for the betterment of the Company 7. Employees must never accept/ solicit gifts/ rewards/ bribes from customers, suppliers, officials or any other stakeholder, before, during or after performance of duty. 8. All employees shall obey lawful and proper instructions issued to them for the efficient performance of their duties. 9. Employees shall not disclose confidential information to any unauthorized persons neither extract or destroy any official records 10. All employees shall: • Recognize the rights of all persons • Demonstrate Company core values • Treat others fairly. Our performance In 2016-2017, we embarked on developing the knowledge and skills of our employees on issues of ethical business and anti-corruption. During the course of the year, we utilised our monthly employee engagement forums as key discussion points to engage on ethical business. In addition, six of our employees including our General Managers and departmental heads attended two-day training on ethical business organized by the UN Global Compact – Kenya Chapter. Our Managing Director is the ethics champion in the company and consistently engages employees on issues of ethical business and anti-corruption. Employees understand that there is a zero-tolerance policy on corruption issues within the company as championed by the top leadership. 22 Broadband Communication Networks COP Community Engagement Our understanding Societal challenges are importance business imperatives that can be addressed by companies through the way we do business or using voluntary engagement initiatives. We believe in supporting community initiatives through financial and non-financial contributions to participate in the communal efforts that aim at uplifting the lives of ordinary citizens. We are cognisant of the extensive societal problems prevailing in our business context and choose to participate strategically and judiciously in those initiatives that provide exemplary results and impacts to society. Our policy Social Responsibility policy Social responsibility refers to the activities and associated responsibilities that Broadband Communication Networks holds where an impact on society and the environment may occur. This includes issues relating to the environment, human rights, labour practices, organisational governance, fair business practices, community involvement and social development, and consumer issues. This includes the ability of Broadband Communication Networks to reach agreement on activities that are either “right” or “wrong” and to be held accountable for activities over which it has control. Broadband Communication Networks intends for its actions to be consistent with the interests of society and sustainable development, based on sound ethical behaviour, in compliance with applicable laws and governmental regulations and be integrated into the ongoing organisation activities. Sustainable Development policy Broadband Communication Networks will ensure sustainable development (i.e. development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs) through the adoption of acceptable balances between the priorities of economic development, social progress and environmental protection. The company is committed to maintaining the state of the environment where social and economic goals ensure the achievement of improved quality of life whilst avoiding a scenario whereby its actions may cause environmental issues that could undermine or threaten human survival. Our performance In 2016-2017, our contribution to society in form of corporate social investment and charitable donations were as follows: Beneficiary Amount (KES) / In-kind Donation Lewa Marathon 1.5 million Zabibu Children home 500,000 First Lady Half Marathon 1 million Kihuti Secondary School (Prize giving 200,000 in cash and 5 laptops ceremony) Mukurweni Technical Institute 10 Computers Safaricom’s 47 in 1 Computer projects 1.8 million Diabetes Walk 501,000 Safaricom Dancing for a Queen project 200,000 Contribution to the (SDGs) Our work contributes directly to the following SDGs:Broadband Communication Networks COP 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY Broadband Communication Networks endevours to have its actions to be consistent with the interests of society and sustainable development based on sound ethical behaviour. This is in compliance with applicable laws and governmental regulations and all are integrated into the ongoing organisation activities. First Lady Margaret Kenyatta receives a cheque worth Ksh.1 million from Broadband Communication Limited to go towards the Beyond Zero Campaign Cheque presentation to Eva Muchemi to support diabetes 24 Broadband Communication Networks COP Broadband Team after completing Diabetes walk 2016 Broadband Team at Lewa Marathon 2016 Broadband Communication Networks COP 25 GOING FORWARD In 2018 we intend to undertake the following activities in response to our sustainability performance. 1. Strengthen Health, Safety & Environmental culture in the organization and obtain OSHA 18000 certification. 2. Proactively strengthen staff engagement with a focus on staff wellbeing. 3. Strengthen our grievance mechanism to encourage staff and other stakeholder feedback. 4. Increase business in green energy solutions and ensure we acquire ISO 14000 certification. 5. Train more staff on ethical business. Wind turbine installed by Broadband at a Mombasa site 26 Broadband Communication Networks COP ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS CEO Chief Executive Officer COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EHS Environmental Health and Safety EIA Environmental Impact Assessment EMCA Environmental Management Coordination Act HSE Health, Safety and Environment ICT Information and Communication Technologies ILO International Labour Organization ISO International Organization for Standardization ISPs Internet Service Providers LED Light Emitting Diodes OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act PPE Personal Protective Equipment PWC PriceWaterhouseCoopers UN United Nations UNGC United Nations Global Compact Broadband Communication Networks COP 27
