Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 1 // Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 siteimprove.com Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 2 // Contents Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 3 // Letter From the CEO 4-5 Who is Siteimprove? 6-9 Who benefits from Siteimprove’s services? 7 Siteimprove’s innovative product suite 8-9 Accessibility: our weapon against digital exclusion 9 Human Rights 10 21 Spreading the word worldwide for a better web! 12 13 Siteimprove celebrate biggest Global Accessibility Awareness Day in Copenhagen to date! 14 17 Expanding our expertise on accessibility 18 19 Goals 20 21 Labor Rights 22 27 Siteimprove Employee Satisfaction 24 High degree of satisfaction amongst Siteimprove employees 24 Focus on where we can do better 24 Diversity and anti-discrimination 24 Employee Committees 25 Goals 26 27 Environment 28 31 Minimizing Siteimprove’s carbon footprint 30 Recycling and reducing waste 30 New committee focus on the environment 31 No reason for food waste 31 Goals 31 Anti-corruption 32 33 Donations and charity 34 36 Copenhagen 34 London 35 Minneapolis 35 36 Goals 36 Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 4 // Letter from the CEO The past year has been a busy one for Siteimprove, Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web, and Jenboth in regards to our Corporate Social Responsibility nison Asuncion, Co-founder of GAAD. efforts and our company as a whole. Again we witnessed unprecedented growth, having increased our employee Becoming a member of the World Wide Web Consortium numbers from 185 in May 2015 to over 440 in May 2017. (W3C), hosting the Global Accessibility Awareness Day Along with our continued growth, we have taken a more event, and hiring the best experts in the field are all focused approach to our CSR efforts by implementing just small ways in which we continue to work towards more formal processes, expanding our efforts globally, our mission. At the same time, we have re-evaluated and taking on more responsibility as a global advocate our CSR mission and goals, and have established for an inclusive World Wide Web. local CSR committees in each of our offices, as well as implementing a global CSR Code of Conduct to ensure One way in which we continued to work hard to raise that we are working consistently as a company towards awareness about digital accessibility, and assist us one goal. Quality over quantity will be the buzz words in our goal of promoting a web that is accessible for for the future, as we work together to be more strategic all, was by hosting our largest accessibility event to in our undertakings. date. On May 18th we celebrated Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) in Copenhagen with a huge With many new people joining the company, it is with not-for-profit outdoor event where a number of great great happiness that we continue to witness a conguest speakers and experts donated their time to sistently high level of satisfaction among our employees. come along and educate and inspire the audience. Once again, we were recognized as a great place to work It was a fantastic day and helped gain much needed in multiple locations. The Great Place to Work ® survey awareness of digital accessibility. Members of the public, named us in the top 10 best IT companies to work for in Siteimprove employees from around the world and web Denmark, and we even managed to move from number professionals heard from great minds such as Sir Tim eight to number seven. In the U.S., we were named one Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 5 // of the Star Tribune’s Top Workplaces in Minneapolis for the second year running. I hope that you enjoy reading our latest CSR report, and that it may inspire you to join us in our mission of making the web better for all. Morten Ersbøll Ebbesen, Chief Executive Officer Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 6 // Who Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 7 // is Siteimprove? Siteimprove is an international software-as-a-service Who benefits from Siteimprove’s company founded in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 2003 services? by Morten Ebbesen who is still CEO of the company today. We provide digital certainty for companies and Siteimprove’s product suite automates the process of organizations, who control, manage and maintain their identifying errors and problems on websites and helps websites with help from our tools. Our product suite web teams and editors create strong web content is used by more than 5,000 customers across North strategies. Our scalable software brings value to both America, Australia and Europe. newly established companies and large corporations with websites containing vast amounts of information. The majority of our 400+ employees work within our headquarters in the heart of Copenhagen, and our Organizations and companies with complex, resource Minneapolis office, however, we also have offices in heavy websites particularly benefit from our product London, Berlin, Vienna, Amsterdam, Oslo, Toronto and suite as it makes the daily web management process Sydney. 25 different nationalities are represented in our much more efficient. In the public sectors, our customers headquarters alone, making Siteimprove an incredibly are typically ministries, educational institutions and diverse workplace. councils. In the private sectors, our customers are found in various industries including financial, insurance, and medical industries. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 8 // Siteimprove’s innovative product suite Our product suite consists of six solutions: Quality Assurance, Policy, Analytics, SEO, Response and Accessibility. We have improved and fine-tuned our suite for more than ten years and usability has always constituted a main priority. We want everyone with web responsibilities to be able to utilize our tools successfully regardless of technical skill. We therefore offer our customers unlimited training and support. Quality Assurance automatically identifies website errors such as misspellings and broken links. Our tool crawls the website every five days and communicates content issues in easy to understand reports. Policy allows web teams to make sure that content, media files, branding and HTML language comply with organizational standards. This tool scans the website for everything inconsistent with legal, branding and style policies. It is possible to create rules concerning offensive language, consistency in branding and trademarks, file sizes for documents and images, page structure, and much more. Analytics measures, simplifies and reports web analytics data. This information can be used to sort and optimize website content and target web teams’ efforts strategically. Many web analytics tools are difficult to understand and use, but Siteimprove Analytics provides the user with the necessary information and overview to make important decisions. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 9 // SEO (search engine optimization) helps the users strengthen their online presence by identifying website problems that should be addressed in order to achieve a higher ranking in search engines. Response monitors the website’s performance and potential downtime 24/7 and immediately alerts the one(s) responsible. Accessibility identifies violations of the globally accepted guidelines for digital accessibility, WCAG 2.0, that hold the purpose of improving the accessibility of websites all over the world and make them more inclusive to people with disabilities. Including an accessibility tool in the web management supports legal compliance and increases the general usability of the website allowing everyone regardless of decreased functionality to visit and utilize the website. Siteimprove helps web teams reclaim control of their websites. Functional websites are crucial in a digitalized world where an increasing number of self-service and business critical activities are exclusively available online. We have positioned ourselves as a global pioneer and leader in digital certainty software that allows customers to strengthen their digital presence through the effective management of the user experience on their websites. As companies and organizations increasingly recognize the importance of managing their websites demand for Siteimprove’s software increases. Accessibility: our weapon against digital exclusion Since 2010, Siteimprove has been a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact. The Global Compact is the largest corporate sustainability initiative in the world, working for a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and markets. We have made it our mission to make the web better and more inclusive for all. We believe that accessing and utilizing websites is a fundamental right and that it is wrong to exclude people with disabilities from utilizing websites. Increasing awareness of the importance of accessible websites has become an important social responsibility concern for Siteimprove. Disabilities include everything from colorblindness or age-related conditions, to complete vision impairment. People with disabilities are not necessarily able to access and utilize websites as intended. The potential accessibility issues are many, ranging from simple content problems such as poor color contrast between text and background, to more technical problems that ultimately exclude those who utilize assistive technologies. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 10 // Human Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 11 // Rights Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 12 // Spreading the word worldwide for a better web! for All Europe. The group consisting of accessibility Global Compact Principles 1-2: professionals and people with an interest in accessibility meet on a regular basis in the Copenhagen area. 1. The company should support and respect the protection of internationally declared Siteimprove has also awarded a number of prizes to the human rights best and most improved websites, including “UX-prisen”, 2. Ensure that the company does not contribwhich was awarded in collaboration with our partner, ute to the violation of human rights the Norwegian Association of the Blind and Partially Sighted. E-helse in Norway, a public health portal, was As part of Siteimprove’s on-going work to awarded the prize for Norway’s best user experience by actively put digital accessibility on the public and an expert panel looking at several accessibility criteria. private agenda and to support an inclusive web for all, we have held several web accessibility conferences around the world in the past year, and we have entered into official partnerships with accessibility professionals who share our passion for making the web better and accessible to all regardless of disability or level of technical expertise. Read about our efforts within digital human rights in this section. As Siteimprove continues to grow so too does our commitment to ensure that we are doing our absolute best to also grow our efforts to meet our company mission of making the web a better place for all. One way in which we do this is by holding various conferences and host informative networking events all over the world that focus on highlighting digital accessibility, explaining what and why it’s important, and giving practical advice on how best to implement it. In June, 2016, our Accessibility Product Owner cofounded the networking group on digital accessibility “Interessegruppen for Digital Tilgængelighed” under the network “Design for Alle”, the Danish branch of Design Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 13 // In Denmark, we launched a competition for the local Our highly qualified accessibility consultants and councils, challenging them to improve the accessibility partners continue to share their knowledge and on their websites which resulted in great improvements experience to raise awareness about digital accessibility. to public websites in Denmark. In February and March 2017, we participated in the CSUN Conference on Assistive Technologies in California, and Siteimprove participates in accessibility events on May 18, we celebrated Global Accessibility Awareness for developers and in September 2016, we hosted Day by hosting an amazing event in Copenhagen where Copenhagen Frontenders Meetup. Developers are all Siteimprove employees participated. crucial in securing digital accessibility, as they produce and develop the code and the technologies behind the websites that we all use. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 14 // Siteimprove celebrate biggest Global Accessibility Awareness Day in Copenhagen to date! Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 15 // Since 2012, Siteimprove has been a strong supporter of well as close-knit members of the global accessibility Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD), which is an community and Siteimprove employees from the annual advocacy day which aims to get people talking, company’s nine global offices. thinking and learning about digital (web, software, mobile, etc.) accessibility and people with different The day’s celebration started with welcoming remarks disabilities. The day occurs on the third Thursday in May by Siteimprove CEO Morten Ebbesen, and was followed every year. by a powerfully insightful keynote speech from Canadian Jennison Asuncion, who along with Los Angeles-based In 2015, Siteimprove celebrated the day by holding web developer, Joe Devon, founded the now widely the world’s largest blind tandem cycling event in celebrated Global Accessibility Awareness Day initiative. collaboration with the Danish Association for the Jennison, who is legally blind, explained what lead them Blind. This event was a great success and concluded to launch the day, as well as his personal thoughts on with Siteimprove donating 100 tandem bicycles to the the future of accessibility. members of the community who had visual impairments. Never wanting to rest on its laurels, Siteimprove pushed itself to contribute to this day in an even bigger and more educational way and as such world-famous inventor of the World Wide Web, Sir Tim Berners-Lee, along with respected accessibility experts from around the world, gathered in Copenhagen, Denmark, to celebrate the sixth Global Accessibility Awareness Day (GAAD) on May 18th. The well-attended not-for-profit event, took place in central Copenhagen, on a custom-built 16,000 m2 manmade island. Hosted by Siteimprove, the free event was enjoyed by over 1,000 members of the public, as Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 16 // Comedy and advocacy duo Karl Groves and Billy Gregory, who are better known by their stage name ‘The Viking and The Lumberjack’ showed the audience that it’s okay to have a laugh and still be serious about accessibility. Throughout the day, the local organizations The Danish Association for the Blind and Living IT Lab participated. The Danish Association for the Blind had a booth where participants could learn more about their specific competencies and services. Living IT Lab A true highlight of the day was the second keynote shared information about their IT solutions that help speech, this time by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of companies and organizations ensure accessibility from the World Wide Web, who shared his exclusive insights early user to launch. into how the idea for the web came about, as well as insights into how the medium positively helps those Veterans in Motion (VIM), a charity association initiated with disabilities to stay connected. by a group of injured veterans, also participated on the day. VIM’s purpose is to utilize activities and experiences The event ended with a panel session on ‘The present to promote personal qualities of wounded veterans and and future of digital accessibility’ chaired by Jennison corresponding injured persons as steps towards their Asuncion. Among the panelists was Shadi Abou-Zahra, unfolding as whole people. They set up an exercise Accessibility Strategy and Technology Specialist, from field where they demonstrated the activities they do the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C), which is an to strengthen their physical form, and also competed international community led by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, that against participants in a series of fun exercise contests. has the mission to lead the Web to its full potential. Other panelists included Alejandro Moledo, New Technologies Siteimprove’s employees who work with an accessibility & Innovation Officer for the European Disability Forum, focus also had a small tent on the day where they Timothy Creagan, Senior Accessibility Specialist for the highlighted how Siteimprove’s services can help those US Access Board and Raph de Rooij, Directorate-General working with the web to better ensure accessibility, as for Public Administration at the Dutch Ministry of the well as demonstrated different empathy exercises such Interior and Kingdom Relations. as Parkinson’s gloves, which participants could try out. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 17 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 18 // Expanding our expertise on accessibility The past year, we have established a number of positions ADA. In 2016, we encouraged new employees and others specifically focusing on digital accessibility. Not only are to take the pledge with us by sharing social posts and they the best at what they do, they are also helping us publishing a press release. to walk the talk as three of or new employees are legally blind and one has a visual impairment. Our new hires The ADA was signed on July 26, 1990 to ensure the within accessibility include: civil rights of people with disabilities. By pledging, our team at Siteimprove is recognizing the progress of ADA Accessibility testers: and recommitting our support towards their efforts to April Sandquist and Jennifer VonYeast continue to strive for full ADA compliance. Improvements to Siteimprove’s Digital Accessibility Consultant and Trainer: Accessibility Service Keith Bundy Updates and improvements to Siteimprove tools continue to be released every two weeks and during Digital Accessibility Consultant and Trainer: the past year, the accessibility tool received a number of Bryn Anderson major upgrades, including: Project Manager on accessibility projects: WAI-ARIA Checks Daniela Di Gianantonio WAI-ARIA is a way of improving the accessibility on websites and since May 2016, our tool has been checking Web Accessibility Strategy Specialist: for WAI-ARIA related issues on customer websites. WAIStein Erik Skotkjerra ARIA is short for Web Accessibility Initiative Accessible Rich Internet Applications, which is a technical specification that defines a way of making websites Web Accessibility Technology Specialist: more accessible to people with disabilities, and it has Lars Holm Sørensen been recommended by W3C since 2014. Signing the ADA Pledge New Checker Engine Sunday July 26, 2016 marked the 26th Anniversary In September 2016, we rewrote the whole checker of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). In 2015, engine that we use for checking accessibility and employees signed the ADA pledge to become part of highlighting issues in order to provide a more accurate the nationwide celebration and recommitment to the and speedy service. A better service means that it is even Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 19 // easier and more hassle-free for our clients to work with problems without needing further assistance. digital accessibility. Siteimprove’s Google Chrome Accessibility Fuller Descriptions of Accessibility Issues and Checker How to Fix It In February 2017, Siteimprove launched the Siteimprove We continue to improve our descriptions and Accessibility Checker, a free extension for the internet recommendations within our Accessibility tool to make browser Google Chrome. The free extension is available it as straightforward as possible for clients to correct for everyone with or without a Siteimprove subscription their accessibility issues on their websites. Providing and it enables users to check individual pages for fuller and more accurate descriptions of problems compliance issues. The extension is yet another step in enables clients to better understand what causes an Siteimprove’s fight for making the web more accessible issue, equipping them with the information to solve the for everyone. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 20 // Human Rights Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Contribute to making the web better and We improved our Accessibility service Continue development on the more inclusive for all by adding new checks and fuller Siteimprove Accessibility module descriptions, making it even easier to support private and public web to improve your digital accessibility. teams increasing the accessibility of Furthermore, we launched our free their organization’s website. Accessibility Checker plug-in for Google Chrome. Now everyone can check a page Continue offering Siteimprove for accessibility issues free of charge. Accessibility Certifications free of charge for customers We hosted a number accessibility conferences and events including Increase our support for the Global the Global Accessibility Awareness Accessibility Awareness Day in Day celebration on May 18, 2017 in 2018. GAAD and Siteimprove have a Copenhagen. common goal, and we will continue to support GAAD in the fight for a We continue to offer Siteimprove more inclusive World Wide Web. Accessibility Certifications free of charge to customers. We hired a project manager to organize and increase our accessibility efforts. She now runs a dedicated accessibility work group that meets voluntarily every two weeks. We hired the best accessibility experts for roles within development, training, and consultancy in the company. Free consulting and education The team of accessibility experts provided Continue offering educational consulting and education within digital material on web accessibility on accessibility for employees as well as Siteimprove’s website free of charge. customers. Continue to offer expert consultancy We regularly published blog posts on and education within accessibility to the subject of digital accessibility, while Siteimprove employees, customers, we continued to educate and inform and the general public. internal and external stakeholders about the importance of accessibility through networking meetings, conference speeches and a wide variety of events. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 21 // Human Rights Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Partnerships within accessibility We entered into an official partnership We will continue to look for with the Norwegian Association of the partnerships that can support our Blind and Partially Sighted. They have an mission of making the web more unmatched experience with consulting inclusive to all. within web accessibility in Norway. We joined W3C, the world’s leading accessibility body, who are behind the WCAG 2.0. We look forward to contributing to global accessibility standards, making the web a better place for all. We became a member of Danish Standard and UNINFO, which are national standardization bodies. We stepped up our membership of IAAP, the International Association of Accessibility Professionals. The IAAP is a place for accessibility professionals around the world to gather and share experiences and enrich their knowledge of accessibility. Human Rights Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Facilitation of networking Siteimprove continues to host networking We will continue to facilitate events with the public sector in Denmark. networking and participate in For years, we facilitated networking networking groups and communities for local councils, and in 2017, we to create awareness of web have established meetings for central accessibility both on a global and government employees, where web local level accessibility was the primary subject on the agenda. Anne Thyme, Accessibility Product Owner in Siteimprove, co-founded a networking group for digital accessibility under the Danish branch of Design for All Europe. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 22 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 23 // Labor Rights Global Compact Principles 3-6: 3. The company should support the right to unionize and effectively recognize the right of collective bargaining 4. Support the eradication of all forms of forced labor 5. Support the effective eradication of all forms of child labor 6. Eradicate discrimination in respect to employment and occupation Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 24 // Siteimprove Employee Satisfaction Our employees are our biggest asset and their happiness Focus on where we can do better determines our success. It therefore brings us great joy to announce that we again have been officially recognized We are very proud of the assessments, as they confirm as a top workplace by Great Place to Work®, a global our perception of Siteimprove as a great workplace. research, consulting, and training firm. There are, however, areas where we as an ambitious, fast growing organization wish to improve. Increasing We ran the Great Place to Work® survey in September our focus on professional employee development is 2016 for the second year running, and this time we currently a main priority which is why we in May 2016 included all our European locations and our Sydney hired an experienced Human Resource Director. With her office. In Denmark, we moved up on the list of the 10 best expertise, we have been able to improve our approach IT workplaces, rising from number 8 in 2015 to number to employee development and address the employee 7 in 2016. The company scored 92 percent on the Great wishes revealed by the satisfaction surveys, and several Place to Work Index. The Great Place to Work index leadership development courses are now offered for indicates the score of one question: Taking everything employees with managerial responsibility. into account, I would say this is a great place to work. Diversity and anti-discrimination Diversity is one the key strengths in Siteimprove, as our High degree of satisfaction employees come from all over the world with all sorts of amongst Siteimprove employees different backgrounds bringing valuable knowledge and Main results from the employee experience to our company. With Siteimprove offices in satisfaction survey conducted by Great nine countries and a customer base spread across three Place to Work®: continents, employing different nationalities comes naturally to us. oo We feel we are treated fairly regardless of At Siteimprove, we have a dedicated team working race, age or sexual orientation with education and awareness of the importance of an open environment that supports and respects oo We think our facilities contribute to a diversity. The Siteimprove Diversity and Inclusion Group good working environment is an employee led team in Minneapolis which is open, supportive and responsive to all diverse talent internally oo We think it’s a friendly place to work and externally. oo We think we’re good at celebrating special events Our Code of Conduct includes the following policy for equal opportunities across all our offices: oo We are proud to tell others we work at Siteimprove People Are Our Greatest Resource Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 25 // Siteimprove’s commitment to caring for people is employees by: and productive work environment for all manifested in the workplace through a variety of Siteimprove employees by: programs designed to promote and reward individual • prohibiting the possession, use, sale, or and team achievement. In the end, it is the efforts of transfer of illegal drugs or drug paraphernalia our talented and skilled people all over the world that • onprohibiting Siteimprove theproperty possession, use, sale, or time; make the success of our business possible. Specifically, or transfer of illegal drugs or drug • prohibiting the conduct paraphernalia of Siteimprove on Siteimprove property in matters of employment: business while under the influenceofof alcohol; or time; prohibiting the conduct ooooItItisisthe thepolicy, practice,and policy,practice, desireofof anddesire Siteimprove • prohibiting acts thatwhile anybusiness could under the be perceived Siteimprovetotoprovide Siteimprove provideemployment employment influence of alcohol; as violent, threatening, degrading or opportunitiestotoallallqualified qualifiedpersons opportunities personsononanan • intimidating; andacts that could be prohibiting any equalbasis. equal basis.Siteimprove Siteimprovewill willnot notdiscriminate discriminate perceived as violent, threatening, • requiring degradingthat orany instance ofand drug or alcohol intimidating; againstany against anyemployee employeeororapplicant applicantfor for abuse, violence, or unlawful weapons employmentbecause employment race,color, becauseofofrace, color,religion, religion, • possession requiring that any instance of drug or be reported to management sex,gender sex, identity,national genderidentity, nationalorigin, origin,ethnicity, alcohol abuse, violence, or unlawful immediately. ethnicity, age, sexual age, sexual orientation, orientation, disability, disability, marital status, weapons possession be reported to maritalstatus, veteran status,orveteran status, any other or any other characteristic management immediately. characteristic protected by law protected in any of bythelaw in any terms or of the terms or conditions conditions of employment.of employment. Employee Committees ooooSiteimprove Siteimprovedoes doesnot usechild notuse childlabor. labor.Child Childlabor islabor defined is defined as employing as employing any personany person younger In our Copenhagen office, a working environment younger than than the minimum the minimum age allowed agebyallowed by law in the organization has been established. It consist of two law in the jurisdiction jurisdiction in question.in question. However, inHowever, no event levels: one level with two working environment groups in no will weevent knowinglywill we knowingly employ anyone employ youngeranyone than and a top level consisting of a working environment younger sixteen (16)than sixteen years (16) years of age. of age. committee. Each of the two groups consists of one working environment representative elected by ooooSiteimprove Siteimprovemaintainsmaintainsananinclusive inclusiveworkwork employees and one member appointed by the executive environmentand environment andachieves achievesexcellence excellence management team. Each group is representing different bybyattracting attractingand andretaining retainingpeople peopleofofallall departments. The top level committee includes the two backgroundsininour backgrounds ourworkforce. workforce. groups and the COO, who has the authority to approve all matters raised at work environment committee ooooSiteimprove Siteimproveprohibitsprohibitssexual sexualororany otherkind anyother meetings. ofkind of harassment harassment by anyby any person person in the in the workplace or workplace while or while conducting conducting Siteimprove Siteimprove business. In our Minneapolis office, the CSR Committee consists business. of a group of CSR Coordinators and two Office Heroes. The Office Hero position is a rotating CSR role where two oo Siteimprove strives to eliminate potential employees plan a variety of activities for the Siteimprove oohazards Siteimprove from thestrives workplace and topotential to eliminate comply with staff working together with the CSR Coordinator. all applicable occupational safety andcomply hazards from the workplace and to health Celebrating the Olympics with a blindfolded obstacle withand laws all applicable standards. occupational safety and course race, a monthly trivia, and a winter week full health laws and standards. of events to get employees in the holiday spirit were oo Siteimprove helps maintain a safe, healthy, and among the activities organized by the Office Heroes and ooproductive Siteimprove workhelps maintain afor environment safe, all healthy, Siteimprove CSR Coordinators this past year. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 26 // Labor Rights Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Ensure a healthy psychological working Siteimprove was officially recognized as a Continue our focus on creating environment for all Siteimprove employgreat workplace in 2016 by Great Place to a good and inspiring working ees Work®, being ranked as number 7 within environment for all Siteimprovers. IT companies in Denmark. We will track our progress with yet another Great Place to Work® We established working environment assessment amongst all Siteimprove committees in our offices to look after our employees in the fall of 2017. employees’ best interest and improve our working environment. Ensure that employees have equal opporWe have established a Code of Conduct to Make the Code of Conduct an tunities ensure that employees are treated equally integrated part of the employee and to avoid discrimination. mindset in all offices and continue to provide equal rights to all employees We continue to hire employees based and applicants. on their skills and do not discriminate against any applicant for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, national origin, ethnicity, age, sexual orientation, disability, marital status, veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law in any of the terms or conditions of employment. Ensure and encourage a physically In-house gym spaces in our Copenhagen Continue our focus on healthhealthy working environment for Siteimand Minneapolis offices make it as easy as improving initiatives in all prove employees possible for our Siteimprovers to take care Siteimprove offices. of their physical health. Our Copenhagen office will In-house kitchen staff provide healthy and participate in “DHL Stafetten” again delicious lunch options, proving that it is this year. easy to make healthy food enjoyable to eat. Once again, our Copenhagen office participated in the 5 km relay race “DHL Stafetten” in September 2016. Fitness and yoga classes are offered each month in our Copenhagen office for the physical and mental well-being of our employees. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 27 // Labor Rights Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Continuous focus on employee welfare Monthly staff meetings in Siteimprove’s Continue monthly staff meetings to Copenhagen and Minneapolis offices share internal news and updates. with the attendance of satellite offices via Introduce an internal business video. magazine to make this information more accessible to all employees. We have continued to improve our introduction program based on feedback We will continue to improve our from both new and experienced introduction program based on Siteimprove staff. feedback from both new and experienced Siteimprove staff. With the hiring of our HR Director in Copenhagen, our Human Resources Manager in Minneapolis, and our Director of Finance & HR in Sydney, we continue to strengthen our HR organization focusing on the well-being of our employees. A non-discriminatory company bonus Each and every Siteimprove employee In future years, the company bonus plan contributes to the success and rapid may be paid as determined in the growth of the company. For that reason, sole discretion of the board of every full and part time employee (hired directors before 2017) is eligible to receive the 2017 company bonus based on 2016 results. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 28 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 29 // Environment Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 30 // Minimizing Siteimprove’s carbon footprint As a software-as-a-service company, we are concerned Interxion’s continuous with the amount of energy used to cool our data servers. focus on optimizing As such, we have chosen a data center that meets our their energy efficiency, expectations regarding sustainable energy consumption reducing carbon and optimal data security. emissions, and cutting waste reassures us that Our data center, Interxion, has received multiple they are the right data environment awards. They support and consume energy center for Siteimprove. from sustainable and low carbon sources to the greatest Global Compact Principles 7-9: extent practical, and 90% of their power comes from 7. The company should support a sustainable sources, including careful approach to environmental water, solar, and wind. challenges 8. Take initiatives to promote increased Interxion operates with environmental responsibilities innovative technology that 9. Encourage the development and utilizes groundwater as a dispersion of environmentally friendly technologies Recycling and cooling agent for the servers. reducing waste The system makes it possible In our offices, we have to store cold winter air 70 procedures in place for recycling paper, cans and bottles. meters below ground and utilize it for continuous cooling Employees are aware of the importance of recycling and in the summer. This ensures the right temperature for successfully use dedicated bins for collecting paper, the servers at all times, whilst minimizing the need for cans and bottles in order for it to be recycled. traditional cooling compressors. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 31 // At our global meet up in May 2017, we eliminated the New committee focus on the use of plastic bottles as all 450 participants received environment a reusable water “pack” at the beginning of the threeday event. Clean, Danish tap water was the only water The working environment committees has been assigned source supplied at the event, and the refillable water the task of identifying opportunities for improving our packs enabled participants to store and carry the water environmental efforts in our office. We want to be more with them, eliminating the need for plastic bottles and effective in our use of resources, improve our recycling cups. and encourage employees to use environmentallyfriendly technologies. No reason for food waste We continue to work on eliminating food waste, and in 2016 we hired our own kitchen staff in our two largest offices to plan the lunch menu on a weekly basis. Better planning means better use of resources, and now any food leftovers will be taken home by employees or included in the lunch menu for the next day by our chefs. Not only does this result in a minimal food waste by the kitchen, all employees now look forward to lunch as the quality of the food has increased after the arrival our own kitchen staff. Environment Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Continuous focus on employee We continuously collaborate with We will continue our collaboration with welfare environmentally responsible data green primary suppliers. centers. We will use recycled materials for office We continue to improve our efforts supplies to a larger extent. within recycling both internally at our offices and externally at events. In 2017, We will continue to encourage employees we have been focusing on eliminating and external stakeholders to consider the waste and encouraging recycling at our environment in their activities and their use events. of resources. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 32 // Due to the smaller size of our satellite offices, they do not have an entire committee for the working environment but they do have a working environment volunteer who oversees their working environment and CSR activities. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 33 // Anticorruption Despite working in a low risk market, we have Furthermore, it informs employees of their responsibility implemented a company-wide code of conduct. We in their dealings with government employees, to whom now have a written document addressing the issues they are not allowed to offer any gifts, gratuity, or things of bribery and corruption. Our global Code of Conduct of value, unless pre-approved of the Legal Department. describes what Siteimprove employees can and cannot Finally, Siteimprove always advises vendors of the do when they deal with requirement to adhere to suppliers and customers. the Code of Conduct when Failure to comply with Global Compact Principle 10: working with us. If vendors the Code of Conduct may 10. Businesses should work against all forms fail comply, they face the have consequences for of corruption including extortion and possibility of losing our future employment in bribery business. Siteimprove Siteimprove. also respects and adheres to customer or supplier As a global company, Siteimprove follows the strictest policies to the extent that they do not contradict our ethical and business standards of behavior, regardless own policies. of the leniency of local standards. Complying with the Code of Conduct is based on the use of good judgment and seeking guidance when questions arise. In the corporate Code of Conduct, the section “Building Business Relationships” states that “Honest dealing with customers and suppliers is essential to Siteimprove’s relationships. Giving or receiving any kickbacks, bribes, or similar payments of any sort is prohibited.” Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 34 // Donations and charity Copenhagen of the public participating. Attending were Danish organizations and close-knit members of the global This past year, the major focus in our Copenhagen office accessibility community and Siteimprove employees has been on hosting accessibility events. With the new from the company’s nine global offices. EU directive on the accessibility of public websites and mobile applications, we organized a number of seminars After welcoming remarks by Siteimprove CEO Morten in both eastern and Ebbesen, the western Denmark. We celebrations continued made sure to make with a powerfully a webinar as well to insightful keynote make the knowledge speech from Canadian available for those Jennison Asuncion, who could attend the who along with Los seminars, and for those Angeles-based web who wanted to store developer, Joe Devon, the information that founded the now we provided. widely celebrated Global Accessibility In Denmark, the team Awareness Day launched a competition initiative. Jennison, for the local councils, who is legally blind, challenging them to improve their accessibility from end explained what lead them to launch the day, as well as of September to end of December. Vejen Kommune won his personal thoughts on the future of accessibility. by decreasing their number of accessibility issues by 80 percent! They were rewarded with a check of DKK 5,000 Comedy and advocacy duo ‘The Viking and The for a charity of their own choosing. We were tracking the Lumberjack’ then showed the audience that it is okay progress of all local councils during the competition, to have a laugh and still be serious about accessibility, witnessing a serious decrease in accessibility issues on while local organizations such as ‘The Danish Association many public sites. of the Blind’ and ‘Living IT Lab’ occupied tents where participants could learn more about their specific Our main event was our Global Accessibility Awareness competencies and services. Day event, a free event with more than 1,000 members Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 35 // A true highlight of the day was the second keynotespeech, shelter and support. Siteimprove employees spent time this time by Sir Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World volunteering to prepare food and hygiene kits for the Wide Web, who shared his exclusive insights into how people that Our Savior’s Housing serves. We ended up the idea for the web came about, as well as insights into providing a total of 150 meals and 80 hygiene kits for the how the medium positively helps those with disabilities 40 individuals they take in each night of the year. to stay connected. London In London, the team organized a range of charity initiatives the past year. The CSR Champions, as they are known around the office, collected used laptops and donated them to an organization in Uganda who works with sustainable agriculture. Access to computers is a small step in our fight for making the web accessible across the globe, and for the project in Uganda, computers enable farmers to work with partners abroad and bridge the global digitalization gap. In the London office, it is a monthly occurrence to get together for a “Siteimprove Cook Off”, where employees compete in making the best version of a selected dish. A wide variety of food from different cultures have been enjoyed, and each time the team makes a contribution to a charity that they wish to support. The team has chosen to sponsor a guide dog from birth to adult age as part of our commitment of giving back to the community and our commitment toward accessibility. Guide dogs are crucial for making the world accessible to people with disabilities. Two of our dedicated employees, Darryl and Patrick, In November 2016, all male members of the London coach youth football teams outside of work. Several office participated in Movember, raising money for of the families are unable to afford equipment and the Testicular Cancer Foundation. Taking their social registration fees, which led our CSR team to organize a responsibility a step further, the team decided to raffle to raise funds for the young people on the football donate more than their time and money. Together, they teams. Siteimprove employees ended up donating a went to a local blood bank in London to donate blood, total of $4,545 and when Siteimprove decided to match supporting a fantastic cause in the local community. the amount a dollar for a dollar, the final amount totaled $9,090! Minneapolis Our Minneapolis office has also been engaged in several Darryl and Patrick have been involved with the Harrison projects for the local community during the past year. Park Recreation Center in Minneapolis, where they We worked alongside Our Savior’s Housing Emergency primarily coach 12u and 14u football programs, for more Shelter, who work to end homelessness by providing than 4 years. It is a diverse community comprised almost entirely of minorities, and many of the young men that Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 36 // Darryl and Patrick work with come from broken homes, also their behavior, academics, and social skills! Their deal with social issues, and many experience violence efforts clearly make a difference to the boys and their on a daily basis. Thus, the resources are always limited, families. The goal is to continue to grow these young and equipment and jerseys are hard to come by. Over men into responsible adults and productive members of the years, Darryl and Patrick have seen significant the community. improvements in not only the boys’ football skills but Social activities and Goals achieved 2016/2017 Goals for 2017/2018 Charity Continuous focus on employee In the past year, we have arranged We will continue prioritizing social events welfare several social events and parties for our such as Christmas and summer parties in Siteimprovers to enjoy, including our big the year to come. Global Meet Up where all our employees gathered in Copenhagen. We will continue to search for charities and initiatives that support Siteimprove’s In the past year, we have provided ultimate goal of securing an accessible a helping hand to a number of local web for all. charities through the initiatives of local employee groups and individuals. Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 37 // Siteimprove Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2017 Page 38 // Act With Digital Certainty siteimprove.com
