Our Responsibility 2016 POWERING. RELIABLE. FUTURE. 02 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix About the Report The report entitled “Our Responsibility 2016” is aimed at Dates analysts and investors, non-governmental organisations The period under review is fiscal 2016, which began on (NGOs) and our workforce, customers and suppliers, policy1 January and ended on 31 December. The data provided makers and government agencies and the people living in in this report relate to all affiliated companies of the RWE the regions where we do business. It describes the most Group which are included in the consolidated financial important social, environmental and economic challenges statements. Any deviations from this are clearly stated. The facing our core business, the conflicting aims that can arise, financial data were taken from the Annual Report 2016 of and the Corporate Responsibility (CR) strategy we have RWE AG. We present financial data denominated in the reledeveloped in response. vant national currency and have converted these based on the average annual values for 2016 (1 US dollar = € 0.91, This report is published in pdf format. The accountancy firm 1 UK pound sterling = € 1.22, 100 Czech crowns = € 3.70, PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH performed an engagement 100 Hungarian forints = € 0.32, 1 Polish zloty = € 0.23). audit on the disclosures indicated with and provided a The commercial rounding of certain figures can result in the limited assurance relating to compliance of the disclosures sum of the rounded figures or percentages deviating from with the G4 requirements of the GRI. The limited assurance the rounded totals in some cases. engagement was carried out in accordance with the auditing principles of the International Standard on Assurance For reference Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (revised), see page 72 for This report is published in German and English. The ExecuAssurance Report. The CR Report includes an overview of all tive Board of RWE AG has approved the report for publicathe important indicators, see page 74. tion. The editorial deadline was on 24 March 2017. This report continues our policy of annual reporting. The next Approach report will be published in the spring of 2018. Naturally, The CR Report of RWE AG is published as a GRI Report and the term “employee” refers to male and female employees conforms with the Guidelines of the Global Reporting throughout. Initiative (GRI) in a selection based on a Materiality Analysis RWE Archive CR Reports of the topics relevant for our business. We have also implemented GRI requirements for the electricity industry (G4 Forward-looking statements Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures) in accordance with mateThis report contains forward-looking statements regarding riality. The report was prepared in conformity with the GRI the future development of the RWE Group and its companies G4 Standard in the option “in accordance” core. This “Our as well as economic and political developments. These stateResponsibility 2016” was available for the implementation ments are assessments that we have made based on inforof the GRI Materiality Disclosure Service. The correct posimation available at the time this report was drawn up. In the tioning of the “G4 materiality disclosures” (G4-17 – G4-27) event that the underlying assumptions do not materialise was confirmed by GRI. The report also serves as our progress or additional developments arise, actual performance may report for the Global Compact of the United Nations, deviate from the performance expected at present. We are see page 75. therefore unable to assume any responsibility whatsoever for the accuracy of these statements. 03 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix CONTENT Content About the Report 02 Content03 General Standard Disclosures 04 Strategy and Analysis 05 Organisational Profile 07 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 14 Stakeholder Engagement 17 Report Profile 19 Governance20 Ethics and Integrity 24 Specific Standard Disclosures 25 Economic Performance Indicators 26 Environmental Performance Indicators 39 Social Indicators  52 Labour Practices and Decent Work 52 Human Rights 62 Society 63 Product Responsibility 70 Appendix71 Assurance Report 72 Important Sustainability Indicators 74 UN Global Compact Progress Report 2016 75 Contact and imprint 76 04 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix  GRI G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures 05 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the organisation’s most senior decision-maker Dear Readers, RWE has undergone a large number of changes. However, Ethical business conduct is the foundation for building our the establishment of the subsidiary company innogy SE in future perspectives. RWE is strongly committed to its spring of 2016 and its initial public offering on the stock responsibility towards the environment, its employees and exchange were a watershed. They represented the biggest the community. Over the past twenty years, we have continchanges ever experienced in the history of our company. uously modernised our power plant portfolio and increased The operations of RWE are now based on two stable pillars. the efficiency of our plants. Our policy has been to drive forFirstly, our Conventional Power Generation Division has the ward a programme for expanding renewable energies. We biggest flexible power plant portfolio in Germany and highly have prioritised nature conservation when restoring natural efficient power plants in the United Kingdom and the Nethhabitats in opencast mines and in the context of grid expanerlands. Secondly, RWE Supply & Trading is one of the leadsion, while always providing our workforce with healthy ing energy trading companies in Europe. RWE also continues workplaces that are hazard-free to the greatest possible to remain committed to the market segments of Renewaextent. RWE is dedicated to these objectives. The Group bles, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail through innogy. also remains committed to creating transparency for our entrepreneurial operations. We were delighted that our RWE has made a commitment to a new claim which reflects CR Report 2015 was positioned in 14th place among the self-image of the company, its role in the energy system 150 selected reports in a ranking of German sustainability and its role within society: Powering. Reliable. Future. reports. Energy supply must be secure at all times: RWE is committed to that claim. And this is how RWE is contributing to the sucThe report has been produced on the basis of this objective cess of the energy transition as a reliable partner. while at the same time also serving as our progress report for the Global Compact of the United Nations. Signing this Our conventional generating plants mean that we are indiscompact represents our commitment to actively promoting pensable for providing a secure electricity supply in Gerhuman rights, creating good working conditions, and envimany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. A major ronmental protection within our sphere of influence. It also task is presented by decommissioning our nuclear power provides a strong signal that we are taking a decisive stand stations and financing the nuclear energy fund that German in combatting corruption and bribery. The report provides a lawmakers have adopted for intermediate storage and final detailed insight into how we achieve these objectives. disposal in a repository. In trading business, we want to be even more proactive in global commodity markets than has The fact is that we continue to place great emphasis on been the case in the past. This will enable us to generate a providing evidence-based high-quality and informative comrobust result for RWE AG. We also intend to drive forward the munications for our stakeholders – in particular policymakexpansion of our business with major industrial and corpoers, investors, customers, local authorities and the general rate customers. public. This tells them all about what we are doing and our future plans. And we will be delighted if this leads to ongoing dialogue. Yours, Rolf Martin Schmitz Chief Executive Officer 06 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities for sustainability Key sustainability impacts from RWE AG result partly from Securing the future of lignite in mutual agreement with the the CO2 emissions in conventional power generation. In state government of North Rhine-Westphalia is a key issue future, these emissions will be reduced continuously. Imporfor us because lignite will continue to remain an important tant factors driving this process include political regulations pillar for the business model of RWE AG over the foreseeable such as the transfer of older lignite-fired units to security future. The planned development of lignite production and standby, and potentially further shutdowns of older plants. use (keyword: landmark decision NRW) is in accordance with In future, the declining utilisation of our power plant capacthe national and European climate protection targets, which ity and ongoing expansion of renewable energies will also are based on the resolutions passed at the Paris Climate contribute to a reduction in emissions. The utilisation of effiConference COP 21. cient gas-fired power stations is likely to become more frequent. The latter development is driven by improved market The Act on Reorganising Responsibility for Nuclear Waste conditions in this area and the final exit from nuclear energy Management was finally passed at the end of December. in Germany. Other aspects of sustainability impacts are the The law will come into force as soon as the EU has approved safe operation of our plants, decommissioning of nuclear state aid. This is likely to be given in spring of 2017. power plants, and high-quality recultivation and reinstatement of opencast mines that have come to the end of their The act implements the recommendations of the Commission lifetime. for Reviewing the Finance of Exit from Nuclear Energy (KFK), see Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – management The sustainability requirements in the supply chain are reguapproach, page 35. larly another strong focus, particularly in the case of hard coal and biomass. The business model and alignment of RWE AG also present a range of diverse opportunities. We are confident that conDuring the year under review, RWE AG underwent massive ventional power generation will continue to be the partner changes. Restructuring and efficiency measures ensure a of the energy transition in Europe for many years to come. future-proof alignment for the segments, but also create Our power plant portfolio places us in a good position to uncertainties for employees. The accelerated cultural change support this. We will also be able to develop new business within the company presents significant challenges for flexiareas with our know-how in generation and trading business. bility and readiness to change in the workforce. The initial public offering of innogy has enabled us to increase our financial scope for action and to improve our financial RWE AG will increasingly develop its own constructive role position. for implementation of the energy transition. We will make even more flexible use of our power plant portfolio and proSustainability is the core of our business model. We require vide urgently needed backup capacities for further expanthe acceptance of the community in order to be successful sion of renewable energies. over the long term – starting with government, continuing through associations and employees, and including environThe spin-off and initial public offering of innogy on the stock mental and consumer organisations. With this end in mind, exchange have enabled us to create a business with good we are continuously engaging in discussion in the public opportunities for growth in Renewables, Grid & Infrastrucdomain and monitoring the positions of our stakeholders in ture and Retail. relation to all issues of sustainability. This is carried out through focused communication with colleagues from the relImportant political and social framework conditions for RWE evant specialist departments and the companies in the variAG have been defined in the resolutions reached by the ous countries where we operate. The key task is to integrate Paris Climate Conference COP21 on the global reduction of the fundamental concepts of Corporate Responsibility in all greenhouse gas emissions. Relevant factors in this connecour business processes in a way that generates value added tion are the planned changes for European emissions tradfor the RWE Group. ing, the Climate Protection Plan 2050 of the German Federal Government, and the ongoing discussions in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. 07 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Organisational Profile G4-3 Name of the company RWE AG G4-4 Primary brands, products and services RWE AG with its two operational segments of conventional RWE and innogy have a broad spectrum of know-how in the power generation and the energy trading business is indisproduction and refinement of lignite, power generation from pensable for streamlining the entire energy system and for gas, coal, nuclear power and renewable sources, energy security of supply in Europe. trading, the distribution and sale of electricity and gas, and the development and provision of innovative energy manOur third pillar is the majority holding in innogy SE with its agement solutions. This expertise enables RWE and its subthree divisions of Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure, and sidiary company innogy to operate at all levels of the value Retail. We manage these three divisions as a fully consolichain in the energy industry. dated financial investment, see G4-13, page 10.For disclosures on the products and services of innogy see G4-4 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 page 11. G4-5 Location of the headquarters Essen, Germany G4-6 Countries with major operations RWE is an international group which including its subsidiary QQ Germany company innogy is represented at business locations in QQ Netherlands, Belgium 24 countries. QQ United Kingdom QQ Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe (Czech RepubThe key business operations are distributed across the lic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia, Croatia, Slovenia, Romania) following countries and regions. QQ Western and Southern Europe (Spain and Italy) G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form RWE AG is a listed joint-stock company (Aktiengesellschaft, AG) amounted to 35% (2015: 32%) and in Continental Europe under German law. not including Germany the proportion was 20% (2015: 24%) of the shares. A large proportion of local-authority shares The share capital of RWE AG is divided into 614,745,499 are bundled in RWEB GmbH and at 13% this entity remains shares, of which 39,000,000 are preference shares without the biggest individual shareholder of RWE. Our second largvoting rights. At the end of 2016, around 86% of RWE est individual shareholder is BlackRock: In November, notifishares were in the ownership of institutional investors, while cation was received from the US asset manager that it held shares held by employee shareholders and other private 4% in RWE. The proportion of RWE ordinary shares in free investors amounted to 1% and 13% respectively. 27% of the float amounted to 86% most recently. This forms the basis equity capital was attributable to institutional shareholders for the index weighting of the German Stock Exchange in Germany (2015: 28%). Meanwhile, in North America, the (Deutsche Börse). United Kingdom and Ireland, this group of shareholders 08 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-8 Markets served Conventional Power Generation (RWE Generation) derivatives and biomass. RWE Supply & Trading offers Our German, British, Dutch and Turkish power generation trade-based portfolio management and a broad range of business with conventional power plants is grouped in this commodity-based services to large industrial customers, dissegment. Lignite production operated by RWE Power in the tributors and trading counterparties, see G4-EC2, page Rhineland also forms part of this segment alongside RWE 28. The Trading/Gas Midstream segment sold 39.3 TWh of Technology Interna­tional, which specialises in project manelectricity in 2016 (2015: 34.6 TWh) and 25.0 TWh of gas agement and engineering services. Since 2016, we have also (2015: 29.2 TWh) to consumers, see the Annual Report recognised our majority shareholding in Mátra, Hungary, 2016 of RWE AG, page 45. here. This company specialises in the production of lignite and downstream lignite-fired generation of electricity. The Renewables Energies, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail segment also includes the Markinch biomass power station (innogy) in Scotland. The key markets served by innogy are Germany, Benelux, the United Kingdom and Central Eastern and South Eastern Trading/Gas Midstream (RWE Supply & Trading) Europe. In these markets, innogy operates in sales activities, The business of the Trading/Gas Midstream segment encomdistribution grids and with plants for power generation from passes all tradable energy commodities in physical and renewable energies, see G4-8 in the innogy Sustainability derivative form, for example gas, coal, oil and electricity. Report 2016, page 12. They also include emissions certificates, freight, weather G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation Size of the company Unit 2016 2015 Workforce FTE 58,652 59,762 Headcount 62,598 63,708 Business locations¹ Countries 24 24 External revenue (including natural gas tax /electricity tax) € billion 45.8 48.1 Equity € billion 8.0 8.9 Net debt € billion 22.7 25.5 Lignite produced (opencast Rhineland mining area) million mt 90.5 95.2 External electricity sales volume² billion kWh 264.6 261.5 External gas sales volume billion kWh 265.1 273.0 1 Number of countries in which fully consolidated companies and joint operations of RWE have their registered office. 2 For data on power generation see EU2, page 12. 09 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-10 Breakdown of workforce by employment types, gender and regions Headcount of employees 2016 2015 Women Men Total Total Germany 8,343 29,686 38,029 38,863 United Kingdom 3,570 5,011 8,581 9,176 Netherlands/Belgium 1,057 2,356 3,413 3,261 Central Eastern and South Eastern Europe 4,042 8,340 12,382 12,209 Other countries 150 43 193 199 RWE Group 17,162 45,436 62,598 63,708 Part-time employees 4,841 4,535 Full-time employees 57,757 59,173 Permanent contract 59,121 60,587 Fixed-term contract 3,477 3,121 No data are available to us for subcontractors. This will continue to remain the case in the future since the subcontractors do not have an obligation to inform us about these data. G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 99.7% of the employees of the RWE Group work in Europe Our business partners are required to acknowledge the and are represented by the European Works Council. The Code of Conduct and therefore to accept the principles of RWE and the innogy Social Charter cover 100% of our the United Nations Global Compact, which include the employees. right to collective bargaining. G4-12 Description of the supply chain Key elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard When purchasing goods, services and plant components for coal and gas, as well as trading in combustion fuels. Raw our business operations, RWE is in direct contact with sermaterials are traded as standardised products with defined vice providers and suppliers. It also has contractual relationquality attributes on international wholesale markets. These ships with them. In 2016, the purchasing volume was € 6.1 markets are the most important source of procurement. The billion. In order to meet the differing requirements relating procurement volume of combustion fuels (hard coal, natural to procurement, we have adjusted our internal processes to gas and biomass) was around € 7.6 billion in 2016. ensure compliance with our sustainability requirements in the supply chain, see Aspect: Procurement Practices– management approach, page 30. 10 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the company’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain RWE has bundled the Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure and Group of € 5.4 billion, see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE Supply Divisions into a new company known as innogy SE. AG, page 46. As a fully consolidated financial investment On 7 October 2016, the innogy share was traded for the the new company is included in the data which form the first time on the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. RWE’s share­ basis for this report. We manage innogy purely as a financial holding in innogy fell from 100% to 76.8%. Taken together, investment. innogy is structured with its own set of internal the Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure and Retail Divisions, rules and regulations with identical meaning and coverage. which were included in the new company contributed Where there are significant differences in the management around €4.2 billion to the adjusted EBITDA for the RWE approaches, we will address these at the appropriate point. G4-14 Implementation of the precautionary principle Identifying, assessing and managing risks at the earliest posThe Internal Auditing & Compliance Department ensures sible stage are the functions of the Controlling & Risk Mancompliance with the RWE Code of Conduct in the course agement Department at RWE AG. This includes our groupof the audits carried out. Its principles are included in the wide reporting and controlling systems. It also encompasses audit criteria. The Chief Compliance Officer reports on this our guidelines on handling risks, and risk analysis within the matter regularly to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to scope of strategic, planning and controlling processes. The the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. activities of the Risk Committee and internal auditing are also fundamental tenets of this work alongside reporting on the For more information on risk management see the Annual basis of the Act on Control and Transparency of Enterprise Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 77 to 86. (KonTraG). G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or other initiatives UN Global Compact Bettercoal initiative Since January 2004, the RWE Group has been a member of Cooperating with other energy companies is absolutely the UN Global Compact (UNGC). essential in order to be in a position to exert more pressure and achieve sustainable production and transport condiBy signing up to the Global Compact, RWE made a committions in the supply chain for hard coal. In 2012, we joined ment to observe the ten principles underlying the Global forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the Compact. This entails respecting human rights and labour Bettercoal initiative. By the end of 2016, 13 of the big standards, promoting environmental protection in its work, European energy companies were already members of Betand preventing corruption. We present the contribution we tercoal (2015: 12). The Dutch ports also joined the initiative have made to global implementation of the principles of the as associate members. Bettercoal audits hard-coal production Global Compact in an annual Progress Report. sites throughout the world and presents the results to its members, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 31. 11 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-16 Memberships of associations and advocacy organisations We are an active member of a large number of different QQ Energy UK committees and specialist associations as part of our social, QQ Eurogas environmental and business responsibility. The following QQ German-Russian Forum (Deutsch-Russiches Forum e.V.) memberships are important for RWE AG (in alphabetical order): QQ IETA (International Emissions Trading Association QQ If.E Innovation Forum for the Energy Transition of IGBCE QQ Bettercoal Ltd. (Innovationsforum Energiewende) QQ BDEW German Association of Energy and Water Industries QQ Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) (Bundesverband der Energieund Wasserwirtschaft e. V.) QQ VdV Association of the German Integrated Economy QQ DEBRIV – Federal Lignite Association (Verband der Deutschen Verbundwirtschaft e. V.) (Bundesverband Braunkohle) QQ VRB – Association of Raw Materials and Mining QQ econsense – Forum for Sustainable Development of the (Vereinigung Rohstoffe und Bergbau e.V.) German Economy (Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der QQ World Energy Council Deutschen Wirtschaft e. V.) QQ EFET – European Federation of Energy Traders For memberships of innogy, see G4-16 in the innogy QQ Energy Netherlands (Energie Nederland) Sustainability Report 2016, page 15. EU1 Installed capacity Power generation capacity in MW Renewable Nuclear Pumped water, Total Total Gas Lignite Hard coal energies energy oil, other 2016 2015 Conventional Power 14,964 11,059 8,688 284 4,054 2,831 41,880 42,977 Generation of which: Germany¹ 4,411 10,296 5,071 55 3,908 2,549 26,290 26,496 Netherlands/Belgium 3,057 – 2,057 158 146 – 5,418 6,228 United Kingdom 6,649 – 1,560 55 – 282 8,546 8,627 Hungary/Turkey 847 763 – 16 – – 1,626 1,626 innogy 243 17 399 3,735 – 137 4,531 4,680² RWE Group 15,207 11,076 9,087 4,019 4,054 2,968 46,411 48,052³ 1 Including generating capacities which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. At the end of 2016, this amounted to 4,373 MW (4,629 MW) in the Conventional Power Generation Division, including hard-coal power stations with a total output of 2,173 MW (unchanged). 2 The value still includes a share of the generating capacity of Zephyr Investments Limited. 3 Including the Lynemouth hard-coal power station in the United Kingdom. This was sold at the beginning of 2016 in the Trading/Gas Midstream segment. 12 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix EU2 Net output broken down by primary energy source Nuclear Renewable Pumped water, Power generation Lignite Hard coal Gas energy energies oil, other Total in billion kWh 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Conventional Power Generation 74.3 77.8 44.2 44.7 52.6 42.0 30.1 31.7 1.1 1.1 3.0 3.0 205.3 200.3 of which: Germany¹ 68.9 72.5 22.4 21.7 6.3 3.5 29.0 30.6 0.7 0.8 3.0 3.0 130.3 132.1 Netherlands/ Belgium – – 15.1 15.4 6.9 5.8 1.1 1.1 – – – – 23.1 22.3 United Kingdom – – 6.7 7.6 36.2 29.3 – – 0.4 0.3 – – 43.3 37.2 Hungary/Turkey 5.4 5.3 – – 3.2 3.4 – – – – – – 8.6 8.7 innogy² – – 0.1 0.2 0.7 0.6 – – 10.0 10.3 – – 10.8 11.1 RWE Group² 74.3 77.8 44.3 46.5³ 53.3 42.6 30.1 31.7 11.1 11.4 3.0 3.0 216.1 213.0³ 1 Including electricity purchases from power plants which are not owned by RWE but that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term contracts. In 2016, this electricity amounted to 11.0 billion KWh (previous year: 11.1 billion kWh) in the Conventional Power Generation Division, of which 7.8 billion kWh (previous year: 7.7 billion kWh) electricity generating capacity was based on hard coal. 2 Up to the sale of our shareholding in Zephyr Investments Limited in the middle of 2016, electricity purchased from the wind farms operated by Zephyr was also included in this calculation. In 2016, this amounted to 0.3 billion kWh (previous year: 0.8 billion kWh). 3 Including generation of the Lynemouth hard-coal power station in the United Kingdom. This was sold at the beginning of 2016 in the Trading/Gas Midstream segment. EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customers Our subsidiary innogy is able to build on a broad customer The size of the customer base in our Trading/Gas Midstream base in all its markets. In 2016, the residential and commersegment is significantly less. However, even today it genercial customer segment essentially included a total of over ates around 15% of electricity and around 9% of gas sales, 16,000 electricity customers and around 6,800 gas customers, see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 45. see EU3 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 18. Residential and Industrial and External electricity sales volume¹ commercial customers corporate customers Distributors Total in billion kWh 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Conventional Power Generation 0.2 0.2 2.4 2.4 17.5 19.2 20.1 21.8 Trading/Gas Midstream – – 30.3 31.2 – – 39.3² 34.6² innogy 52.3 53.7 73.5 76.9 79.3 74.4 205.1 205.0 RWE Group³ 52.6 54.0 106.2 110.5 96.8 93.6 264.6 261.5 1 Methodological changes in the recognition of trading transactions resulted in the adjustment of prior-year figures; see Notes on reporting in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 41. 2 Including volume effects of the sale of self-generated electricity on the wholesale market. If these sales volumes exceed the purchases made for supply purposes, the positive balance. 3 Including volumes subsumed under “Other, consolidation”. Residential and Industrial and External gas sales volume¹ commercial customers corporate customers Distributors Total in billion kWh 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Trading/Gas Midstream – – 24.7 25.5 0.3 3.7 25.0 29.2 innogy 102.9 102.6 83.1 81.1 54.1 60.1 240.1 243.8 RWE Group³ 102.9 102.6 107.8 106.6 54.4 63.8 265.1 273.0 1 Methodological changes in the recognition of trading transactions resulted in the adjustment of prior-year figures; see Notes on reporting in the Annual Report 2016, page 41. 13 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines innogy operates electricity and gas distribution grids with a total length of around 570,000 km in Germany, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland and Slovakia. For more information on the countries see EU4 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 19. EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances Since the beginning of the third trading period of the Euroallocation of emissions allowances of this type that are free pean Emissions Trading Scheme on 1 January 2013, operaof charge. This yields an insufficient allowance of CO2 emistors of plants subject to mandatory emissions trading have sions certificates amounting to 142.6 million metric tons. only received a basic allocation of emission allowances free We covered the shortfall by purchasing emissions allowances. of charge on application. This allocation is strictly regulated To a very limited extent, we were also able to use certifiand limited in accordance with uniform allocation regulacates from international climate protection projects which tions throughout the EU. Out of the 148.3 million metric were created under the Kyoto mechanisms “Clean Developtons (mt) of CO2 emitted by RWE in EU countries in 2016, ment Mechanisms” and “Joint Implementation”. we were only able to cover 4.5 million metric tons due to an Free allocation of Shortage of Emissions balance by division¹ CO2 emissions CO2 certificates CO2 certificates in million metric tons of CO2 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Conventional Power Generation 147.6 148.9 4.2 5.2 142.2 142.4 of which: Germany² 106.8 109.1 4.2 5.1 102.6 104.0 Netherlands/Belgium 14.0 14.8 – 0.1 14.0 14.7 United Kingdom 19.1 17.4 – – 19.1 17.4 Hungary/Turkey³ 7.7 7.6 – 6.5 6.3 innogy 0.7 0.7 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 RWE Group 148.3 150.8 4 4.5 5.6 142.6 143.94 1 Only plants which participate in the European Emissions Trading Scheme. 2 Includes generation capacities not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2016, they produced 7.1 million metric tons of CO2 (previous year: 6.9 million metric tons). 3 Since Turkey does not participate in the European Union Emissions Trading Scheme, we do not need emission allowances for our CO2 emissions in that country. 4 IIncluding the emissions of the hard coal-fired power plant Lynemouth in the Trading /Gas Midstream segment, which was sold in early 2016. 14 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 List of consolidated entities and consolidated financial statements See list in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, pages 155 to 181. G4-18 Process for selecting the report content Our management of Corporate Responsibility and reporting tation process. Initially, we brought together the key issues take into account the relevant issues that we have deterand assessed their relevance for RWE at the level of experts mined and evaluated in a Materiality Analysis. This approach and line managers within the Group companies. A second corresponds to the current G4 Guidelines of the Global stage took the form of a validation process and involved the Reporting Initiative (GRI) which form the basis for this departmental managers of RWE AG and the board members report. We carried out a comprehensive Materiality Analysis of the Group companies responsible for CR at the time. for the CR Report 2015. This involved adopting two perspectives for evaluating the issues that are particularly Since the restructuring of the Group has not yet been comimportant for sustainable governance at RWE. These views pleted, we took a decision this year to update the results of are from the perspective of the stakeholders and the standthe Materiality Analysis from 2015. The starting point for point of the company. this is the list of key GRI aspects from the last report. We modified these at the level of internal experts and specialist In this context, we asked representatives of our most imporprocess owners to match the current materiality landscape. tant stakeholders in 2015 about the challenges and issues We also took account of the results of the external survey they believed to be particularly important for the company from the previous year’s materiality process, the results of from their perspective. We also asked them about what they the ratings that we took part in this year, and current politiexpect from RWE. Our objective was to obtain a broad range cal and legislative developments. Experts and specialist proof views. We therefore conducted detailed and structured cess owners from the Group companies were integrated in interviews with 38 representatives of organisations and reporting for purposes of evaluation this year. institutions from civil society in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Poland and the Czech Republic. The feedback we received from our external stakeholders These results were then supplemented with information we focused on the medium to long-term perspective of RWE. obtained from other conversations with our stakeholders. Furthermore, there is a stream of enquiries relating to conThe evaluation of this information was agreed in a joint distroversial issues of an individual nature that our stakeholdcussion with the CR Officers of the RWE companies and it ers raise. In cases like this, we get into dialogue directly and was incorporated into the Materiality Analysis. work on developing a solution. We do not report on such individual cases at this point. We performed the subsequent internal evaluation within the scope of reporting on the year 2015 in a group-wide consulG4-19 List of material aspects identified in the process for defining the report content (also includes disclosures for G4-20 and G4-21) RWE is not responsible for process steps and their impacts and we are able to exert an influence on them within the which involve upstream and downstream activities in our individually defined framework. We can also directly manage value chain and therefore take place outside our company. the impacts that are caused within our company. Nevertheless, we are indirectly associated with these stages 15 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Overview of the key aspects and where their impacts are caused: Material impact Preliminary value GRI Aspect added phase RWE Consumption phase Economic performance indicators Economic Performance Indirect Economic Impacts Procurement Practices Availability and Reliability Demand-side Management Research and Development Decommissioning of Power Plants Efficiency of the Power Plant Portfolio and Distribution Grid Environmental Performance Indicators Energy Water Biodiversity Emissions Waste and Effluents Products and Services Compliance (Environment) Overview (expenditure Environment) Supplier Environmental Assessment Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Social Performance Indicators Labour Practices Employment Labour/Management Relations Occupational Health and Safety Basic and Career Training Diversity and Equal Opportunity Equal Pay for Women and Men Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights Supplier Human Rights Assessment Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Society Local Community Anti-corruption Public Policy Anti-competitive Behaviour Compliance (Society) Supplier Assessment of Impacts on Society Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response Product Responsibility Product and Service Labelling 16 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-20 Material aspects identified within the company See G4-19, page 14. G4-21 Material aspects identified outside the company See G4-19, page 14. G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such changes We have amended our reporting methods in the context of the new bundling of large parts of our business, see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 41. G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries We have amended our reporting methods in the context of the new bundling of large parts of our business, see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 41. 17 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the company Our company regularly engages in communication in differzens. We also seek contact with players who are otherwise ent ways with customers, academics, politicians, representainvolved in issues relating to the energy industry, as well as tives of environmental organisations, local government the corporate activities of RWE and its impacts on society as agencies, neighbours around our locations and other citia whole. G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders include all persons and organisations we holders and open to their concerns. Expectations that stakehave relationships with and engage in dialogue with. We holders have of RWE are nuanced and defined by their also regard individuals and entities who seek communication attitude to energy issues and the extent to which those with us, or who are interested in our company, as stakeholdstakeholders are affected by them. The different countries ers. There is no prior selection process. In order to identify show a varying basic attitude to topics associated with the various aspirations and take account of them in our corenergy. Their views are informed by the individual national porate policy, we are in continuous dialogue with our stakebackground. G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement including frequency of engagement Communication with our stakeholders gives us valuable follow our projects and activities with a great deal of interideas for the orientation of our corporate activities. Since est, perhaps because they are looking for positive effects to our company is going through a process of change, it is pargive upside impact on the local economy. Alternatively, they ticularly important for us to discuss expectations and projecmay be anxious about negative effects on their own lives tions about the future of energy supply with external stakeand the surrounding environment. We meet these expectaholders. At the same time, this dialogue provides us with tions with an honest exchange of views and an interest in the opportunity to reflect and convey our company deciconstructive proposals. At national level, we engage in dissions and underlying motivation more effectively. cussions with our stakeholders in particular on the following issues: our contribution to the energy transition and climate The dialogue takes place at different levels. We engage in change, the future of the energy market, sustainability in discussions at local level with neighbouring residents and international supply relationships and a responsible citizen’s initiatives, for example about construction measapproach to our customers and the environment. ures and approval proceedings. Local residents frequently G4-27 Key topics and concerns of stakeholders and response of the company In 2016 as in the previous year, the dominant issue in the One example of dialogue was local and regional forums. context of the dialogue with stakeholders continued to be Interaction in the Rhineland lignite mining area took place at the contributions that the energy industry can make to the level of local authorities and at meetings of elected poliachieving the national climate change targets, and the role ticians and various specialist conferences. These included the that conventional power generation is able to play in the Mining Damage Forum and the Water Industry Conference. energy transition. We engaged in an intensive dialogue at all Alongside issues relating to the energy transition and climate levels on this issue with a large number of representatives protection, key topics were security of supply, job security from the political sphere, business, unions and the general and perspectives for the future at the locations. Another public. area of increasing involvement was the innovation region 18 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Rhineland lignite mining area (Innovationsregion Rheinisches We continue to hold regular events at national and European Revier), which supports the structural change in this area. level, for example our RWE Talks. In 2016, these were held in As part of this involvement, a representative of RWE Power Berlin and in Brussels. Members of the Executive Board and AG is a Member of the Supervisory Board of the InnovaManaging Directors reported in this forum on the latest tionsregion Rheinisches Revier GmbH. Furthermore, RWE developments in the energy industry and held discussions participates in a large number of different projects and initiwith a wide range of different special-interest groups. The atives in the areas of opencast mining to shape the region, discussions focused on various topics including the transforfor example the development company Indeland GmbH mation of the world of work against the background of digiParadigmatic examples here are research into applications talisation. They also addressed the role of the distribution for the use of lignite as a material, see Aspect: Research grids in the energy transition and the importance of energy and Development – management approach, page 34, the trading. Additionally, we discussed the challenges of the commitment to constructing a climate protection settleenergy transition with a view to more expansion and integrament and the project “Factor X – Resource Efficient Buildtion of renewable energies. ing”. In accordance with these activities, the event series “Future Laboratory Indeland” was continued this year, focusOver the course of 2016, representatives of RWE Generation ing on the topic “Living Locations of the Future” – Resource in the United Kingdom engaged in dialogue on environmenefficient living in a rural area”. tal conservation issues with the regulatory authorities and politicians. The discussions centred on implementation of the The Neighbourhood Forum (Nachbarschaftsforum) NiederEC Directive on Industrial Emissions and a reference docuaußem, which RWE set up at the power plant there, was ment outlining the best available technology for large comgiven a positive reception. The forum offers neighbours, bustion plants (LCP BREF). Local Liaison Committees conassociations and other regional stakeholders the opportutinue their work at our power plant locations, including nity to engage in discussion with RWE about issues related Didcot B and Aberthaw. to power generation and power plants with particular reference to the Niederaußem site. In 2016, the forum met twice. In 2016, the Dutch Economics Minister issued an invitation The agenda focused on the following topics: the impacts of for energy dialogues so as to give the general public the cold air flows on agriculture, perspectives on the use of CO2 opportunity to play a role in further development of the as a material, the climate protection plan in North Rhineenergy transition. We played a proactive role and organised Westphalia and international climate protection policy. round-table discussions at Geertruidenberg and Amsterdam. This year, we also held the first energy conversation in the RWE also held an event in Groningen intended to promote context of our Inden opencast mine and the Weisweiler knowledge exchange about the important role of combined power plant. The purpose of the discussion was to promote combustion of biomass for a more sustainable economy in dialogue with local stakeholders about the future of the the future. Representatives of local and national governregion and the promotion of structural change. ment, universities, energy companies and port authorities participated in the discussion. The principal topics were the In 2016, we additionally held a power plant discussion at need for biomass in order to meet Dutch targets for decareach of our nuclear power locations. We also rolled out a bonisation, the plans drawn up by RWE for combined comTransparency Initiative at all three locations. The objective of bustion of biomass in the power plant at Eemshaven, and this is to create even more transparency in the future for new Dutch sustainability criteria for biomass and the refineproviding information to various regional special-interest ment of biomass for the purpose of enhancing value in use. groups about licensing procedures currently under way. Openness in relation to planning for decommissioning and For more information on the stakeholder dialogues of the process involved is also part of this approach. innogy see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 under G4-26 and G4-27, page 23. 19 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period The reporting period covers the financial year 2016: 1 January 2016 – 31 December 2016 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report March 2016 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annually G4-31 Contact point for questions on the report RWE Aktiengesellschaft Alexander Nolden Political Affairs, Corporate Responsibility 45128 Essen Tel.: +49 201 12-00 Email responsibility@rwe.com G4-32 The “in accordance” option for compliance with GRI and the index for the chosen option This report was prepared on the basis of our established the G4 Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures . The report was reporting and our findings from the dialogue with stakeprepared in conformity with the option “in accordance” holders. In 2016, we prepared the report in accordance with core. The values were not available to us with the necessary the current guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) differentiation for a number of the indicators derived from in order to facilitate a comparison of our services with those the GRI. We have provided a justification in each case and of other companies. It also presents the GRI G4 Content used disclosures which came closest to the requirements. Index at the same time. In this context, we took account of G4-33 External assurance of the report The disclosures indicated with were subject to an the auditing principles of the International Standard on engagement audit carried out by the accountancy firm Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised). For the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) with a limited assurance. Assurance Report see page 72. The engagement audit was performed in accordance with 20 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the company, including committees of the highest governance body The governance of RWE as a German joint-stock company The RWE Supervisory Board currently has five permanent listed on the stock exchange is primarily determined by the committees and the Executive Committee: the Mediation Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz) and also by the regulaCommittee pursuant to Article 27 Section 3 Co-determinations of the German Corporate Governance Code in its lattion Act (MitbestG), the Personnel Affairs Committee, the est current version. Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Strategy Committee. Last year, a special committee “NewCo IPO Pursuant to the statutory regulations, RWE is subject to the Committee” was added, which had to make decisions on the “dual governance system”. This is characterised by a strict details of the initial public offering of innogy SE. The comseparation of personnel between the Executive Board as a mittees prepare topics and resolutions in advance of meetmanagement body and the Supervisory Board as a monitoring ings of the Supervisory Board. They sometimes also have body. The Executive Board and the Supervisory Board work decision-making powers delegated to them by the Superviclosely together in pursuing the interests of the company. sory Board. The chairs of the committees regularly inform the Supervisory Board about the work of the committees. The Executive Board manages the company with the objecAdditional detailed information on the concrete work of the tive of generating sustainable value added under its own Supervisory Board and its committees is provided in the latresponsibility. The principle of overall responsibility applies est Supervisory Board Report in the Annual Report 2016 to their work, and this means that the members of the Execof RWE AG, page 8 to 12. utive Board bear joint responsibility for the entire executive management. They develop the corporate strategy and ensure The group-wide implementation and realisation of Corpoimplementation in consultation with the Supervisory Board. rate Responsibility is coordinated by the Political Affairs and Group Corporate Responsibility Department within The Supervisory Board advises the Executive Board on manGroup Communications & Public Affairs. The head of this aging the company and monitors its activity. It appoints and department reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer. dismisses Members of the Executive Board, passes resolutions In 2016, representatives from the Group Centre and the on the compensation system for the Members of the Execumajor operating companies came together a number of tive Board and defines individual compensation packages for times at the meetings held by the staff of the CR officers. each member. The Supervisory Board is involved in all deciThese meetings serve as forums for sharing ideas and dissions that are fundamentally important for RWE. cussing joint activities. For information on the governance structure of innogy see G4-34 in the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 28. G4-35 Process of delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics Powers of attorney are granted by the Executive Board in the ered to take decisions independently within their sphere of form of authorised officers and general agents to the indiresponsibility, so long as a higher level of authority has not vidual departmental and section managers who are empowreserved the right to approve certain decisions. G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics The Executive Board has adopted a portfolio distribution nation of Corporate Responsibility, Legal, Corporate Developwhich gives specified members of the Executive Board responment and Internal Audit & Compliance. The responsibilities of sibility for various topics. The current portfolio distribution the Chief Financial Officer include Accounting, Business Serprovides for the following powers of responsibility over ecovices, Controlling & Risk Management, Finance & Credit Risk, nomic, environmental and social topics: The Chairman of the Investor Relations, Portfolio Management/Mergers & AcquisiExecutive Board deals with the group-level responsibilities tions and Tax. Human Resources is allocated to the Chief HR Group Communications & Public Affairs including the coordiOfficer and Labour Director. 21 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix The Centre of Expertise Health & Safety and Industrial MediThe Group Executive Board reports to the Supervisory Board cine, Environmental Coordination and Group Purchasing are of the company as the highest governance body. situated in RWE Generation and carry out their function for the entire Group from there. G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the Executive Board and Supervisory Board Each shareholder has the right to submit a countermotion can demand that items are placed on the agenda and with substantiation against the proposals put forward by the announced. The publication of the business results is accomExecutive Board and/or the Supervisory Board on a specific panied by an investors’ and analysts’ teleconference. In agenda item at the Annual General Meeting. Shareholders 2016, a Capital Market Day was held in London. Additionwhose shares taken together make up one twentieth of the ally, managers take part in Group roadshows and participate entire share capital or a proportionate amount of € 500,000 in conferences. G4-38 Composition of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board and its committees The Supervisory Board is a non-executive supervisory body. means that the necessary knowledge and experience is It consists of 20 members, ten of which are elected by the reflected by the Supervisory Board as a whole. Another aim Annual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of the is to ensure that the Supervisory Board includes members German Stock Corporation Act (Aktiengesetz). Ten of the with international experience who come from outside Germembers are elected by the employees pursuant to the Comany or who have spent a considerable number of years determination Act (Mitbestimmungsgesetz) dated 4 May working in other countries. Members of the Supervisory 1976 (MitbestG). The period of office for current members Board are expected to be familiar with the business areas of started with the Annual General Meeting in 2016 and ends the RWE Group, the market landscape, the needs of customwith the Annual General Meeting in 2021. At the moment, ers and the strategic direction of the company. They should the Supervisory Board of RWE AG includes six women, of possess all the skills and know-how necessary for their activwhich three were elected by the employees. RWE AG thereity as a member of the Supervisory Board including assessfore complies with the statutory gender quota of 30%. ment of reports provided by the Executive Board, weighing up business decisions and evaluating the documents associA presentation of the Executive Board and the Supervisory ated with the annual financial statements. Alternatively, Board is provided in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, they need to be willing to engage in a learning curve to page 182 to186. This gives an overview of the number of acquire the necessary knowledge and skills. The needs proadditional important positions or duties of individual perfile also includes special areas of expertise and qualifications sons and the type of duties involved. that are important for the business activities. This may include e.g. experience from an international role or manAs envisaged in the Stock Corporation Act and in the Geragement functions in politics and business, know-how in the man Corporate Governance Code, the Supervisory Board is energy sector, employee co-determination, accounting or intended to provide expert monitoring and consultation for auditing, and expertise in the public sector. the Executive Board. The objective is for at least one member of the Supervisory Board to be able to provide expertise You will find more information in the Annual Report 2016 of for each aspect of the activity of the Supervisory Board. This RWE AG and on our Website. G4-39 Independence of the Chair of the Supervisory Board Dr Werner Brandt has been in post as the Chairman of the Supervisory Board since April 2016 and he is not simultaneously a Member of the Executive Board. Dr Brandt has also not been a Member of the Executive Board of RWE AG in the past. 22 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board As defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board. The committee makes decisions on behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee convenes as necessary Supervisory Board in a number of areas including the concluand proposes suitable candidates to the Supervisory Board sion, the amendment and the termination of contracts of as its nominations for election by the Annual General Meetemployment with the members of the Executive Board. This ing. When the committee selects the nomination proposals, work does not include the decisions reserved for the Superit takes into account the international operations of the visory Board pursuant to Article 87 Section 1 and Section 2 company, potential conflicts of interest, and diversity. There Sentence 1 and Sentence 2 Stock Corporation Act (AktG), is also a needs profile for Supervisory Board members which although the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the is intended to ensure a heterogeneous composition of the groundwork for such decisions. Furthermore, the committee Supervisory Board, see G4-38, page 21. regularly gives advice on long-term succession planning for the Executive Board. In this context, the committee takes As is also defined in the Rules of Procedure of the Superviaccount of planning for the management of the company sory Board, the Personnel Affairs Committee prepares the and also considers the need for diversity. groundwork for decisions on personnel by the Supervisory G4-41 Processes for ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided and managed Transparency is a core element of good corporate governThe memberships in other governance bodies held by memance. It is absolutely indispensable in cases where transacbers of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board are distions concluded by the Executive Board may lead to conflicts closed transparently in the presentation of governance bodof interest. The members of the Executive Board and the ies in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 182 to Supervisory Board have not registered any conflicts of inter188. RWE AG has no controlling shareholder. Transactions est with us. Furthermore, no contracts were concluded with related parties are included in financial reporting. between members of the Supervisory Board and RWE AG. For additional information on Directors’ Dealings see our Website. G4-42 The role of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board in the development, approval and updating of the organisations’ purpose, value or mission statements, policies, goals and strategies We have created long-term incentives for sustainable corporate governance in which part of the variable compensation for the Executive Board has been linked to CR indicators, see G4-51, page 23. G4-46 Role of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk management processes The Executive Board of RWE AG holds the principal responsireports to the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board of bility for our risk management system. The board monitors RWE AG on the risk position of the Group. and manages the overall risk of the Group. The responsibility for applying and developing the risk management system is The Internal Audit Department regularly reviews the quality at the level below the Executive Board with the Controlling & and the functional capability of the risk management system. Risk Management of RWE AG. This department regularly 23 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-47 Frequency of the review of the economic, environmental and social impacts by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board The Executive Board of RWE AG is informed immediately if by an auditing firm in accordance with IDW Audit Standard there are any significant changes to the risk situation. The 980. The efficacy audit was successfully completed at yearmanagement and supervisory bodies are informed about the end 2013/14. The Chief Compliance Officer reports at regurisk situation as part of quarterly reporting. lar intervals to the Executive Board of RWE AG and to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board on issues relevant The entrepreneurial actions of RWE are defined by integrity to compliance. This includes in principle all the topic areas and compliance with the law. The RWE Code of Conduct sets of the Code of Conduct and he/she provides consolidated out the targets and principles for this and forms the basis information about this. Every manager with responsibility for for the corporate culture. The Compliance Management Syshuman resources additionally needs to submit an annual tem focuses in particular on the identification of potential report on implementation of the Code of Conduct in his/her structural risks of corruption. The Compliance Management area of responsibility. System was set up to combat any corruption. It was audited G4-48 The highest committee or position that formally reviews the organisation’s sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered This report was reviewed and released by the Executive Board of RWE AG. G4-51 The remuneration policies and the performance criteria for the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board Following intensive deliberation and with the support of an Further details on the compensation policy and criteria for external compensation expert, the Supervisory Board the Executive Board, including disclosures on components of defined a new compensation system for Members of the the compensation package, are included in the compensaExecutive Board. This has been applied since 1 October tion report in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 2016. The new system provides even better support for the 62 to 76. This takes account of all statutory regulations and strategic alignment of RWE AG and promotes it even more follows all the recommendations of the German Corporate effectively. Important sustainability factors and the motivaGovernance Code. tion of employees form an important basis of assessment. Other factors are also used to assess the bonuses of the members of the Executive Board. 24 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics At RWE we are well aware of our role in the community and The code also establishes the benchmark for collaboration of our responsibility towards customers and business partwith contractual partners and is intended to give a unified ners, as well as shareholders and employees. We therefore foundation for the contractual relationship. have clearly defined principles which form the framework for our corporate and community engagement. The focus of our Responsible management and supervision of the company actions is on the common values of trust, passion and perrank among the cornerstones for long-term success. Our formance. They ensure a unified, overarching identity benchmark is provided by the German Corporate Governthroughout all the companies of the RWE Group. These valance Code in the relevant latest version. We fully comply ues are supplemented by our Code of Conduct and the prinwith the recommendations of the code – and this strengthciples for good conduct defined in the Code. The principles ens the trust placed in us by our investors, customers, are intended as guidelines for the actions of our employees. employees and the general public. G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity Every single employee is encouraged to be proactive in sions and Group companies, and they are always available as bringing any issues relating to our Code of Conduct and points of contact for such matters. They are particularly keen compliance with the code to the attention of their supervito receive information about issues relating to prevention of sor and/or the responsible compliance officer. The same corruption. Contact details for compliance officers are availapplies to any indications relating to breaches of the Code able on the Intranet. of Conduct. Compliance officers are appointed for all diviG4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity Information on any breaches of the Code of Conduct can other business partners. Information relating to any potenbe forwarded to supervisors or compliance officers through tial breaches is recorded by the Compliance Department. a range of different channels. It is also possible to contact Each case is reviewed by the Group function responsible for an independent external ombudsperson. This contact is investigating such a breach, and any remedial measures necavailable for employees and also accepts information from essary are initiated in the context of a systematic follow-up third parties outside the company, for example suppliers or process. 25 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Specific Standard Disclosures 26 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Economic Performance Indicators Aspect: Economic Performance – Management approach Challenges the energy world of tomorrow. RWE AG will benefit from the Our market environment and the demands of society at success of innogy as the majority shareholder. large are changing with the transition of energy systems in Europe. We are meeting the diverse challenges faced by the Organisation, management and performance measurement RWE Group at all stages of the value chain and in all the The new corporate structure has enabled RWE to establish regions where we are operating. the basis for creating a more robust financial platform, improving the performance of the Group and making it more In Germany, the development of wholesale prices in the eleccompetitive. However, we inevitably require the acceptance tricity market is largely dependent on feed-ins of renewable of society in order to be successful over the long term – energies. These reduce the utilisation of conventional power starting with government, continuing through associations plants, in particular of gas-fired power plants. Consequently, and employees, to nature conservation organisations. this also brings down the prices that power producers are able to achieve in the marketplace. Another aspect is that Economic performance and value generation for our hard-coal power stations, which traditionally exert a considershareholders able influence on electricity pricing, are able to offer their We provide a transparent presentation in our value creation electricity at very favourable conditions. These factors mean calculation showing how we distribute the value generated that the current quotations on the German electricity wholeto the individual stakeholder groups, see G4-EC1, page 27. sale market are far below the level of the prices offered a few years ago. Prices have also come down compared with 2015, RWE will continue to optimise its own portfolio in a consolieven if the reduction is only slight. As far as power generadating market. We are also going to make use of options for tion by our German lignite-fired and nuclear power stations the additional construction of local generation plants such is concerned, we achieved on average significantly lower as power plants for customers. However, the focus is also on income than in 2015. The loss of revenues resulting from the other generation, storage and flexibility solutions which price of electricity in the case of our hard-coal power stations open up new opportunities for making profits especially in but above all our gas-fired power stations was compensated regulated business and are intended to provide opportuniby lower charges owing to reductions in fuel costs. Gas-fired ties for increasing the use of electricity. power stations were therefore used more intensively. For more information on this see the Annual Report 2016 of Furthermore, RWE Technology International (RWE TI) RWE AG, page 26. The use of these power plants is popular offers independent services as a project management and with a large number of stakeholders because they can be engineering company to RWE in the areas of mining, thermal deployed particularly flexibly. Furthermore, by comparison power plants, renewable energies and infrastructure. The with coal-fired power stations, they emit less CO2 per unit of focuses of packages provided in this context are on consultelectricity generated. RWE has adopted a number of measing, engineering, training and safety in planning, construcures so that we are able to remain competitive as one of the tion, operation and decommissioning industrial projects. biggest European energy suppliers operating in the marketThe portfolio of RWE TI also includes optimising and modplace. These include comprehensive measures to reduce ernising traditional energy generation, and rolling out new costs and a strategic realignment with a stronger focus on technology solutions like energy storage. RWE TI makes use new business models so that we are in a position to offer of the extensive expert knowledge available from the RWE our customers innovative solutions. Group in carrying out its operations. In 2016, innogy SE was established and operations were bunDriving forward innovations dled in the Renewables, Grid & Infrastructure, and Retail DiviThe energy industry needs innovations more urgently than sions. The restructuring has created a future-proof company other sectors. The business models and processes of the past under the financial control of RWE AG with a clearly defined are losing their profitability in many areas and are no longer strategic focus and greater financial scope for manoeuvre. The fit for purpose. They need to be modified by new ideas and new subsidiary company, which is managed as a financial in some cases even replaced, see Aspect: Research and investment, will use the additional capital to make bigger Development – management approach, page 34. investments in renewable energies and in the trends defining 27 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Alongside the overarching restructuring of the Group, The project is enabling us to strengthen the orientation the motivator of innovations is also driving forward new of our employees on performance and customers, and conceptual and operational approaches within the organisainvolve them more closely in the decision-making protion of RWE. cesses. At the same time, we are ensuring more efficient cooperation within the entire Group. In 2016, measures supporting cultural change included conQQ Next Level Leadership (NLL) is a programme for our top tinuation of the following projects: managers. It is intended to empower them to successfully bring about the transformation of RWE QQ The programme New Way of Working (NwoW) represents QQ Deliver Breakthrough Performance (DBP) is used to roll a new mindset and approach to carrying out work, see out group-wide projects and a uniform understanding Aspect: Employment – management approach, page 52. of change and leadership. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Distribution of value added in € million Total 2016 Total 2015 Total 5,329 11,391 to employees (wages, salaries, social security contributions) 4,777 4,803 to the government (taxes and deductions)¹ 1,920 2,845 to lenders 4,111 3,454 to other shareholders 226 454 Net income -5,710 -170 Dividend payment to shareholders² 5 5 1 Only the taxes paid are included, not tax expense. 2 Dividend proposal of RWE AG for the business year 2016 subject to the adoption of the resolution by the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 April 2017. Donations and sponsorship in € million Total 2016 Total 2015 Donations 2.2 3.5 Sponsorship 13.1 5.7 This year we succeeded in concluding a major sponsorship pared with the previous year as a result of this venture and a initiative in the Netherlands with football club PSV Eindhoven. variety of other activities. The sponsorship volume has increased significantly comG4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change Once again, climate protection was one of the key political with advanced and flexible power plants. innogy will conissues in 2016 and it is also crucial for RWE. Key factors in tinue to increase power generation from renewable sources our business are the ongoing expansion of renewable enerand develop and expand the technology for the grid infragies, increasing requirements for climate protection, and structure. We will offer our residential, commercial, industrial digitalisation. Alongside the necessary modifications in our and corporate customers innovative products and services power plant portfolio, we also perceive entrepreneurial that enable them to benefit from the opportunities preopportunities for us in the area of climate protection, and sented by digitalisation and to use energy more efficiently. we intend to exploit them. Our conventional power plant As a result, they can generate and market energy themportfolio will guarantee security for the electricity supply selves. Following a successful initial public offering on the 28 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix stock exchange, innogy is able to draw on additional funds Financial implications of the risk or opportunity before for capital expenditure. Our trading subsidiary RWE Supply action is taken & Trading has expanded its existing offering for major indusWe have already carried out a large range of measures to trial customers and distributors. In addition to conventional make our processes even more efficient, our organisation energy supplies, the company also makes specialist comeven more effective and our corporate culture still more permercial service offerings to its major customers, such as formance-oriented. Financial risks associated with emissions optimisation and enhanced flexibility for portfolios and trading are reflected in our risk management. We reduce plants. RWE Technology and RWE Generation are conthese risks by concluding appropriate hedging transactions. tracted by customers to construct and operate plants for When a specified amount of electricity is sold on the futures combined heat and power, and for power generation from market, the risk is hedged by purchasing appropriate renewable energies. The two companies are also commisamounts of combustion fuels and the necessary emissions sioned to operate and maintain existing generating plants certificates. belonging to customers. RWE Supply & Trading also offers its services for these plants. The Executive Board engages with the financial risks and opportunities associated with climate change in the control Impacts associated with the risk or opportunity processes. However, the quantified results are not disclosed We support ambitious political goals for climate protection, for competitive reasons. for expanding renewable energies and for improvement of energy efficiency. At the same time, we are addressing the enormous challenges that these objectives present in terms of competitiveness, innovative power and financial strength. G4-EC3 Coverage of organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Company pension provision in Germany includes defined on this and on company pension provision for employees contribution and defined benefit provision systems. There outside Germany is provided in the Annual Report 2016 of are various systems for company pension provision in the RWE AG, pages 130 to 134. countries where we are operating. Additional information G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government RWE does not receive any financial grants or subsidies from use of agricultural operational areas. These subsidies are for the government for its operating business. We also finance interim agricultural use in the course of reinstating former all capital expenditure from our own resources. On the other opencast mining sites and they last for a limited period of hand, we receive financial assistance from government time. In 2015, the subsidies amounted to € 420,501.73. agencies for projects in research and development (R&D) The value for 2016 was not yet known by the editorial deadactivities. The EU Transparency Register is one of the sources line. The state does not hold any shares in RWE. Our biggest providing information on R&D projects with EU subsidies. single shareholder is RWEB GmbH in which the majority of We also receive agricultural subsidies from the EU for the the shares held by local authorities is bundled. 29 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts – Management approach Challenges research, discover and experience energy. For figures on The challenges of the energy transition can only be solved 3MalE see G4-SO1, page 63. at the level of society as a whole. We want to be the credible partner for this challenge and our aim is to enhance trust in innogy Foundation for Energy and Community playing a our company both within our regional and local environrole as a corporate citizen ment, and in society as a whole. RWE makes an important Since 1 September 2016, the RWE Foundation has been contribution to the regional economy through the secure operating in a new form as the innogy Foundation for supply of electricity and gas at all times. The provision of Energy and Community (innogy Stiftung für Energie und jobs and allocation of orders to local companies constitute Gesellschaft gGmbH). The innogy Foundation supports proadditional contributions. jects, collaborations and campaigns that focus on the energy transition in the regional context, digitalisation and We promote social developments through initiatives in education. The foundation regularly provides information social, environmental and cultural spheres, with volunteertransparently about projects, successes and finance in its ing engagement by RWE employees and through financial annual reports. assistance. Supporting structural change in areas with opencast mining Organisation, management and performance measurement A contribution to a broad spectrum of jobs and training Allocation of resources in compliance with rules places in other companies can be made in the area of openWe want to use the resources available to us effectively and cast mining by the development of building land and indusin conformity with our compliance objectives. We have trial zones. Research leisure amenities can also be expanded. defined rules for the allocation of resources in our Guideline These developments will contribute to safeguarding the on Donations and Sponsorship which applies throughout future in the region over the long term. Our objective is to the Group. Promotional gifts and resources that are relevant remain a dependable partner for local people and commuaccording to our guidelines are documented in a group-wide nities after opencast mining comes to an end. We are thereregister. These included gifts and resources provided to fore collaborating with the region to shape the structural holders of public office, donations and sponsorship measures, change by supporting initiatives which drive forward and consultancy and intermediary contracts. For information economic and structural development. These include the on donations and sponsorship see G4-EC1, page 27. Innovation Region Rhineland Industrial Area (Innovationsregion Rheinisches Revier, IRR) and joint ventures between Promotion of corporate volunteering local authorities, such as the Indeland Development See G4-EC8, page 30. Company and the Terra Nova Special-purpose Association. Our contribution ranges from providing specialist and finanPromotion of education on energy and engineering issues cial assistance, through cooperation on master plans and “Education with Energy” is the slogan we are using to generindividual projects, to research into sectors of the future. ate enthusiasm among young people for energy and technoFor example, we are involved in a project to safeguard the logical issues. We discuss the energy supply of the future energy location Weisweiler, a scheme to promote structural with them in this context. “3MalE – Education with Energy” diversity in arable areas, and an initiative to create commubundles the education packages of all RWE companies in nity areas by expanding the recreational and leisure ameniGermany. The initiative is intended to help young people ties at the future Inden legacy lake. G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported As an operator of energy infrastructures, we help to amelioin the regions where innogy has operations with residential rate fuel poverty in the countries where we are operating – customers. For more information on this see innogy Susparticularly where the government and civil society do not tainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Access – management provide enough support. We carry out appropriate activities approach, page 97. 30 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-EC8 Significant indirect impacts, including the extent of impacts We promote volunteering by our employees under the Over recent years, the number of volunteering team projects umbrella of the group-wide Corporate Volunteering Proin the TeamAktiv Companius Programme has steadily gramme known as Companius (including “Aktiv-vor-Ort” – increased. In 2016, more than 1,060 employees once again Active on Site). Targeted formats help us to allocate employmade a commitment in 106 team projects. In addition, the ees to a volunteering role appropriate to them. In 2016, scheme AZUBI@WORK meets Companius combines the more than 1,750 employees dedicated their time to providdevelopment of expertise and skills of apprentices at RWE ing assistance on around 1,000 projects. The amount conwith volunteering engagement. tributed to these projects totalled some € 1.8 million during the period under review. For information on promoting education and on Companius projects in the area of providing aid for refugees see G4-SO1, page 63. Aspect: Procurement Practices – Management approach Challenges co-firing plants. Environmental and socially ethical extracStakeholders are challenging RWE to use their purchasing tion and production methods also have to be guaranteed in policy to exert influence on their suppliers. Sustainability in this area in order to establish biomass as a sustainable alterthe supply chain is increasingly becoming a precondition for native to fossil fuels. Appropriate rules and regulations are participating in tenders made to industrial customers and is enshrined in the relevant national legislation. In the Netherbeing included in public procurement. However, there are lands, these conditions are defined in the Biomass Pact virtually no binding international standards for environmenwhich RWE and other energy producers concluded with a tal protection, human rights, occupational safety and comgroup of non-governmental organisations. batting corruption. Furthermore, we procure goods, services and plant compoKey elements of our value chain are the procurement of hard nents for the operation, maintenance, new-build and decomcoal and natural gas and biomass, as well as trading in commissioning of our plants. Around 26,000 suppliers are regisbustion fuels. Raw materials are traded as standardised tered in our supplier portfolio for procurement of these products with defined quality attributes on international resources. Some 380 of these suppliers are of particular strawholesale markets. These markets are the most important tegic importance. We are in regular and close contact with source of procurement, and raw materials traded here often all these specific suppliers. The purchasing volume for change ownership several times after they have been first goods, services and plant components for the RWE Group offered for sale by the producers. Generally, it is only possi(including innogy) was about € 6.1 billion in 2016. Here, ble for us to identify the immediate upstream owner, while too, our stakeholders expect environmental, health and the precise geographical origin of the raw material is not safety, and energy efficiency aspects to play a role in proknown. There are therefore only direct supplier relationships curement as a matter of principle. to a limited extent between RWE and the producers. Even though environmental and social compatibility play an Organisation, management and performance measurement important role for us in production, this in turn means that Monitoring of trading partners in wholesale markets we have virtually no opportunities at this point to exert any In cooperation with our suppliers, we intend to comply with direct pressure on production conditions. and promote international environmental and social standards. This is an obligation defined by our Code of Conduct The procurement volume for energy sources in 2016 was and our principles of conduct. Before we enter into any busiaround € 7.6 billion. Alongside fossil energy sources, RWE ness relationships with our suppliers, we review all potential will again be refocusing on biomass as a combustion fuel in trading partners. The review takes place in a standardised future. One such fuel relates to wood pellets for use in dediand multistage process. We use international databases and cated biomass power stations. RWE also used biomass for information systems in order to see whether there is any 31 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix potential misconduct. Since 2014, we have also had access with trade union officials from FNV, one of the biggest to the information garnered in the Bettercoal Initiative. All Dutch trade unions, and came together with representatives our trading partners are checked in this way. The number of of the coal producers, Colombian unions and government our licensed trading partners varies and is generally more representatives. In November, we participated in a comparathan 1,000. ble visit to South Africa. Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain A grievance mechanism was set up in the Netherlands to Collaborations with other energy companies are absolutely deal with incidents in the coal supply chain. The partner for essential. These allow us to exert more pressure in order to this is the National Liaison Office of the OECD in The Hague. meet the requirements for sustainable production and transNo grievances were filed there in the years 2015 and 2016. port conditions in view of the fact that direct delivery relationships are usually lacking. In 2012, we therefore joined Procurement of certified biomass forces with other large purchasers of hard coal to launch the Certificates guarantee compliance with sustainability Bettercoal Initiative. Bettercoal uses a central database to aspects along the entire supply chain for the wood pellets provide its member companies with the results of audits and imported by us. We use the new industrial standard of the the outcomes of self-assessments by the coal producers. A Sustainable Biomass Partnership (SBP). RWE has been binding improvement process based on the shortfalls identiinvolved in the SBP Initiative since it was established. So far, fied follows each audit and self-assessment. The names of the United Kingdom and Denmark have acknowledged the the producers which have undergone a self-assessment or SBP Standard as being compliant with the national sustainaan on-site audit are regularly listed on the Bettercoal website bility criteria. At all levels of the supply chain, we also use – provided that the mines agree to publication. In June certificates provided by the Forest Stewardship Council 2016, Bettercoal published its second annual report. At the (FSC) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest end of 2016, the Bettercoal database included comprehenCertification (PEFC). All the biomass supplied by our trading sive self-assessments of 26 mines, the results of six on-site house RWE Supply & Trading is provided with certificates of audits and a renewed audit incorporated in the agreed this nature. The pellets are certified in accordance with difimprovement process. This provides information on the key fering standards, but in each case they are produced in compotential supply countries for Europe. pliance with at least one standard. Hard coal by supply countries in % RWE has collaborated with other energy suppliers, pellet 2016 2015 suppliers and certification organisations in working out a Germany 19.0 13.5 practical test initiated by the Dutch Sustainability Protocol United Kingdom 15.7 16.3 for Biomass. The protocol was developed by the Dutch govColombia 16.8 19.8 ernment together with energy companies and non-governPoland 0.8 3.4 mental organisations. It has proved robust in testing and is Russia 31.0 25.1 scheduled to become law in 2017. South Africa 3.9 8.2 Code of Conduct as a constituent element of all USA 11.2 9.8 contractual relations Other 1.6 3.8 When procuring goods, services and plant components through Group Procurement, all suppliers of RWE must take The aim of Bettercoal is to bring about improvements in all account of the relevant international environmental, social the important production countries and leverage coal proand compliance standards. Where necessary they should duction at an acceptable environmental and social standard also consider other detailed requirements. We therefore across the world. include information about how our suppliers comply with sustainability requirements in our purchasing decisions. Representatives of RWE additionally meet up with representThe ten principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), our atives of coal producers independently of concrete supply Code of Conduct and other detailed guidelines form the relationships in order to initiate improvements and to offer basis for these requirements. assistance. For example, in May 2016, we worked together 32 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix We can make our Code of Conduct and the principles of the procurement process and the same holds true for innogy. UNGC a constituent element of individual contracts when This management encompasses supplier selection, evaluawe have direct relationships with suppliers. This enables us tion, classification and development. We always take to communicate a clearly defined set of expectations to our account of the perspective of the suppliers. suppliers and service providers. When any problems occur in the course of a business relaWe use an initial appraisal of potential suppliers based on a tionship, we address the matter with our suppliers and work self-assessment to gather information on matters including together with them to achieve improvements jointly. We rouenvironmental protection, occupational safety and complitinely monitor the proportion of the purchase volume in ance. which the requirements of our Code of Conduct are a constituent element of the contractual relationship. During the We are in regular and close communication with strategic year under review, the level of coverage was 99.7%. suppliers. Across the Group, our supplier management is a key building block for these contacts within the strategic G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local supplies at significant locations of operation Most of our procurement is carried out with suppliers at our mulations. The tenders are then placed in the international main business locations or in the relevant countries and marketplace. The value in use analysis undergone by our regions. Approximately 95% of procurement is carried out suppliers focuses particularly on criteria of sustainability, by Group Procurement in the relevant regions. All capital occupational safety, energy efficiency and environmental expenditure projects and procurement procedures are standards. offered in tender documents with appropriately neutral forAspect: Availability and Reliability – Management approach Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement Supply with electricity is one of the most important enablers Ensuring security of supply for the smooth-running operation of our economy. We want Conventional power plants are still necessary to provide a to guarantee our customers a secure and affordable supply secure and reliable electricity supply in spite of the further of electricity and gas at all times. We make a key contribuexpansion of renewable energies. The volatile feed-in from tion to this functional requirement with our power plants. wind and solar plants means that gaps in supply could reguThe more the feed-in supply from renewable energy sources larly occur without these conventional sources of electricity. into the electricity grid fluctuates, the more important this The conventional RWE power plants are ideally suited to this contribution becomes. The expansion and integration of function and therefore make a significant contribution to renewable energies and decentralised generating units security of supply. Even in the exceptionally rare case of a involve continually increasing demands for the performance blackout, we have power plant capacities which are capable of distribution grids and for conventional power plants. of supporting the reinstatement of the grid systems – for Our power plants help to compensate for the fluctuations example in lignite with so-called supply islands from power in the system and provide the physical equilibrium at all plants and opencast mines or with power plants which have times between feed-in and consumption necessary for their own energy supply for start-up. In 2016, the relevant stable electricity supply. RWE publishes comprehensive fuels for secure operation of our power stations were availaand timely data on power generation in its power plant ble at all times. portfolio at www.rwetransparent.com and at www.eex-transparency.com. In 2016, German lawmakers passed an act to limit the period of security standby and subsequent shutdown of a total of eight lignite-fired power station units with a combined out33 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix put of 2.7 GW. The aim is for the power plants to be graduremunerated. The negotiations on the level of the remuneraally taken out of the market and then be available in each tion are currently being conducted with the Federal Network case for a period of four years to provide security for the Agency. electricity supply. The operators of the lignite-fired power station units scheduled for decommissioning are to contribEnsuring energy distribution ute through security standby to closing the identified gap in Integration of renewable energies requires newly sized the German greenhouse gas reduction targets for 2020 with energy distribution grids and more dynamic load managean additional reduction of 12.5 million mt CO2 net. RWE ment. innogy has defined its target for achieving this as conGeneration is participating with five units amounting to a tinuing to maintain grid outage times at a low level in spite total of approximately 1.5 GW generating output. of higher technical requirements. We use the number of minutes of power outages that occur for each customer and These include two units each at Frimmersdorf (1 October year as the key performance indicator in the area of security 2017) and Niederaußem (1 October 2018), and one unit at of supply. For information on the System Average InterrupNeurath (1 October 2019). The maintenance of the powertion Duration Index (SAIDI) see EU29 in the innogy Susplant units on standby for a period of four years will be tainability Report 2016, page 98. EU10 Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term The development of conventional generating capacity preplant units with a greater capacity when the new unit sent on the grid at RWE Generation depends on the comstarted up so that capacity would fall overall. See Aspect: petitive situation in the wholesale market and on decisions Efficiency of the Power Plant Portfolio and Distribution by lawmakers. In addition to the gradual shutdown of our Grid – management approach, page 37. We have just introGerman nuclear power plants in accordance with the resoluduced the licensing procedures required for protection tion on exit from nuclear power by the Federal Government under pollution laws. Nevertheless, we would not currently and security standby for lignite-fired power stations, we take a favourable construction decision under the present have announced the shutdown of the hard-coal unit at the economic framework conditions. Gersteinwerk power plant on economic grounds. The two hard-coal units at the Voerde power plant are to be shut The long-term development of demand for conventional down at the end of the first quarter of 2017. generation and secured power-plant output depends on a number of factors including the expansion of renewable We are continuing to pursue the option of the new-build energies and their volatile feed-in, as well as the expansion project for the lignite-fired power station “Optimised Unit of grids, batteries and load management. We do not have Plus” (BoAplus) at the Niederaußem power plant site. Howany significant influence on their expansion and use. ever, for this new-build unit we would shut down old power Aspect: Demand-side Management – Management approach Challenges ities need to be intelligently networked and controlled. This Since 2014, the reduction of existing obstacles to the process is described as the demand response. A prerequisite exploitation of additional potential for flexibility on the for this is identifying consumers in the market who are predemand side in the electricity market has been under continpared to control their consumption flexibly in response to a ual discussion at European and national level. The intelligent price signal. In order to achieve this control, they need to networking of consumers to achieve this aim is becoming structure their energy consumption accordingly, for example increasingly important in this debate. The need for flexibility by proactively switching off, throttling back or switching on on the demand side increases with the rising volatility of their production machines. We are able to give our customgeneration in the marketplace. This is particularly the case in ers technical support for this control. The appropriate volthe context of expanding renewable energies. These flexibilumes of energy are then provided on the market to meet 34 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix demand or they are taken out of the market if there is excess within a day or a week. Initial experiences demonstrate a supply. When prices are high on the balancing energy marsubstantial potential for optimisation which we leverage ket, it may be worthwhile for our customers to market their within the scope of value-sharing models. flexibilities. Demand response therefore helps to optimise the electricity costs and performance requirement of the Our Flex2Market Model is ideal for companies which have customer. The market for flexibility is a key subject area for production flexibilities that they would like to make optiRWE. There is potential for growth here, particularly with mum use of over the short term. For this purpose, we market industrial customers. these flexibilities on the Intra-Day Market or as standard energy in the secondary and minute reserve market. Organisation, management and performance measurement RWE Supply & Trading also offers an electronic trading Marketing of flexibilities platform and automatic trading mechanisms. These are Our trading segment has a broad product range which can intended for industrial customers and distributors who want leverage potential flexibilities with industrial and commercial to procure part of their energy requirement on the exchange customers in the context of the energy transition. This range with precise requirements for the day or hour. Furthermore, includes: as a service for our customers, RWE Supply & Trading takes over direct marketing of power generation from renewQQ the optimisation of energy procurement by means of able energies that are subsidised under the Renewables high-quality forecasts, and therefore reduction of costs Energies Act (EEG). for compensation energy QQ the optimisation of booked power and grid usage fees innogy also offers its customers demand-response products. through load and generation management For these see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in QQ the deployment of emergency power units for grid stabiAspect: Demand-side Management – management approach, lisation. page 45. Furthermore, innogy offers products that help retail and business customers to make energy savings. These Our trading segment offers our industrial customers and include energy saving advice, electricity and heat storage distributors price-signal supported load management. This devices for households, and service packages for the manmeans that a time shift in consumption loads to more agement of photovoltaic systems and wind turbines. For favourable market-price phases enables costs for sourcing more information on this see the innogy Sustainability electricity to be reduced. The model is ideal in particular for Report 2016 in Aspect: Energy – management approach, companies using consumers with flexible time and power page 50 and Aspect: Products and Services – management capability in their production processes which can be shifted approach, page 64. The corresponding service package is naturally also available to our industrial customers. Aspect: Research and Development – Management approach Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement RWE is continuously driving forward innovations so that the Continuous research and development Group is able to contribute to shaping the energy system of For this purpose, the technology and plant concepts that are the future. We want to be involved in shaping the transforcurrently mainly directed towards advanced and sustainable mation to a more climate-friendly electricity supply. Our application are developed further in different research and objective is also to assist in continuing to meet the need for development programmes. Here we draw on the compeenergy reliably, without any outages and at affordable prices. tences of our employees and on the expertise offered by our The only effective approach to realising our ambition is genpartners at universities, research institutions and industry. A erating a continuous stream of innovations that address the top priority in this area is also promoting the ideas of our challenges of our core business and are directed towards employees to achieve this ambition. Our research and develachieving the best possible solutions for the energy system opment projects are engaged in a wide range of research of the future. fields and we are continually registering new patents. In 2016, 380 employees worked full-time or part-time on around 240 R&D projects and filed applications for patents on 61 inventions. RWE also invests in a group-wide network 35 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix of experts who analyse existing fields of technology on a Furthermore, we see emission reduction and protection of continuous basis, and identify and evaluate new developresources as an ongoing challenge directed towards making ments. our plants even more climate friendly. Examples of this are approaches for efficiency enhancement and advanced develDetails on research and development at innogy are provided opment of flue-gas desulphurisation, development of measin the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Research ures for reducing mercury emissions, and the advancement and Development – management approach, page 46. of techniques for capture and use of CO2. At our Innovation Centre in Niederaußem, we are piloting one of the most effiEnhancing the flexibility and efficiency of conventional cient CO2 scrubbers in the world and cooperating with the power plants Jülich Research Centre on developing opportunities to make Climate protection and operation of conventional hard-coal use of CO2. and gas-fired power stations are not two fundamentally contradictory concepts. Ambitious expansion of renewable Facilitating use of lignite as a material energies can only be achieved on the basis of a flexible, fosThe utilisation capacity of the lignite-fired power stations sil-fired power plant portfolio which secures supply at all will decrease over the medium term as renewable energies times and under all weather conditions. This is especially the expand. This offers the opportunity of using lignite, Germacase in Germany, given the existing legislation on exiting ny’s most abundant domestic natural resource by volume, from nuclear energy. In order to further increase the flexibilfor the production of energy sources or basic chemicals. Ligity of our power plants, we are running a number of research nite is ideal for so-called material use because it contains projects to test new materials and procedures for identificacarbon and hydrogen. This means it can be used for the protion and forecasting of material behaviours under changing duction of starting materials for the production of plastics, loads. This will enable us to facilitate even more frequent paints, adhesives, fuels and numerous other chemical and faster load changes, more frequent and faster start-ups products. and shut-downs, and a lower minimum load than today. Aspect: Plant Decommissioning – Management approach Challenges stations in Germany will be transferred to this operating The European Union is striving to achieve a 40% reduction mode. The plan is for these power plants not to be used for in the emission of greenhouse gases by 2030 compared with a period of four years unless there is a supply bottleneck. the baseline year of 1990. Germany has already made a Furthermore, a decline in the amount of electricity genercommitment to this target for 2020. The European Emisated from hard coal was announced in connection with the sions Trading Scheme is the key tool for achieving this objecClimate Protection Plan 2050. However, this statement was tive. Other instruments include measures adopted at given without the trajectory being anchored in any concrete national level that exert an impact on our fossil-fired power measures and no dates were specified, see Aspect: Availstation portfolio. An exit from coal is one of the measures ability and Reliability – management approach, page 32. being debated in the Netherlands. However, the Economics Ministry does not currently see any need for a premature Germany has also taken a decision to bring the use of decommissioning of hard-coal power stations. This assessnuclear power for energy production to an end by 2022 folment could change if the evaluation of CO2 minimum targets lowing the serious nuclear accident at the Fukushima-Daiichi for 2020 indicates that additional measures appear to be power plant in the Japanese region of Sendai. necessary. The future approach therefore continues to remain open. Conversely, the United Kingdom has already Organisation, management and performance measurement defined an exit from hard-coal power generation by 2025. Decommissioning of power plants The only issue still to be decided is the tool to be deployed. Our actions are complying with political developments. We are removing older power plants from the grid, shutting The decision on so-called security standby has already been them down and ensuring professional decommissioning in taken in Germany. By 2019, 2.7 GW of lignite-fired power conformity with national standards. 36 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix The service life of the nuclear power stations is defined in Neuss. The consultation is addressing the future opportunithe Nuclear Power Act (Atomgesetz, AtG). The age of the ties for usage of the areas. Ultimately, it will involve developRWE nuclear power stations means that they will be decoming sustainable and structurally effective post-utilisation missioned gradually by year-end 2022. The individual power facilities for the Frimmersdorf power-plant location. plants impacted are Gundremmingen Unit B (31 December 2017), Gundremmingen Unit C (31 December 2021) and the Setting provisions aside Emsland nuclear power station (31 December 2022). In addiRWE AG is committed to its obligations in the framework for tion, initial applications have already been submitted for shutdecommissioning nuclear energy. We have set aside providown and decommissioning of the nuclear power stations sions for these requirements, which are extremely conservaBiblis A and B, which were already taken out of operation in tive, even on an international comparison. They include sig2011. We are expecting to receive the approval in spring of nificant provision against the risks of cost increases. 2017. In parallel, we started to set up a storage facility to accommodate the low and medium-grade radioactive waste The operators of the nuclear power stations pay for all the from operation and decommissioning in October 2016. costs of decommissioning. They have a statutory obligation to set aside an appropriate level of provisions for decommisWe have also submitted an initial application for decommissioning. We have also recognised an appropriate level of sioning parts of the Gundremmingen B reactor and we are provisions for the decommissioning process in the Annual expecting approval for this application at the end of 2017. Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 134 to 136. They are formed The Mülheim-Kärlich nuclear power plant stopped operating during the operation of the plants and they are valued in 1988. Modifications in the operation of the plant have appropriately in a conservative approach. The provisions been ongoing as the decommissioning process continues comprise the costs for all stages of the post-operational and additional parts of the primary circuit have been decomphase and decommissioning, through disposal of fuel rods missioned. The approval for demolishing the cooling tower and radioactive waste from operation, to final storage and has been in place since February 2017. The demolition work complete dismantling. They are updated annually on the is likely to start in May. We keep stakeholders informed at all basis of current contracts, expert opinions and statements the sites through a special transparency initiative. This proby internal and external experts. These provisions are vides information about the individual milestones during the audited by an independent auditor. The appropriateness of current procedure. the level of nuclear energy provisions was also confirmed in the context of the stress test expert report by Warth & Klein We have also taken coal-fired power stations out of operaGrant Thornton. On the basis of previous experience, the tion. In Germany, the Westfalen C and D plants were shut costs for the post-operational phase and decommissioning down in 2015. As a result of the national Dutch Energy of a nuclear power station are between € 500 million and Agreement, five coal-fired power stations were shut down € 1 billion. This final figure depends on the size, age and on 31 December 2015, including the Amer 8 operated by operating hours of the plants. RWE. The Tilbury and Didcot A plants and the Fawley and Littlebrook oil-fired plants have also been removed from the From our perspective, the division of responsibility between grid in the United Kingdom and decommissioning has comcompany and state defined by lawmakers is transparent. The menced. This means that we are complying with the requirelegislation essentially follows the recommendations which ments of the European Large Combustion Plant Directive. the commission appointed by the German Federal Government submitted for the review of financing the exit from After bringing the four-year security standby to an end, we nuclear energy (KFK) at the end of April 2016. The review will finally shut down five lignite-fired power plant units in indicates that the Federal Government should pay for the Germany, see Aspect: Availability and Reliability – manprocessing and financing of the intermediate and final storagement approach, page 32. As a result, the last two ligage of radioactive waste. The responsibility for the shutnite-fired units operated at the Frimmersdorf location are down and decommissioning of plants, and packaging the being decommissioned. Against this background, a planning radioactive waste remains with the company. The functions consultation has already been launched there. This involves transferred to the Federal Government will be financed from the surrounding local authorities and the Rhine District of a fund which is provided by the power plant operators. The 37 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix legislation stipulates that the companies must pay a basic a rolling programme of provisions for this purpose. At the amount totalling € 17.4 billion. If they pay a supplement same time, new provisions are formed each year to take amounting to 35.47%, they can gain indemnity from the liaaccount of the continual advance of extraction operations. bility risks arising from any increases in costs. This yields a Ultimately, although the expenditure to be paid by the total amount of € 23.6 billion for the companies. We estiopencast mining industry will extend over a period of mate that the share to be paid by RWE for the basic amount decades and significantly beyond the discontinuation of and the risk surcharge amounts to a total of € 6.8 billion. A opencast mining itself, they are limited by time. major factor for the utilities is that the Federal Government has also granted them contractual protection of legitimate The provisions for decommissioning our opencast sites have expectation extending beyond the legislation in relation to been recognised in the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, future changes in the law. page 136. Existing contracts and licensing documents are used to determine the expected costs underlying the proviRWE also accepts responsibility in full for complying with sions. Comprehensive empirical values from the past are future mining obligations arising from our opencast operaalso available. At the planning stage of all mining operations. RWE has formed mining-related provisions for the tions, the responsible regional state authorities are already purpose of ensuring rehabilitation of sites. This includes intensively involved. The issues being addressed include recultivation and measures relating to the water managethose relating to geology or water management. The mining ment. The provisions in mining are a so-called rolling system authorities have a rolling programme of reviews in accordin significant areas. The recultivation and precautionary ance with statutory regulations in order to assess whether measures for the water management are largely carried out there is a need to provide financial security in addition to during current operations so that they continually draw on the provisions available. Aspect: System Efficiency (power plant portfolio and distribution) – Management approach Challenges els of efficiency in energy use enable us to reduce our comIn order to meet regulatory, economic and environmental bustion fuel costs and cut our CO2 emissions for each conrequirements, we are continually increasing the efficiency of verted unit of energy. This enables us to bring down our our conventional plants. The European climate protection expenditure on CO2 certificates as well. targets can only be achieved with higher levels of energy efficiency. As producers of electricity and heat, we are able We will achieve a higher level of efficiency in the production to make a particular contribution to this by making our of electricity mainly by continuously modernising our conpower plants more efficient. This allows us to reduce CO2 ventional power plant portfolio. We are thereby keeping emissions per unit of electricity or heat produced. At the open the option of building the new “Optimised Unit Plus” same time, we are reducing the consumption of resources. (BoAplus) lignite-fired power station at the Niederaußem Increasing efficiency is also a key issue in the distribution site. This would have an efficiency of more than 45% and grid. For more information on this see the innogy Sustainsubstitute legacy plants with more capacities overall and sigability Report 2016 in Aspect: Efficiency of the Power Plant nificantly lower efficiency, see EU10, page 33. As a result, and Distribution Grid – management approach, page 47. the CO2 emissions would be reduced by 3 million metric tons of CO2 each year by comparison with the legacy plants. In Organisation, management and performance measurement future, we will achieve more efficiency increases through a Increasing the efficiency of conventional power plants number of measures including enhanced replacement of We are driving energy efficiency forward in our power plant hard coal by biomass, see Aspect: Emissions – manageportfolio and in other company activities. This makes sense ment approach, page 43 and by shutting down older plants. in business terms and environmentally. After all, higher levIn addition, there is the option of further use of potential 38 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix derived from combined heat and power in our plants and production side balances this with generated energy, and the use of heat derived from electricity to cover own steam and heat products for our customers. As a result, conrequirements. tinuous monitoring using our advanced operating management systems enables us to implement rapid countermeasAlready since 2008, we have been monitoring the overall ures as necessary and maximally high energy efficiency of efficiency of energy use from our conventional plants. On the primary energy sources used in all operating statuses of the consumer side of the plant, this includes the primary the plants. Furthermore, analysis of the data yields valuable energy use for power generation and the purchase of elecfindings for research and development requirements. tricity from outside sources for own use by the plants. The EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory regime Efficiency of energy use¹ in % 2016 2015 Germany Lignite 36.6 36.3 Hard coal 38.1 38.4 Gas 62.7 66.7 Waste 44.0 46.7 United Kingdom Hard coal 37.0 37.4 Gas 55.9 55.9 Netherlands Hard coal 45.4 44.8 Gas 64.0 66.5 1 Not including power stations in Hungary and Turkey. At 41.5% we have succeeded in increasing the average the use of gas-fired power stations exerted a positive impact efficiency of our energy use compared with 2015 (40.2%). during the year under review, while lower heat production Current market conditions can exert a positive and negative and increased partial load operation exerted a negative influence here on the mode of operation and hence the effiimpact. ciency of the power plant portfolio. A renewed increase in EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy German operators of distribution grids have losses across all voltage levels between approximately 2.0% and 4.5%. For example Westnetz has published details relating to 2015. 39 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Environmental Performance Indicators Aspect: Energy – Management approach Challenges Environmental Management System gives us a key perforThe European Efficiency Directive has been implemented mance indicator. The coverage level of environmental manin the national law of our important markets. This legislation agement in relation to the Group amounted to 100% in obliges all large companies either to carry out an energy 2016. 89% of this was certified externally. audit, or introduce an Energy Management System in conformity with ISO 50001 or an Environmental Management Group-wide coverage of energy efficiency audits or System in compliance with EMAS. There are comparable management systems legislative requirements in other European countries. We have defined a goal of rolling out group-wide energy efficiency audits or management systems in a timely We implement economic measures related to environmental approach. In 2007, the Conventional Power Generation Diviprotection and energy efficiency which exceed compliance sion had already established an Environmental Management with statutory requirements and legislation governing the System in conformity with ISO 14001 with the aim of bringissue of licences. These measures are derived by adopting ing about a sustainable improvement in energy efficiency an ethical and responsible approach to the environment, and environmental protection, and reducing the use and and cover the use of energy in our office buildings, vehicle consumption of energy at the German operational facilities. fleets, opencast mines, power plants and refinement faciliIn 2013, the Energy Management System was integrated in ties. Careful use of energy also makes economic sense. conformity with ISO 50001. The two systems have so far been successfully recertified. This process was last carried Organisation, management and performance measurement out in 2016. The level of coverage with certified Energy Group-wide coverage for environmental management Management Systems amounted to 69% for the RWE Group. system The structural requirements for the management of occuIn 2015, all RWE companies with more than 250 employees pational health and safety, environment, energy and other were audited for energy efficiency by an external service issues are largely similar. We are therefore dealing with them provider. We have therefore promptly complied with the regin an integrated management system for reasons of synergy. ulations implemented under German legislation. These rules are defined in the Energy Efficiency Directive of the EuroAll RWE companies are committed in accordance with their pean Union. The Eemshaven hard-coal power station located guidelines to setting up an appropriate Environmental in the Netherlands constitutes an exception. The audit there Management System. This needs to comply with the requiretook place in 2016 because commercial operation was only ments of the international ISO 14001 standard. Annual started up in 2015. We obtained a special licence for this. In audits ensure compliance with this obligation. In this conHungary, the ELMŰ-ÉMÁSZ Group was the first energy comtext, we also strengthen the energy and environmental pany to receive a certificate in compliance with ISO 50001. awareness of our employees through training sessions and In Germany, compliance with the statutory regulations by providing other information, as well as direct dialogue. resulting from the management system of conventional This approach requires a continuous improvement process power generation has been successfully tested by the Fedas a key target of our environmental corporate policy. We eral Office for Economic Affairs and Export Control (Bundesidentify, evaluate and roll out measures systematically in amt für Wirtschaft und Ausfuhrkontrolle, BAFA) in three order to improve the energy-based performance and protecrandom samples without any objections. tion of the environment. The percentage coverage by our 40 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation Unit 2016 2015 Primary energy consumption¹ million GJ 1,478 1,467 Energy consumption of the sites TWh 8.2 7.7 Energy consumption of the grids TWh 8.6 8.5 1 Fossil fuels used, not including biomass. Aspect: Water – Management approach Challenges cover the protection of rivers and surface waters. A record is The water supply in Germany is one of the best in the world. kept of the interfaces of RWE activities with water that exert However, we believe that as an industrial operation with a or can exert an impact on rivers and surface waters. The requirement for water at our plants we have an obligation to type of impact on the water is also determined. This relates take a responsible approach to water. Our operations affect primarily to water withdrawal or discharge of water including water consumption and the use of water when it is withdrawn the use of water in our power plants. We record the impacts from the rivers, surface waters and groundwater. Naturally, of environmental aspects for rivers and surface waters on there are also impacts when we discharge wastewater into the basis of existing licences, limits and expert reports, and these waters. We comply with the statutory regulations for the operating results of the previous year. The relevance of these activities. Investors are in fact increasingly placing this the results is evaluated by the internal specialist departdemand on us and other companies. ments and a group of experts taken from government agencies, associations and experts. Analysis of the environmental Organisation, management and performance measurement impacts in relation to the potential level of damage and freA top priority for RWE is ensuring that our use of water exerts quency or probability of occurrence facilitates transparent minimum impact on natural resources when we supply our presentation of the evaluation. We assess measures already thermal power plants with cooling water. Dewatering in our introduced for minimising risks and avoiding accidents on opencast sites is an operational necessity and therefore unathis basis. If this action is not adequate, other measures are voidable. We attempt to make these interventions in a maxideveloped and introduced. mally environmentally friendly way. Protection of rivers and surface waters Establishing environmental protection in business processes We want to contribute to preserving water as a habitat and See Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 43. to maintaining the biotopes dependent on it. Our objective is to avoid negative consequences of our interventions in Group-wide coverage for environmental management surface waters and ecosystems or – where this is not possiSee Aspect: Energy – management approach, page 39. ble – to minimise such impacts as far as possible. We mitigate unavoidable negative consequences to the maximum Compliance with approval regulations extent feasible. We also provide the best possible protection See Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 43. against adverse impacts for aquatic habitats and other ecosystems linked with such habitats. This objective is assisted Minimising risks associated with water by discharging water back into the ground and into surface The Executive Board has appointed specialist coordinators waters in a structured process. Furthermore, we avoid envifor a wide range of environmental topic areas in order to ronmental impacts owing to the use of methods such as provide specialist support for the local Water Protection recirculation, intensification of usage for pumped water from Officers and to coordinate their activities. They also advise opencast mines, the use of collected rainwater and the the divisional managers. In addition, these coordinators reuse of process water. 41 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Unit 2016 2015 Water Cooling water consumption net¹ million m³ 264.5 293.7 Water consumption net million m³ 267.7 297.3 Water withdrawal Groundwater million m³ 623 598 Surface water million m³ 1,447 2,141 Seawater/brackish water million m³ 4,170 4,248 Drinking water million m³ 3.2 3.5 Other sources million m³ 31.0 30.0 Total water withdrawal million m³ 6,270 7,016 1 Difference between power plant water withdrawals and returns to rivers and other surface waters; excluding power plants with sea cooling. Treatment of ash with water and scrubbing coal with water is not carried out at RWE. Aspect: Biodiversity – Management approach Challenges ries out its business activities. Biodiversity is also an area Protecting diversity and preserving habitats is an important covered by environmental management, see Aspect: mission for us. Our activities create direct and indirect interEnergy – management approach, page 39. Our measures ventions in ecosystems. Wherever feasible we avoid or miniare very diverse within this framework. We protect species mise these impacts. As far as possible, we take appropriate diversity strategically if natural habitats are disturbed by our nature conservation measures to mitigate unavoidable or activities. The same approach continues as we reinstate subirreversible negative consequences. This has impacts on our stitute habitats or facilitate the repopulation of existing habopencast mines, the maintenance of our transmission lines itats. We also promote biodiversity by rehabilitating mining and the construction and operation of plants for generating sites to make them suitable for reuse. We install fish ladders renewable energies. For more information on biodiversity in at our run-of-river power plants and use technical measures the areas of Renewables and Grid & Infrastructure see the to protect the aquatic animal world at offshore wind farms. innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Biodiversity – These measures contribute to the preservation of species in management approach, page 52. these habitats. Organisation, management and performance measurement Reinstating habitats Protecting biodiversity We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining by Compliance with regulations governing biodiversity is also a recultivating the extraction sites. This approach enables us prerequisite for meeting the licensing regulations for our to return rehabilitated areas of land to agriculture and other business. The regulations governing biodiversity are defined uses while also creating space for nature conservation where in a number of sources including the special operational we can strategically foster biological diversity. The objective plans for species protection approved by the mining authoriof recultivation is to reinstate the development potential of ties. We meet these regulations using internal controlling the landscape while taking account of the typical conditions systems and exceed the requirements with more extensive of the surrounding environment. Reforestation is a key buildmeasures. Since 2015, RWE has had a Biodiversity Policy. ing block for this. RWE has established a reputation with its This guideline establishes the approach of RWE to the proapproach on recultivation: A diverse landscape made up of tection and promotion of biodiversity as the company carforest, extensive lakes, ponds and wetland biotopes came 42 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix into being at the former extraction sites in the Rhineland cast mine is regrettably unavoidable, and it is not possible lignite mining areas. They offer new habitats to numerous to eliminate removal of the forest. However, after opencast endangered animal and plant species. lignite mining ceases on the land, we will reinstate the forest with appropriate recultivation measures. Furthermore, a One example of our recultivation measures is provided by total of 1,500 hectares of species protection measures will the region around the Hambach opencast mining area. The be implemented outside the opencast mine for the species flora and fauna habitat of Steinheide/Lörsfelder Busch/Dickliving in the wood. busch subject to special protection is located in the immediate vicinity of the Hambach opencast mine. The objective of We also safeguard the habitat for plants and animals in the the recultivation after lignite opencast mining has finished is Elsbach Valley and we have additionally transformed the to preserve areas of forest and to manage them in accordElsbach Valley into a popular leisure amenity. This now has ance with a natural approach. Deforestation of the Hambach a length of over two kilometres and today, animal and plant forest for the planned development of the Hambach openspecies under threat have a new home there. G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Nature conservation areas are designated on the basis of They cover an area of some 1,620 hectares, see Aspect: the German Federal Nature Conservation Act (BNatSchG) Biodiversity – management approach, page 41. These are and they are the responsibility of various authorities. In the distributed over approximately 66 ha of nature conservation administrative district of Cologne, these areas are managed area, approximately 1,554 ha of landscape conservation by the district government as a higher nature conservation area and some 0.56 ha of protected landscape elements. authority provided that the areas have not already been The largest contiguous land area is the recultivated Sophiendesignated as the responsibility of the regional districts or höhe Forest covering an area of 1,194 ha. This is located on municipal city authorities. RWE and its subsidiary companies the overburden dump of the Hambach opencast mine. are owners or leaseholders of parcels of land throughout Germany. The actual number of these parcels of land and Continuous updating for all our parcels of land would take the number of designated conservation areas around our a disproportionately high input of resources. Furthermore, it locations is undergoing continuous change across Germany. is by no means certain that the digital data required from For example, conservation areas are currently located alongthe authorities for such an updating process would be suffiside the operating area of our Hambach opencast mine. ciently up to date to provide an accurate determination. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas The operation of nuclear and conventional power stations We compensate the use of land for our opencast mining and plants for generating electricity from renewable eneractivities by recultivating the extraction sites. For recultivagies and for the production of lignite inevitably result in our tion of opencast mining areas see Aspect: Biodiversity – impacting on natural ecosystems. Harmful substances are management approach, page 41. The expansion of the released during the generation of electricity and heat at our grid and the building and operation of plants for generatpower plants or the operation of our opencast mines, and ing renewable energies also exert impacts on biodiversity. they could lead to negative impacts on the environment and For more information on this see the innogy Sustainabilbiodiversity. We are therefore committed to maintaining the ity Report 2016 in Aspect: Biodiversity – management purity of air and water and to conserving natural ecosystems. approach, page 52. 43 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix EU13 Biodiversity of habitats protected or restored In 2016, five landscape conservation areas located in the The new conservation areas cover an area of around 3,398 ha. Rhine-Erft district were designated under the legislation. The age of the designated areas of opencast mine mean They cover the recultivated areas of the former Bergheim, that we are not aware of any listings as conservation areas Fortuna and Frimmersdorf opencast mines. These areas were originating from before the period of opencast mining activiplaced under protection in order to preserve, develop and ties. The renaturalised post-mining landscape of today is in reinstate the efficiency and function of the balance of nature, fact structurally more diverse than was the case before its including protection of biotopes and habitats of certain speuse as a mining site. Alongside the quality of our recultivacies of wild animals and plants. The evaluation criteria tion, this diversity also contributed to designation of these included diversity, characteristic features and beauty, as well landscapes as conservation areas. as the special significance of the cultural history of the landscape and its particular significance as a recreational amenity. This conservation success is also due to the quality of our recultivation. Aspect: Emissions – Management approach Challenges coal-fired generation are being discussed in Germany, in the RWE is an energy utility with a high proportion of fossil comUnited Kingdom and in the Netherlands, see Aspect: Plant bustion fuels in power generation. Climate protection and Decommissioning – management approach, page 35. the consequent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions therefore remain extremely important areas. The aim is to Developments in energy markets are also exerting an addiestablish a more sustainable alignment for our business tional influence on our CO2 emissions. Power plants supply activities. This is especially true for the Conventional Power their power generation at the costs they incur. The individGeneration Division. The political debates and resolutions at ual demand at any time determines which power plants are global, national and regional level demonstrate the extent used. Power plants with high generating costs are correto which this topic defines the supervisory and social regulaspondingly deployed less frequently. The commodity prices tory framework for RWE. In December 2015, the Paris Cliof gas and hard coal therefore also exert an influence on the mate Agreement COP21 was adopted. This agreement comdeployment of power stations. Power plant operators are mitted all the signatory countries to jointly limiting the not permitted to withhold their generating capacities from global rise in temperature to a level significantly below 2 the market. Conditions in the marketplace have therefore degrees celsius compared with the pre-industrial level. The meant that our gas-fired power stations were particularly European Union is striving to reduce the emission of greenwell utilised in the United Kingdom and Germany this year house gases by 40% compared with the baseline year of compared with 2015 on account of their specific CO2 emis1990 by 2030. Germany has already established this target sions. However, utilisation of their capacity continued to for 2020. This is a significant challenge because the exit remain significantly behind the utilisation of our lignite-fired from nuclear energy needs to take place by the beginning of and hard-coal power stations. For more information on the the 2020s. Investors also challenge us on the topic of clieconomic framework conditions see the Annual Report mate protection exemplified by the keyword decarbonisa2016 of RWE AG, page 26 to 31. tion. Demands are increasingly being placed on us to realign our business model in the direction of lower CO2 emissions. Furthermore, carbon capture and usage or storage are other options for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Alongside The political and regulatory framework conditions are curprofitability, a prerequisite for rolling out projects involving rently undergoing change in the countries where we operate carbon capture and storage (CCS) would be an appropriate fossil-fired power stations. Issues relating to the future of legal framework and creation of acceptance for this technol44 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix ogy in the public domain. However, the existing statutory Reduction of our own CO2 emissions framework conditions and the lack of acceptance mean that We use the CO2 emissions from plants subject to the Euroimplementation of CCS projects in Germany is currently not pean Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) and the total emispossible. sions based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) as an indicator for CO2. We also report generating plants there in Apart from CO2, emissions from electricity and heat produccompliance with GHG if they are not included under the EU tion in conventional generating units also include sulphur ETS because of their geographical location or their size. The dioxide (SO2), nitrogen oxide (NOX) and dust. same applies to CO2 emissions from biogenic fuels, and plants which are not used for power generation. In order to CO2 emissions derived from the upstream and downstream reduce the specific CO2 emissions, we carry out checks and value chain and noise emissions are a top priority for innogy. take appropriate measures in order to improve the efficiency For more information on this see the innogy Sustainability of our conventional power plants. Furthermore, we have Report 2016 in the Aspect: Emissions – management modernised our power plant portfolio with highly efficient approach, page 55. plants placing particular emphasis on gas-fired installations. However, the use of these plants needs to be aligned with Organisation, management and performance measurement the current conditions in the marketplace. Establishment of environmental protection in business processes The operation of our lignite-fired power plants and the A responsible approach to natural resources and promotion associated CO2 emissions are limited by restrictions on the of the use of environmental technologies is one of the prinproduction of lignite. At the beginning of July, the governciples governing conduct at RWE. This is recorded in the ment of North Rhine-Westphalia reaffirmed its key decision Code of Conduct. The provisions of the Code of Conduct on the future of lignite production at the Garzweiler II openwere applicable for the entire RWE Group in 2016. cast mine. The state government confirmed that the facility is also required for the generation of energy after 2030. It Group-wide coverage for environmental management is estimated that the coal reserves at Garzweiler II approved system under planning regulations will be reduced by one third. See Aspect: Energy – management approach, page 39. However, the current extraction capacities for the Hambach and Inden opencast mines were also confirmed as being necCompliance with planning approval regulations essary from the economic perspective of the energy industry. Our key performance indicator in the area of environmental protection is compliance with licensing regulations when By 2020 compared with the present day, we will have constructing and operating our plants and facilities. We reduced our emissions produced in the generation of elecensure compliance through regular checks at local level. Our tricity from lignite by around 15% as a result of so-called objective is to achieve operation of our power plants and security standby. Between 2020 and 2030, additional other facilities in compliance with licensing regulations. We options for the reduction of CO2 will be available. One such achieved this goal in 2016. option is the potential increase in efficiency through construction of an “Optimised Unit Plus” (BoAplus) with the curReduction of financial risks rent level of efficiency and decommissioning of equivalent Financial risks associated with emissions trading are reflected capacity of other, older power plant units. As additional in our risk management. We reduce these risks by concludrenewable energies come on stream, there may be a further ing appropriate hedging transactions. At the same time, as reduction in the capacity utilisation of lignite-fired powerwe sell a specific amount of electricity in the futures market, plant units. This could enable emissions to be reduced by we purchase the corresponding amounts of combustion fuel around a further 5% to 15% by 2030. required and any necessary emission certificates in order to hedge our operations and minimise risk. 45 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix The closure of the Inden opencast mine and the associated energy system in the Netherlands. During the year under shutdown of the Weisweiler power plant will reduce CO2 review, we used 3.0 million metric tons of biomass (3.2 million emissions by a further 20%. We will therefore achieve total metric tons in 2015) at our plants. The market conditions CO2 reduction of approximately 40% to 50% as a result of were such that we also brought more gas-fired power stathe generation of electricity from lignite by around 2030. tions on stream, see Aspect: Economic Performance – After this, the generation of electricity from lignite will conmanagement approach, page 26. tinue to decline. The reduction will result from the further expansion of renewable energies until around the middle of Even though carbon capture and storage is currently not the century, when the Garzweiler and Hambach opencast yet accepted in Germany, we are continuing to engage in mines will be closed. Until then only the highly efficient BoA research into the necessary technologies. We are using our plants with optimised technology will be operated. This plan CO2 scrubbing facility in the Coal Innovation Centre at the is in harmony with the national and European climate proNiederaußem power plant to work on making carbon capture tection targets by 2050. even more efficient for generating electricity from fossil fuels and biomass. At the same time we are also researching Apart from lignite, other shutdowns are also being planned into how the captured carbon can be used. For many years, or implemented. The plants Westfalen C, Tilbury, Didcot A RWE has been committed to working on joint projects with and Amer 8 have already been shut down and we anticipate industry and research institutes. The objective is to return further CO2 reductions in our power plant portfolio. This will the CO2 to the materials cycle as a raw material. come about through the shutdown of our Gersteinwerk hard-coal power station, which we announced at the begininnogy is driving forward climate-friendly power generation ning of 2019, and the Voerde A/B hard-coal power station with the expansion of renewable energies. For more inforin the first quarter of 2017. mation on this see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in the Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 55. Another factor in the equation is that we are partly replacing hard coal for firing our power plants with biomass. The Reduction of mercury, sulphur dioxide (SO2), nitrogen Amer 9 power plant in the Netherlands will achieve specific oxides (NOX) and dust particles emissions at the level of a combined-cycle gas turbine power These emissions in our plants are below the statutory limits station. On the basis of the second tender round, RWE will with the assistance of primary and secondary emission continue to receive SDE+ funding in future from the Dutch reduction measures such as firing technology, removal of programme for promoting renewable energies and other dust and desulphurisation. Despite the fact that some limits financial support for the co-combustion of biomass at the have become more stringent during the period under review, Amer 9 and Eemshaven sites. Starting in 2020, this will enano incidents, hazard-related events or exceeding of relevant ble us to increase the proportion of biomass at the Amer 9 limits occurred at any of our sites under emission pollution power plant by as much as 80%. We are able to co-incinerate laws that needed to be followed up as a result of breaches up to 15% biomass at Eemshaven. RWE is therefore able to of regulations. For more information on this see G4-EN21, make an important contribution to the modernisation of the page 46. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Unit 2016 2015 CO2 emissions in compliance with EU ETS million mt 148.3¹ 150.8² CO2 emissions Scope 1 (in compliance with GHG Protocol)³ million mt 154.0 152.3 1 Including power plants not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. In 2016, these plants emitted 7.1 million mt of CO2 (previous year: 6.9 million mt). 2 Including generation of the Lynemouth hard-coal power station in the United Kingdom. This was sold at the beginning of 2016 in the Trading/Gas Midstream segment. 3 EU ETS generation plus the emissions from plants which are not subject to EU ETS. 46 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Unit 2016 2015 CO2 emissions Scope 2¹ million mt 1.3 1.3 1 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties outside the Group in our own grids. G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) Unit 2016 2015 CO2 emissions Scope 3¹ million mt 86.5 93.9 1 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under Scope 1 and Scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party electricity grids, the production of used combustion fuels, as well as the combustion of gas sold to customers. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Unit 2016 2015 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS mt/MWh 0.686 0.708 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1 mt/MWh 0.713 0.715 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions See reduction of our in-house CO2 emissions in Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 44. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Negligible amounts of ozone-depleting substances, which coreprocesses at RWE so that there is no separate recordprimarily relate to chlorinated hydrocarbons, are used in ing process for them. G4-EN21 NOX, SOX and other significant air emissions Absolute emissions Unit 2016 2015 NOX emissions thousand mt 100.7 115.9 SO2 emissions thousand mt 38.9 53.7 Particulate matter emissions mt 2,680 3,580 Specific emissions in g/kWh 2016 2015 NOX emissions 0.47 0.54 SO2 emissions 0.18 0.25 Particulate matter emissions 0.012 0.017 47 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Apart from our research activities into capturing CO2 emisReduction of air pollutants: dust and noise sions on a pilot scale, we are working on advanced developLegislation requires opencast mines to be structured and ments to reduce the emission of pollutants that are released operated so that harmful environmental impacts are avoided during the production of electricity and generation of heat if this is possible with the current level of technology. If enviat our power plants. This is achieved by installing modern ronmental impacts are unavoidable, they should be kept to a burner technologies and optimised separation processes in minimum using the latest technology available. We are able our power plant portfolio. One example of this is mercury, to fully comply with these obligations. These environmental where the advanced technologies used today for flue-gas impacts connected with the operation of opencast mines are scrubbing already remove up to 90% of this harmful subprimarily dust and noise pollution. We adopt suitable measstance when pure coal is used for combustion. At the Coal ures to reduce these emissions in a case by case approach Innovation Centre in the Rhineland lignite mining area, we that takes into account the operational conditions and local are currently working on further improved procedures for circumstances. Noise emissions are reduced by the use of capturing mercury. One approach is to add furnace coke to low-noise machinery, equipment and installations, encapsuthe flue gas. Since the 1980s, we have been using flue-gas lating drive units, establishing facilities behind protective desulphurisation systems to capture SO2 from the flue gas. ramparts and walls, and putting planting schemes in place This process involves the SO2 being scrubbed out with the across sound propagation pathways. We take a number of assistance of a limestone solution. The FGDplus concept measures to reduce dust emissions (dust precipitation) developed by the Coal Innovation Centre at the Niederincluding treatment of open surfaces to prevent the removal außem site has enabled us to further optimise the chemical of dust. The action here includes covering with materials processes in desulphurisation and reduce our own in-house that will not be blown away, spraying large areas with water requirement for electricity by comparison with conventional and other methods of binding dust to the surface. The indiflue-gas desulphurisation systems. After the technology was vidual methods are always carried out in consultation with initially tested on an industrial scale at the flue-gas train of the supervisory authorities. Furthermore, operations moniunit G in Niederaußem, it is now being successfully introtoring stations at opencast mines are available 24/7 for any duced in the two flue-gas trains of Unit H. citizens who may have issues, so that short-term remedies can also be implemented if there is an incident of acute noise pollution. Aspect: Effluents and Waste – Management approach Challenges The requirements defined in waste legislation have to be As an energy generator we do not simply consume raw taken into account for the disposal of the waste generated materials. A responsible approach to resources includes in the course of our operations. Owing to the varying comwaste management. This enables us to comply with the position of waste and the resulting potential for hazard, licensing regulations. Wastewater and waste are avoided as waste is classified into two categories: hazardous and nonfar as possible. Unavoidable waste is disposed of in accordhazardous waste. We also distinguish between recovery and ance with the statutory regulations. We ensure that all disposal. Waste subsequently undergoes further appropriate safety regulations are complied with and relevant precautreatment. During the project phase, new-build and maintetions are taken. nance of plants, an internal system records and analyses the potential harm caused by waste disposal. Appropriate proOrganisation, management and performance measurement tective measures are also defined. Disposal information Ensuring sustainable waste disposal systems are used for organising disposal services. These Comprehensive waste management ensures that the waste information systems guarantee compliance with all the generated is transferred in accordance with the regulations applicable statutory and contractual conditions in the disto reuse, recycling, recovery or disposal. Measures are taken posal of the waste generated. in order to meet these requirements, for example waste is collected separately in suitable containers as far as possible and handed over to a specialist disposal company. 48 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix We treat residual materials and waste from our nuclear Avoid waste power plants which occur while they are being operated as The principle of avoidance, recovery and disposal provides well as when the power plants are decommissioned. Treatthe platform for our waste management. Our top priority is ment and disposal is carried out in accordance with the avoidance of waste. This conserves resources and protects statutory regulations. Only a small part of the entire mass of our employees and the environment. All organisational units the nuclear plants ever comes into contact with radioactive are therefore continually reviewing the possibility of avoidmaterials when they are operational. The greatest proporance for the waste that is produced within their area of tion of this material is then cleaned with the assistance of responsibility. This already happens in the course of the decontamination measures so that it can be released by the planning and procurement process. government authorities and then returned to the normal materials cycle. The remaining residue – only around 3% of We continuously reduce the quantity of waste as much as the total mass of a nuclear power station – is destined for possible. One of the ways we do this is by optimising our disposal in a final repository for radioactive waste. This plants. Nevertheless, a distinction is drawn for the waste material primarily includes components near the core of the actually incurred between reuse, recycling and other uses reactor. Until the material has been consigned under statuof waste, for example recovery of energy. Disposal is only tory regulations to a final repository operated by the governpermissible if recovery is not technically possible or is not ment, these waste materials and spent fuel rods will in commensurate with commercial requirements. future be kept at an intermediate storage facility under the responsibility of the German Federal Government. Process wastewater Our internal wastewater treatment facilities and their regular Power plant residues are produced at our lignite-fired power monitoring ensure the prevention of potential contaminants. plants in the form of ash and FGD gypsum. The ash is largely We keep records in compliance with prescribed limits. This eliminated in residue deposits of RWE Power AG defined in process enables us to avoid negative impacts for the natural accordance with approved plans. Most of the gypsum proenvironment and health. duced from the flue-gas desulphurisation (FGD) system is recovered. Ash and gypsum from the hard-coal power stations is mainly forwarded for material recovery. A small amount is disposed of. G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination The pollutant concentrations for wastewater discharged toring systems and in the course of regular in-house surveys from operational facilities are limited by the licensing and also in independent monitoring exercises carried out by authorities with specification of monitoring values. These government agencies. The permissible monitoring values values are defined in the relevant permits under water legisensure that a good ecological status and a good environlation. The monitoring values are checked by in-house monimental potential can be achieved for the surface waters. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method The reprocessing of irradiated nuclear fuel has not been Power plant residues from our hard-coal power stations permitted in Germany since 1 July 2005. The Federal States dominate the generation of waste. Out of a total of 8,201 in Germany are responsible for final disposal of radioactive mt, 25.7% of ash from hard-coal power stations is reused in waste. applications such as road and track construction. 100% of 49 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix the ash from the lignite-fired power stations is eliminated in gypsum produced from the flue-gas desulphurisation syspower-plant residue deposits of RWE Power AG defined in tem. Most of this gypsum is passed on for recovery. Other accordance with approved plans. The process of flue-gas waste is also produced in the course of our operations. This desulphurisation of our hard-coal power stations generates waste is forwarded for reuse, recycling, recovery or disposal. Waste Unit 2016 2015 Ash thousand mt 8,201 8,495 Useable ash¹ thousand mt 1,567 1,632 Gypsum thousand mt 2,042 2,172 Useable gypsum thousand mt 1,105 1,259 Nuclear waste from power stations thousand mt 267.3 325.1 Spent fuel elements thousand mt 267.1 67.5 Total waste (not including residual materials) thousand mt 8,015 8,253 of which hazardous waste thousand mt 144 137 of which non-hazardous waste thousand mt 7,871 8,116 1 On the basis of authority regulations, ash used to fill opencast mining sites can no longer be declared as recovery from 2010. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills During the reporting period, no significant spills of harmful substances were recorded in the regular internal survey for RWE. Aspect: Products and Services – Management approach Challenges The portfolio of innogy for commercial customers comprises Our customers demand that we provide support for them energy controlling, combined heat and power (CHP) and with innovative technologies and services for the reduction other advice packages. For more information on this see of their environmental impacts. This aspect is particularly the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Products important for major industrial customers of our and Services – management approach, page 64. innogy RWE Supply & Trading segment and for innogy. offers retail customers products and services designed to assist them in saving energy. For more information on this Organisation, management and performance measurement see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Supporting customers in saving energy Energy – management approach, page 50. RWE Supply & Trading offers its industrial customers a portfolio of service packages, see Marketing of Flexibilities in Aspect: Demand-side Management – management approach, page 34. G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services When bringing down our own CO2 emissions in the generation of electricity, we simultaneously contribute to reduction of the CO2 footprint of our electricity customers, for more information on this see Aspect: Emissions – management approach, page 43. 50 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspekt: Compliance – Managementansatz Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement Acting in accordance with the law and rules and procedures Establishing environmental protection in business processes is an integral part of our corporate culture at RWE. Any A responsible approach to natural resources and promotion breaches mean that the company can suffer major and seriof the use of environmental technologies is one of the prinous reputational damage. RWE therefore bases all its activiciples governing conduct at RWE and this principle is ties and business decisions on established internal rules for enshrined in the Code of Conduct. compliance. Appropriate compliance requirements are also factored in when making decisions about entering into busiThe provisions of the Code of Conduct were applicable ness relationships with suppliers or business partners. Many for the entire RWE Group in 2016. activities in environmental protection extend beyond the obligations arising from laws or licences for the operation of Group-wide coverage for environmental management opencast mines and power plants. See Aspect: Energy – management approach, page 39. G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations During the year under review, no significant monetary and non-monetary sanctions were reported in a regular internal survey. Aspect: Overview – Management approach Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement We are committed to protecting the environment in a wide Expenditure on environmental protection variety of ways. We present the costs incurred transparently. Our activities for environmental protection incur various This complies with the expectations of our stakeholders. costs that differ according to category. We provide a breakdown of these costs based on the areas of activity, see G4-EN31, page 50. G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Expenditure on environmental protection in € million 2016 2015 Air pollution control 217 228 Nature conservation and protection of the landscape 164 71 Water protection 176 168 Waste disposal 317 273 Noise abatement 7 9.5 Polluted sites, soil contamination 2 8 Climate protection 1,060 1,246 Total 1,944 2,002 51 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment – Management approach See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30. G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a process. In such cases, compliance with the defined criteria constituent element of contractual relationships for all new can be reviewed during the course of supplier appraisals and and existing direct suppliers. Furthermore, the suitability of used for future tender processes in the framework of the suppliers is evaluated during the course of pre-qualification internal appraisal system. on the basis of the hazard potential within a procurement G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken We can only report on the number of suppliers for goods, During the year under review, 184 suppliers (2015: 285) services and plant components audited for environmental were surveyed about environmental protection. We regularly aspects and on the audits carried out in conjunction with audit all our suppliers for conformity with potential compliBettercoal, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – manance risks. An exceptional situation arises when procurement agement approach, page 30. is carried out in the wholesale markets. Here, an appraisal is not possible due to an absence of direct supplier relationships. Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms – Management approach See G4-58, page 24. G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes. We will provide appropriate details for the year 2017. 52 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Social Performance Indicators Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment – Management approach Challenges put times within iSWITCH GmbH, the financial result and The RWE Group has carried out a historic reorganisation of the utilisation of capacity. After a survey was carried out of the company with the realignment of the Group and the spin-off registered candidates and applicants, a large number of of innogy SE. That exerts substantial impacts on employees. measures were implemented in relation to many aspects of the handling and management of applications in order to The growing business pressure being exerted on the RWE further improve the package on offer. Group and the changes occurring in the energy market also present us with challenges which necessitate a cultural Establishment of new conceptual and working practices change at our company. We have therefore launched an Our objective is to establish new mindsets and new ways of array of different programmes in order to make this trans­ working within the Group. The programme “New Way of formation a tangible reality. We are joining forces with our Working” (NWoW) has been designed to achieve this. We employees to structure our working culture. This is intended are defining new standards for our working practices and to ensure that we remain competitive and attractive. promoting the skills of employees. A common working culture is also being developed in the three areas of Operating Organisation, management and performance measurement Excellence, Universal Process Management and Leadership Socially acceptable and responsible restructuring and Alignment. Our intention is to use these and other Our iSWITCH GmbH has already been established in the measures to enhance customer satisfaction and improve the Group. This platform promotes and supports many colleagues financial results. Currently some 55 NWoW experts are workin relaunching their careers with an internal group-wide job ing in 8 new projects to continue establishing the concept in market. Secondments of employees from the iSWITCH Force RWE AG. Around 5,000 employees are being trained in the enable us to cover temporary personnel bottlenecks. This new ways of working. We measure the success of our NWoW unit was established so that internal resources could be projects particularly by analysing leadership quality and used instead of external agency staff on a temporary basis. employee and customer satisfaction. iSWITCH also offers targeted career development and helps staff to achieve further qualifications. It also assists them Defining objectives through the Code of Conduct and RWE in taking advantage of short-term (project) activities and Social Charter accompanying staff on observations in different divisions Our Code of Conduct and the RWE Social Charter were of the Group. The framework conditions are defined in jointly adopted by the European Works Council and the collective bargaining agreements. The offer from iSWITCH Executive Board in 2010. They define standards for the relais open to colleagues at RWE AG and innogy SE. tionship with our employees and for dealings between the employees themselves. The Code of Conduct and Social A number of tools are available to measure the success of Charter are applicable for all employees and they cover the the internal job market including the number of internal and entire Group. external applicants for each job. We also record the throughG4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 2016 2015 Fluctuation rate % 10.1 11.2 External hirings FTE 3,062 2,896 We do not provide further differentiation in the case of data larly report on the age structure and the breakdown of on turnover and new appointments because the benefit is employees by gender. not commensurate with the expenditure involved. We regu53 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix EU17 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees RWE only uses a small proportion of employees from subThese data will also not be recorded in the future because contractors to carry out operational functions on a permathey are outside the standard records used for regular nent basis. We use them for service and service packages, reporting and are not relevant to us for tax purposes. The and for construction and assembly work. It is not possible benefit obtained from an additional survey would also be for us to report on the “number of days worked by employees disproportionate to the expenditure. of subcontractors” because these data are not available. EU18 Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and safety training All employees from subcontractors who work on the construction sites of RWE are trained. Aspect: Labour/Management Relations – Management approach Challenges RWE has gone beyond these statutory regulations and in We want to adopt a responsible approach to essential 2010 defined its commitment to open and trusting cooperarestructuring measures and implement a socially ethical tion in the RWE Social Charter adopted by the European plan. We are continually in discussions with the employee Works Council and the Executive Board. This charter sets out representative bodies in the Group and with the unions. opportunities for participation in processes of change for In Germany, the Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsemployee and union representative bodies. Apart from the gesetz, BetrVG) covers the situation at RWE. We base our Group Works Council and the European Works Council, there actions on this legislation. are other forms of employee representation across the Group, at company level and at operational level. Specific Organisation, management and performance measurement interest groups, such as spokesperson committees, repreCooperation beyond the statutory regulations in an sentative bodies for people with disabilities, and youth and atmosphere of trust apprentice representations are also included. The framework The Works Constitution Act (Betriebsverfassungsgesetzt, of reorganising the Group also encompassed the settlement BetrVG) regulates the comprehensive information, consultaof interests dated 13 May 2016. This agreement established tion and co-determination rights of the Works Council. It that job cuts would not be made on the basis of operational states that the Executive Management and the Works Counconditions. cil should cooperate together in an atmosphere of trust. G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements We comply with all information disclosure obligations and include employee representatives at an early stage. 54 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety – Management approach Challenges and rest cures in relation to the scheduled working hours. Our employees and the employees of our partner compaOn the other hand, the sickness rate is the key effect indicanies often carry out their assignments at workplaces that tor. It records the days of absence due to illness, not includare subject to special requirements for occupational health ing accidents and without rest cures in relation to the schedand safety. In particular, these include activities in the area uled working hours. of opencast mining, in technical areas at our power plants, and at transmission lines or wind turbines. As an employer, Organisation of occupational safety we take our responsibilities very seriously and minimise the RWE has defined the target of ensuring that all the Group risks of accidents and health hazards. Alongside retaining companies have certifiable management systems for occuthe physical health of our employees, we also have a duty pational safety. 70% are currently certified. The Executive to look after the mental health of our staff. We believe that Board safeguards implementation of legal requirements for this is a particularly important task for us in times of occupational safety and for health protection. It further change within the company. This is a situation beset by ensures compliance with the regulations. The Executive uncertainties for everyone. Board defines appropriate targets and uniform standards in order to support a continuous improvement of processes. Organisation, management and performance measurement The structural and workflow organisation of occupational Our objective is for every employee to be healthy and to safety is ensured by accredited management systems and is remain so. We are committed to using all the available based on inclusion of international standards and regulations. opportunities to aid the recovery of ill employees as quickly as possible. We treat employees of subcontractors in the Continuous improvement of occupational health and safety same way as our own colleagues. Health Management at The occupational safety management systems cover all the RWE adopts a holistic approach and is managed from the relevant management and business functions including the Centre of Expertise (CoE Health). definition of targets, structures and processes, rules and tools relevant to occupational safety and health protection. Organisation of health protection The objective is to make the best possible contribution to The responsibility for managing health protection is with achieving the corporate goals. The corresponding processes the Company Medical Officer (Head of CoE Health). The related to occupational safety and health protection are sysCompany Medical Officer is appointed by the Executive tematically analysed and continuously improved using the Board. Detailed organisation of health protection has been Plan Do Check Act cycle. The integrated approach is applied defined within the framework of the Workplace Safety Manfor all relevant activities that extend across management agement System. Health protection is part of the integrated systems. These include management reviews, audits, analymanagement system of RWE Generation because the ses and event notifications. employees of the CoE Health are part of the organisation of RWE Generation and they have their employment contracts In 2016, the established Working Group on Subcontractor with the company. The CoE Health manages issues relating Management engaged with new development fields for to health protection at RWE. It also develops programmes occupational health and safety of subcontractors in order to and initiates their implementation. The areas of expertise progress national standards. The Working Group drew on embedded in the CoE Health are organised in four key funcinternational H&S expertise. The safety standards were tions – industrial medicine, emergency medicine, occupaexpanded to all countries where RWE has operations. The tional healthcare management and an occupational social objective is to treat the employees of subcontractors in the counselling service. In 2016, occupational healthcare mansame way as RWE’s own employees. The LTIF rate therefore agement at RWE was awarded the Corporate Health Award also takes account of the number of subcontractor acciin the Medical Provision Category. dents, see G4-LA6, page 55. The key performance indicators relevant for health protecIn order to achieve the targets defined for illness-related tion are summarised with cause and effect indicators. The absence over the medium term, health protection is focused key causal indicator is provided by the health ratio, which on the basic measures of Good Management, Healthy Workreflects the days of absence on account of illness, accidents ing, Stress Competence, Physical Exercise and Nutrition. It 55 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix also includes structures and processes of occupational In 2015, the Health and Safety Culture project was launched healthcare management. One of the measures developed with the aim of developing the culture of health and safety. has been a modular package for resilience. We want to use The objective of the project is to develop the culture further this package to promote the ability of our employees to in the direction of a collaborative, coaching-oriented manovercome crises. The aim is to transform them into the motiagement style. In 2016, more than 658 managers attended vators for development by drawing on personal and socially a cultural development workshop where they learnt to apply mediated competences. We apply a number of measures the tools relevant to health and workplace safety. The manincluding the Work Ability Index (WAI) in order to obtain a agers received a tool box to provide them with support. It more extensive record of employees’ performance and their contained a summary of all the management elements. ability to carry out their work. This framework provides them When the tools are applied, employees can be coached to with effective support. The approach is based on the subjecexercise and strengthen their independent responsibility. tive assessments of our employees and indicates the extent to which employees see themselves as being in a position to The tools we use include the Health & Safety Index which carry out their work at the present time and in the future. By helps to determine the status and the level of maturity of the end of 2015, a total of some 22,600 questionnaires had the company in relation to its health and safety culture. This been completed. forms an important starting position for ongoing cultural development. G4-LA6 Types of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and gender The key performance indicator we use for occupational safety included in this indicator. In the reporting year 2016, we is the number of accidents with the loss of at least one day succeeded in maintaining the number of occupational acciof work for every one million hours worked (Lost Time Incidents at a uniformly good level and achieved an LTIF of 2.1 dent Frequency, LTIF). Colleagues at subcontractors are (2015: 2.2). We intend to reduce this level to 1.8 by 2018. Number of Number of Accidents and days of absence Total per occupational Commuting Number of in 2016 by segment¹ 1,000 FTE² ³ accidents² accidents4 Days of absence4 Conventional Power Generation 3.8 112 41 2,913 Trading/Gas Midstream 0 0 0 0 Renewables 6.4 17 1 39 Grid and Retail Germany 4.93 146 97 3,638 Retail Netherlands/Belgium 0 0 0 0 Retail United Kingdom 2.26 18 2 281 Grid & Retail Central Eastern and South Eastern 2.4 35 15 2,027 Europe, Turkey Other 2.62 15 20 1,528 RWE Group 3.5 343 176 10,426 1 A number of interdisciplinary functions were not yet allocated to a segment on 31 December 2016 (e.g. RWE AG, consulting, gastronomy) and they were therefore included under “Other” for the reporting year 2016. An integrated presentation will be available for the reporting year 2017. 2 Including employees and subcontractors. 3 F TE = Full Time Equivalent. 4 Only own employees. Reporting in accordance with this controlling model is carstress requirements are therefore taken account of within ried out on the basis of operational controlling of occupathe segments and international comparability is ensured. tional health and safety in the operating segments. We do Data on the type of injuries, the injury rate, the absentee not report by regions. Reporting is implemented analogous rate (Lost Day Rate, LDR) and work-related fatalities are surto operational controlling in lines. The special hazard and veyed in anonymised form for reasons associated with data 56 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix protection regulations. These data cannot therefore be four fatalities could only be recovered six months later folreported by gender. Reporting on occupational diseases and lowing intensive clearing-up operations. In the middle of the absentee rate is also not possible for the same reason. June 2016, one fatal accident occurred in the Grid & Infrastructure Division when an employee of a subcontractor Unfortunately, we have to report a total of seven fatal died during forestry work. At the end of August 2016, one occupational accidents in the business year 2016. At the employee was caught in a wheel loader at the Hambach end of February, four subcontractor employees suffered opencast mine. At the end of December 2016, an employee fatal accidents at the demolition site of Didcot A when the of a subcontractor working at the Mülheim-Kärlich plant was boiler house collapsed during the course of demolition work. struck by a building component in the controlling area and Because the stability of the remaining building structures succumbed to head injuries. Analysis teams were immedicould not be guaranteed, the bodies of three out of the ately deployed to clarify the causes of the accidents. G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Activities of our employees and our subcontractor employimplementing appropriate protective and safety measures. ees in the area of our power plants and opencast mining We organise training sessions and events in our regions in facilities are frequently associated with special requirements order to focus attention on health protection and occupafor occupational health and safety. However, we believe that tional safety. all hazards can be avoided by taking preventive action and Aspect: Training and Education – Management approach Challenges on the career ladder in the world of work, or give them advice We will only be able to continue mastering the future chalon changing jobs. We focus our on-site activities on selected lenges presented in the energy business by having profesuniversities in Germany and abroad, as well as offering sional and dedicated employees and managers. Our aim is personal interviews. therefore to continue recruiting talented young people to work at RWE, promoting our employees, supporting them in Women continue to be less inclined than men to take up a their individual development, and furthering their careers on technical career. We are therefore especially committed to the basis of their individual strengths. We believe that it is motivating young women to explore technical careers at an important to be perceived as an attractive employer. We conearly stage. One example is our engagement with the tinue to give our employees advanced training so that they nationwide Girls’ Days, which have involved more than 400 are always familiar with the latest technical developments. participants over many years. These events give school girls an opportunity to find out about careers in technical and IT Organisation, management and performance measurement areas by attending workshops and work experience sessions. Recruitment of new employees We also offer the opportunity to identify the right career We are an important economic factor in the regions where route at Career Orientation Days. we have operations. So as to ensure that we continue to reinforce this perception of an attractive employer in potenPromotion of training tial employees, we are proactive in engaging with them. The RWE Group has a long track record of vocational training. We inform them about the activities and the opportunities We focus primarily on the dual vocational training system in for employment at RWE. We use a range of different tools to Germany. This involves theoretical instruction being given at make contact with prospective employees including our vocational colleges alongside on-the-job training in the comOnline Career Portal and our Applicant Academy where pany. Overall, we offer training at more than 50 locations for we advise graduates, school students and people with in excess of 30 apprenticeship vocations in craft, engineercareer experience. The aim is to help them make a start ing and commercial occupations, and other areas where we 57 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix enable young people to undergo a high-quality vocational new places for apprentices were also filled in 2016 and the training. We offer training that extends beyond our own speagreed minimum numbers of unlimited appointments and cific needs. We also offer twin-track degree courses with four-year contracts were significantly exceeded. We regard practical, in-service training integrated as part of the packthat as an index for the quality of our training. age. In addition to carrying out training on its own behalf, RWE also supports external companies with activities for colCareer training and development laborative training ventures, for example by making training We offer a range of training sessions and courses for develcapacities available in our training workshops and by carryoping personal skills and for strengthening personal compeing out training for small companies. tences. Support is also provided for acquiring knowledge and skills which lead to further personal development within Every year, more than 600 young people start their training the Group. We help managers to enable their employees to in the RWE Group. This means that they are part of 2,258 take advantage of opportunities on a daily basis – opportuapprentices in the Group. 94% of these trainees work at nities to try out new things, implement projects and collabocompanies in Germany. If you compare the number of Gerrate with different people so that they can learn from each man apprentices with the full-time jobs in Germany, the other. We are committed to a culture of lifelong learning and apprentice ratio of the RWE Group was 6.1% in Germany in to facilitating the best possible development of the current 2016. The collective bargaining agreement for training in and future skills of our employees. Our approach to basic the years 2015 and 2016 defines a fixed number of places and advanced training has been defined in our Learning and for new apprentices, appointments for an unlimited period Development Guideline. of time and four-year contracts. The regulations relating to G4-LA10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Our employees have access to a broad spectrum of developcourses, web-based learning, videos, e-books, games and ment opportunities. These range from basic IT skills, project much more. Certificates are issued for training courses in spemanagement and English language courses, through specialcific areas. By the end of 2016, 58,000 training courses had ist topics such as occupational safety and compliance, to been booked through the HR portal. The quality of the trainmanagement training sessions and performance manageing courses was assessed with an average score of 4.2 points ment. The HR portal of RWE offers attendance training (on a scale of 0 (lowest score) to 5 (highest score). Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity – Management approach Challenges As a technological company, increasing the proportion of Deep-seated changes like demographic change, skills shortwomen in the company continues to be a challenge. Furtherages, migration, changes in values and the individualisation more, the demographic change is also an important issue of life concepts mean that our society is becoming more and for us. Society is getting older and this entails challenges in more diverse. Our objective is to use the diversity of our the world of work. workforce at RWE as an opportunity for cultural change. An open and respectful culture appreciates diversity and this is Organisation, management and performance measurement advantageous for our company and for our employees. Establishment of Diversity Management in the organisation We are a company operating on the international stage where Our commitment to diversity in the company culture is employees from different cultural backgrounds work together. enshrined in our Social Charter. We make it clear in the charOur stakeholder groups and customers have an international ter that we reject any form of discrimination and we require profile. This is why good cooperation and intercultural coma working environment free of prejudice. Our diversity manmunication are important for the success of our company. agement plays a key role here. 58 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix We interpret diversity management as a long-term managetogether women in our company who have taken scientific ment function in order to deploy the right competences at and engineering degrees. The programme strengthens the the correct place in the company. The different personalities profile of women in professions where they remain underand capabilities of each individual are a central focus and represented. It offers them a knowledge exchange platform they are regarded as an opportunity to learn from each and assists them with career development through netother. This gives every employee the opportunity to fully working activities. More than 110 women from different exploit their potential, irrespective of their age, their genhierarchical levels within the Group take part in the initiative. der, their origin, but also independently of their beliefs, A Mentoring Programme is currently being developed for disability and their sexual orientation. women in MINT professions. We engage with age structures and age-appropriate employThe proportion of women in management positions was ment in the company, analyse the requirements of different 14% for RWE AG without innogy at the end of 2016. It was generations and cooperation in mixed-age working teams. around 16% for innogy. The percentage was 25% for the We also offer packages for knowledge transfer and workfirst management level below the Executive Board of RWE shops. AG. The ongoing restructuring process means that we will only be able to quantify the proportion for the second manRWE provides strategic support for refugees in obtaining agement level in the coming year. We are currently also vocational qualifications with internships and our proworking on appropriate targets for the same reason. gramme “I can do this!” (“Ich pack‘ das!“). They are prepared to take on a vocational training with this entry qualifiThe number of women on the 20-strong Supervisory Board cation. Our goal is to be able to mediate training for the of RWE AG is currently 6, of which 3 are drawn from the participants over the long term. In 2016, we enabled refuemployee side. This means that the statutory regulations gees to have a total of 93 internship places, 30 observation have been implemented. During the year under review, no places, 15 introduction training qualifications and two women were present on the Executive Board of RWE AG, apprenticeship places. In three of the cases, a short-term see G4-38, page 21. employment was possible. For information on further engagement with refugees, see G4-SO1, page 63. Promotion of inclusiveness In March 2014, the Executive Board of RWE AG adopted the Our Diversity Week is held at the headquarters in Essen RWE Inclusiveness Action Plan for the German Group compaand in many other locations in Germany and abroad. It has nies and resolved to roll it out. RWE uses this plan specifidemonstrated just how diverse RWE already is. The week cally to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities in also highlights how the activities in the various subsidiary all activities of the company. The agreed targets will concompanies contribute to promoting a culture of inclusivity. tinue to be implemented in the companies of RWE. Their sustainable impact is demonstrated in the constant employAppointing more women to management positions ment rate for people with disabilities, in the package of We provide women with strategic support for entering our internship places for young people with disabilities and the company structure and climbing up the career ladder. Our sustainable, barrier-free establishment of workplaces for objective is to achieve a greater proportion of women in people whose ability to take part in the workplace is commanagement positions. With this in mind, we have successpromised. Our community and social responsibility towards fully continued our Executive Mentoring Programme for people with disabilities is defined across Europe through the women and our training directed towards preparation for Social Charter and the Charter of Diversity. This commitment taking up membership of supervisory boards. is also implemented in a practical way by campaigns to raise awareness and strategic measures in personnel developWomen’s netWork at RWE and innogy brings more than 350 ment, training, employment, health measures and appropriwomen at 14 locations together. Group-wide communication ate workplace design and a barrier-free approach. Employee on the latest challenges in the energy industry is promoted representatives also play a role in structuring and monitorat annual conferences and working groups and motivation is ing the implementation of inclusion here. The ratio of provided to enable women to develop their individual career employees with disabilities at RWE in Germany was 6.2% in paths. We will continue to support them with more initiatives. 2016. These means that we have complied with the statuThis also includes the MINT Women initiative that brings tory quota of 5.0%. 59 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Combining career and family and a central mediation centre for childminders, nannies, Combining career and family is a top priority at RWE and the emergency mothers and au pairs is also available – even in company promotes getting the work-life balance right within situations when private childcare is suddenly not available the framework of the individual national circumstances and at short notice. the specific opportunities available in the Group companies. Framework conditions like mobile working and flexible The spectrum of services is not simply restricted to childcare working hours including management positions, and up to support. It also includes services for the care of relatives. 24 months of unpaid special leave all contribute to making For example, employees can get advice from an online it easier to combine career and family. There are additional portal about subjects like patient instructions and long-term packages for (prospective) parents including the Lumiland care insurance, or they can also obtain expert advice at ondaycare nurseries located close to the company’s premises. site events. We also provide support for our employees in Employees can now use nursery places in Essen, Dortmund selectng care services or organising support in the home. and Cologne. Parent and child offices are also available G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity A survey of data on minorities is subject to the individual Board see the Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 182 national regulatory standards. Differentiation on the basis of to 186 and the RWE website. The career profiles of the gender and age is not therefore possible. For disclosures on Members of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board the composition of the Executive Board and the Supervisory can also be found here. Gender distribution for the RWE Group Unit 2016 2015 Share of women in the company % 27.2 26.8 Share of men in the company % 72.8 73.2 Share of women in executive positions % 14.0 1 15.2 1 Includes the top four management levels. From 2016, includes RWE AG, RWE Generation and RWE Supply & Trading; excluding innogy. Age structure for the RWE Group Unit 2016 2015 Share <20 years % 1.9 1.9 Share 20 – 24 years % 5.1 5.4 Share 25 – 29 years % 8.5 8.8 Share 30 – 34 years % 10.8 10.8 Share 35 – 39 years % 10.7 10.5 Share 40 – 44 years % 11.3 11.6 Share 45 – 49 years % 14.8 15.5 Share 50 – 54 years % 18.3 18.3 Share 55 – 59 years % 14.4 13.7 Share ≥ 60 years % 4.3 3.5 60 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men – Management approach Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement Equal pay for women and men is still by no means a matter Equal remuneration for women and men of course. In future, the statutory framework will require Men and women at RWE are paid the same for equivalent more equality of pay for women and men. This is because activities. The compensation is based on the typical activicompanies with a workforce bigger than 200 employees will ties allocated to the remuneration groups. Gender is not have to implement an individual legal right for employees to mentioned at all in our compensation guidelines and is irrelreceive information about unequal pay. Companies with 500 evant for remuneration. The amount of pay is therefore or more employees will be required to introduce procedures dependent on qualifications, the activity being carried out designed to achieve equal remuneration and to report on and the experience of the employees. this. Businesses which are covered by a collective agreement are to be exempt from the right to individual information. In The employee representatives ensure that equal treatment these businesses, employees should exercise their right to is maintained in the sphere of pay as in all other areas. The information through the works councils. This means that assignment to a tariff or salary group is linked to the job prolawmakers are meeting demands coming from society. RWE file and is not dependent on gender. welcomes this development and naturally also treats women and men in the same way on all matters including the issue of remuneration. G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation RWE pays women the same salary as men when they are in The employee representative bodies also monitor equal equivalent positions. The salary is calculated exclusively on treatment here. the basis of qualification. Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices – Management approach See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30. G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria  The principles of the United Nations Global Compact are a the framework of the internal appraisal system. During the constituent element of contractual relationships. Additionally, pre-qualification phase, around 1,000 suppliers were the suitability of suppliers is evaluated during the course of assessed for their suitability in regard to occupational pre-qualification on the basis of the hazard potential. In such safety for procurement procedures involving a hazard potencases, compliance with the defined criteria can be reviewed in tial, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management supplier appraisals and used for future tender processes in approach, page 30. 61 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential impacts for labour practices in the supply chain and actions taken We can only report on the number of audited suppliers for regularly carry out audits of all suppliers to ensure conformgoods, services and plant components. The audits carried ity with potential compliance risks, see Aspect: Procureout in the context of Bettercoal can also be reported, ment Practices – management approach, page 30. When see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management procurement is carried out in the wholesale markets, an approach, page 30. During the year under review 89 supappraisal is not possible due to an absence of direct supplier pliers were audited on the subject of labour practices. We relationships. Aspect: Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms – Management approach See G4-58, page 24. G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes. We will provide appropriate details for the year 2017. 62 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Human Rights Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Human Rights – Management approach Challenges ties abroad and along their supply chain should comply See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management with human rights. The Modern Slavery Act in the United approach, page 30. Kingdom requires large companies to disclose their commitment to preventing modern slave labour being used by their National action plans are in place internationally for busisuppliers. This legislation has been on the statute book ness and human rights or such plans are being prepared. since March 2015. The aim is to implement the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights by the United Nations. In Organisation, management and performance measurement December 2016, a “National Action Plan for Business and See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management Human Rights” was adopted in the German Federal Cabinet. approach, page 30. This states that German companies with production faciliG4-HR10 Prozentsatz G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria  Depending on the concrete product or the concrete service We can only report on the number of suppliers for goods, and the country of production or service provision, a top priservices and plant components audited for human rights ority for RWE is compliance with appropriate working condiand on the audits carried out in conjunction with Bettertions and respectful relations with the surrounding commucoal, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management nity. The Global Compact should be observed in business approach, page 30. In the year under review, all suppliers relationships with suppliers and it should also be communiwere reviewed in relation to the topic of human rights. We cated to other entities as far as possible. regularly audit all our suppliers for compliance with potential compliance risks. When procurement is carried out in wholesale markets, appraisal is not possible due to an absence of direct supplier relationships, see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30. G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken See Promotion of standards in the hard-coal supply chain in Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 31. Aspect: Local Communities – Management approach See G4-58, page 24. G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes relating to data acquisition. We will provide appropriate details for the year 2017. 63 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Society Aspect: Local Communities – Management approach Challenges and other groups which are impacted by our business operaWherever we have operations, our actions exert an impact tions or whose activities exert an impact on the business on local communities. Our power plants and opencast mines activities of RWE. Wherever we have operations, we want to offer jobs and therefore support the structure of the individcooperate with the local communities where we are located. ual regions. In some places, this has already been happening for a long time. We take over very large areas of land on Organisation, management and performance measurement a temporary basis for our opencast mines. They change the Dialogue with neighbouring residents and other profile of the landscape. Employee, supplier and customer stakeholders impacted traffic also exerts an impact on the neighbourhood. In some We engage in a lot of different stakeholder dialogues to cases, these operations may necessitate resettlements of communicate information and to involve neighbouring resiindividual villages or parts of local settlements. dents and other groups who are affected by our business activities. This is primarily related to our opencast mines and We want to operate in a socially ethical way at our operating our power plants. For more information on integrating our locations and be perceived in a positive light. With this in stakeholders see G4-26 and G4-27, page 17. mind, we enter into dialogue with neighbouring residents G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development programmes At all our major locations, we exchange views with the peoGroup, from apprentices to the executive management, take ple living in the region. We regularly analyse the needs of part in team and individual projects to help refugees. In communities and the impacts on the environment within the 2016, a total of 239 members of staff gave a helping hand. framework of the licensing procedure in Environmental and Social Impact Assessments. A detailed disclosure of the Our aim with the programme 3malE Education with results is not practicable owing to the large number of Energy, is to motivate young people for topics related to licensing procedures. energy and engineering. We also discuss the energy supply of the future with them. In 2016, 600 experiment kits were Companius cooperates with its long-standing collaboraloaned to 75 schools and 70 nurseries, 14,000 teaching tion partners to develop volunteering projects in order to packs were sent to teachers, and 60 members of staff went deliver aid to refugees. Employees throughout the entire into schools as energy ambassadors. G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities The operation of opencast mines is unavoidably associated involved on many levels in the process from the planning with interventions in the landscape and with the resettlestage to implementation. They receive comprehensive supment of local communities. RWE is very much aware of the port through the relevant government agencies, local impacts of these interventions for the region. authorities, and most importantly from our company. Their requirements also play a central role within the framework of The important issues associated with resettlement are not the required licensing procedure. They are involved in selectsimply about fair compensation for the material assets of ing the location of the resettlement site and they play a key the people being resettled. Intangible assets like tradition, role in designing the new village. This ensures that the community and a sense of belonging also play a key role. majority of the people being resettled always play a role in So that these needs can be met as far as possible, RWE has the resettlement of the community. Vibrant new settlements been committed for decades to the offer of community can be created in accordance with the ideas of the citizens. resettlement with the aim of finding solutions that are ethiThey can be provided with appropriate infrastructure where cal and socially compatible. The people being resettled are 64 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix community life can be continued with familiar social strucneeds of the local community. Today, forested areas more tures and similar cultural life. Successful resettlements are than 80 years old can be found in recultivated former opennot possible in the absence of social compatibility. cast mining districts, for example in Ville. Moreover, water meadows have recently been created along with areas of Extraction of lignite inevitably leads to a temporary impact fertile agricultural land. A prerequisite for this activity is a on the landscape. However, a key attribute for lignite opencareful approach to the valuable loess topsoil that defines cast mining in the Rhineland is that reinstatement of the the region. Rare animals quickly colonise the reinstated, original use is a constituent element of the operating procontiguous landscapes within a very short space of time. cess. Recultivation is therefore part of opencast operations Reports from specialist advisors indicate that the recultithroughout the entire lifecycle. It takes account of the envivated mining areas have an environmental value at least ronmental requirements and the leisure and recreational equivalent to that of the original landscapes. EU22 Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation, broken down by type of project The resettlements necessary in the Rhineland lignite mining locality are able to build a comparative equivalent property area used to extract lignite using opencast processes are within the new locality. Since the 1940s, more than 40,000 carried out in accordance with the proven concept of joint residents have been resettled in a socially acceptable way. resettlement, see G4-SO2, page 63. The village commuSo far, 35 new and vibrant localities have been created in nity is resettled together over a specified period so that the this process. In 2016, around 60 properties were acquired in social structures and cultural life can be preserved. The profive localities alongside additional agricultural and other parcess of compensation ensures that owners from the previous cels of land. Aspect: Disaster/Emergency Planning and Response – Management approach Challenges Organisation, management and performance measurement As the biggest power producer in Germany, RWE provides a Avoiding crises and preparing prevention plans service in the form of electricity. If power were not available, Group Security reports directly to the Executive Board of a modern industrial and service society would not be conRWE AG. As part of its governance function, RWE defines ceivable in its present form. We are therefore a constituent group-wide regulations for security. Business Continuity element of the basic services known as critical infrastrucManagement (BCM) and crisis management are a constituture. This includes “organisations, institutions and facilities ent element of this governance. An integrated approach also with important consequences for the governmental apparaentails establishment of governance for information security tus. If an electricity outage occurs or supply bottlenecks and IT security governance within Group Security. impact negatively over an extended period of time, public security would be subject to substantial disruption or draIntegrated crisis organisation has been established for meetmatic consequences would be entailed,” according to the ing the challenge of crisis situations. The organisation comgovernment’s definition. We are aware of our macroecoprises central and local crisis staffs that introduce counternomic responsibility to society as a whole. Security managemeasures depending on the individual incident. These crisis ment is therefore a central management function at RWE. A staffs are supported by crisis management plans. Starting major incident can lead to complete supply outages, pose a with the Executive Board, exercises are carried out by the threat to health and life in power plants and the surrounding crisis staffs to deal with different scenarios. These exercises area. Such an incident can also constitute a threat to the are intended to train members of staff and to review the economic future of the company. This means that it is necesapproaches used. In 2016, the focus of the exercises was on sary to adopt appropriate planning measures and implement cyber security. relevant training programmes in order to cater for a broad spectrum of potential incidents – including incidents with a Processes critical for our business are identified in Business low probability of occurrence but entailing substantial Impact Analyses and appropriate measures are taken. BCM impacts. Prevention of incidents like this is the primary goal. plans are developed on the basis of these analyses. They 65 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix minimise the impacts of outages and provide effective reinmation Technology (BSI) and UP KRITIS of the BSI. The latter statement. These BCM plants are reviewed for their effecis the initiative for cooperation between business and the tiveness every year. state to protect critical infrastructures in Germany. On the international scene, RWE is one of the few German groups Strengthening cooperation with government authorities which is a member of the National Cyber Forensics & TrainReporting pathways to the government agencies involved ing Alliance NCFTA) in the USA. We work together with govare defined in legislation for an operator of critical infraernment agencies to make preparations for the scenarios structure. However, the commitment of the Group extends entailed in an emergency. Exercises simulating emergencies beyond these statutory requirements. RWE is a member of are carried out at local level and these generally take place the German Cyber Security Council (Cyber-Sicherheitsrat in cooperation with the authorities operating on the ground Deutschland e.V.), the Allianz for Cyber Security (Allianz für there, for example the police and fire service. Cybersicherheit) of the Federal Ministry for Security in InforAspect: Anti-corruption – Management approach Challenges Monitoring of compliance management systems at RWE AG, Compliance with the law and legislation is a duty and part of RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply & Trading GmbH in the corporate culture at RWE. Any breaches of the law mean order to prevent corruption is carried out by the Chief Comthat the company can suffer major and serious reputational pliance Officer of RWE AG. innogy SE also has a Compliance damage. RWE therefore bases all its activities and business Management System and has its own Chief Compliance decisions on established internal rules for compliance. The Officer. The compliance officers inside and outside Germany company does not tolerate any corruption or other breaches ensure uniform implementation of compliance principles for of the regulations. Compliance requirements are also facprevention of corruption at RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and tored in when making decisions about entering into busiRWE Supply & Trading GmbH. ness relationships with suppliers or business partners. The energy industry is a sector defined by regulatory decisions, The RWE Code of Conduct forms the platform for our continuous change and projects with high order volumes. interpretation of compliance. The code prohibits any form of This also impacts to a greater or lesser extent on the value corruption and it is binding on all our employees. The Code chain of RWE. RWE AG has therefore implemented compreof Conduct is given concrete form by other Group guidehensive systems for avoidance of corruption within the lines. Organisational regulations such as the double-checkframework of compliance management. For information on ing (four-eyes) principle, separation of functions, authorisainnogy see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in tion concept and licensing regulations provide support for Aspect: Anti-corruption, page 87. compliance with the guidelines. Organisation, management and performance measurement The Chief Compliance Officer regularly reports to the ExecuPrevention of corruption is a particularly important topic for tive Board of RWE AG and to the Audit Committee on issues the Compliance Management System. Our prevention stratrelevant to compliance. egy relies on raising the awareness of our employees and managers within the company. For performance measurement see G4-SO3 and G4-SO4, page 66. G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified The identification and assessment of compliance risks takes and developed within the framework of risk workshops in place in a two-stage process. This process was launched in the individual Group companies. The compliance officers 2012 with the central determination of the risk profiles for carried out this detailed analysis across the Group and in the Group companies. A second step focused on working 2016 the results generated from the Group perspective were out detailed corruption risk scenarios. These were discussed aggregated centrally. 66 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix We do not explicitly report on the established risks, since straints. They are confidential as it is business-relevant these values are subject to specific confidentiality coninformation. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Internal media within the Group inform our employees about we started a new training cycle in 2016. This year we were behaviour that conforms with compliance guidelines and able to deliver training at face-to-face events in this cycle to also highlight potential risks if compliance is breached. around 4,900 employees in Germany and around 320 Members of the workforce are able to take part in a wide employees in other regions where RWE operates. range of training offerings through a web-based training programme and at attendance events. Participation is obligWe do not explicitly report data broken down into employee atory and calibrated according to the risk of corruption assocategory since these values are subject to specific confidenciated with the relevant activity. The Executive Board is also tiality constraints. They are confidential as it is business-releintegrated in this training concept. We have developed our vant information. training concept further taking risk aspects into account and Aspect: Public Policy – Management approach Challenges any donations to political organisations, or organisations RWE is an operator of power plants with potentially serious and foundations which are closely related to political impacts on the environment and the community. We also parties. operate a critical infrastructure and we are a major company with significant economic importance. This entails a duty to Since 2010, we have been entered in the Transparency Regensure compliance with standards under statutory legislation. ister of the European Union. We publish a number of discloWe also have an obligation to participate in dialogue at the sures there including the costs for our liaison office in Bruspolitical and community levels. Communication with our sels which amounted to € 2 million during the period under stakeholders provides us with helpful ideas for aligning our review. We would welcome establishment of a Transparency entrepreneurial activities. Particularly at the present time Register in Berlin based on the Brussels model. We have when the company is undergoing change, it is important to already disclosed voluntarily information about our budget, discuss expectations and assessments for the future of the the number of employees and other information to organisaenergy supply with external stakeholders. At the same time, tions such as Lobby Control. We have a public profile dialogue gives us the opportunity to provide better communithrough our liaison offices in Brussels and Berlin, not least cation of corporate decisions and the underlying motives. We through information events such as the RWE Talks. have an obligation to provide answers for our stakeholders and we want to be a partner in the discussion on an equal Engaging in dialogue and keeping up a conversation level. This enables us to meet the expectations placed on us In 2016, the main themes in discussions with politicians in by society, see G4-24 to G4-27, page 17. Germany and at EU level related to the energy transition, national and international climate protection policy, the Organisation, management and performance measurement future of coal and further development of energy markets. Objectives for transparency in political dialogue This dialogue was supplemented by the debate about the Our conduct in relation to politicians is clearly regulated in recommendation by the “Commission for Reviewing the the Code of Conduct. We state there that dialogue with repFinance of Exit from Nuclear Energy” (KFK). We also contribresentatives of government institutions and political parties uted our specialist knowledge in the area of IT security. is indispensable as far as we are concerned. In these conIn the Netherlands, we engaged in discussions about the texts, we want to avoid giving the appearance of exerting policy of human rights in the hard-coal supply chain, impleundue influence. We have therefore made a commitment to mentation of the national energy agreement and the role of neutrality in relation to political parties and we do not make co-incineration of biomass as a contribution to the Dutch CO2 reduction strategy, see G4-24 to G4-27, page 17. 67 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Supporting initiatives Furthermore, we also participate in the Innovation Forum As a major energy utility we support political initiatives at Energy Transition If.E (Innovationsforum Energiewende If.E) federal level. At present, RWE Group Security currently prorun by the IGBCE – union for the mining, chemicals and vides the spokesperson for the energy sector in UP KRITIS – energy industry. The delegates use this forum to work out a national initiative between the state and business to prothe economic, technical and regulatory contributions for tect critical infrastructure in Germany – run by the Federal restructuring the energy supply in Germany. In 2016, If.E Ministry for Security in Information Technology (BSI). held a large innovation conference and a works council conference with our support. Large-scale advertisements were The Initiative Future Association (Initiative Zukunft) intends also placed in national newspapers which highlighted the to use the Long Night of Industry (Lange Nacht der Indusneed for more extensive expansion of storage facilities and trie) to raise awareness within the local population about grids as a necessary cornerstone of the energy transition. the importance of an industrial location for the future of the We supported this campaign with whole-page advertiseregion. This is why RWE also participated in the venture by ments in our neighbourhood magazines. These are circuopening up its operational sites and allowing citizens to lated to households in the Rhineland lignite mining area and experience industrial production at first hand. in the districts surrounding nuclear power stations. G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary  RWE has made a commitment to neutrality in relation to political parties and we do not make any donations to political organisations, or organisations or foundations which are closely related to political parties. Aspect: Anti-competitive Behaviour – Management approach Challenges this issue at attendance events. Our employees receive It is important for our company to be perceived as trustwortraining sessions on the requirements for conforming with thy and transparent. We earn this trust through fair conduct. behaviour in accordance with competition legislation. The RWE also keeps within the law and complies with legislation Executive Board is integrated in this training concept. We in competitive situations. Our efforts are directed towards implement neutral grid operation and this ensures billing ensuring that all our business activities are in accordance and legal separation of grid usage from power generation, with the conditions of fair competition at all times. We also trade and supply so that we comply with the unbundling observe anti-trust regulations and statutory requirements for regulations. Group Auditing carries out preventive audits in unbundling. Our operations are based on these rules. In this the Group companies with the aim of checking implementaway, we therefore meet our responsibility as a major player tion of our regulations on anti-competitive behaviour. We in the economy. take any reports of potential breaches very seriously, we investigate them and we take any measures necessary where Organisation, management and performance measurement appropriate. In order to prevent anti-trust, anti-competitive behaviour, we raise the awareness of all employees and management to G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices, and their outcomes In 2016, RWE AG was subject to a proceeding in connection For information on the proceeding against companies in the with the running down of a joint-venture power plant, which innogy Group see G4-SO7 in the innogy Sustainability was brought to a conclusion without any sanctions in 2016. Report 2016, page 91. 68 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspect: Compliance – Management approach Challenges defined for RWE such as competition and anti-trust law, Integrity, honesty, acting in accordance with the law and company and capital market law, employment law and envirespect for our fellow human beings and the environment ronmental protection, occupational health and safety, and form the basis of our entrepreneurial activity. We are subject data protection. The Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG to laws, regulations and comparable rules and procedures. bundles these compliance areas within integrated compliThese underlying conditions and the RWE Code of Conance reporting to the Executive Board and the Audit Comduct form the framework for our operations. Any breaches mittee of RWE AG. However, responsibility for operational entail significant financial and reputational risks for RWE. content always remains with the functions bearing individual Individual employees may also be personally liable. A top responsibility for areas such as legal affairs, employment law priority for our employees and subcontractors is that their and Group data protection. The RWE Legal Department for conduct and actions should be in accordance with the law RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE Supply & Trading and ethical principles. We have defined the principles for GmbH therefore provides legal advice on company law and conduct in the binding RWE Code of Conduct. investment administration, and on joint ventures, M&A transactions and project finance. The Legal Department is Organisation, management and performance measurement also responsible for basic issues relating to energy law, The principles of general compliance and the Compliance merger monitoring, competition and trademark law, procureManagement System are defined by the Chief Compliance ment, property and IT legislation. All the experts in employOfficer of RWE AG for RWE AG, RWE Generation SE and RWE ment law from the affiliated national companies are in turn Supply & Trading GmbH. An independent Chief Compliance bundled in the RWE Group within the employment law funcOfficer has been appointed for innogy SE. This officer is tion. It is responsible for issues under personal and collecresponsible for the Compliance Management System at tive legislation. This function also organises the engageinnogy SE. The Compliance Management System set up to ment of external consultants for all the companies relating combat any corruption at RWE AG and audited in accordance to issues of employment law and any associated matters. with the IDW 980 Standard was adopted without amendments by innogy SE and is being continued there. For more In order to bundle competence and enhance efficiency, the information on the Compliance Management System of Group Data Protection Officer also acts as a company Data innogy see the innogy Sustainability Report 2016 in Protection Officer for the German RWE companies. The Data Aspect: Compliance – management approach, page 91. Protection Officer is supported by a team of data protection specialists who in turn independently look after data protecThe Chief Compliance Officer of RWE AG is supported in tion in the individual companies. Protection of personal data complying with his functions and responsibilities at the level is extremely important to RWE. Our objective is to protect of RWE AG by Compliance Managers and at the local level by personal data against misuse and thereby sustainably reinthe Compliance Officers of the individual RWE companies. In force the trust of employees and customers over the long terms of the content, the focus of activity is on prevention term. Group Data Protection develops and maintains the of corruption. Alongside this function, measures for export Data Protection Management System and ensures uniform control compliance and prevention of money laundering are interpretation of data protection at RWE. It also provides developed further and implemented. appropriate management for data protection events. The Group Data Protection Officer reports regularly on data proThe compliance function at RWE AG has taken on a coorditection issues to the Executive Board. nating and consolidating role for other compliance areas G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Our group-wide survey on the prevention of corruption revealed that no fines were incurred in this area. 69 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society – Management approach See Aspect: Procurement Practices – management approach, page 30. G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society We can only report on the number of audited suppliers for approach, page 30. During the business year 2016, 250 goods, services and plant components who were screened suppliers (2015: 285) were screened on the subject of their with respect to their impacts on society. The audits carried impacts on society. We regularly carry out audits of all supout in the context of Bettercoal can also be reported, pliers to monitor exposure to potential compliance risks. see Aspect: Procurement Practices – management G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken The RWE Purchasing Department does not maintain any admissible or officially confirmed facts. Furthermore, we business relationships with suppliers if there is information use published negative lists (World Bank Listing of Ineligible in the public domain indicating that they breach the princiFirms and Non-Responsible Vendors) drawn up by the World ples underlying the Global Compact. RWE is committed to Bank based in Washington/USA. When suppliers are in conimplementation of the Global Compact. tention for being included on the list of RWE’s suppliers, the background check is carried out by the relevant purchaser Information “in the public domain” relates to all generally before any orders are awarded. In the case of existing supaccessible sources from which information can be obtained. pliers, the review is performed centrally in the vendor Press reports containing merely the suspicion of a breach accounts section. are not sufficient in this case. Rather, we rely on legally Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society – Management approach See G4-58, page 24. G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms In the context of restructuring the Group, we are currently modifying our processes. We will provide appropriate details for the year 2017. 70 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Product Responsibility Aspect: Product and Service Labelling – Management approach Challenges sions and radioactive waste in accordance with EU Directive More than 23 million customers trust us to supply them with 2003/54/EC and in accordance with Article 42 of the Gerelectricity, gas and heat at any time. A comprehensive and man Energy Industry Act (Energiewirtschaftsgesetz, EnWG). varied spectrum of statutory regulations governs labelling Furthermore, the data are also published on the Internet of these products. Such regimes are in force in the various pages of RWE Supply & Trading, for innogy corporate countries in which we supply customers. Particularly detailed customers and for innogy residential customers. Our regulations on the labelling of electricity are on the statute intention here is not simply to implement the statutory regubook in Germany. Additionally, our customers are increaslations but also to consistently apply the guidelines pubingly interested in being informed about the composition of lished by the German Association of Energy and Water our electricity supplies. Industries (BDEW). These are regarded as the industry gold standard. All our customers are therefore provided with Organisation, management and performance measurement comprehensive and transparent information about the Transparent product labelling energy mix of the relevant product and the associated enviAll electricity bills issued by RWE and innogy throughout ronmental impacts. Europe include disclosures on the energy mix, the CO2 emisG4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Electricity labelling is an instrument for increasing market ing the individual products and on the CO2 emissions and transparency in the electricity market. Pursuant to the requirenuclear wastes that arise in the generation process. All elecments of the German Energy Industry Act (Energiewirtschafts­ tricity and gas bills of RWE and innogy are in accordance with gesetz), all suppliers of electricity to consumers must provide the statutory labelling requirements. their customers with information on the energy mix underlyG4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction We want our customers to remain loyal, to be interested in The Commodity Solutions section at RWE Supply & Trading new products and to recommend our company to other peohas set up a regular customer survey process within this ple. Our stated objective is to be accepted by them as a serframework and it uses a Customer Satisfaction Index for vice provider and supplier, and also as a partner who can management. work with them to create individual solutions. Our usual high level of product quality, fast and streamlined proinnogy also regularly measures customer loyalty and cuscesses, and competitive prices continue to remain our top tomer satisfaction. For information on this see the innogy priorities in this relationship. Sustainability Report 2016 in Aspect: Product and Service Labelling – management approach, page 93. 71 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Appendix 72 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Assurance Report Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report To RWE AG, Essen PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesell­ sprüfer (“Institute of Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”): schaft has performed a limited assurance engagement on Requirements to quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf the German version of the Corporate Responsibility Report eines IdW Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 „Anforderungen and issued an independent assurance report, authoritative an die Qualitätssicherung in der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis” in German language, which has been translated as follows: (IdW EQS 1)”) – and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, engagement on the sustainability information marked with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory in the Corporate Responsibility Report of RWE AG (hererequirements. after the “Company”) for the period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 (hereafter the “Corporate Responsibility Practitioner’s Responsibility Report”). Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the sustainability information marked with in the Corporate ResponManagement’s Responsibility sibility Report based on our work performed. The Company’s Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Corporate Responsibility Report Within the scope of our engagement we did not perform an in accordance with the criteria as set out in the G4 Sustainaaudit on external sources of information or expert opinions, bility Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative referred to in the Corporate Responsibility Report, as well as (GRI) (hereafter the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of references to other chapters, indicators, and the annual the information to be assessed. report, if they are not separately marked as reviewed. This responsibility includes the selection and application of We conducted our work in accordance with the International appropriate methods to prepare the Corporate ResponsibilStandard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): ity Report as well as the use of assumptions and estimates “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of for individual sustainability disclosures which are reasonable Historical Financial Information” published by IAASB. This in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility Standard requires that we plan and perform the assurance includes designing, implementing and maintaining systems engagement to obtain limited assurance whether any matand processes relevant for the preparation of the Corporate ters have come to our attention that cause us to believe that Responsibility Report, which is free of material misstatethe sustainability information marked with in the Corpoments due to intentional or unintentional errors. rate Responsibility Report has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. Audit Firm’s Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the German professional provisions In a limited assurance engagement the evidence-gathering regarding independence as well as other ethical requireprocedures are more limited than for a reasonable assurance ments. engagement and therefore significantly less assurance is obtained than in a reasonable assurance engagement. The The audit firm applies the national legal requirements and procedures selected depend on the practitioner's judgeprofessional standards – in particular the Professional Code ment. This includes the assessment of the risks of material for German Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors misstatements of the sustainability information marked with (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und vereidigte Buchin the Corporate Responsibility Report with regard to the prüfer“: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as the Institut der WirtschaftGRI-Criteria. 73 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Within the scope of our work we performed amongst others Emphasis of Matter – Recommendations the following procedures: Without qualifying our conclusion above, we make the following recommendations for the further development of the QQ Obtaining an understanding of the structure of the susCompany's sustainability management and sustainability tainability organization and of the stakeholder engagereporting: ment QQ Further development and formalization of innogy-speQQ Inquiries of personnel involved in the preparation of the cific reporting processes and the respective internal conCorporate Responsibility Report regarding the preparatrol system as well as increasing implementation of autotion process, the underlying internal control system and mated system interfaces and controls selected sustainability information Restriction on Use and Distribution QQ Analytical procedures on selected sustainability informaWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement agreed tion of the Corporate Responsibility Report with the Company. The review has been performed for purposes of the Company and is solely intended to inform the QQ Comparison of selected sustainability information with Company about the results of the review. The report is not corresponding data in respective evidence documents intended for any third parties to base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not assume any responsibility towards third QQ Assessment of the presentation of selected sustainabilparties. ity information in the Corporate Responsibility Report regarding the sustainability performance Essen, 24 March 2017 Conclusion PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Based on our limited assurance engagement, nothing has Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft come to our attention that causes us to believe that the sustainability information marked with in the Corporate Responsibility Report of the Company for the period 1 JanuMichael Conrad ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch ary 2016 to 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, in all Wirtschaftsprüfer material respects, in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. (German Public Auditor) 74 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Important Sustainability Indicators Indicators Unit 2016 2015 Environment1 Specific NOX emissions g/kWh 0.47 0.54 Specific SO2 emissions g/kWh 0.18 0.25 Specific particulate matter emissions g/kWh 0.012 0.017 Ash thousand mt 8,201 8,495 Gypsum thousand mt 2,042 2,172 Primary energy consumption million GJ 1,478 1,467 Water consumption² m³/MWh 1.62 1.39 CO2 emissions EU ETS 3 million mt 148.3 150.8 CO2 emissions Scope 14 million mt 154.0 152.3 CO2 emissions Scope 2 5 million mt 1.3 1.3 CO2 emissions Scope 36 million mt 86.5 93.9 Specific CO2 emissions EU ETS mt/MWh 0.686 0.708 Specific CO2 emissions Scope 1 mt/MWh 0.713 0.715 Capital expenditure of the Renewables Division € million 242 7 418 Share of the Group’s power generation accounted for by renewable energies % 5.1 5.3 R&D costs 8 € million 165 101 Society Workforce9 FTE 58,652 59,762 Fluctuation rate % 10.1 11.2 Training days per employee (Germany) 3.8 3.8 Health ratio % 95.1 95.1 Work-related and commuting accidents LTIF10 2.1 2.2 Fatal work-related accidents 11 7 4 Governance Share of women in the company % 27.2 26.8 Share of women in executive positions12 % 14.0 15.2 Share of the RWE Group’s revenue earned in countries with a high or very high risk of corrup% 10.2 10.5 tion13 1 All plants are included where RWE is the operator of the plant. 2 Difference between the water consumption of the power plants and returns to rivers and other surface waters up to 2015, excluding power plants with seawater cooling, including cooling-tower losses. 3 Plants which fall under the scope of the European Emissions Trading Scheme (EU ETS) including power plants which are not owned by RWE that we can deploy at our discretion on the basis of long-term agreements. 4 Scope 1: EU ETS amounts plus the emissions from plants which do not fall under the scope of EU ETS. 5 Scope 2: indirect CO2 emissions from the transmission and distribution of electricity purchased from third parties in our own grids. 6 Scope 3: indirect CO2 emissions that do not fall under scope 1 and scope 2, produced through the generation of electricity procured from third parties, the transmission and distribution of electricity in third-party networks, the production of used combustion fuels, as well as the consumption of gas sold to customers. 7 In accordance with the innogy Sustainability Report 2016, page 4. 8 In accordance with the RWE Annual Report 2016 of RWE AG, page 23. 9 Converted to full-time positions. 10 Lost Time Incident Frequency (sum of all accidents resulting in at least one day of absence for every 1 million hours worked); Figures for 2012 incl. reports known to us from third-party companies (subcontractors). 11 Including employees of partner companies (subcontractors). 12 Encompasses the top four management levels; from 2016, only RWE AG, RWE Generation, RWE S&T. 13 Countries rated lower than 60 on a scale of 0 to 100 in the Corruption Perceptions Index by the anti-corruption organisation Transparency International (TI), with 100 corresponding to the lowest risk of corruption. 75 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix UN Global Compact Progress Report 2016 RWE supports the United Nations Global Compact and wants the guidelines, programmes and management systems which to make a contribution with the worldwide implementation we have also introduced with our sphere of influence. The of its ten principles. These have been adopted word for word table also highlights the measures that have been taken durin the RWE Code of Conduct. The following chart identifies ing the period under review and the specific results obtained. Principle Systems Measures Results Principle 1: Support of human rights Social Charter and minimum standards Restructuring with social compensation Compliance with principles 1 – 5 assured for restructuring operations carried out by working together with employee repthrough national legislation in Europe, for the European companies in the RWE resentatives and unions (p. 53) cooperation with the unions, and RWE’s Principle 2: Elimination of human Group, covering 99.7% of the workAssessment and audit of suppliers own principles which apply to all employrights violations force. (p. 30 ff., 51, 60 ff., 69) ees of the company ILO core standards are defined for the Co-founder of Bettercoal, auditing of Principle 3: Ensuring freedom of Social Charter coal mines, application of information Pay and social benefits above the association Supplier management (p. 30 ff.) for “Counterparty Risk Assessment” national average (p. 30 f.) 26 comprehensive self-assessments and Principle 4: A  bolition of all forms of the results of 6 on-site audits available forced labour through Bettercoal (p. 31) Principle 5: Abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of Diversity management (p. 57 f.) Diversity Week demonstrated activities Percentage of women in management discrimination Group-wide women’s network (p. 58) to promote an culture of inclusivity positions increased to 14% (p. 58) (p. 58) Percentage of people with severe MINT Women Initiative (p. 58) disabilities with 6.2% in Germany virtually constant Principle 7: Precautionary Environmental management (p. 39) Annual audit for setting up environmenCoverage level of environmental manageenvironmental protection Strategy for reducing the CO2 emission tal management systems in conformity ment in relation to the Group: 100%, factor (p. 37, 44 f.) with ISO 14001 (p. 39) 89% of this was certified externally Adoption of a group-wide Biodiversity (p. 39) Financial risks of CO2 emissions are presented in risk management (p. 28, 44) Guideline since 2015 (p. 41) Level of coverage with certified Energy Management Systems: 69% (p. 39) Reduction in specific CO2 emissions by more than 3% (p. 46) Reduction in specific emissions of the air pollutants NOX by more than 12% and SO2 by more than 28% (p. 46) Principle 8: Initiatives to promote Consultancy and services for intelligent Product range for marketing of flexibiligreater environmental use of energy with residential and comties (p. 34) responsibility mercial customers (p. 34) Energy education packages for children Initiative for energy education 3malE and teenagers (p. 63) (p. 29, 63) Principle 9: D  evelopment and diffusion Strategy to reduce the CO2 emission Research on use of lignite as a material Modernisation of the power plant of environmental friendly factor (p. 37, 44 f.) (p. 35) portfolio (p. 37, 44 f.) technologies Financial risks of CO2 emissions are preResearch on enhancing the flexibility sented in risk management (p. 28, 44) and efficiency of conventional power Research and Development (p. 34 f.) plants (p. 35) Principle 10: Anti-corruption measures RWE Code of Conduct and Group guideDrawing up detailed corruption risk Compliance training sessions for around lines for prevention of corruption and scenarios with other consolidated 4.900 employees in Germany and around organisation regulations (p. 65, 68) companies (p. 65) 320 employees in other regions where Audited Compliance Management SysTraining of the workforce with an RWE operates, in on-site events (p. 66) tem for anti-corruption in accordance Intranet-based training programme and with the IDW Audit Standard promulon-site training (p. 66) gated by the Institute of German Public Auditors (p. 68) 76 Our Responsibility 2016 About the Report Content General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Appendix Contact and imprint Publisher RWE Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 1 45128 Essen Germany Contact person Alexander Nolden Political Affairs, Corporate Responsibility 45128 Essen Germany Phone +49 201 12-00 EMail responsibility@rwe.com Dr.-Ing. Marita Hilgenstock Politicial Affairs, Corporate Responsibility Phone +49 201 12-15302 EMail marita.hilgenstock@rwe.com Editorial deadline 24 March 2017 The Report is available in English and German; both versions can also be accessed via the Internet for download at www.rwe.com. Concept, text, design and implementation in cooperation with akzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, Munich www.akzente.de Translation Tristam Carrington-Windo Stay in Dialogue. responsibility@rwe.com RWE Aktiengesellschaft Opernplatz 1 45128 Essen Germany www.rwe.com
