IMC AG – Scheer Tower | Uni-Campus Nord – 66123 Saarbrücken/Germany imc information multimedia United Nations Global Compact communication AG United Nations Scheer Tower | Uni-Campus Nord New York, NY 10017 66123 Saarbrücken/Germany USA Tel. +49 681 9476-0 Fax +49 681 9476-530 Saarbruecken, 14 December 2017 eMail info@im-c.de Web www.im-c.de Amtsgericht Saarbrücken Communication on Progress Commercial Register Saarbruecken HRB 13 338 Year: 2017 Ust. Id. DE 812 187 208 IMC Steuernummer IMC Tax Number To whom it may concern: 040/100/00969 Vorstand Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at Executive Board Christian Wachter (Vorsitzender) all levels within our company. As a member of a Global Compact, we believe Dr. Michael Silvio Kusche that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully Aufsichtsratsvorsitzender supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular Chairman of the Supervisory Board those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. August-Wilhelm Scheer priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda Bankverbindung Bank Details forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the Deutsche Bank AG Kto. Nr. 2 545 440 02 environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we BLZ 590 700 00 summarize the progress we have made against these principles and we will IBAN DE71590700000254544002 continue to follow them up in the future. BIC/SWIFT-Code: DEUTDE5M555 Yours sincerely, Christian Wachter (Member of the Board, IMC AG) Company Profile IMC is one of Europe’s largest providers of comprehensive solutions for technology-enhanced learning, training, education, and staff development. The company was established in 1997 by Professor August-Wilhelm Scheer, internationally recognized scholar, entrepreneur and expert in business process management. Since then, IMC has developed solutions related to the development of e-learning courses as well as to the design and implementation of technical and professional infrastructures (e.g. learning management system design and implementation; implementation of integrated e-learning infrastructures etc.) for e-learning, distance education, and staff development. IMC operates from its headquarters in Saarbrucken, Germany. Further offices and subsidiaries are located in Freiburg, Munich, Zurich (Switzerland), Graz (Austria), London (UK), Sibiu (Romania), Melbourne (Australia), Scottsdale (USA), and Singapore. Company IMC Information Multimedia Communication AG Address Scheer Tower, Uni-Campus Nord│66123 Saarbrücken Phone: +49 681 9476-0, Fax +49 681 9476-530 E-mail: info@im-c.de│www.im-c.com Founding year 1997 Associates Scheer GmbH (60%); Dr. Wolfang Kraemer, Frank Milius, Dr. Volker Zimmermann (13,33% each) Executive Board Dr. Michael Silvio Kusche, Christian Wachter VAT No. DE 812 187 208 Commercial Register No. HRB 13338 UNGM Registration No. 161680 Products and Services IMC’s focus is on providing customers with a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products and services: ▪ New Media and e-Learning Content Production: IMC provides professional services covering the whole value chain of bespoke e-learning content design and production. IMC runs content projects from customized planning to instructional design, storyboard development and realization up to the roll-out, dependent on customers’ requirements and timeframe. IMC is experienced in working with different learning content formats, i.e. classic e-learning programs (web-based training courses), serious games, smartphone apps, interactive video, e-books, as well as games and training content for mobile websites. ▪ Consulting Services: IMC helps organizations to (re)organize their learning processes and to select, implement, adapt and integrate suitable software systems and technologies. IMC’s consultants perform in-depth need analyses before proposing the right learning management strategy, always considering client-specific demands and learning cultures. Consulting services range from the technical implementation of our products to the conceptualization of an organization’s complete e-learning offering; they include training and coaching services on the instructional design and technical implementation of interactive training content. Service implementation and project management are based on PRINCE2. Page 2 of 24 IMC Products and Services ▪ E-Learning Authoring tools: The IMC Content Studio is a high-end e-learning authoring tool able to meet the highest demands. It is a multiple test winner in usability, productivity, functionality and price-performance ratio. The authoring environment is also the perfect solution for the easy and efficient creation and evaluation of exercises, tests, exams and assessments. ▪ Learning and Talent Management System: The IMC Learning and Talent Suite (ILS) is one of the leading Learning Management Systems (LMS) on the market. It is a state-of-the-art software solution that enables decentralized implementation of multimedia-enhanced teaching and learning offerings within a centrally coordinated organizational framework and organization-wide administration structures. The ILS is top-ranked in the Gartner Group’s market survey on Corporate Learning Solutions and has received high marks in other market analyses (e.g. Bersin & Associates). ▪ Electronic Performance Support: The IMC Process Guide is a software solution for the processoriented, workplace-integrated support of users of software systems, e.g. SAP, MS Office, Peoplesoft, as well as a broad range of legacy systems. ▪ On-demand Learning Services include hosting services for learning environments as well as “Software as a Service” arrangements for our customers. IMC implements ITIL guidelines for IT services; a 24/7 ITIL-based service desk for software products is available. Page 3 of 24 Standards Quality management at IMC is organized on the basis of the international ISO 9001 standard. IMC holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 quality management certificate and applies a regular schedule for external audits. Since 2015, IMC has also been ISO / IEC 27001:2013 certified, proving the implementation and maintenance of a state-of-the-art Information Security Management System. In December 2015, IMC underwent an Energy Efficiency Audit according to DIN EN 16247-1 in order to implement EU Directives on Energy Efficiency (2012/27/EU) and Energy Service Providing (2006/32/EG). To ensure the quality of services we follow the PRINCE2 project management standard. IMC’s consultants are PRINCE2 trained and certified. Finally, IMC supports the United Nations Global Compact principles. Reference Projects with United Nations Organizations Since 1997, IMC has conducted a great number of projects related to the design and development of interactive, multimedia e-learning content. The following figure shows some projects IMC has implemented with UN organizations: Selected Reference Projects with UN Organizations Page 4 of 24 Communication on Progress The following table lists activities and shows progress made toward achieving positive results with regard to the Ten Principles. To the extent available, performance indicators and quantitative data are provided. Different colors highlight the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption, i.e. the core field of actions to which the Ten Principles belong. Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 1: Businesses should IMC acts in conformity with human rights legislation and considers its prescriptions support and respect the protection of especially with regard to the following points: internationally proclaimed human rights Working Conditions It is one of the main objectives of IMC to create a safe and healthy work environment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during work. IMC’s headquarters, the Scheer Tower, provides employees with a state-of-the-art working environment. In addition, all IMC subsidiaries meet highest standards for safe and sane working environments. In 2016, an on-site inspection for workplace safety took Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year place resulting in the definition of measures for improvement. The inspection was combined with a voluntary offer for ergonomics consulting, addressing the correct setting of the workplace (desk, chair, screen, light) and healthy body posture, preventing back pain and muscle tenseness. About 60 staff made use of the ergonomics consulting. In each subsidiary, there is a security officer, who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. Furthermore, there is a fire prevention officer in each subsidiary, responsible for evacuation in case of emergency. IMC currently has 15 fire prevention officers in Germany who are trained once per year. IMC employees have always access to drinkable water. A small kitchen is available in every IMC building, IMC’s headquarters also have a snack-bar and canteen. In 2017, IMC introduced a company health program called GET FIT in order to raise awareness among staff regarding nutrition, fitness (including back health) and coping with stress, as well as sharing information for a healthier life. In cooperation with the health insurance Barmer (in Germany) and Vitaliberty, an agency for company health management, the portal MOOVE was introduced for all IMC offices worldwide. MOOVE is a multi-lingual portal that allows tracking of personal health and improving it with Page 6 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year personal targets. At IMC’s German offices, additional local campaigns were held. Wages and Salary IMC ensures “equal pay for equal work” using a transparent remuneration scheme for permanent staff irrespective of any personal circumstances such as gender. A Career Growth/Staff Development System was introduced in 2016, defining the requirements to be met for achieving different career levels in Technical resp. Management Career Paths (see below) for the various departments, which are available to all employees. Page 7 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Labor is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also, IMC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural Page 8 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. With regard to its international subsidiaries, IMC makes sure to be compliant with national legislation, collective wages and employment conditions of the respective countries, drawing from professional legal support. Promoting human rights internationally IMC cooperated with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on nutrition and fighting hunger, water and habitat, as well as gender issues, such as elimination of discrimination against women, violence against women, gender responsive budgeting, but also ethics and integrity, and childrens’ rights. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Selected performance indicators: The following table shows the current distribution of staff according to gender and age Page 9 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year criteria. It also shows IMC’s performance in achieving a gender-balanced workforce: 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Gender Female (in %) 29 33 35 37 37 33 33,5 Male (in %) 71 67 65 63 63 67 66,5 Age groups < 30 years old 20 24 26 25 58 82 71 30-50 years 75 71 69 70 156 134 145 old >50 years old 5 5 5 5 6 9 17 Specific plans for 2018: IMC will continue its efforts to ensure favorable working conditions for its entire workforce regardless of the location. IMC will continue to strive for gender-equality and a non-discriminatory working environment for company staff. As IMC expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2018, specific aims are further professionalization of Human Resources processes, e.g. further Page 10 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year development of Career Growth/Staff Development, further reinforcement of internal communication, improvement of managerial staff development and extension of the 2016 newly introduced health management. In addition, IMC will strive to promote further equal working conditions by further advancement of salaries, benefits and working conditions in general. In addition, IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on nutrition and fighting hunger, gender issues, and childrens’ rights in order to increase their impact. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure IMC respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the that they are not complicit in human regions it operates. rights abuses; IMC is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and employee should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold IMC accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining the freedom of association and the in accordance to local labor legislation. Employees have the right to join or to form trade Page 11 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year effective recognition of the right to unions. Employees’ representatives are not discriminated and have an ability to carry out collective bargaining; their representative functions in a work place. Principle 4: Businesses should All labor is sourced from the open labor market, employment is freely chosen and there support the elimination of all forms of is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labor. All IMC employees are provided with forced and compulsory labor; labor contracts and may resign at any time they consider appropriate. In addition, IMC offers the following benefits to its staff: Accident insurance Company pension scheme. Specific plans for 2018: As IMC expects a further growth of staff both nationally and internationally in 2018, specific aims are, among others, further professionalization of Human Resources processes, e.g. further development of Career Growth/Staff Development, further reinforcement of internal communication, and improvement of managerial staff development. In addition, IMC will strive to promote further good working conditions by further advancement of salaries, benefits and working conditions in general. Page 12 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Principle 5: the effective abolition of IMC doesn’t source workforce from child labor. It acts in accordance to the following child labor; rules: The course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the child, conform to the provisions of ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. IMC cooperated with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on childrens’ rights. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2018: IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing ePage 13 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year learning modules on childrens’ rights in order to increase their impact. Principle 6: Businesses should It is the policy of IMC to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favorable support the elimination of treatment on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, part-time or fixed discrimination in respect of term contract status, sexual orientation or religion, or is disadvantaged by conditions or employment and occupation. requirements that cannot be shown to be justifiable. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an anti-discrimination statement. Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Resources Manager when it occurs. IMC emphasizes that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organization’s Disciplinary Procedure. IMC recognizes the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability. IMC supports part-time work and flexible working arrangements that are possible also in management positions. Page 14 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year In 2016, IMC implemented the non-profit project Cost Effective, Quality, Skills Education for South African Youth , aiming to increase access to and capacity of higher and further education and training, and therefore access to the labor market, in South Africa. IMC therefore developed diagnostic tests and bridging courses in “Numeracy” and “English Literacy” to increase the admission rate to Technical Vocational Education and Training colleges in South Africa, as well as providing free and online accessible high quality training material to those who lack the opportunity to visit a college. In addition, IMC supported the colleges in digitizing their learning material and in the development of their own institutional future technology plans. The project was funded by DEG (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft), a subsidiary of KfW Development Bank. In 2017, IMC started as a partner in the implementation of the non-profit project “InKraFT”, which aims to give people with disabilities the right skills to learn and eventually to work as an automobile mechatronic engineer. The project establishes an innovative and virtual learning concept, providing the right tools to get this new work perspective with the help of digital media and technologies. IMC supports the project by providing the Learning Management System IMC Learning Suite and by integrating the modules of the partners into the platform. Page 15 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Furthermore, IMC continued to cooperate with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on gender issues, such as elimination of discrimination against women, violence against women, gender responsive budgeting, and ethics and integrity. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Selected performance indicators: 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Nationalities of full-time staff 21 24 29 31 31 30 29 Gender equality (% of female 29 33 35 37 37 33 33,5 full-time staff) Specific plans for 2018: A culturally, ethnically, and linguistically diverse workforce has turned out beneficial for the company’s overall business performance in the past. IMC will continue its efforts in this regard making sure that the company’s corporate culture welcomes diversity in all Page 16 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year respects. Starting in 2018, a new non-profit research project of IMC will support the political request to invest more in education and the labor market in Africa. Together with research partners, IMC will introduce online research laboratories into African schools in the project „Go-Lab Goes Africa“. During the three-year-project, a knowledge portal for schools in Africa will be developed, with content available in French and Swahili. The solution will be tested in schools in Nigeria, Kenya and Benin. The schools will be equipped with the necessary technology, teachers will be trained on the use of digital laboratories in their classes and the solution will include offline functionalities for use when internet connectivity is poor. In addition, IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on gender issues in order to increase their impact. Principle 7: Businesses should IMC promotes perceived attitudes to resource management and resource expenditure in support a precautionary approach to relation to environmental background. All operations have to be completed undue any environmental challenges; negative impacts on human beings or environmental pollution. In 2017, IMC has cooperated with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global Page 17 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year audience; in particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Principle 8: Businesses should In December 2015, IMC underwent an Energy Efficiency Audit according to DIN EN undertake initiatives to promote 16247-1, as required by the new amendment to the German Law on Energy Service greater environmental responsibility; Providing (EDL-G) that implements the EU Directives on Energy Efficiency (2012/27/EU) and Energy Service Providing (2006/32/EG). The audit report was made available in 2016, containing recommendation for measures of improvement which are successively implemented during its 5-year validity. IMC continues the use of an additional line in all employees’ e-mail signature: “Please consider the environment before printing this e-mail.” to avoid waste of paper not only internally, but also outside the house. Travel policy of IMC underlines that employees must respect environmental standards when organizing work-related travels. Travelling by train is the preferred way of transport, besides flights and hiring cars when necessary. Thanks to a more diversified staff distribution in the branch offices (e.g. more New Media and Sales employees in the Munich, Melbourne or Singapore Offices), travel efforts can be significantly reduced for visiting local clients. The same principles are applied with regard to subcontractors Page 18 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year wherever possible. These measures contribute to a reduction in CO2 emissions, travel costs and strain on employees, thus improving their work-life balance. IMC practices waste separation, according to the German law. In 2016, IMC’s Munich Office changed from paper towels to washable cloth towel rolls, avoiding waste of paper. In addition, IMC has cooperated, in 2017, with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Specific plans for 2018: IMC will continue taking the measures identified by the Energy Efficiency Audit in order to improve its energy management and enhance its environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should The “Green IT” concept is widely advocated for IMC. Challenges, which result from encourage the development and complexity of environmental protection, have large influence on ITdevelopment and diffusion of environmentally friendly usage spectrum: technologies New media channels for educational programs are offering chances to promote Page 19 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year environmental protection. • Learning Solutions become a core competence of Green IT because they can substitute business trips and face-to-face meetings, and hence they reduce CO2 emissions, the travel cost budget and the strain on employees, thus improving their work-life balance. • The term “Green IT” marks information technologies which make significant ecologic contribution. Reducing a travel route by 1 km reduces the CO2 emission by an average of approximate 204 gram – in comparison to this, the energy use produced by the IT is negligible. A virtually conducted meeting or an e-learning course with 12 students would reduce the CO2 emission by 244 kg, given an average travel route of 1,200 km. • IMC has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom Sessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of CO2 emissions. IMC intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years. • In IMC Learning Suite, the Learning Management System developed by IMC, the Page 20 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year options for using one of a variety of virtual classroom tools, among them open source solutions, have been expanded. Thus, IMC impacts and facilitates its customers’ practice to hold meetings and trainings virtually instead of face-toface, reducing CO2 emissions. • IMC supports the DHL GoGreen climate protection projects by combining its shipments with DHL GoGreen services whenever possible. DHL calculates C02 emissions generated by transport using a method based on the ISO 14064 standard. In accordance with the specifications of the Kyoto Protocol, these emissions are offset by climate protection projects. • IMC also has increased and intensified its business operations in the area of “cloud computing”, providing professional services to its customers via hosted IT environments. This allows for synergies in the use of IT systems via shared IT infrastructures; in 2013, IMC received the “Cloud for Society Award” for its business operations in this area. The award also covers “green IT” aspects of IT operations. IMC’s software products, the Learning Management System IMC Learning Suite, the authoring tool IMC Content Studio/“IMC Teach”, and the performance support tool IMC Process Guide, are all available as cloud-based Page 21 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year solutions (software as a service). • IMC has reduced the number of company cars with high CO2 emissions. With regard to reducing CO2 emissions, SUVs have been banned completely from IMC’s car pool. In addition, IMC has cooperated, in 2017, with inter-governmental agencies on developing e-learning modules on various environmental issues. The modules are designed for a global audience; in particular, they address professionals in the humanitarian sector and provide guidance and support to their work. Principle 10: Businesses should work All directors, officers and employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the business against all forms of corruption, of IMC, including, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider trading, money including extortion and bribery. laundering, bribery, improper payments and anti-competitive activities. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. If a criminal violation has occurred, the company will take appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from re-occurring. IMC is certified according to ISO / IEC 27001: 2013, proving IMC’s Information Security Page 22 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Management System, and holds a recognized DIN EN ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Certificate, applying a regular schedule for external audits. State-of-the-art data protection and digital processes, combined with staff trainings, contribute to a transparent working environment. The following processes are already being monitored by the ISO standard: Annual People Review (staff appraisal), Induction of new staff, Onboarding of new staff (administratively), Exit of staff, Career Growth/Staff Development, and Internal Change of Department of Staff. Further processes will be integrated in 2018. In order to foster compliance with anti-corruption rules in a broad range of business operations, IMC has developed an interactive training curriculum available for use in organizations of all kinds. In addition, IMC has broadened its product portfolio with an online compliance management system which is used by IMC customers in order to effectively provide compliance relevant training to their workforce. In 2017, IMC has introduced a bi-monthly “Impulse Session” to improve internal transparency and communication between the board and staff. The meeting is held onsite at headquarters and shared by a live webstream with all staff at other offices and subsidiaries. Page 23 of 24 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year Furthermore, IMC is cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on corruption prevention, internal controls and raising fraud awareness. They are targeted to a global audience of professionals in the humanitarian sector. Specific plans for 2018: IMC will strive to further improve internal communication and transparency. An organizational development program will be started in 2018, further processes will be integrated into and monitored by IMC’s ISO-certificated standards. In addition, IMC will continue cooperating with inter-governmental organizations on developing e-learning modules on corruption prevention in order to increase their impact. END OF DOCUMENT Page 24 of 24
