Sustainability Report 2 016 − Web version − Th e A i r Yo u L i ve I n Every year the Daikin Group reports on its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. On the Sustainability section of the Daikin Web site, we have past years’ data and related information so that you can read the details of all activities we are involved in. This PDF file contains all the fiscal 2015 information from the Sustainability section of our Web site. You may download and print it out. Note: The printed version of the Sustainability Report 2015 focuses on our main activities and efforts. It can also be downloaded as a PDF file. Contents Editorial Policy 3 Daikin s Sustainability 7 CSR and Strategy 14 CSR and Strategy ………………………………………… 15 Value Chain ……………………………………………… 28 Top Message ……………………………………………… 18 CSR Management ………………………………………… 32 CSR Philosophy …………………………………………… 20 CSR Targets and Achievements ……………………… 35 Daikin Group Business Overview …………………… 22 Participation in the Global Compact ……………… 43 Key Activities 44 List of Fiscal 2015 Key Activities ……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 45 Environment: Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming ………………………… 47 New Value Creation: Collaborative Innovation with Other Industries and Fields ………………………………………… 54 Customer Satisfaction: Giving Customers a Selection of Products That Meets Their Future Needs ………………… 58 Human Resources: Transferring Japanese Skills to Ensure High-Quality Production Worldwide ……………………… 62 Environment 66 Basic Environmental Policy and Management and Reduction of Environmental Action Plan …………………………… 69 Chemical Substances ………………………………… 116 Overview of Environmental Impact ………………… 73 Management and Reduction of Response to Climate Change ………………………… 74 Chemical Substances in Products……………… 117 Increasing Air Conditioner Eﬃciency …………… 76 Management and Reduction of Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants ………… 83 Chemical Substances During Production …… 118 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products ………… 87 Compliance with J-Moss ………………………… 121 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Environmental Management ……………………… 124 Type Space and Hot Water Heaters …………… 89 Environmental Management System ………… 125 Energy-Eﬃciency through Fluorochemical Environmental Risk Management …………… 131 Products and Oil Hydraulic Products …………… 92 Environmental Accounting ……………………… 135 Reducing Greenhouse Gases during Environmentally Conscious Design …………… 139 Production and Transportation …………………… 96 Green Procurement ……………………………… 144 Recovery and Destruction Green Heart Factories and of Fluorocarbons …………………………………… 101 Green Heart Oﬃces ……………………………… 149 Eﬀective Use of Resources ………………………… 108 Environmental Communication ………………… 150 Eﬀective Use of Resources in Products ……… 109 Protecting Biodiversity ……………………………… 152 Waste Reduction…………………………………… 113 Protecting Biodiversity …………………………… 153 Water Resource Reduction ……………………… 114 Biodiversity Awareness …………………………… 161 History of Environmental Activities ……………… 162 Endorsement as an Eco First Company ………… 165 New Value Creation 167 Helping Solve Social Issues …………………… 170 Working Toward Sustainable Development Goals…………………………… 173 -1Customer Satisfaction 176 Product Quality and Safety ………………………… 179 Protecting Customer Information ………………… 192 Customer Satisfaction………………………………… 186 Human Resources 193 Employee Evaluation and Treatment …………… 196 Labor Management Relations ……………………… 206 Workplace Diversity, Equal Opportunity ……… 197 Occupational Safety and Health…………………… 208 Work-Life Balance …………………………………… 202 Fostering Human Resources………………………… 214 Corporate Governance 220 Corporate Governance ……………………………… 223 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings …… 248 Board of Directors Biographies …………………… 228 Prohibiting Bribes ……………………………………… 249 Risk Management ……………………………………… 239 Information Security ………………………………… 250 Compliance……………………………………………… 243 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights ………… 251 Respect for Human Rights 253 Respect for Human Rights …………………………… 255 Supply Chain Management 257 Philosophy on Suppliers……………………………… 259 Green Procurement Guidelines …………………… 267 Working Closely with Suppliers …………………… 262 Stakeholder Engagement 268 Stakeholder Engagement …………………………… 270 Dialogue with Government and Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors ……… 272 Industry Groups ……………………………………… 274 Communities 277 Daikin s Philosophy of Social Contribution……… 280 Harmony with Communities Protecting the Environment ………………………… 282 ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Art and Culture 301 Supporting Education ………………………………… 284 Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Sports ………… 303 ̶ Strengthening Bonds ……………………………… 288 List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities …… 306 Honors for Daikin 315 Data 320 Third-Party Veriﬁcation 335 Third-Party Veriﬁcation ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 336 Method of Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data ……………………………………………………………………… 339 Guidelines 342 GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 (G4) …………………………………………………………………… 343 -2Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Editorial Policy -3Sustainability Report Editorial Policy Editorial Policy This report covers the basic philosophy of the Daikin Group with regards to sustainable growth, achievements in ﬁscal 2015, and plans for the future. Information that, due to space limitations, could not ﬁt into the Sustainability Report 2016 (printed version) released in July 2016 is included on this website. Printed Version In this Sustainability Report, we focus on the most important information from among the Daikin Groupʼs strategies toward a sustainable society; the four key themes of CSR for Value Provision, which are environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources; and Fundamental CSR, which forms the basis of these themes. Under Key Activities, we report on activities we are focusing on in each of our four key CSR themes. Key Activities (Page 44) Website This website comprises detailed data and case studies and is divided into CSR and Strategy, which explains the policy, strategies, and plans of the Daikin Groupʼs CSR; and nine CSR themes that the Daikin Group prioritizes (four themes of CSR for Value Provision, which are environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources; and ﬁve themes of Fundamental CSR, which are corporate governance, respect for human rights, supply chain management, stakeholder engagement, and communities). Third-Party Veriﬁcation To ensure reliability of the content of this report, the Daikin Group had a third-party veriﬁcation conducted for data on greenhouse gas emissions, water use, and wastewater. Third-Party Veriﬁcation (Page 335) Reference Guidelines This report was created in line with the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (ﬁscal 2012 edition) released by Japanʼs Ministry of the Environment; and the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 (G3.1) and Version 4 (G4) released by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Guideline comparison tables are on our website. Our CSR activities are conducted in line with ISO 26000. -4Since 2008, the Daikin Group has been taking part in the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative for companies committed to operating based on 10 universally accepted principles in areas including human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. Daikin also issues this Sustainability Report as an annual Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations. Guidelines (Page 342) Note In reporting on ﬁscal 2015 CSR activities, data was carefully reviewed and was revised in cases where discrepancies occurred between actual ﬁscal 2015 results and information reported for ﬁscal 2014. Also, because ﬁgures are rounded oﬀ, totals may not equal the sum of individual ﬁgures. Forecasts, Expectations, and Plans This report includes forecasts, expectations, and plans, in addition to past and present facts, about Daikin Industries, Ltd., and its subsidiaries (collectively called the Daikin Group). Please be aware that these are assumptions and judgments made based on the information available at the time this report was written and thus incorporate a degree of uncertainty. Consequently, there is a risk that events occurring in the future may turn out diﬀerently from the forecasts, expectations, and plans stated in this report. What This Report Covers Term Covered This report covers ﬁscal 2015 (April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016). Daikin Organizations Covered This report covers Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its consolidated subsidiaries. Environmental performance data, however, covers four Daikin Industries, Ltd., production bases; eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 42 production subsidiaries overseas. Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. Head Oﬃce Tokyo Oﬃce Sakai Plant Air conditioning/refrigeration equipment, compressors Shiga Plant Air conditioning equipment, compressors Fluorochemical products, hydraulic equipment, air-conditioning equipment, precision Yodogawa Plant defense equipment Kashima Plant Fluorochemical products -58 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Sheet-Metal Co., Ltd. Daikin Piping Co., Ltd. Daikin Hydraulic Engineering Co., Ltd. Daikin Rexxam Electronics (Japan) Ltd. Daikin Sunrise Settsu Ltd. Toho Kasei Co., Ltd. Kyoei Kasei Industries, Ltd. Nippon Muki Co., Ltd. Overseas 42 Production Subsidiaries Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. J & E Hall Refrigeration Sdn. Bhd. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. McQuay Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd O.Y.L. Steel Centre Sdn. Bhd. Daikin Europe N.V. Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd Co., Ltd. Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. O.Y.L. Technology (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Suzhou) Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Co., Ltd. Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Huizhou AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Branch) Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Daikin Applied Americas Inc. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. American Air Filter Company, Inc. (Delaware) Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Daikin Air-conditioning (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. J & E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Coulstock & Place Engineering Co. Limited (United Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Kingdom) Daikin America, Inc. McQuay (UK) Limited (United Kingdom) Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. AAF-Limited (United Kingdom) Rotex Heating Systems GmbH AAF International B.V. (The Netherland) Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. AAF International s.r.o. (Slovakia) Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. -6Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Daikin’s Sustainability -7Daikinʼs Sustainability Problems such as climate change and changing demographics are presenting our advancing global society with many challenges. The Daikin Group aims to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through business activities that provide society with new value. What kind of company is Daikin? We are a global company that operates on the three business pillars of air conditioning, chemicals, and ﬁlters. -8Basic Management Policy Corporate Policies Strategic Management Plan 1. Absolute Credibility 2. Enterprising Management 3. Harmonious Personal Relations Co-create New Value in the Air and Environment Fields with Wisdom and Passion Details here (Page 20) Daikinʼs business Details here (Page 22) -9What kind of value does Daikin provide to society? Through our business activities, we provide healthy and comfortable daily lives while at the same time contributing to energy eﬃciency and the reduction of greenhouse gases. Preventing air pollution and protecting health Comfortable air that Energy savings through contributes to higher the use of highly eﬃcient productivity and energy improved health Reduced greenhouse gas emissions through the development of refrigerants with low global warming potential 10 What does Daikin think about todayʼs social problems? Based on issues that arise with our changing global society, we respond to the increasing number of new needs and to peopleʼs changing awareness. Growing Economic Changing demand progress demographics for food Increasing Expansion and Increasing Uneven severity of Urbanization, concentration of severity of climate distribution of atmospheric industrialization energy and change food pollution electricity demand Increasing number of new needs, peopleʼs changing awareness Increasing need to reduce Increasing need Expanding energy greenhouse gases to use more Increasing need needs to meet Increasing need and use more renewable energy to create an growing air to curb energy renewable energy toward a eﬃcient cold conditioner usage toward a decarbonized chain system demand decarbonized economy economy 11 What is Daikin doing about these problems? We are creating new value that contributes to solutions and we are helping realize the sustainable development of society through our business. Daikinʼs CSR CSR for Value Provision Fundamental CSR Create new value that helps Grow sustainably in response solve societyʼs problems to societyʼs requests Environment Corporate governance New value creation Respect for human rights Customer satisfaction Supply chain management Human resources Stakeholder engagement Communities 12 Social value created by Daikin Value Creation for the Earth We respond to the growing air conditioner demand related to issues such as climate change and economic advancement. At the same time, by using electricity eﬃciently and spreading the use of refrigerants with low global warming potential, we help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and prevent the acceleration of global warming. Sustainable development goals (SDGs) targeted Value Creation for Cities We create spaces that respond to the various needs of both industrialized and developing countries. In addition, through city-wide air conditioning management methods such as zero-energy buildings, which achieve a net energy balance of zero, we are helping create comfortable and energy-eﬃcient urban settings. Sustainable development goals (SDGs) targeted Value Creation for Health and Comfort We are striving to reduce the amounts of hazardous chemicals in the atmosphere in order to contribute to both better living environments and economic development. In addition, by helping establish an eﬃcient cold chain, we contribute to the provision of food and pharmaceuticals. Sustainable development goals (SDGs) targeted Details here (Page 173) 13 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ CSR and Strategy CSR and Strategy ………………………………………… 15 Value Chain ……………………………………………… 28 Top Message ……………………………………………… 18 CSR Management ………………………………………… 32 CSR Philosophy …………………………………………… 20 CSR Targets and Achievements ……………………… 35 Daikin Group Business Overview …………………… 22 Participation in the Global Compact ……………… 43 14 CSR and Strategy In 2016, Daikin began its Fusion 20 strategic management plan targeting 2020. Under Fusion 20, we will increase demand mainly in emerging markets and seek solutions to numerous global challenges, such as climate change impact, through our business activities in order to help realize a sustainable society. Daikin Sustainability Toward 2020 Basic Management Management Goals for 2020 Policy Strategy and CSR Net Sales of 3 Trillion Yen, Corporate Policies Operating Income Margin of 12% Our Group Philosophy Fusion 20 Strategic People-Centered Management Management Plan Create New Solutions to Address the Challenges of Customers and Co-create New Value in the Air and Environment Fields with Society in Order to Contribute to the Sustainable Development of Wisdom and Passion External Factors Society Daikin Group CSR Impact on Climate Change CSR for Value Provision Increase in Air Conditioner Demand Fundamental CSR Basic Management Policy CSR Philosophy (Page 20) 15 External Factors Impact on Climate Change Increase in Air Conditioner Demand Growing Worldwide Energy Environmental Impact of Demand Refrigerants Air conditioner demand in 2020 Energy-induced CO2 in 2030 Global warming impact from 69 % increase compared to ﬂuorocarbons (HFCs) in 2030 4 times compared to 2000 2000 (IEA) 5 times compared to 2010 (Daikin forecast) (Daikin forecast) Management Strategy and CSR Fusion 20 Strategic Management Daikin Group CSR Plan CSR for Value Provision Co-create New Value in the Air and Environment Environment Fields with Wisdom New Value Creation Customer Satisfaction and Passion Human Resources Key Strategies Fundamental CSR Strengthen Existing Businesses Corporate Governance New Business Domains and New Business Respect for Human Rights Structure Supply Chain Management Create More Sophisticated Technologies and Stakeholder Engagement Production Methods Communities Create More Sophisticated Management Control CSR Philosophy (Page 20) Implement a Unique Daikin Philosophy Up to ﬁscal 2015, we carried out CSR activities based on the four key CSR themes of the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, social contribution, and human resources. For details, see the following page. CSR Promotion Plan (CSR Management) (Page 33) 16 Goals for 2020 Net Sales of 3 Trillion Yen, Create New Solutions to Address Operating Income Margin of 12% the Challenges of Customers and Society in Order to Contribute to Enhance existing businesses (air conditioning, the Sustainable Development of chemicals, ﬁlters) Expand new business (heating/water heater, Society energy solutions, commercial refrigeration, refrigerants, air environment engineering) Contribute to mitigating global warming FY2018 Medium-Term Implementation Plan FY2020 Target Contribution to Greenhouse Gas Emission Net Sales 2.5 trillion yen Reductions Operating Income 2,700 billion yen 60 million tons-CO /year 2 Operating Income Margin 10.8 % Contribute to sustainable urban development Contribute to peopleʼs health and comfort 17 CSR and Strategy Top Message Under Fusion 15, our ﬁve-year strategic management plan to ﬁscal 2015, we have striven to expand new markets in emerging and other countries through environmentally conscious and energy-eﬃciency eﬀorts with the goal of becoming a “Truly Global and Excellent Company.” In ﬁve years, we increased net sales from approximately 1.2 trillion yen to more than 2 trillion yen, with overseas sales now accounting for 75% of the Daikin Groupʼs total sales. Our worldwide workforce has also grown to more than 60,000 employees. With this growth have come increasing demands and expectations from society. We aim to respond to these while creating totally new values contributing to the realization of a sustainable society. Mitigating Impact on Climate Change through Technologies for Energy Eﬃciency and Refrigerants Daikinʼs main business of air conditioning constitutes crucial social infrastructure that contributes to providing people with a healthy, culturally fulﬁlling lifestyle and achieving economic advancement. At the same time, air conditioners consume large amounts of energy. The Daikin Group is fully aware of the need to focus ﬁrst and foremost on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in order to mitigate the impact on climate change. To this end, we strive to spread the worldwide use of the low-global-warming-potential refrigerant HFC-32, one of our key environmental contribution technologies, and energy-eﬃcient inverter technologies. HFC-32 has a global warming potential just one-third that of conventional refrigerants. If the refrigerants in all of the worldʼs air conditioners were converted to HFC-32, greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced by approximately 800 million tons-CO2 in 2030. Energy-eﬃcient inverter air conditioners and air conditioners using HFC-32 sold by the Daikin Group in emerging countries in ﬁscal 2015 contributed to emission reductions of approximately 35 million tons-CO2. 18 In December 2015, the Paris Agreement was adopted at the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21), marking the start of a framework that all countries will strive to realize. Air conditioner demand is forecast to increase, mainly in emerging countries. Under its Fusion 20 strategic management plan, targeting 2020, the Daikin Group aims to reduce worldwide greenhouse gas emissions by 60 million tons-CO2. Creating New Value as Solutions for Society In September 2015, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development were adopted in the United Nations. Under a shared vision of a sustainable world, the SDGs represent a plan of action that governments, industry, and other institutions will implement in their respective ﬁelds with the goal of solving societyʼs problems. In November 2015, the Daikin Group opened its Technology and Innovation Center. In addition to developing products and technologies that anticipate the future needs of customers, the center will collaborate with industry, government, and academia around the world to create new value that contributes to solutions for societyʼs problems in environment, energy, health, and other areas. Daikin will continue to take on new challenges, not only in its key businesses of air conditioning and chemicals, but also through a focus on areas such as ﬁlters that reduce air pollution, refrigeration technologies that facilitate food storage and transport, and engineering solutions that create air and indoor environments responding to customer needs. Creating a Work Environment Where Employees Can Use Their Talents to the Fullest Our 60,000 worldwide employees are the ones creating new value for customers and society. The Daikin Group makes people-centered management the driving force of its competitiveness and promotes diversity management in which a wide range of individual employees can contribute. Business success comes by creating a work environment where employees can maximize their own unique talents. Daikin takes part in the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative to promote the implementation of 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. As our business spreads further around the globe, we are doing everything possible to abide by laws and international norms and ensure that our activities are sound, transparent, and ethical throughout the entire value chain. As a corporate group that continues to co-create new value in the air and environment ﬁelds, we will contribute to the betterment of society by meeting the expectations of customers, shareholders, procurement business partners, community members, and all of our other stakeholders. 19 CSR and Strategy CSR Philosophy Basic Management Policy of the Daikin Group Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management Our Group Philosophy is the basis for all action aimed at becoming a corporate group that is trusted by customers worldwide, and that instills pride in Daikin employees around the globe. Daikin's People-Centered Management, meanwhile, is based on the belief that employee growth generates corporate growth and is implemented with the goal of creating a workplace where employees can use their talents to the fullest. The Daikin Group believes that if both employees and company executives put Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management into practice, then we can achieve sustainable development and growth. Our Group Philosophy 1. Create New Value by Anticipating the Future Needs of Customers 2. Contribute to Society with World-Leading Technologies 3. Realize Future Dreams by Maximizing Corporate Value 4. Think and Act Globally 5. Be a Flexible and Dynamic Group 6. Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices 7. With Our Relationship with Society in Mind, Take Action and Earn Society's Trust 8. The Pride and Enthusiasm of Each Employee Are the Driving Forces of Our Group 9. Be Recognized Worldwide by Optimally Managing the Organization and its Human Resources, under Our Fast & Flat Management System 10. An Atmosphere of Freedom, Boldness, and Best Practice, Our Way 20 How We View CSR 1. Through the strict implementation of Our Group Philosophy, the Daikin Group will fulﬁll its social responsibilities worldwide in all facets of relationships with stakeholders, thereby raising corporate value and contributing to the sustainable development of society. 2. Based upon thorough observance of legal compliance and corporate ethics, the Daikin Group will focus on contributing to society through its business activities. As a good corporate citizen, we will be highly sensitive to the needs of each world region in carrying out our social contribution activities. 3. We will incorporate CSR into business activities so that CSR and our business are integrally intertwined in an ongoing synergy that contributes to better business performance. 4. We will carry out CSR activities through open, two-way communication with society and always ensure that we are accountable for, and transparent in, our actions. Key CSR Themes When we formulated Fusion 20 in ﬁscal 2015, we revised the importance (materiality) of various eﬀorts to the Daikin Group, and as a result came up with four key CSR themes ̶ the environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources ̶ as ways to carry out CSR for value provision. We also established ﬁve CSR themes fundamental to our business activities: corporate governance, respect for human rights, supply chain management, stakeholder engagement, and communities. CSR for value provision New value Customer Human Environment creation satisfaction resources Fundamental CSR Corporate Respect for Supply chain Stakeholder Communities governance human rights management engagement For key CSR themes up until ﬁscal 2015, see the following page. History of CSR Activities (CSR Management) (Page 33) 21 CSR and Strategy Daikin Group Business Overview Daikin Group Business Overview Contributing to Society and the Environment through Technology The Daikin Group oﬀers products utilizing technologies in both air conditioning and ﬂuorochemicals to provide comfort in all aspects of peopleʼs lives around the world. Through our strength in energy-eﬃcient technologies, we develop and bring to market products and services that restrict CO2 emissions, thus contributing to sustainable development in society. Achieving Both Comfort and Environmental Performance to Meet All Global Air Conditioning Needs While air conditioners are indispensable to a healthy and comfortable life, they also consume large amounts of energy. Our top priority is to develop energy-eﬃcient air conditioners that provide a comfortable air environment. Residential Air Conditioners Commercial Air Conditioners Air Puriﬁers Ururu Sarara VRV multi air Streamer discharge series conditioning air puriﬁers systems for buildings Filter Hot Water and Space Heaters Air Conditioning Systems Air Filters Daikin ECOCUTE Air conditioning network service air-to-water heat system pump systems 22 Refrigeration Equipment Refrigeration unit for ocean freight container Utilizing the Characteristics of Fluorochemicals and Contributing to a Wide Range of Fields We have the leading share of the world market for ﬂuorochemical products used in ﬁelds such as automotive, IT, and energy. As the only company in the world to manufacture both air conditioners and their refrigerants, we are developing next-generation refrigerants with minimal environmental impact. Energy Field Automotive Field Materials for lithium-ion rechargeable Materials for solar cells Fluoroelastomers batteries (for automobiles) Information and Refrigeration and Telecommunication Field Air Conditioning Field Fluororesins, coating material Fluorocarbons (refrigerants) (for tablets) 23 Proprietary Technologies at Work in a Range of Industries, IT Solutions We develop highly energy-eﬃcient hydraulic pumps and units incorporating the inverter and other technologies built up through our air conditioner business. We also develop aerospace parts and home medical equipment that require advanced precision processing technologies and quality control technologies. Machine Tools Construction Equipment In-Home Medical Equipment EcoRich R Hydrostatic Oxygen concentrator (oil hydraulics) transmission (defense systems) (oil hydraulics) Electronics Improving product development process “Space Finder” (electronics) 24 Global Expansion Respecting the Diverse Cultures and Values of Each Country Overseas sales now account for over 70% of the Daikin Groupʼs total, and 80% of the Groupʼs employees work outside Japan. Daikin is contributing to development in communities around the world by respecting the cultures and values of each country and region, by coming out with products that match regional needs, and by creating a work environment where employees work with high motivation and unique personalities. 25 Performance Highlights Financial Highlights The Daikin Group believes that improving performance and raising corporate value meet the expectations of shareholders, investors, and all other Daikin stakeholders. Under Fusion 15, our ﬁve-year strategic management plan that culminated in ﬁscal 2015, we strove to reach targets and increase proﬁts by creating demand in our markets around the world. 26 Non-Financial Highlights To continue growing sustainably, a company must contribute to solving social challenges and thus create value other than that indicated by ﬁnancial data. We will continue to create new value through worldleading technologies under our key CSR themes including environment, new value creation and, customer satisfaction, with human resources as their key pillar. 27 CSR and Strategy Value Chain Acting with Consideration for Our Impact on Society The Daikin Groupʼs business activities impact society in various stages of the value chain, and the scope of this impact is expanding with globalization. We therefore identify the importance (materiality) of our actions with consideration of these impacts and incorporate this into our strategic management plan. Sales, Procurement Development, Manufacturing Usage After-sales Service, Transportation, Design Recovery, Recycling Installation Values from Scope 1,2,3 third-party veriﬁcation Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2: Energy-induced indirect greenhouse gas emissions Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Demands and Expectations of Society Throughout the globally expanding supply chain, Daikin is expected to respond to various procurement risks involving, for example, human rights, labor practices, compliance, and environmental protection. Daikin Group Environmental Impact Actions Considering Daikinʼs Impact on Society CO2 Emissions from Procurement and Supply chain management [Fundamental Materials CSR] 1.53 million ton-CO2 Scope 3 (Japan, China, Asia, Oceania, Europe) 28 Demands and Expectations of Society As air conditioner demand grows in emerging markets and other countries, Daikin must develop products that satisfy customer needs by oﬀering, for example, comfort, superb environmental performance, and quality that meets regional climate. Actions Considering Daikinʼs Impact on Society Development and design of products with superb environmental performance [Environment] The Technology and Innovation Center will lead eﬀorts to create technologies and products that diﬀerentiate Daikin. [New Value Creation] R&D Expenditure 4.61 billion yen Compared to previous ﬁscal year 107% (Global Group) Number of Patent Applications (FY2014) 1,292 (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Develop human resources with the goal of boosting R&D prowess [Human Resorces] Demands and Expectations of Society It is crucial that Daikin increase productivity while at the same time improving manufacturing quality and reducing environmental impact at all worldwide production sites. Daikin Group Environmental Impact Actions Considering Daikinʼs Impact on Society Energy-induced CO2 Emissions Increase manufacturing eﬃciency and 710,000 tons-CO2 Scope 1,2 boost product quality [Customer Satisfaction] Compared to previous ﬁscal year 104% (Global Group) Build global system for skills transfer [Human Resorces] Greenhouse Gas Emissions Other than CO2 550,000 tons-CO2 Scope 1 Compared to previous ﬁscal year70% (Global Group) 29 Demands and Expectations of Society Faulty air conditioner installation not only causes quality problems but also leads to environmental problems such as refrigerant leakage. It is crucial that Daikin raises the level of installation skills of employees and retailers worldwide. Daikin Group Environmental Impact Actions Considering Daikinʼs Impact on Society CO2 Emissions from Transportation Contribute to mitigation of global 22,000 tons-CO2 (Japan) Scope 3 warming by preventing refrigerant Compared to previous ﬁscal year 85% leakage Train Installation Technicians in Order to Prevent Fluorocarbon Leakage [environment] 19,360 (Japan, Asia) Support retailers and dealers through, for example, information provision [Customer Satisfaction] Demands and Expectations of Society A look at the lifecycle of air conditioners reveals that CO2 emissions during their usage have the largest impact on climate change. Daikin Group Environmental Impact Actions Considering Daikinʼs Impact on Society CO2 Emissions from Daikin Air Contribute to mitigation of global Conditioners on the Market warming through state-of-the-art technologies 101.5 million tons-CO2 Scope 3 Contribution to CO2 Emission (Japan, China, Asia, Oceania, Europe) Reductions Worldwide* [environment] 34.8 million tons-CO2 Third-Party Review *Total of CO2 reductions as a result of using inverter products and conversion to HFC-32 refrigerant. 30 Demands and Expectations of Society To achieve a recycling-based society, it is crucial that we are thorough in recycling air conditioners and recovering/recycling refrigerants. Actions Considering Daikinʼs Impact on Society Thoroughly recycle in order to achieve Improve ability to respond to a recycling-based society [environment] customers After-sales service Air conditioner recycling volume customer satisfaction rate [Customer Satisfaction] 9,419 tons (Japan) Compared to 4.05 (weighted average of ﬁve-stage previous ﬁscal year 98% assessment) (Japan) Fluorocarbon recovered during repair and ﬁnal disposal 930,000 tons-CO2 (Japan) Compared to previous ﬁscal year 96% 31 CSR and Strategy CSR Management CSR Management Structure Comprehensive, Cross-Organizational Action Group-Wide Firmly grounded in corporate ethics and legal compliance, the Daikin Groupʼs CSR eﬀorts are aimed at contributing to society through its business activities. The CSR Committee, chaired by the oﬃcer in charge of CSR, sets Daikinʼs CSR direction and monitors the progress of CSR activities. Under this committee, staﬀ in the CSR & Global Environment Center lead comprehensive, cross-organizational CSR activities throughout the entire group. In ﬁscal 2015, based on changes in the external environment, such as external expectations and demands and accelerating business expansion, we deliberated with the CSR Committee on the responsibilities Daikin must fulﬁll and the value it must provide. As a result, the Fusion 20 strategic management plan culminating in ﬁscal 2020 incorporates plans for Daikin to create social value through its business activities and to achieve sustainable growth together with society. Materiality (of Key Initiatives) Identifying Materiality Across the Entire Value Chain When we formulated Fusion 20 in ﬁscal 2015, we took a look at what was important to Daikin and as a result came up with four key CSR themes̶ the environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources̶aimed at sustainable growth for both Daikin and society. Our management focus on these four themes was incorporated into Fusion 20. We will consider the impact on society of our business strategies and globalization in relation to each of these four themes, and establish CSR targets and plans accordingly. Materiality Selection Process Materiality evaluation involves selecting which CSR initiatives should take top priority. Evaluation was conducted with consideration in two areas: concerns and impacts of stakeholders (on the right page), which include stakeholder engagement, international guidelines, and criteria of socially responsible investment survey institutes; and importance to Daikin, which includes Our Group Philosophy and medium-term management plans. In future, we will gather an even wider range of opinions from outside the company and reﬂect these in our medium-term CSR targets and plans. 32 Philosophy of Materiality History of CSR Activities Deepening Focus on Key Issues in Response to Society's Expectations Daikin has rapidly expanded as a global corporate group, and with this expansion have come greater demands from society and greater corporate social responsibility (CSR). We have striven to fulﬁll our CSR by responding to the expectations of our various stakeholders while implementing our Group management philosophy. 2002 Daikin Formulates Our Group Philosophy as Its Basic Philosophy of Business Daikin formulated Our Group Philosophy with the aim of becoming a corporate group trusted by worldwide customers and where employees in all countries could work with pride. By sharing Our Group Philosophy as the fundamental business philosophy of the entire Group, it has become the cornerstone of all employees' thoughts and actions. The management policies and plans of Daikin Industries, Ltd. and all other Group companies were created in line with Our Group Philosophy, and we believe that the embodiment of this philosophy has brought us closer to becoming a truly global and excellent company. Our Group Philosophy (Page 20) 2005 The Daikin Group Deﬁnes Its Philosophy on Responsibility toward Stakeholders We expressed our belief that the Daikin Group's CSR is to conduct business that puts Our Group Philosophy into practice and fulﬁlls our responsibility to society by meeting the expectations of shareholders. How We View CSR in the Daikin Group (Page 21) 33 2008 Daikin Establishes Key Themes with Consideration for Business Plans and Impact on Stakeholders In light of the unique characteristics and business plans of Daikin, a global manufacturer of air conditioners and ﬂuorochemicals, we established key CSR themes in four areas: the environment, quality & customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution. 2011 to 2015 Active CSR Based on the Fusion 15 Strategic Management Plan In ﬁscal 2011, we launched our Fusion 15 strategic management plan to respond to the demands of society. CSR Targets and Achievements (Page 35) 2016 onward Revision of Key Themes in Line with Fusion 20 Strategic Management Plan When we formulated Fusion 20, we revised the materiality of various eﬀorts to the Daikin Group, and as a result came up with four key CSR themes ̶ the environment, new value creation, customer satisfaction, and human resources ̶ as ways to carry out CSR for value provision. We added to this the theme of fundamental CSR, thus giving us ﬁve key themes under Fusion 20. CSR and Strategy (Page 15) 34 CSR and Strategy CSR Targets and Achievements In ﬁscal 2016, we began formulating new key CSR action themes. Here, we look at our ﬁscal 2015 results based on the targets and plans that we established in line with the key CSR action themes up until ﬁscal 2015. We engage in environmental activities with global warming prevention as the most important priority. Providing the World with Products That Help Customers Reduce CO2 Emissions Disseminating inverter products Disseminating heat-pump type heating systems Oﬀering energy-saving solutions Developing future refrigerants Increase use of environmentally CO2 Emission Reductions in Emerging conscious products in emerging Countries: Estimated*1 (Through Daikin Products) countries, where growth is particularly remarkable. Increasing sales of inverter air conditioners and other energy-eﬃcient products could reduce Proliferation of HFC-32 Air Conditioners CO2 emissions in emerging countries by 30 million tons-CO2. Create global demand in the power conservation business. CO2 Emission Reductions Worldwide: Develop technologies and introduce Estimated*2 (Through Daikin Products) products that comply with refrigerant restrictions. 35 Contributing to CO2 Emission Reductions through Daikin Products*1 *2 Total of CO2 reductions as a result of using inverter products and conversion to HFC-32 refrigerant Response to Climate Change (Page 74) Key Activities: Environment̶Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (Page 47) *1 Estimate of CO2 emission reductions from the use of energy-eﬃcient inverter products sold by Daikin, compared to CO2 emissions from the use of non-inverter products. The emission reductions ﬁgure is annual reduction amount multiplied by product lifespan. Minimizing Environmental Impact in Production Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Eﬀectively using water and other resources Minimize emissions of substances of concern By 2015, reduce greenhouse gas emissions to one-third of ﬁscal 2005 levels. Reducing Greenhouse Gases Response to Climate Change (Page 74) Eﬀective Use of Resources (Page 108) Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances (Page 116) 36 Expanding “Green Heart”*3 Reforestation and tree-planting Environmental education Protect biodiversity around the world. *3 Green Heart: Think of the Earth and take care of the environment. Expanding a Green Heart Protecting Biodiversity (Page 153) Protecting the Environment (Communities) (Page 282) 37 We anticipate the needs of communities and the general public, and provide high-quality products that bring customers satisfaction. Giving Customers Unmatched Satisfaction Safety & Quality: Products are designed from the perspective of the customer to assure safety and quality. Customer Satisfaction: We strive to achieve the ultimate in quality service: speed, accuracy, and good manners. Daikinʼs quality standard gives superior, optimal products that earn customer trust. We have a system for developing products that meet the needs of customers, wherever they live. Customer Satisfaction (Page 176) We are switching to a global development Key Activities: Customer Satisfaction system and strengthening our marketing ̶Giving Customers a Selection of Products research functions throughout the world. That Meets Their Future Needs (Page 58) Key Activities: New Value Creation ̶Collaborative Innovation with Other Industries and Fields (Page 54) 38 Employees are the lifeblood of all our activities, and we provide a workplace where each employee can grow in his or her own unique way. Through People-Centered Management, Creating a Workplace Where Employees Can Demonstrate Their Abilities Human Resource Development: The entire Daikin Group trains human resources to match business growth. Diversity of Employees: We strive to build a diverse workplace where everyone can play an important role by respecting each other regardless of age, sex, nationality, or disabilities. Balancing the Responsibilities of Work and Family: We allow employees to work ﬂexible schedules so that they can have quality time with their families. Occupational Safety & Health: We strive for employee satisfaction by building a safe, comfortable workplace where employees can enjoy both mental and physical well-being. Become a corporate group with global Diversity Management values by working autonomously and freely in line with Our Group Philosophy and shared policies and strategies. Communicate between head oﬃce and local bases. Maximizing the talents of women and experienced employees. 39 Human Resources (Page 193) Key Activities: Human Resources̶ Transferring Japanese Skills to Ensure High-Quality Production Worldwide (Page 62) 40 Wherever we do business, we try to meet societyʼs needs in a way that only Daikin can. Employees Taking the Initiative in Local Grassroots Action By working to protect the environment, support education, and live in harmony with communities, Daikin employees take the lead in community service aimed at providing each region with the support it needs. Contribute to society as a respected Protecting the Environment (Page 282) and trusted company with roots in Cooperation with NGOs communities around the world. Cooperation with customers Employee volunteers 41 Educational support (Page 284) Technological support to emerging countries Educational support for future generations Scholarships, internships Harmony with communities (Page 288) Support for arts and culture Support for promotion of sports Activities with local residents 42 CSR and Strategy Participation in the Global Compact Participation in the Global Compact Building a System for Uniﬁed Group Action In October 2008, Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s participation in the United Nations Global Compact was acknowledged. The United Nations Global Compact, proposed by former United Nations SecretaryGeneral Koﬁ Annan in 1999 at the World Economic Forum, presents a unique strategic platform for companies to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship. The Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of inﬂuence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. In August 2008, we established our Group Compliance Guidelines. And in September 2008, we revised our Handbook for Corporate Ethics, adding items such as the abolition of forced labor and child labor. In this way, we are incorporating the spirit of the Global Compact into our Group management strategy and putting it into action in our business activities as we strive to contribute to a sustainable society and raise the Daikin Group's corporate value. See Group Compliance Guidelines (Page 243) See Compliance and Risk Management Eﬀorts (Page 246) Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 43 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Key Activities List of Fiscal 2015 Key Activities ……………………………………………………………………………………………………… 45 Environment: Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming ………………………… 47 New Value Creation: Collaborative Innovation with Other Industries and Fields ………………………………………… 54 Customer Satisfaction: Giving Customers a Selection of Products That Meets Their Future Needs ………………… 58 Human Resources: Transferring Japanese Skills to Ensure High-Quality Production Worldwide ……………………… 62 44 Fiscal 2015 Key Activities Environment Japanʼs Environmental Technologies Becoming the Global Standard Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming DAIKINʼS APPROACH Disseminating Environmental Technologies that Mitigate the Eﬀects of Air Conditioners on Climate Change Creating a New Market that Beneﬁts Local Economies, Daikin Business, and Environment DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE Free Access to Daikin Patents Worldwide Hastens Dissemination of Low-Global-Warming-Potential HFC-32 Refrigerant Adressing Local Challenges in India to Create a New Market for HFC-32 Dissemination Cooperating with Government and Industry on Technical Support in Thailand and Malaysia Daikin Helps Mitigate Environmental Impact of Refrigerants Worldwide through a Clear Policy Stance Creating the Performance Evaluation Standards Essential to Dissemination of Inverter Technology Supporting the Indian Government in the Introduction of an Index and Labeling System for the Proper Evaluation of Energy Performance NEXT CHALLENGE Continue to Create New Markets through Collaboration with Stakeholders New Value Creating New Value to Meet the Creation Expectations of Customers and Society Collaborative Innovation with Other Industries and Fields DAIKINʼS APPROACH Creating New Value Inside and Outside the Company 45 DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE The Technology and Innovation Center: A Core Facility Bringing Together Daikinʼs R&D Functions “Airitmo” Proprietary Technology Developed with Outside Collaboration for Next-Generation Oﬃces NEXT CHALLENGE Contribute to Solutions for Society through New Value in Air Environment Customer Providing Products that Make Satisfaction Customers Happy in Turkeyʼs Growing Market Giving Customers a Selection of Products That Meets Their Future Needs DAIKINʼS APPROACH Developing Products and Providing Information in Response to Customer Needs DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE Revamped Website and Catalogs Promote Better Customer Understanding Customers Experience Products at fuha:ISTANBUL Training Helps Dealers and Distributors Convey Information from the Customers Viewpoint NEXT CHALLENGE Help Both Customers and the Environment by Raising Awareness of Energy-Eﬃcient Products Human Rapid Growth in Overseas Resources Production and Employees Transferring Japanese Skills to Ensure High-Quality Production Worldwide DAIKINʼS APPROACH Global System for Skills Transfer Amid Expanding Overseas Production DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE Takumi Skills Mentoring System Spreads Across the Globe Overseas Engineers Account for More Than 60% of Top Finishers in Global Skills Competition NEXT CHALLENGE Take Fast Track to Designating Takumi at Overseas Bases 46 Japanʼs Environmental Technologies Becoming the Global Standard Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming DAIKINʼS APPROACH Disseminating Environmental Technologies that Mitigate the Eﬀects of Air Conditioners on Climate Change Air conditioners make peopleʼs lives more Estimates for Reduction of Global Greenhouse comfortable and productive, but we cannot Gas Emissions (Residential Air Conditioners) overlook their contribution to climate change through hydroﬂuorocarbon refrigerants and energy consumption. Global warming is expected to become a growing problem in the economically advancing emerging countries where air conditioner demand is on the rise. An eﬀective means of reducing the Earthʼs overall global warming is to spread the use of energy-eﬃcient air conditioners that use refrigerants with low global warming potential in emerging countries and regions. As the only company in the world producing both * 2010 global greenhouse gas emissions: 49 billion tons-CO2 air conditioners and their refrigerants, Daikin has (Contribution of Working Group III to the Fifth Assessment Report of the IPCC) striven to mitigate the eﬀects of climate change Note: Compiled by Daikin based on “Beneﬁts of Leapfrogging from the standpoint of both refrigerants and to Supereﬃciency and Low Global Warming Potential Refrigerants in Room Air Conditioning (2015),” published energy consumption. For example, we have been by Ernest Orlando Lawrence Berkley National Laboratory working toward greater worldwide dissemination of air conditioners using HFC-32, a refrigerant with lower global warming potential than conventional refrigerants. We have been striving to increase the ratio of highly eﬃcient inverter (variable speed) products in countries where there is still a low penetration rate of such products. 47 Creating a New Market that Beneﬁts Local Economies, Daikin Business, and Environment In order to disseminate new low-global-warming-potential refrigerants and energy-eﬃcient technologies, Daikin must demonstrate these refrigerantsʼ reduced environmental impact and it must promote the proper understanding of their safety and economy. By changing conventional market concepts and building mechanisms that properly evaluate and use these new technologies, we have succeeded in creating a new market that is open to the application of these technologies. But Daikin cannot do it alone: eﬀorts will only succeed through cooperation among many stakeholders, including local governments, industry groups, local manufacturers, and product installers. Daikin works with the government of Japan, United Nations organs, and international organizations to spread the use of its environmental technologies and thus help create a new market. The thorough creation of a new market not only provides end users with high-performance products at the earliest possible time; it also leads to higher local technological levels and greater advancement of regional industry. Opportunities for Daikin to grow its business and contribute to the mitigation of environmental impact also extet. The result of all this is that we are aiming to ensure beneﬁts for local economies, Daikin business, and the environment: a “win win win” situation. Creating a New Market for the Dissemination of Environmentally Conscious Technologies Daikin Strives to Spread the Use of Refrigerants with Low Global Warming Potential by Collaborating with Governments and International Organizations on Technical Support in Emerging Countries DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE Free Access to Daikin Patents Worldwide Hastens Dissemination of Low-GlobalWarming-Potential HFC-32 Refrigerant 48 The Montreal Protocol and the Kyoto Protocol restrict the use of conventional refrigerants that deplete the ozone layer and contribute to global warming, making conversion to next-generation refrigerants a pressing issue. Choosing a next-generation refrigerant must of course take into account overall factors such as environmental performance, safety, and economic performance, but its suitability for use in diﬀerent kinds of products including air conditioners, hot water heaters, and refrigeration equipment must also be considered. As a result of international-level discussions and exhaustive evaluations and considerations, Daikin has concluded that HFC-32 is an optimal refrigerant for residential and commercial air conditioners and is working to promote its use worldwide. Daikin had sold 6.5 million HFC-32 air conditioners in 48 countries as of the end of ﬁscal 2015. To allow manufacturers around the world to manufacture HFC-32 air conditioners and contribute to its further dissemination, since 2011 we have oﬀered free access in emerging countries to a cumulative total of 93 patents related to the manufacture and sale of HFC-32 air conditioners. In September 2015, we extended this access to all countries, thus embarking on free access to those patents in developed countries, where regulations for refrigerants are becoming increasingly strict. It is estimated that if all air conditioners in developed countries using the conventional R-410A were converted to HFC-32, the global warming impact from HFCs in 2030 could be reduced by 19%, or 800 million tons CO2-equivalent. Daikinʼs Refrigerant Direction The following summary shows our direction of refrigerant choice for various products in the Daikin product portfolio. Note: Other refrigerants not listed above are also applied in products outside of Daikinʼs portfolio, some examples include hydrocarbons (isobutane, propane, etc.) for residential refrigerators and window air conditioners or HFO refrigerants for mobile air conditioners. Adressing Local Challenges in India to Create a New Market for HFC-32 Dissemination Spreading the use of the new refrigerant HFC-32 requires eﬀorts in manufacturing and sales as well as in promoting understanding and technical advancement. In many emerging countries, mildly ﬂammable HFC-32 is considered the same as highly ﬂammable refrigerants such as propane. The use of such refrigerants is limited. 49 In ﬁscal 2012, Daikin conducted HFC-32 inverter air conditioner demonstration tests in eight locations in four cities in India as part of the Study of Countermeasures Against Global Warming of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan (METI). The results show that HFC-32 is safe to use when handled properly and that when used in combination with inverters can reduce CO2 emissions by at least 30% compared to conventional refrigerants. In December 2013, we held a seminar for Indian government oﬃcials, members of the Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Manufacturers Association (RAMA), and other concerned parties, where we promoted greater understanding of HFC-32 by explaining the results of the study and the beneﬁts of HFC-32. We were also able to raise individual technical skills through training sessions on proper handling of HFC-32 for 3,600 air conditioner installers and service engineers. As a result of these eﬀorts, since Daikin began selling HFC-32 air conditioners in India in 2013, more than 10% of air conditioners sold each year, including those by local manufacturers, use HFC-32. Cooperating with Government and Industry on Technical Support in Thailand and Malaysia Through Daikinʼs eﬀorts in India, the company acquired experience and know-how that would allow it to identify local needs and further spread the use of HFC-32 by cooperating with the governments of Japan and India and with international organizations. Leveraging our success in India, starting in ﬁscal 2015 in Thailand we took part in a METI-launched support project on request from the World Bank and the government of Thailand, and in April we started activities including technical support for conversion to HFC-32 for local manufacturers. In February 2016, we began a similar project in Malaysia on request from that countryʼs Technical support activity in Malaysia government. By building the market environment through eﬀorts including training technicians and creating standards, in addition to building a distribution network and conducting marketing, Daikin has globally launched air conditioners using HFC-32 and thus contributed to the mitigation of global warming impact. For this, we received the Ministerʼs Prize of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Fiscal 2015 Grand Prize for Excellence in Energy Eﬃciency and Conservation, organized by the Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ). Daikin Helps Mitigate Environmental Impact of Refrigerants Worldwide through a Clear Policy Stance Although we are working to spread the use of HFC-32 refrigerant in residential and commercial air conditioners around the world, our policy is to choose an optimal refrigerant for each application. We clariﬁed this policy and published it in the Daikinʼs Policy and Comprehensive Actions on the Environmental Impact of Refrigerants in December 2015 so that concerned industry parties could refer to it when choosing refrigerants. In addition to Daikinʼs thoughts on choosing refrigerants detailed in sections on diversity of refrigerant selection, the policy paper declares Daikinʼs stance of working to further reduce environmental impact throughout the refrigerantʼs entire lifecycle. As a leading air conditioner company, with the goal of solving the increasingly important issue of proper recovery and recycling of refrigerants, Daikin is clarifying its policy and building the necessary mechanisms for establishing appropriate systems and infrastructure together with relevant stakeholders. 50 Cumulative Number of HFC-32 Air Conditioners Sold by the Daikin Group Helping Create Energy-Eﬃciency Performance Evaluation Standards and Working with Emerging Country Governments and Industry Groups to Boost Awareness of Inverter Products Creating the Performance Evaluation Standards Essential to Dissemination of Inverter Technology Highly energy-eﬃcient inverter air conditioners are ideal for emerging countries, which face problems such as severe energy shortages due to rapid economic growth and which must take prompt measures to deal with global warming. An inverter air conditioner is a product using inverter technology for controlling the voltage, current, and frequency of the air conditioning mechanisms. It consumes about 30% less electricity than a non-inverter air conditioner. Although inverter air conditioners have a 100% penetration rate in Japan, the rate is still low in the rest of the world; for example, in Asian countries excluding Japan and China the rate is only about 20%. One reason for this is that there are no mechanisms in place to evaluate the energy-eﬃciency performance of inverter products. In the past, the most common index for evaluating an air conditionerʼs energyeﬃciency performance was COP (coeﬃcient of performance), under which the amount of energy consumed was calculated at a ﬁxed eﬃciency without adjusting for air temperature changes. However, COP cannot be used to properly evaluate the performance of inverter products, which operate at an optimal level depending on the changes in ambient temperature. Therefore, Japanʼs air conditioner industry has led calls for a switch to using APF (annual performance factor), and since 2013 APF has been used in ISO standards. Daikin is helping build evaluation standards in the emerging countries where this new index is in the process of being adopted. 51 Inverter Products as Percentage of All Residential Air Conditioners Worldwide (2015) Note: Residential air conditioners: Ductless air conditioners other than window and portable type products. Only in North America does the category include duct-type air conditioners for residential use. Source: Compiled by Daikin based on data from the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association Supporting the Indian Government in the Introduction of an Index and Labeling System for the Proper Evaluation of Energy Performance In India in 2013, Daikin began assisting with the introduction of the CSPF (cooling seasonal performance factor) method for evaluation of cooling operation. Together with METI, the ECCJ, and other Japanese manufacturers, we explained the eﬀectiveness of CSPF to the Indian government. As a result of support we provided in creating systems from a technical standpoint, in ﬁscal 2015 a new voluntary energy label system was launched that used CSPF as the evaluation standard for properly evaluating inverter products. Daikin residential air conditioners were the ﬁrst to earn labels under this system. In the ASEAN region, where it has already been decided to introduce an energy label system for inverter products, in ﬁscal 2016 we will continue collaborating with the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association to promote understanding of CSPF and provide support toward the harmonization of the system in all countries. It is hoped that standardization and energy label systems will raise awareness of inverter products and help disseminate energy eﬃcient air conditioners, and in turn lead to a mitigation of the global warming impact from air conditioners. A Daikin air conditioner in India bears a new energy label representing an index for the proper evaluation of inverter products. 52 As the Only Manufacturer of Both Air Conditioners and Their Refrigerants, Daikin Strives to Mitigate Global Warming Throughout the Entire Lifecycle NEXT CHALLENGE Continue to Create New Markets through Collaboration with Stakeholders Daikin has worked with a range of stakeholders̶ including the governments of Japan and other countries, international organizations, and industry groups̶to mitigate the impact of global warming through its refrigerant and inverter technologies. These eﬀorts are beginning to carve out a path to a new market environment. By forging ahead with the dissemination of its environmental technologies and promoting infrastructure building, Daikin is working with a range of stakeholders to beneﬁt not just itself but local economies, Daikin business, and environment: a “win win win” situation. And as the only manufacturer of both air conditioners and their refrigerants, our mission is to reduce global warming impact throughout the entire lifecycle. Adoption of Standard Contributes to Climate Change Mitigation and Sustainable Development in India The introduction of a seasonal energy eﬃciency ratio standard in India was an important step in accelerating the penetration Sanjay Seth of energy eﬃcient air-conditioners in the Indian market. The Energy Economist and increased market demand for energy-eﬃcient air conditioners Secretary (O), Bureau of will not only help to reduce the peak loads but also contribute Energy Eﬃciency (BEE), Ministry of Power, India to mitigating climate change issues signiﬁcantly. We acknowledge the support of the air conditioning industry for working closely with BEE and developing Indian Seasonal Energy Eﬃciency Ratio standards. We also recognize the lead taken by Daikin in increasing the energy eﬃciency of air conditioners and contributing to the overall sustainable development of India. 53 Creating New Value to Meet the Expectations of Customers and Society Collaborative Innovation with Other Industries and Fields DAIKINʼS APPROACH Creating New Value Inside and Outside the Company In order to meet diverse customer needs and create Internal Collaboration and External new value that contributes to society, it is important Collaboration that Daikin ﬁrst build up its technological superiority by leading further advanced technologies: inverters, heat pumps, and ﬂuorochemicals. It is also important to combine state-of-the-art technologies from around the world̶such as informationcommunication, sensors, materials, processing, medicine, and healthcare̶with Daikin technologies to come out with products and services that provide new value to customers. Todayʼs world of unprecedented and rapid technological change requires the creation of new value, which is only possible through collaborative innovation that fuses a wide range of knowledge and technologies and takes us beyond current boundaries. The key to success will be how well we pool the strengths of Daikin and its external partners to create and provide new products and services that bring happiness and joy to peopleʼs lifestyles. Also crucial will be how well we come up with technologies that contribute to solving the problems society faces in the ﬁelds of environment, health, and medicine. To this end, Daikin established the Technology and Innovation Center in November 2015 with the aim of promoting collaboration with external partners in order to contribute to society through the creation of new value. 54 DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE The Technology and Innovation Center: A Core Facility Bringing Together Daikinʼs R&D Functions Located in Settsu City, Osaka Prefecture, the Technology and Innovation Center (TIC) is a core technology development facility that brings together about 700 Daikin engineers from a range of disciplines. Representing the collective power of the Daikin Groupʼs engineers, the TIC does more than just create technologies: it delves deeply into research themes, researches and develops new technologies, and promptly brings them to market in new products and services through collaboration across TIC and the other divisions in Daikin. At the same time, a key mission of the TIC is to strengthen cooperation and tie-ups with companies, universities, and research institutes possessing unique technologies in their particular industry or ﬁeld, inviting people, information, and technologies from around the world, resulting in collaboration with Daikin in giving birth to innovation. To facilitate collaboration inside and outside the company, the TIC features a range of facilities where engineers can gather for lively and meaningful discussion. These include the Waigaya Stage, which is always ready to spur-of-the-moment meetings; the Future LAB for debate among Daikin and other industry engineers; and the CHI-NO-MORI, where participants can brainstorm with regards to Daikin core technologies as well as cutting-edge technologies currently under development. In addition, there are fellow rooms in which guests such as university professors and opinion leaders from around Japan and the world can give presentations. These rooms have so far been used as oﬃces where Daikin can work with representatives of universities with which the company is conducting joint R&D, including Kyoto University, Osaka University, and the Nara Institute of Science and Technology. Eiichi Negishi, a distinguished professor at Purdue University and a recipient of the 2010 Nobel Prize in Chemistry, has also provided technological guidance to Daikin here. The TIC has other world-class facilities. These include the Electromagnetic Semi-Anechoic Chamber, the ﬁrst of its kind in the world, for the separate measurement of electromagnetic noise generated by the indoor and outdoor units of air conditioners; and the Sleep and Metabolism Laboratory, where actual human living conditions have been created for experimental purposes. Collaborative Innovation Creates New Value for Peopleʼs Lifestyles Based on the Relation between Air Environments and Peopleʼs Bodies and Minds “Airitmo” Proprietary Technology Developed with Outside Collaboration for Next-Generation Oﬃces Collaboration is more than just a way for Daikin to use air conditioning to control air environments. By undertaking extensive research covering themes such as living spaces, towns, cities, and infrastructure for regions, we seek to create new value for peopleʼs lifestyles through the study of physiology and psychology as it involves to the relation between air environments and peopleʼs bodies. 55 For example, for the past 15 years Daikin has been conducting R&D on the theme of improving peopleʼs sleeping environment through air conditioning by using sensing technology that monitors peopleʼs physical state. The result was the development of our proprietary sensing technology, called Airitmo. By measuring the vibration of air within a tube, the technology allows measurement of physical information such as heart rate, breathing, body movement, state of sleep, and stress. Since it does not involve attaching apparatus to a person, it places no burden on the human body. This technology made possible the Oﬃce chairs equipped with Airitmo technology in the 3X3 development of Daikinʼs Soine controller, which Lab Future, a next-generation oﬃce measures how deeply a person is sleeping so that the air conditioning can be adjusted to the most comfortable level. In March 2016, oﬃce chairs equipped with Airitmo technology were installed in the 3x3 Lab Future of Mitsubishi Estate Co., Ltd., a site for the sharing of business ideas. The products are the result of two years of veriﬁcation experiments on the correlation between oﬃce environments and peopleʼs physical and mental state in order to realize an air environment matched to an individualʼs current state of health. The aim is the realization of the next-generation oﬃce in which people enjoy greater comfort and productivity and thus get their work done smoothly. 56 NEXT CHALLENGE Contribute to Solutions for Society through New Value in Air Environment Daikinʼs Airitmo sensing technology is indispensable to the development of air conditioners that achieve a comfortable and healthy air environment, as well as a key development theme at the TIC. We will continue to promote collaborative innovation both inside and outside Daikin in order to realize air environments that help solve a range of social issues, such as our increasingly aging population. Coming up with solutions requires ﬁnding technologies that can make a range of thoughts and ideas into reality. At the TIC, engineers work closely with experts in ﬁelds such as sociology, anthropology, and cognitive science in order to create new value that improves the air environments where we live. Want to See Daikin Create Totally New Value Contributing to Solutions for Society At TIC, we would like to see Daikin create totally new value solutions geared to a diverse society; for example, zero-netenergy air conditioning systems and portable mobile air Tai Lee Siang conditioning systems. We believe that by developing air Vice-Chairman, World conditioning solutions with a focus not just on indoor air but on Green Building Council outdoor air as well, Daikin can contribute to solving problems such as air pollution and climate change. 57 Providing Products that Make Customers Happy in Turkeyʼs Growing Market Giving Customers a Selection of Products That Meets Their Future Needs DAIKINʼS APPROACH Developing Products and Providing Information in Response to Customer Needs The Daikin Group continuously steps up its worldwide marketing research functions and uses customer opinions to improve R&D and services. A local market survey by Daikin Isıtma ve Soğutma Sistemleri San. Tic. A.Ş. (Daikin Turkey) found that The Miyora model employs a simply designed panel customers like modern-looking interiors, so the that proved popular with Turkish consumers company introduced a new model especially for the Turkish market that featured a newly designed indoor unit. Called Miyora, this ﬁscal 2015 model won the Good Design Award. Turkeyʼs burgeoning economic growth is spurring rapid expansion of the air conditioning market. But the use of air conditioners in family homes has only begun to spread in the past few years. Since Turkish homes have varying room sizes and ceiling heights, it was diﬃcult to choose an appropriate capacity of air conditioner. Another issue was that many customers said they didnʼt understand the eﬀect of functions other than cooling; for example, functions related to energy eﬃciency, humidifying and dehumidifying, and air sterilization. 58 Daikin Turkey wanted to oﬀer air conditioner customers more than just cooling; they wanted to oﬀer environmental beneﬁts, comfort, and convenience as well. So it began providing customers with more extensive information, knowing that selecting the optimal air conditioner size and energy eﬃciency doesnʼt just save electricity expenses but also helps protect the environment. The company conveyed the beneﬁts of certain functions; for example, how humidity control prevents over-cooling to contribute to health and comfort. As a result of this information, customers have been better able to choose suitable products for them. DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE Revamped Website and Catalogs Promote Better Customer Understanding Daikin Turkey strives to provide information on its website that makes it easier for customers to select the best air conditioner for their needs. For example, the website has a product search program in which customers input information about the room where the air conditioner is to be installed. The program automatically calculates the necessary air conditioner capacity and displays a list of relevant models. Customers can also search by price and energyeﬃciency ranking, making it easier for them to get the information that is relevant to them. Product catalogs have undergone a drastic overhaul in order to give customers comprehensive information on product features such as quality and functions. For example, to clearly explain the no-water-supply humidiﬁcation function on Ururu Sarara, there are diagrams of the functionʼs mechanism, explanations of the need for humidiﬁcation and the comfort provided by humidity control, and data and photographs on the beneﬁts of air sterilization and other functions. Product Search Program on Website The improved, easy-to-understand catalog uses data and Users input information such as how a room is used, its photographs. ceiling height, number of windows and which direction they face, and the city they live in, and the program automatically calculates the air conditioner capacity and models that are right for them. 59 Developing Human Resources Dedicated to Helping Customers Choose Satisfactory Products Customers Experience Products at fuha:ISTANBUL Daikinʼs worldwide showrooms display stateof-the-art products and solutions that give customers a reference point from which to select their Daikin air conditioner. June 2015 marked the opening of fuha:ISTANBUL, where customers can not only see air conditioners but also experience ﬁrsthand the air provided by Daikin air conditioners. Although the majority of visitors are dealers and construction companies, Daikin Turkey makes the showroom accessible to end-users as well. By providing ﬁrsthand experience of functions and eﬀects, the showroom is also a place to gather opinions on Daikin products. fuha:ISTANBUL is promoting understanding of product performance among dealers and distributors Training Helps Dealers and Distributors Convey Information from the Customers Viewpoint To allow customers to select products they are convinced about and satisﬁed with, it is ﬁrst necessary for sales representatives to understand products and oﬀer customers quality solutions and service. Daikin Turkey runs the Daikin Turkey Academy to train not only its own employees but those of dealers and distributors as well. The academy improves the skills of participants through a wide range of training held in major Turkish cities and surrounding countries; for example, training in sales products, service, and foreign language training. At the Daikin Turkey Academy, participants learn about In ﬁscal 2016, Daikin Turkey plans to train HFC-32 refrigerant. approximately 1,500 participants from dealers and distributors in Daikinʼs ﬂagship energy-eﬃcient products, using newly published catalogs as reference materials. The company also oﬀers courses on subjects including the ErP Directive and energy labeling, and the LEED green building energy certiﬁcation program, as part of eﬀorts to work with dealers and distributors in responding promptly to customersʼ increasingly advancing environmental needs. 60 NEXT CHALLENGE Help Both Customers and the Environment by Raising Awareness of Energy-Eﬃcient Products Daikin Turkey is working to increase its strength in planning and proposals in order to help customers choose energy-eﬃcient air conditioners with conﬁdence. The company wants customers to be satisﬁed with beneﬁts such as comfort and economy, but it also wants to spread the use of environmentally conscious products so that the air conditioner market will have less of an impact on the environment. New, Easy-to-Understand Catalog Helps Convince Our Customers of Daikin Quality In Turkey, we often visit customersʼ houses to help them select an air conditioner. Catalogs are an indispensable part of this process. The latest Daikin product catalog uses illustrations Mira Demir and photographs to show the necessity and eﬀectiveness of air President, Koneva conditioner functions. It helps customers not wellversed in air Mühendislik (Daikin conditioners understand the products and allows them to ask dealer) more detailed questions. This makes the catalog a valuable tool for enhancing communication. The catalog explains Daikinʼs track record and technological prowess and thus helps convince customers that Daikin air conditioners are well worth the price. 61 Rapid Growth in Overseas Production and Employees Transferring Japanese Skills to Ensure High-Quality Production Worldwide DAIKINʼS APPROACH Global System for Skills Transfer Amid Expanding Overseas Production Brazing, lathing, sheet metal processing, arc System for Global Skills Transfer welding, die and mold making, jig and tool making ̶these are just some of the skills that form the foundation of manufacturing. Even today, amid the increasing automation of lines where air conditioners are manufactured, people working the lines still have to be taught these manual skills. This is because transferring these skills gives technicians passion and pride in their work, and because taking the initiative to improve quality leads to continuous better products. Daikin possesses superior fundamental skills and focuses on training engineers so that they can teach these skills to others. In the ﬁrst decade of the 21st century in Japan, Japanʼs baby boomer generation began retiring in large numbers, and at Daikin we had to ensure that our unique skills were properly transferred on to the next generation. It was also a time when the number of overseas manufacturing bases was growing rapidly, and we were pressed to train engineers at our bases in regions around the world. 62 To this end, we launched the Daikin Group Skills Succession Committee, creating a system for training engineers under which engineers with outstanding skills are designated as “Takumi” and Takumi candidates are designated as “Trainers.” Since 2013, succession committees have been established in four regions around the world, working to create an environment in which Takumi and Trainers provide skills guidance to their colleagues. Daikin bases around the world have also been working autonomously to transfer skills. DAIKINʼS PERFORMANCE Takumi Skills Mentoring System Spreads Across the Globe For trainers to be designated as Takumi, they must possess a high level of skills and coaching ability. At the Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan, Takumi provide trainers with guidance in a 16-week training program. Besides learning guidance theories and basic skills knowledge, trainers undergo practical hands-on lessons that help them acquire the ability to give clear explanations to others and to come up with improvement solutions when problems arise during manufacturing processes. Being taught directly by Takumi in a free and open atmosphere ignites the trainersʼ passion and pride in being a Daikin engineer, and further spurs their enthusiasm to, in turn, become Takumi themselves who provide guidance to the next generation of trainers. To give an example, a Belgian trainer at Daikin Europe N.V. who possessed outstanding brazing skills, improved the teaching methods used in training engineers at the companyʼs factory, which led to quality improvements. This trainer succeeded in reducing brazing defects by one-third, and went on to teach engineers at other bases and Daikin suppliers, as a result becoming the ﬁrst overseas engineer to earn the designation of Takumi. This is a big step towards Daikinʼs European bases taking control of skills transfer themselves, and will motivate more Daikin engineers in the region to seek Takumi designation. System for Training Excellent Skilled Engineers 63 Fostering Takumi the Core of Autonomy in Skills at Overseas Bases Overseas Engineers Account for More Than 60% of Top Finishers in Global Skills Competition Daikinʼs skills competitions constitute another pillar of skills transfer. Held every second year since 2004, the Global Skills Competition raises the level engineers by having them face oﬀ against each other in contests of the skills they have learned. Engineers who give exemplary performances in this event become Trainer candidates. With each successive competition, more overseas bases take part and a greater percentage of overseas participants account for the top ﬁnishers. At the sixth Global Skills Competition in October 2014, 145 competitors (70 of them from overseas bases) took part after getting through the preliminary rounds held at 28 bases in 13 countries. Of the top 33 ﬁnishers in the ﬁnal, 21 (64%) were from overseas. Through this competition, the Daikin Group is able to boost employee motivation, give overseas engineers better skills, and prevent the loss of valuable technical skills. The Daikin Global Skills Competition 64 NEXT CHALLENGE Take Fast Track to Designating Takumi at Overseas Bases Daikinʼs regional skills succession committees have been striving to foster Takumi, who lead eﬀorts in skills transfer, at the earliest possible date. The aim is to have each Daikin worldwide base build a better system for autonomously fostering engineers who possess skills, leadership, and the ability to come up with solutions on the ﬂy during manufacturing. By boosting the level of skills and enthusiasm, we want ensure the same high level of Daikin quality worldwide and become a corporate group that continues to stay ahead of our competitors. I Will Continue to Pass on My Skills and Dreams to Young Engineers Worldwide It is a joy and an honor to be able to share my experiences with the younger generation of engineers, to teach them skills, and to show them respect. When teaching them, I stress the Marc Bertens following three points: have pride and loyalty; never lose sight Daikin Europe N.V. of your dream; and take on challenges with passion and dedication. So, have the passion to realize your dreams and the determination to never give up. I want to continue sharing my skills and my dreams with people around the world. 65 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Environment Basic Environmental Policy and Management and Reduction of Environmental Action Plan …………………………… 69 Chemical Substances ………………………………… 116 Overview of Environmental Impact ………………… 73 Management and Reduction of Response to Climate Change ………………………… 74 Chemical Substances in Products……………… 117 Increasing Air Conditioner Eﬃciency …………… 76 Management and Reduction of Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants ………… 83 Chemical Substances During Production …… 118 Promoting the Use of Inverter Products ………… 87 Compliance with J-Moss ………………………… 121 Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Environmental Management ……………………… 124 Type Space and Hot Water Heaters …………… 89 Environmental Management System ………… 125 Energy-Eﬃciency through Fluorochemical Environmental Risk Management …………… 131 Products and Oil Hydraulic Products …………… 92 Environmental Accounting ……………………… 135 Reducing Greenhouse Gases during Environmentally Conscious Design …………… 139 Production and Transportation …………………… 96 Green Procurement ……………………………… 144 Recovery and Destruction Green Heart Factories and of Fluorocarbons …………………………………… 101 Green Heart Oﬃces ……………………………… 149 Eﬀective Use of Resources ………………………… 108 Environmental Communication ………………… 150 Eﬀective Use of Resources in Products ……… 109 Protecting Biodiversity ……………………………… 152 Waste Reduction…………………………………… 113 Protecting Biodiversity …………………………… 153 Water Resource Reduction ……………………… 114 Biodiversity Awareness …………………………… 161 History of Environmental Activities ……………… 162 Endorsement as an Eco First Company ………… 165 66 CSR for Value Provision Environment Achieving both Environmental Protection and Business Expansion Environmental problems such as climate change constitute top priorities for manufacturers. In addition, air conditioners, which represent a pilar of Daikinʼs business, consume large amounts of energy during their operation, and hydroﬂuorocarbons that are used as refrigerants contribute to climate change. We are striving to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout the entire supply chain, develop products and services, and carry out environmental and social contribution to contribute to sustainable growth both for Daikin and for the Earth. Introduce State-of-the-art Technologies to the Market in Order to Address Environmental and Energy Issues In all aspects of our management ̶product development, manufacture, and sales ̶ we strive to improve environmental sustainability in every way possible, develop products and advanced technologies that realize a more environmentally healthy world, and contribute to the solution of environmental and energy problems. Among these eﬀorts, we focus on reducing both hydroﬂuorocarbon emissions generated during product manufacture and energy consumed during air conditioner operation, which are the major contributors to climate change. 67 Basic Environmental Policy Overview of Environmental History of Environmental and Environmental Action Impact Activities Plan The Daikin Group works We report on the overall impact We present an annual report of systematically to protect the of our business activities on the the environmental protection environment through the environment (through the activities of the Daikin Group. formulation of the Basic categories of input and output). Environmental Policy and ﬁve-year Environmental Action Plans. Response to Climate Management of Chemical Eﬀective Use of Resources Change Substances We place top priority on the We work to reduce and recycle Based on Daikinʼs voluntary development and dissemination waste. We also strive to make restrictions, we strictly manage of energy-eﬃcient air eﬀective use of water resources. chemical substances used in conditioners and low-globalproduction processes. warming-potential refrigerants, and we focus on minimizing greenhouse gas emissions during the manufacturing stage. Environmental Endorsement as an Protecting Biodiversity Management Eco-First Company We have built a global We strive to protect biodiversity Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been environmental management through our business activities endorsed as an Eco First system covering the entire Daikin and environmental contribution Company under the Eco First Group. activities. Program of Japanʼs Ministry of the Environment. 68 Environment Basic Environmental Policy and Environmental Action Plan Basic Environmental Policy of the Daikin Group Environmental Philosophy Be a Company that Leads in Applying Environmentally Friendly Practices As we continue developing our business operations in various ﬁelds, it is our mission to proactively develop initiatives to respond to environmental issues. Incorporating environmental initiatives throughout our management must be a priority for us. In all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing and sales, we need to formulate initiatives that sustain and improve the environment. Meanwhile, we need to promote the development of new products and the innovation of technologies that will lead to a more environmentally healthy world. Under the precept environmental response is an important management resource, we must integrate environmental initiatives into our corporate management since they can lead to business expansion, improved business performance, and further enhancement of our credibility with outside parties. We intend to continue being a leading company in the practice of environmental management, thus contributing to a healthier global environment as a good citizen of the earth. Action Guidelines 1. Ensure that all members of the Group deepen our understanding of environmental issues and take responsibility for the impact our actions have on society in general. 2. Establish, promote, and continuously improve an Environmental Management System to actively and eﬀectively implement Environmental Management as a Group. 3. Develop and implement environmental initiatives in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, production, sales, distribution, services, and recycling. In particular, be a leader in society by developing products, technologies, and business opportunities that contribute to sustaining and improving our environment. 4. Implement environmental initiatives that are globally consistent as well as promote initiatives that respond to the particular circumstances of each country and region. Furthermore, actively promote cooperation and alliances with related companies, external organizations, and institutions. 5. Disclose environmentally related information in a truthful and fair manner. Listen to the views of people both inside and outside the company to continuously improve our environmental preservation eﬀorts. 69 The Daikin Environment Symbol In February 2002, we created an environmental symbol for the Daikin Group. In environmental protection activities, the little eﬀorts that individuals make add up to big things. The symbol, the Earth in the shape of a green heart, represents a determination on the part of each and every employee of Daikin to think green (think of the Earth and take care of the environment). Environmental Action Plan 2015 The Daikin Group positions environmental protection as one of its most important management tasks. Based on our strategic management plans, we formulate environmental action plans toward our goal of contributing to environmental protection in every way possible while simultaneously growing our business. Under our Environmental Action Plan 2015, which targeted ﬁscal 2015, we strove for results based on the three pillars of (1) providing environmentally conscious products, (2) eco-conscious factories and oﬃces, and (3) environmental cooperation with stakeholders. For (1), we calculated that we were able to reduce CO2 emissions by 29.93 million tons-CO2 in emerging countries by spreading the use of energy-eﬃcient inverter products. We also calculated that we were able to reduce CO2 emissions by 4.87 million tons-CO2 in industrialized countries through the spread of energyeﬃcient air conditioners and the low-global-warming-potential refrigerant HFC-32. The result was total worldwide CO2 emission reductions of 34.8 million tons-CO2 in ﬁscal 2015. For (2), we were able to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 70% (from 4.14 million tons-CO2 to 1.26 million tons-CO2), thus exceeding our target of a two-thirds (67%) reduction. For (3), we continued biodiversity protection activities at 21 bases worldwide as we were able to strengthen ties with local communities and boost environmental awareness among our employees. In ﬁscal 2016, we embarked upon Environmental Action Plan 2020, which is based on the Fusion 20 strategic management plan. Besides targeting the spread of inverter products in emerging countries, conversion to low-global-warming-potential refrigerants, and the spread of energy-eﬃcient products in industrialized countries, we aim to contribute to CO2 reductions of 60 million tons-CO2 through our products. 70 Environmental Action Plan 2015 FY2015 Self Action targets FY2015 target values results assessment Providing Environmentally Conscious Products Provide the world with products that help customers reduce CO2 emissions. Through expansion in the widespread use of energysaving products such as those using inverters, aim to help Estimated curtail CO2 emissions by 30 29.93 million Disseminating energy-eﬃcient air million* tons for emerging tons-CO2 conditioners to reduce CO2 emissions. countries. curtailment Develop next-generation refrigerants. Disseminated air conditioners Note: Underwent ★★★ using HFC-32 third-party Disseminate heat-pump type heating review * Estimate of CO2 emission systems. reductions from the use of Sold 6.5 Oﬀer energy-saving solutions. energy-eﬃcient inverter products million units in sold by Daikin, compared to CO2 emissions from the use of 48 countries non-inverter products. The emission reductions ﬁgure is annual reduction amount multiplied by product lifespan. Environmentally-conscious Factories & Oﬃces Minimize environmental impact from production and other activities. Reduce ﬁscal 2015 levels to 70% 1/3 (67%) of the level ★★★ reduction compared with ﬁscal 2005. Reduce per-unit CO2 from energy 23% Reduce CO2 Japan ★★★ Greenhouse gases use by 20% against reduction emissions. ﬁscal 2005. Reduce per-unit CO2 from energy Overseas 3% increase ★ use by 10% against ﬁscal 2010. Machinery-related: Reduce per-unit 9% reduction ★★★ emissions by 5% against ﬁscal 2010. Japan Reduce overall Chemical-related: amount of waste by Reduce per-unit 19% Waste ★★★ eﬀectively using emissions by 10% reduction resources. against ﬁscal 2010. Reduce per-unit emissions at all Overseas 3% reduction ★ bases by 10% against ﬁscal 2010. 71 Reduce per-unit Japan emissions by 5% 4% reduction ★★ against ﬁscal 2010. Reduce amount Water Reduce per-unit used. emissions at all 18% Overseas ★★★ bases by 10% reduction against ﬁscal 2010. Reduce PRTR 23% substances by 15% ★★★ reduction against ﬁscal 2010. Japan Reduce emissions of Reduce VOCs by 19% Chemicals substances of 20% against ﬁscal ★★ reduction concern 2010. Reduce per-unit 19% Overseas VOCs by 10% ★★★ reduction against ﬁscal 2010. 3 bases in Have major production sites Japan, certiﬁed as Super Green Heart 4 bases Achieve Factories. overseas Green Heart Factories environmentally ★★ conscious plants. 5 bases in Have all production sites Japan, certiﬁed as Green Heart 20 bases Factories. overseas Achieve Have major bases in Japan 2 bases in Green Heart Oﬃces environmentally certiﬁed as Green Heart ★ Japan conscious oﬃces. Oﬃces. Environmental Cooperation with Stakeholders Expand the Green Heart circle to Daikin worldwide. Join local governments, Carry out environmental and citizens, and NPOs to social contribution activities Environmental and make environmental (forest restoration, Implemented social contribution and social tree-planting, environmental at 21 bases ★★ activities contributions at each education, protection of worldwide global base biodiversity within Daikin according to regional bases) at worldwide bases. characteristics. Self assessment: Shows level of achievement of targets in three designations: ★★★ : Succeeded ★★ : Will soon succeed ★ : Doing all we can 72 Environment Overview of Environmental Impact Data on this page is only from Daikin Industries, Ltd. in FY2015. Figures in parentheses are global Group totals. *1 Figures in parentheses marked with *1 are totals for Japan, China, Asia, and Oceania. 73 Environment Response to Climate Change Basic Policy on Response to Climate Change Air conditioners consume large amounts of electricity, and the ﬂuorocarbons they use as refrigerants deplete the ozone layer and contribute to global warming. Particularly in the rapidly developing economies of emerging countries, growing demand for air conditioners is expected to have an increasingly severe eﬀect on climate change. The Daikin Group is focusing on alleviating the eﬀect that products have on climate change through refrigerants with low global warming impact and energy-eﬃcient technologies. In addition, we strive to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases during production and transportation, and we recover and destroy ﬂuorocarbons during all stages from production to ﬁnal product disposal. Increasing Air Conditioner Low Environmental Impact Promoting the Use of Eﬃciency Refrigerants Inverter Products We conduct quantitative We strive to develop and We focus on the worldwide environmental assessments for disseminate refrigerants with dissemination of highly energyeach product life cycle and use minimal eﬀect on climate change. eﬃcient inverter air conditioners. this knowledge to develop products and solutions that use minimal electricity. 74 Promoting the Use of Energy-Eﬃciency through Reducing Greenhouse Heat-Pump Type Space Fluorochemical Products Gases during Production and Hot Water Heaters and Oil Hydraulic Products and Transportation We develop space and hot water We develop products that We strive to reduce emissions of heaters that use highly energyconsume minimal electricity by energy-induced CO2 during the eﬃcient heat-pump technology. using our ﬂuorochemical production and transportation products and oil hydraulic stages. equipment. Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons To prevent refrigerants from being released into the atmosphere, we have systems in place for their proper recovery and destruction. 75 Response to Climate Change Increasing Air Conditioner Eﬃciency Life Cycle Assessment Focusing on Increasing Energy Eﬃciency and Reducing Refrigerant Impact during Product Use We assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. Greenhouse gas emissions from air conditioners have their greatest environmental eﬀect during product use. This is followed by the eﬀect caused by refrigerants. By using HFC-32, a refrigerant with low global warming impact, we have been able to make air conditioners more energy eﬃcient, reducing the amount of CO2 emissions by 21% for residential air conditioners and 34% for commercial air conditioners. Sample of LCA: Comparison*1 of Life Cycle CO2 Emissions (Energy-Induced CO2) *1 Based on Daikin standards for 2.8-kW class residential air conditioners and 14-kW class commercial air conditioners. *2 The seasonal power consumption is calculated in accordance with the standard of the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) for residential air conditioners and the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association for commercial air conditioners. *3 Refrigerant impact is calculated by obtaining the .global warming potential per unit of weight, while factoring in the average leakage rate during the product use, disposal, and recycling stages. 76 Improving Energy Eﬃciency of Air Conditioners Improving Annual Performance Factor (APF)*1 and Integrated Part Load Value (IPLV)*2 In the life cycle of an air conditioner, from design and manufacture to use and disposal, the majority of the CO2 that is emitted occurs during product use. That is why when we revised our voluntary environmental standards, we tightened our criteria for energy eﬃciency in the product use stage in order to improve the energy eﬃciency of products. In February 2016, we released commercial air conditioner series in the 1.5 to 6-HP classes using the HFC-32 refrigerant and achieving an annual performance factor (APF) increase of between 0.1 and 0.4.. We are also using HFC-32 refrigerant in residential air conditioners, ﬂoor heaters, and water heaters. For example, in November 2015 we released the New Urusara 7 as part of eﬀorts to increase APF. In December 2015, we released a versatile air conditioning heat source chiller, the JIZAI, for buildings and factories. This product employs a new scroll compressor that is used on Daikinʼs VRV multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings, which dramatically minimizes compression leakage during low-speed operation and improves integrated part load value (IPLV) by approximately 16%. *1 Annual performance factor (APF): The APF represents heating and cooling capacity per kWh over one year of use of an air conditioner under speciﬁc conditions. The higher the APF, the greater an air conditionerʼs energy eﬃciency. *2 Integrated part load value (IPLV): The IPLV is an energy eﬃciency indicator obtained by calculating the weighted average of cooling COPs at four diﬀerent capacities of machine operation. It corresponds to the APF of a packaged air conditioner. In reality, air conditioners often operate at partial capacity. The higher the IPLV, the greater the actual energy eﬃciency of a product. Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Eﬃciency (residential air conditioners)*1 *1 Calculated for Daikin 2.8-kW class air conditioners. Under JIS conditions. *2 For products with prescribed measurements *3 Measures were based on the JIS C 9612:2005 standard up to ﬁscal 2012; from ﬁscal 2013 they are based on JIS C 9612: 2013. 77 Electricity Consumption and Energy Consumption Eﬃciency (commercial air conditioners)* * Calculated for Daikin 14.0-kW class air conditioners. Under conditions of the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association, and the Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS). VRV Series of Multi-split Type Air Conditioners for Commercial Buildings Honored in Fiscal 2015 Energy Conservation Center, Japan Awards Throughout the course of a year, building air conditioners operate under varying conditions. They only operate at full capacity during the mid-summer and mid-winter, and for the rest of the approximately 90% of the time operate at low capacity when there is little diﬀerence between their set temperature and outdoor air temperatures. This means that in order to reduce electricity use, it is crucial to achieve highly eﬃcient operation during these low capacity times. The VRV series of multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings maintains a comfortable room environment while reducing energy waste in order to lower electricity consumption by approximately 21% compared to our previous products. It achieves this through, for example, a new scroll compressor that dramatically reduces compression leakage and loss, and new control technology that automatically controls refrigerant temperature according to load during heating and cooling. Daikin Industries, Ltd. was awarded the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) for the VRV series in Japan in the Energy Conservation Grand Prize for excellent energy conservation equipment (Product and Business Model Category) for ﬁscal 2015 by ECCJ. 78 FIVE STAR ZEAS for Stores and Oﬃces New Airﬂow Method Gives 15% Greater Energy Eﬃciency Released in February 2016, the FIVE STAR ZEAS for stores and oﬃces employs active circulation airstream. To develop this new method of airstream, we completely rethought the heating method of the conventional ceiling-mounted cassette air conditioner, which discharges air in a downward direction, instead having the FIVE STAR ZEAS discharge air in a horizontal direction. This horizontal direction airstream quickly spreads to the entire ﬂoor, prevents cold air from coming in through walls and windows, and gives warm from your feet up. In addition, it reduces inconsistent temperatures throughout a room, helping give the FIVE STAR ZEAS 15% higher energy eﬃciency than our previous products. Developing Energy-Eﬃcient Products Products for Detached Homes Added to DESICA Series Requiring no water drainage or supply pipes, DESICA instead uses outside air to control humidity, either humidifying or dehumidifying. Equipped with the Hybrid DESICA Element, which contains both highly eﬃcient water absorption material and a heat exchanger, it consumes just one-sixth the energy of conventional humidity controlling devices (according to Daikin tests). In autumn 2012, Daikin Industries, Ltd. released the DESICA HOME AIR for detached homes, which controls humidity and ventilation throughout the entire house. Just one unit oﬀers round-the-clock, year-round comfort control for all rooms in homes with ﬂoor space of between 120 m2 and 200 m2. Like the commercial DESICA, this product gives humidifying and dehumidifying without the need for water drainage or supply pipes. Because it is ﬂoor standing, maintenance such as replacement and cleaning of the high-performance ﬁlter is easy. With its ability to provide high-quality air and energy eﬃciency, the DESICA HOME AIR has already proved a hit in many homes. 79 DESICA HOME AIR Customers achieve the best balance of temperature and humidity by choosing a product and combination of parts from the extensive lineup. Can be combined with individual air conditioning units 80 Industry and Academia Team Up to Spread Use of Net Zero Energy Buildings Like the name suggests, a net zero energy building is one that utilizes energy eﬃciency in its structure and facilities while also creating its own energy through renewable sources so that its net energy use becomes zero. There are more and more of these buildings appearing in Japan and other developed countries. The Daikin Group is striving to achieve net zero energy buildings by boosting the energy eﬃciency of VRV (multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings) and other types of air conditioners, and by providing optimal energy management that meets customer needs in all world regions. Daikin receives the Deutsche Kältepreis For example, Daikin Europe N.V. has been carrying out the European Net Zero Energy Project, an experimental cooperative project between Daikin and universities including Technical University Dortmund of Germany. As a ﬁrst step, in July 2010, Daikin Europe, in cooperation with Zeller Group, a wholesaler of Daikin Airconditioning Germany, constructed a Net Zero Energy Oﬃce in northwest Germany (Herten) that features photovoltaic solar power generation and Daikin ﬂoor heating, cooling, and dehumidiﬁcation products using heat-pump technology. The project received the Deutsche Kältepreis, an annual award for energy-eﬃcient, future-oriented refrigeration and air-conditioning technology given by the German Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservancy and Nuclear Reactor Safety (BMU). This projectʼs net-energy balance in 2012 showed surplus energy of 977 kWh, thus proving the high energy eﬃciency of the building. Using the knowledge gained from the Net Zero Energy Project, Daikin will embark on new projects in Spain and the U.K. in which Daikin products achieve optimal operation in real-life building situations. Daikin plans to introduce an energy control system to the project so that it can oﬀer heat-pump technology to its major customers. Providing Energy-Eﬃcient Solutions Energy Eﬃciency throughout Entire Buildings and Cities The Daikin Group uses environmental technologies in areas such as inverters and refrigerants to provide solutions for not just reducing the environmental impact of individual air conditioners but also for reducing the impact throughout an entire building or city. Energy management systems (EMS) are an eﬀective way to save energy while keeping a building comfortable. Japanʼs Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) is conducting a project to hasten the spread of EMS, and in April 2012 Daikin Industries, Ltd. was selected as a BEMS aggregator under this project: a company charged with managing a BEMS. Under this project, we are picking up the pace at which we are providing a system that can achieve precise demand control and thus give both a comfortable building temperature and energy-saving operation; and that can use weather forecast data to automatically set equipment so that it operates in the most energy-eﬃcient and energy-saving manner possible. 81 This project was incorporated as a scheme under the category of using energy management companies of Japanʼs Subsidy for Companies Rationalizing the Use of Energy, Etc., which began in ﬁscal 2014. In ﬁscal 2015, we installed 20 systems under this scheme. Since ﬁscal 2013, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been selected as a diagnosis organization for projects such as the Ministry of the Environmentʼs Model Project for Eﬀective Renovation Toward Promoting Green Buildings. For customers who use our Air Conditioning Network Service System for remote monitoring of air conditioners, we use operational data as a basis for improving their air conditioning operation and providing energy-eﬃcient services. In ﬁscal 2015, we provided energy-eﬃciency diagnostic services for a cumulative total of 71 projects, resulting in savings for customers of approximately 5,000,000 kWh per year, and a cumulative total of 18,000,000 kWh so far. Since ﬁscal 2014, along with Hitachi, Ltd. and Mizuho Bank, Ltd., we have been participating in the Smart Communities Project in Greater Manchester, UK, which is being implemented by Japanʼs New Energy Development Organization (NEDO). Under this project, heating systems in 600 homes are being converted from combustion-type boilers and electric heaters to heat-pump models. One aim is to reduce energy consumption. Another aim is to conduct a demonstration project for a business model in which the electricity usage at multiple residences is aggregated, operation is automatically carried out based on the demand situation, and excess electricity is sold. 82 Response to Climate Change Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants Low Environmental Impact Refrigerants Working Toward Practical Application of a Wide Range of Next-Generation Refrigerants The refrigerant conveys the heat between the indoor unit and the outdoor unit of air conditioners. Although HFC, currently the most widely used refrigerant in developed countries, has zero ozone depletion potential, it contributes to global warming if released into the atmosphere. The Daikin Group is conducting research aimed at achieving practical use of next-generation refrigerants that contribute less to global warming than conventional refrigerants. In conducting research aimed at eventually launching products using such refrigerants, we focus not only on their direct eﬀect on global warming but also on their eﬀects throughout the entire lifecycle, including energy eﬃciency during air conditioner use. We make decisions based on all contributing factors: besides the environmental impact of refrigerants themselves, we look at safety factors like ﬂammability and toxicity, the cost and availability of the refrigerant, and the cost of producing air conditioners that use the refrigerant. Daikin's View: Action on Refrigerant and Goals Evaluation Index of Refrigerant Selection (common for all application) 83 Choosing the Right Refrigerant for Each Application to Mitigate Environmental Impact Diﬀerent characteristics are required of refrigerants, depending on whether they are used in, for example, residential or commercial air conditioners, water and space heaters, or refrigeration equipment. That is why we have spent years conducting research that will enable the selection of refrigerant that is ideal for each application. We have so far conducted research on next-generation refrigerants such as natural refrigerants and HFC refrigerants, and have considered their application in products. Using the knowledge we have built up, we are providing information worldwide at events such as international conferences, academic conferences, and exhibitions, as well as through research paper presentations, on the global warming impact of refrigerants and measures against it. Example of Daikinʼs Choice of Refrigerants Note: Other refrigerants not listed above are also applied in products outside of Daikinʼs portfolio, some examples include hydrocarbons (isobutane, propane, etc.) for residential refrigerators and window air conditioners or HFO refrigerants for mobile air conditioners. Protecting the Ozone Layer Focusing on Converting to Alternative Refrigerants and Recovering Fluorocarbons HCFCs used to be the most commonly used refrigerant, but in the 1980s experts suspected it was depleting the ozone layer, so under the Montreal Protocol developed nations agreed to phase out its production in developed countries by 2020. Daikinʼs chemicals business has for years worked to mitigate ozone layer destruction by developing alternative refrigerants that do not deplete the ozone layer. In 1991 we began the ﬁrst mass-production in Japan of HFC, a refrigerant with zero ozone depletion potential, and in 1995, under our air conditioner business we developed and began selling air conditioners that use HFC as the refrigerant. Besides converting to HFC refrigerants, we have also been working to minimize leakage into the atmosphere: we design and develop products that are easy to recover refrigerant and that minimize its leakage, and we recover refrigerant during the manufacturing stage and product repair. In April 2002, we began a ﬂuorocarbon recovery and destruction business in which we recover and properly dispose of refrigerants from used air conditioners. 84 Air Conditioner Lifecycle, Measures to Mitigate Global Warming Impact of Refrigerants See Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment ̶ Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (Page 47) Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons (Page 101) Converting to Refrigerants with Zero Ozone Depletion Potential in the overseas markets as well as in Japan The Daikin Group is converting refrigerants for air conditioners from conventional HCFCs to HFCs with zero ozone depletion potential. Daikin sells air conditioners using only HFC in Japan and Europe. We are also the ﬁrst company in China to oﬀer HFC VRV (multi-split type air conditioners for commercial buildings), and we currently sell HFC residential air conditioners as well. In developing countries where HCFCs are the most commonly used refrigerants for air conditioners, we are making the conversion (where possible given current infrastructure) to HFC-32, a refrigerant with lower global warming potential, in order to mitigate both ozone layer depletion and global warming at the same time. Mitigate the Global Warming Impact Promoting the Use of HFC-32, a Refrigerant with Lower Global Warming Potential In November 2012, Daikin became the ﬁrst company in the world to launch residential air conditioners using HFC-32 for the Japanese market; HFC-32 has just one-third the global warming potential of conventional R-410A (HFC) refrigerant. In March 2013, we released a residential air conditioner using HFC-32 in India. We are in the process of releasing these HFC-32 air conditioners in other countries and using HFC-32 for commercial air conditioners and water heaters as well. To disseminate HFC-32 air conditioning, cooling and heat pump equipment globally, in September 2011 Daikin began oﬀering companies worldwide 93 patents for developing and commercializing such products using HFC-32 single component refrigerant. 85 Launch of HFC-32 Air Conditioner by the Daikin group (As of end of March 2016) Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines, Indonesia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, Australia, India, Singapore, New Zealand, 28 countries in Europe, the Ukraine, Residential Air Conditioner Russia, Norway, Montenegro, Albania, Turkey, UAE, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Sri Lanka Commercial Air Conditioner Japan (certain models) Water Heaters Japan (certain models) See Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment ̶ Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (Page 47) Dialogue with Governments and Industry Groups (Page 274) 86 Response to Climate Change Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Inverter Technology Can Reduce Power Consumption by Approx. 30% The Daikin Group aims to spread the use of highly energy-eﬃcient inverter air conditioners so that consumers use less energy during air conditioner operation and thus emit less CO2. Inverters are frequency conversion devices that control electrical voltage, current, and frequency. Inverters precisely control the compressor motor, the heart of an air conditioner. Furthermore, with modiﬁed conventional motors and heat exchangers, inverter air conditioners use approximately 58% less energy than non-inverter models. Comparison of energy consumptionNon-inverter air conditioner 100% Promoting the Use of Inverter Products Spreading the Use of Inverter Products Worldwide The Daikin Group aims to spread the use of energy-eﬃcient inverter products so that consumers use less energy during air conditioner operation and thus emit less CO2. Because inverter products are more expensive than non-inverter products, they have been slow to achieve market penetration in emerging countries. However, in ﬁscal 2014, we developed an inverter air conditioner at an aﬀordable price especially for the Asian air conditioner market. Such products are gradually achieving greater market penetration due to factors including stricter energy eﬃciency standards and rising energy awareness among the general public stemming from rising electricity prices in Southeast Asia. 87 To help promote the spread of inverter products, we are in the process of creating mechanisms to evaluate their energy-eﬃciency performance. In the past, the most common index for evaluating an air conditionerʼs energy-eﬃciency performance was COP (coeﬃcient of performance), under which the amount of energy consumed was calculated at a ﬁxed eﬃciency without adjusting for air temperature changes. However, COP cannot be used to properly evaluate the performance of inverter products, which operate at an optimal level depending on the changes in ambient temperature. Therefore, Japanʼs air conditioner industry has led calls for a switch to using APF (annual performance factor), and since 2013 APF has been used in ISO standards. In emerging countries, where APF is starting to come into use, Daikin is working with the Japanese government and industry groups to get APF adopted as the industry standard and to create energy labelling systems as part of support for creating evaluation standards. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment ̶ Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (Page 47) Inverter Products as Percentage of All Residential Air Conditioners Worldwide (2015) Note: Residential air conditioners: Ductless air conditioners other than window and portable type products. Only in North America does the category include duct-type air conditioners for residential use. Source: Compiled by Daikin based on data from the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industries Association 88 Response to Climate Change Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Heat-Pump Systems for Space Heating and Water Heaters Less than 2/3 of the CO2 Emissions Compared to Burning Fossil Fuels In the heat-pump method used in air conditioners and other products, thermal energy stored in the air or water is extracted and transferred to perform cooling and heating. Compared to carrying out space and water heating using methods in which fossil fuels such as gas, oil, and coal are directly burned, heat-pump systems emit less than half of the CO2. The Heat Pump Mechanism Promoting the Use of Heat-Pump Type Space and Hot Water Heaters Bringing More CO2-Reducing Heat-Pump Type and Gas Combustion Type Space and Hot Water Heaters to the European Market The Daikin Group is developing space and hot water heaters using energy-eﬃcient heat-pump technology. The EU has set a target of having renewable energy such as wind and solar power account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. In January 2009, heat pumps were recognized in the EU as technology that captures renewable energy and heat-pump heaters are being recommended as part of this target. In 2006, the Daikin Group began selling a heat-pump type hot water heaters and heating system in Europe and we have been expanding the product lineup since then. 89 In addition, in ﬁscal 2014 we began focusing on the development of highly energy-eﬃcient gas combustion space heaters and moving to energy-eﬃcient models that meet user needs. We have been working to spread the use of energy-eﬃcient models through a policy that consists of switching from space heaters with a large environmental impact heat-pump type, switching medium-range products to the Hybrid Altherma, which automatically changes between heat pump mode or gas combustion mode, whichever is more eﬃcient, and switching models with a small environmental impact to energy-eﬃcient gas-combustion type. Our Asahikawa Laboratory in Asahikawa, Hokkaido, which we established in December 2013, has led eﬀorts to develop new heating and hot-water systems that will oﬀer comfort and energy eﬃciency for the worldʼs extremely cold regions. We will continue to contribute to decreasing CO2 emissions by developing heat-pump and gas-combustion-type energy-eﬃcient products not only for the European heating market but for markets in all regions of the world. Daikin Altherma Hybrid Heat Pump In September 2013 in Europe, we released the Altherma Hybrid Heat Pump, which automatically switches from heat pump to gas combustion mode when outside temperature drops signiﬁcantly, thus providing the most eﬃcient and economical heating possible. This product oﬀers a more-than 35% reduction in CO2 emissions compared to gas combustion-type products. Increasing Sales in the Commercial Market for Products Including the MEGA-Q Large-Scale Heat-Pump Hot Water System Daikin's heat-pump technology is incorporated into ECOCUTE heat-pump water heaters and Hot Eco-Floor heat-pump hot-water ﬂoor heaters. The Daikin Group is also developing space and hot water heaters for the commercial market as well using highly energy eﬃcient heat-pump technology. In November 2012, we began selling a new model of the commercial heat-pump water heating system (MEGA-Q) for large-scale facilities such as hotels and hospitals, which we ﬁrst introduced in April 2009. Compared to combustion-type water heaters, this new model releases about 62% fewer CO2 emissions and reduces running cost by about 68%. Facilities like hospitals and golf courses require changing volumes of hot water daily, and Daikin meets this challenge with a hybrid hot water supply system that provides hot water during base periods with MEGA-Q and that switches to boiler operation during peak periods. We are also working to spread the use of the Danzen Heat system for commercial facilities, which cuts CO2 emissions by 52% compared to an oil-powered hot-air space heater. 90 By replacing combustion-type water heaters with heat pump models, we are switching the source of heat and thus contributing to energy eﬃciency. Comparison of Annual CO2 Emissions: MEGA-Q Large-Scale Commercial Heat-Pump Water Heating System versus Combustion-Type Boiler 91 Response to Climate Change Energy-Eﬃciency through Fluorochemical Products and Oil Hydraulic Products Fluorochemical Products An Easy to Install Air Conditioner : ZEFFLE Infrared Reﬂective Coating Eases Air Conditioning Burden Daikin developed ZEFFLE infrared reﬂective coating, a Example of Use of ZEFFLE Infrared ﬂuororesin-based paint that reﬂects the sun's infrared rays oﬀ Reﬂective Coating building roofs. Compared to conventional paints, ZEFFLE Ship reduces building roof surface temperature by as much as 15-20 C, thus keeping inside temperature down. It also reduces power consumption by approximately 15% to make a major contribution to saving energy in the summer. ZEFFLE could almost be called a easy-to-install air conditioner. Used in combination with an energy-eﬃcient air conditioner, ZEFFLE can help reduce electricity consumption. Besides the roof and outer walls of a building, ZEFFLE is eﬀective in blocking heat and preventing weathering in other ways. For example, by applying it to water storage tanks such On this ship, ZEFFLE helps prevent salt as those holding drinking water, it prevents the temperature corrosion, keep temperatures down, and from rising, thus maintaining sanitation. On water and ice maintain the appearance storage tanks, it maintains the cooling eﬀect and saves energy. Oil tank It is being used increasingly on the top deck of marine vessels to keep cargo space from heating up, and to prevent deterioration due to salt water and ultraviolet rays. We also have begun selling new products for building materials such as exterior wall panels and aluminum sashes. Building product manufacturers are also starting to sell products using this thermal insulation coating. ZEFFLE is being sold in a growing number of countries and regions including China, Europe, and the Middle-East. The Changshu Plant of Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) installed By keeping the temperature down, ZEFFLE helps facilities for the manufacture of the raw material resin and prevent the transpiration of oil vapor inside the mass-production began in May 2013. tank 92 Features of ZEFFLE Infrared Reﬂective Coating Fluorine Characteristics Help Solar Cells Last Longer Making the most of ﬂuoropolymers' chemical resistance, heat resistance, and weather resistance, Daikin provides materials that contribute to the spread of solar cells. For example, the ﬂuororesin material ZEFFLE is used in the back sheet of solar cells to prevent the inﬁltration of infrared rays and moisture, both of which harm the interior of solar cells. Thinner than conventional ﬂuoropolymer ﬁlm while oﬀering the same weather-prooﬁng and durability, ZEFFLE is being increasingly used on solar panels. The ﬂuororesin (ETFE)* used for the surface protection ﬁlm on solar cells has high light transmittance and lasts for more than 20 years under the sunlight. It is lighter than the glass ﬁlm conventionally used for surface protection, and it is used in ﬂexible solar cells that bring solar energy to a wider range of applications. We are also conducting research and development on other products; for example, light collecting ﬁlm, which eﬀectively gathers solar light on ﬁlm covered with bumps; and ﬂuoropolymer ﬁlm, which contributes to smaller ﬁlm capacitors mounted on power conditioners. * ETFE: A ﬂuoropolymer with superb chemical resistance and insulation qualities. It is used as coating for items such as electrical wires. Oil Hydraulic Equipment Energy-Eﬃcient Hybrid Hydraulic Super Unit Energy Savings and Lower CO2 Emissions in Factories Daikin also leads the industry in making energy-eﬃcient hydraulic units for factory production lines. The energy-eﬃcient hybrid hydraulic Super Unit employs the same motor inverter technology that is used in Daikin's energy-eﬃcient air conditioners. The Super Unit determines the load on the machine, depending on whether it is in standby, operation, or pressure holding mode, and electronically controls the pump at the necessary RPM. The result is energy savings of more than 50% in pressure holding mode (compared to Daikin piston pumps). For use on presses, vulcanizers, casting machines, and a wide range of other industrial equipment, it contributes to dramatic energy savings and lower CO2 emissions. We introduced new models and expanded the lineup in 2014. Because the Super Unit is not subject to electric motor high-eﬃciency restrictions enacted in April 2015, more and more customers have been looking at the Super Unit as a way to achieve greater energy eﬃciency. 93 The Super Unit is widely used on industrial equipment around the world and has been highly rated for its superior precision and energy eﬃciency. Electricity Consumption of Super Unit and Conventional Hydraulic Unit 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit Complete Product Lineup to Meet Extensive Range of Needs In machine tools, Daikinʼs 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit makes possible detailed temperature control of the lubricating and cooling oil, which has a major eﬀect on the precision of the work. Daikin's 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit allows temperature adjustment to 0.1 C. In addition, with inverter control and the most advanced compressor, it oﬀers 45% greater energy eﬃciency than conventional on/oﬀ controllers. It was also one of the ﬁrst oil cooling units for industrial machinery to be certiﬁed for the EU's RoHS Directive*. In September 2014, we added to the lineup an immersion type large-capacity series (5HP) and a large-capacity series (2-3HP) for industrial machinery chillers, allowing us to meet a wider range of customer needs than ever. Immersion type products * RoHS Directive: 9 Series Oil Cooling Unit The RoHS (Restriction of Hazardous Substances) Directive is an EU directive that restricts the use of certain hazardous materials in the manufacture of various types of electronic and electrical equipment in order to reduce harmful impacts on human health and the environment. 94 Micro-Hydroelectric Power Generation System Demonstration Testing in Toyama, Fukushima, and Kobe Daikin Industries, Ltd. developed a compact, low-cost pipeline-type micro-hydroelectric power generation system on which it has been conducting demonstration testing. This demonstration testing has been adopted under a project under Japanʼs Ministry of the Environment to conduct testing and develop inductive technologies to reduce CO2 emissions. In ﬁscal 2014 and 2015, we conducted demonstration testing in Nanto City, Toyama Prefecture, and Soma City, Fukushima Prefecture, which resulted in us achieving practical product application. In ﬁscal 2016, we began a joint eﬀort with Kobe City to evaluate long-term performance and operational costs, with the aim of using previously untapped sources of hydropower to reduce CO2 emissions. 95 Response to Climate Change Reducing Greenhouse Gases during Production and Transportation Reducing Overall Group Greenhouse Gas Emissions Target Reached: 70% Reduction Compared to Fiscal 2005 The Daikin Group emits two kinds of greenhouse gases during production processes: CO2 from energy use, and ﬂuorocarbons. Of these, there are four kinds of ﬂuorocarbons released during Daikin's production processes: HFC and PFC, which are covered by the Kyoto Protocol, and CFC and HCFC, which are not. We have set reduction targets for each of these ﬂuorocarbons The Daikin Group set a target of a 67% reduction in greenhouse gases by ﬁscal 2015. Daikin America, Inc. reached this target by striving to recover ﬂuorocarbons and replace them with substitutes, resulting in ﬁscal 2015 greenhouse gas emissions of 1.26 million tons-CO2, a reduction of 70% over ﬁscal 2005. We are currently working toward a target of reducing ﬁscal 2020 emissions by 75% over ﬁscal 2005. Groupwide Greenhouse Gas Emissions (during production) Note: BAU (Business as usual). Estimated value in the case measures are not taken. 96 Greenhouse Gases A major cause of global warming, greenhouse gases designated at the 1997 3rd Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Kyoto are CO2, methane, N2O, and three ﬂuorocarbon alternatives (HFC, PFC, and SF-6). Reducing Energy-Induced CO2 CO2 Emissions per Production Unit Dropped by 15% Against Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2015 energy-induced CO2 was 710,000 tons-CO2, and CO2 emissions per production output were down 15% over ﬁscal 2005. Main eﬀorts in ﬁscal 2015 included the introduction at the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division of the Sakai Plant of a mobile app for viewing energy usage in the factory. An environmental practice hall was also set up to help raise employeeʼs awareness. Another major event on the theme of energy eﬃciency was the 2nd Global Environmental Meeting, which was held in Thailand. We received certiﬁcation for the ISO 50001 international standard for energy management at Daikin Europe N.V. and Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. in January 2015, and at the Sakai Plant in March 2015. As a new target for reducing CO2 emissions, we are working toward decreasing emissions per production output in ﬁscal 2020 by 5% against ﬁscal 2015 (average value from 2013 to 2015) and to this end we are seeking further energy eﬃciency. Total CO2 Emissions, CO2 Emissions per Unit of Production Output CO2 emissions per production output The amount of CO2 emitted by the amount of production. The lower this ﬁgure, the less CO2 a company emits per unit of production and thus the more eﬃciently that company can make products. 97 40% Reduction in Energy Usage of Shiga Plant Drying Furnace At the Shiga Production Division, rather than seeking improvements in individual workplaces, based on visual data obtained from surveys, we have identiﬁed the most important ways to achieve energy eﬃciency. As a result, it was determined that there was poor thermal eﬃciency in the drying furnace, a facility that uses signiﬁcant amounts of energy, and that there was room for improvement of this furnace. We therefore removed one of the two air heaters and changed the position of the one remaining air heater. By circulating the hot air with a blower and switching to a method that makes the best use of the wind volume, we successfully shortened the drying time. We also put dividers to narrow the space inside the furnace and thus reduce the heat loss and improve the thermal eﬃciency. Thanks to these improvements, the drying furnace used 69.143 kWh of electricity and achieved electricity cost reductions of 968,000 yen, a signiﬁcant improvement in eﬃciency. Reducing CO2 Emissions during Transportation CO2 Emissions Reduced by 10.7% Over Fiscal 2010 Daikin Industries, Ltd. set a goal of decreasing CO2 emissions (per sales) from transportation by 10% in ﬁscal 2015 compared to ﬁscal 2010 by switching from trucks to trains and ferries. We also increased the use of direct shipping from overseas production sites to Japan to ensure the shortest possible transportation route. In ﬁscal 2015, we improved the eﬃciency of transportation of concurrent production items at overseas plants and the Shiga Plant. For example, we decided to locate products made at the Shiga Plant in the Kansai region, and locate items manufactured at overseas plants in other regions in Japan. As a result, we reduced the amount transported between Shiga and Tokyo by the equivalent of the volume carried by 200 ten-ton trucks. Along with other facilities, we reduced emissions by 315 tons-CO2. This represents a per-unit reduction of 10.7% over ﬁscal 2010, which achieved our target of a 10% reduction. Our modal shift ratio in ﬁscal 2015 was 27%, the same as in ﬁscal 2014. Our target for ﬁscal 2020 is a 5% decrease (per sales) over ﬁscal 2015. CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Japan) 98 Reducing Other Environmental Impact during Transportation At manufacturing bases in Japan, we have replaced gasoline-powered forklifts for logistics with electric models. We are changing the layout of warehouses so that forklifts will drive shorter distances; changing the workplace layout has improved eﬃciency and contributed to a two-hour decrease in work time. All vehicles driving at manufacturing bases turn oﬀ their engines when not moving to reduce exhaust fumes. We are also having our transport partners turn oﬀ their engines. We are reducing CO2 emissions through improved transportation eﬃciency and decreased packaging volume, and reducing electricity consumption through shorter working hours. To improve work eﬀectiveness both in Japan and overseas, we continuously revise the warehouse layout to boost work eﬃciency and thus shorten the time on each task. Using Renewable Energy Using More Solar, Wind, and Hydro Power The Daikin Group is working to expand the use of renewable energy such as solar, wind, and hydro power. An example is in Europe, where governments using EU regulations on renewable energy like solar, wind, and hydro, are aiming to have renewable energy account for 20% of the energy mix by 2020. Daikin Europe N.V. has since ﬁscal 2007 been switching its factory and oﬃce power to hydro, and today 100% of the approximately 13 million kWh is covered by hydropower. This has eliminated the CO2 previously emitted from purchased electricity, and so the company has reduced Solar power generation system has panels that the previous 5,000 tons-CO2 per year, or a total of move to track the sunʼs position approximately 1,660 tons-CO2. In ﬁscal 2015, we used proprietary technology in installing a solar power generation system that uses tracking solar panels on the Technology and Innovation Center. 99 Green Building Certiﬁcation Overseas Bases Certiﬁed for Energy-Eﬃcient Buildings Daikin Group companies around the world are working aggressively to achieve green building certiﬁcation for having building that are designed, built, and operated with concern for the environment and the local community. In December 2010, the Applied Development Center of Daikin Applied Americas Inc. in Minnesota earned LEED® Gold certiﬁcation from the U.S. Green Building Council for its energy eﬃciency and green design. In July 2016, the Technology and Innovation Center earned LEED® Platinum certiﬁcation. It has also earned the highest certiﬁcation (S class) in CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Eﬃciency) a highly recognized system in Japan for the comprehensive assessment of the CASBEE building assessment environmental performance of buildings, districts, and cities. CASBEE was certiﬁcation (for the Technology created by the Institute for Building Environment and Energy Conservation and Innovation Center of Daikin Industries, Ltd.) (IBEC). In ﬁscal 2011, the parts warehouse of Daikin Applied Americas Inc. in Dayton, Ohio earned Energy Star certiﬁcation for meeting strict criteria including comfort and energy performance. In addition, in ﬁscal 2013 Daikin Australia's head oﬃce building was again one of just a handful to receive a rating of 5.5 stars in NABERS (National Australian Built Environment Rating System) ratings. Certiﬁcate of NABERS certiﬁcation (Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd.) The Applied Development Center of Daikin Applied Americas Inc. in Minnesota earned LEED® Gold certiﬁcation 100 Response to Climate Change Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction of Fluorocarbons from Air Conditioners Reducing Impact throughout the Entire Life Cycle The ﬂuorocarbons used as refrigerants in air conditioners have a global warming impact that is from several hundred times up to 2,000 times more than that of CO2. The Daikin Group is the only comprehensive air conditioner manufacturer developing everything from refrigerant to air conditioners. In addition to disseminating low-global-warming-impact refrigerants worldwide, we strictly manage refrigerants during the production, after-sales, and other stages, and we recover, destroy, and recycle refrigerants at the end of air conditioner life so that we can reduce environmental impact throughout the entire life cycle. At all worldwide production bases, we recover and destroy refrigerants placed in air conditioners during testing and other processes. During maintenance and upgrading of customers' air conditioners, the service or installation staﬀ always start by thoroughly recovering the refrigerant. We also constantly improve the skills of installation staﬀ to ensure the work is done properly and that no refrigerant leaks during product use. Eﬀorts to Prevent Environmental Burden from Fluorocarbon Emissions 101 Recovery and Destruction of Refrigerants Eﬀorts During Production Fluorocarbon Recovery Equipment Ensures Proper Destruction of Refrigerants (Chemicals Division) The ﬂuorocarbons emitted in the Chemicals Division are raw materials and by-products in the production of ﬂuorochemical products. To prevent such emissions, we have been installing recovery equipment on production lines and properly destroying the ﬂuorocarbon gases recovered. We also take the ﬂuorite generated during the destruction process and use it as raw material for the production of ﬂuorochemical products. In ﬁscal 2015, we expanded destruction facilities at the Yodogawa Plant. In addition, we strove to limit the amount of emissions of HFC-23, a by-product of production processes with an extremely high global warming potential. Overseas, even in countries with no ﬂuorocarbon emission restrictions, Daikin plants voluntarily recover gas and destroy it either in house or through a contracted destruction facility. In ﬁscal 2015, Daikin America, Inc. proceeded with introducing substitutes for Perﬂuorohexane and stepped up recovery of FC-c318, thus dramatically reducing emissions. We will continue to switch to ﬂuorocarbon substitutes in our eﬀorts to reduce environmental impact. 102 Ensuring No Leaks When Filling Air Conditioners with Refrigerant (Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division) During the air conditioner manufacturing process, we do everything possible to ensure no refrigerants (HFC, HCFC) leak during ﬁlling. These measures include the following: We inspect all pipes for leakage before refrigerant ﬁlling. If operation inspections show that a product must be ﬁxed, we do so after recovering all the refrigerant from it. We take every precaution possible during refrigerant ﬁlling to ensure there are no leaks. Recovering refrigerant We are converting to low global warming potential refrigerants. All this and other related work is done by certiﬁed technicians according to maintenance manual procedures. Technicians also undergo training every year based on the manual. In ﬁscal 2015, the refrigerant emissions ratio was 0.2% at Daikin in Japan and 0.7% overseas. In addition, by converting to low global warming potential refrigerants, we are reducing CO2-equivalent emissions. For the gas used in the inspection process, we have converted to helium, which does not deplete the ozone layer and is not a greenhouse gas. Inspecting for Refrigerant Leaks in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Process Daikin Industries, Ltd. carries out three inspections for refrigerant leaks during the production process for residential and commercial air conditioners. This gives customers highly reliable products and prevents refrigerant emissions due to product defects. 1. Air-tightness and pressure 2. Gas leak inspection 3. Pre-delivery inspection resistance inspection After ensuring there are no leaks, When the product is completed and Before we insert refrigerant, we pump refrigerant is sealed inside and a packed, a refrigerant detector is once air at an extremely high pressure of 4.2 refrigerant detector is used to inspect again used to ensure no refrigerant has MPa to check for leaks at the welded all brazed parts. leaked. sections, pipes, and other parts refrigerant passes through. 103 Visual Representations of Refrigerants in Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Equipment The refrigerants used in refrigeration and air conditioning equipment are colorless, odorless, and tasteless gases that, although not harmful to humans, must be prevented from leaking into the atmosphere since these refrigerants have a great impact on global warming. In 2009, the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association announced a policy of displaying the eﬀects of global warming caused by these refrigerants: a 'visualization' of their movement. Since that time, the Daikin Group in Japan has placed stickers on its refrigeration and air conditioning equipment for the Japanese market that show that ﬂuorocarbons are being monitored. With the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons going into eﬀect in April 2015, these ʻvisualizationʼ stickers have shown the global warming potential of the refrigerant used in order to encourage the recovery of ﬂuorocarbons. These same stickers are placed on products made overseas for the Japanese market. We are improving the placement of stickers and designing products so that stickers are highly visible to end-users and installers and so that we can improve the recovery rate. Fluorocarbon 'visualization' sticker (for indoor unit) Eﬀorts During Repair and Disposal Refrigerant Recovery Network System In Japan, we are thorough in our recovery of ﬂuorocarbons (refrigerants) from commercial air conditioners. We have created a network system for the integrated management of all information from recovery to destruction of refrigerants, including the amount of refrigerant recovered and the amount destroyed by contractors. This system has been updated to comply with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, which went into eﬀect in April 2015. The companies recovering and destroying the refrigerants add up the totals and these are reported annually to the prefectural governments in Japan. Because the system can help in generating the reports, these companies can work more eﬃciently. 104 Uniﬁed Management System of Refrigerant Recovery and Destruction With each instance of refrigerant recovery, details such as the model of air conditioner and number of units, and the amount of refrigerant recovered, are entered into the electronic manifest. This makes it possible to get an accurate picture of the refrigerant recovery rate. Taking Calls 24 Hours a Day, 365 Days a Year for Recovery and Destruction (Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction Business) We take requests from retailers and other businesses for the proper recovery and destruction of refrigerants. The Daikin Contact Center takes calls all day, every day, and the recovered refrigerants are taken to our Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan where they are properly destroyed. In the entire Daikin Group in Japan in ﬁscal 2015, 401 tons of ﬂuorocarbons were recovered and destroyed. Amount Destroyed in Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destruction (At Time of Repair and at Time of Disposal) Fluorocarbon destruction facilities (Yodogawa Plant) * Amount destroyed at Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan. * Figures until ﬁscal 2013 are for Daikin Industries, Ltd. only, and ﬁgures from ﬁscal 2014 are for the Daikin Group in Japan. 105 Maintenance Only After Thorough Recovery of Refrigerant During the parts replacement that takes place during maintenance of air conditioners, refrigerant can leak out into the atmosphere. To prevent this, the Daikin Group has recovery equipment at service outlets across Japan that carry out such maintenance, and this equipment is used to recover refrigerant before any repair work begins. In ﬁscal 2015, Daikin Industries, Ltd. recovered a total of approximately 293 tons of refrigerants. Types of Fluorocarbons Recovered during Maintenance (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Helping Customers Prevent Refrigerant Leakage The Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons went into eﬀect in April 2015 in Japan. This law obligates commercial air conditioner users and owners to conduct strict management of refrigerants to ensure they do not leak during product usage. In response, since October 2015 we have been oﬀering a free smartphone web application that allows customers to easily inspect for possible refrigerant leakage. Training Technicians for Refrigerant Recovery and Installation The recovery of refrigerants requires special knowledge and skills, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. provides these through training for the sales, technical, installation, and service staﬀ who will be recovering refrigerants. After one of these training programs, the technician training course, participants take a ﬁnal test and if they pass are registered as refrigerant recovery technicians by the Refrigerants Recycling Promotion and Technology Center. In ﬁscal 2015, 1,567 people, mostly from retailers and installers, passed the test. Of all those registered as refrigerant recovery technicians in Japan, 53.0% took the Daikin technician training course. The Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons went into eﬀect in April 2015, and in response we must conduct strict management of refrigerants to ensure they do not leak during product usage. Persons conducting equipment inspections and refrigerant ﬁlling work are also obligated to acquire new certiﬁcations. In response, Daikin has been holding workshops for people who have acquired certiﬁcation as ﬁrst and second grade refrigerant ﬂuorocarbons handling technicians. We have also held seminars on the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons for employees of buildings and large stores using Daikin products, and contracted maintenance outlets. In ﬁscal 2015, workshops that we held for people who have acquired certiﬁcation as ﬁrst and second grade refrigerant ﬂuorocarbons handling technicians were attended by 6,977 people throughout Japan. 106 Daikin Begins Certiﬁcation System for Refrigerant Pipe Installation Technicians On April 1, 2011, Daikin started a certiﬁcation system for refrigerant pipe technicians with the goal of preventing faulty pipe installation, one of the causes of refrigerant leaks. We also became the ﬁrst manufacturer to establish an in-house system for certifying that refrigerant pipe installers have outstanding knowledge, techniques, skills, and ethics in this area. As of the end of ﬁscal 2015, 1,069 retailers and installers had been certiﬁed. Refrigerant pipe installation training Installing Refrigerant Recovery Equipment, Training Personnel in Refrigerant Recovery Refrigerant recovery is obligatory under law in European countries. Daikin is actively providing training to employees in countries like France and Italy that will allow participants to obtain oﬃcial certiﬁcation in specialties such as gas welding and ﬂuorocarbon gas handling. In China and other parts of Asia, Daikin sales companiesʼ service divisions have refrigerant recovery equipment. Refrigerant recovery workers fully realize the importance of such equipment to the environment as they carry out their job of recovering refrigerants at the request of customers. 107 Environment Eﬀective Use of Resources Basic Policy on Eﬀective Use of Resources We must make eﬀective use of the Earthʼs limited resources if we are to successfully carry out sustainable business activities. The Daikin Group achieves resource eﬃciency through eﬀorts such as making products compact, and it designs products that are easy to recycle through the use of materials that are common across diﬀerent product lineups. We also strive for zero waste by limiting the amount of waste generated during production and by thoroughly recycling the waste that is generated. Water risk has been a focus of Daikin as of late. As a company doing business worldwide, we identify bases where water risk is an issue and we strive to reduce the amount of water we use. Eﬀective Use of Resources Waste Reduction Water Resource Reduction in Products The Daikin Group strives to use We limit the amount of waste that We strive to reduce the amount resources as eﬀectively as we generate and we strive to of water we use at our worldwide possible by carrying out the achieve zero waste. bases, and we identify and 3Rs̶reducing, reusing, and respond to water risk. recycling̶along with repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. 108 Eﬀective Use of Resources Eﬀective Use of Resources in Products 3R & Repair Stressing Eﬀective Use of Resources in Design Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to use resources as eﬀectively as possible by carrying out the 3Rs-reducing, reusing, and recycling-along with repairing under its 3R & Repair initiative. This initiative plays a key role in our product design and development. Based on product assessment, we design and develop products that are smaller and lighter, have fewer numbers of parts and screws, and that use materials and construction that make them easy to maintain, separate, and recycle. Environmentally Conscious Design (Page 139) 3R & Repair: Approach Reduce Make products smaller and lighter, Use recycled materials Reuse Use parts from end-of-life products Design products that are easy to separate and recycle Use plastics that are easy to recycle Development Recycle Indicate the materials used Construct products that are easy to disassemble After use Recycle end-of-life products Development Design products that are easy to maintain Repair After disposal Have a repair support system that contributes to long-lasting products 3R & Repair: Eﬀective Use of Resources 109 Recycling Designing Products for Easy Disassembly Product design stresses 3R & Repair based on product assessment. Since 1997, we have designed products so that their construction makes them easy to disassemble. In ﬁscal 2014, we equipped the FIVE STAR ZEAS air conditioner for stores and oﬃces with an all-aluminum micro channel heat exchanger. This makes it easier to separate the material during disassembly compared to products using conventional cloth heat exchangers. Oﬃce air conditioners and the S-round ﬂow Cassette for stores and oﬃces, which were released in February 2016, use an ODM motor. This has eliminated the need for adhesive on the antivibration rubber on the turbo fan boss, making it easy to remove plastic, steel, and rubber for recycling. Reducing Maker Smaller and Lighter Products that are Still Energy Eﬃcient Making products smaller and lighter means they will use fewer resources. When making air conditioners, for each product we set weight reduction targets for both the entire product and its components. However, it is technically diﬃcult to achieve this without sacriﬁcing energy eﬃciency. If making it smaller and lighter means that it consumes more energy, then the product's environmental performance throughout the entire lifecycle has not yet been improved. When Daikin Industries, Ltd. develops new products, we establish weight reduction targets for each product on the condition that the annual performance factor (APF) does not decrease. In ﬁscal 2015, we reduced by 1 kg each the weight of the FIVE STAR ZEAS (4‒6 HP) and the New Eco-ZEAS (4-, 5-, 6-HP classes) air conditioner for stores and oﬃces. In addition, we were able to raise the APF of the new Urusara 7-Series residential air conditioners (2.8, 3.6, 4.0, 5.6 kW) while at the same time reducing by 2 kg the weight of the outdoor units. Air puriﬁers that we released in ﬁscal 2015 take up 30% less installation space than their predecessor products and are 14% smaller and lighter. . Product Packaging Weight Reduced by 5% Since Fiscal 2010 We set a target of reducing the amount of packaging for air conditioning products by 5% in ﬁscal 2015 compared to ﬁscal 2010. We had previously switched packaging material from wood to thin cardboard, and reduced the number of packaging parts. In ﬁscal 2015, we changed the packaging shape to accommodate the change from horizontal storage to vertical storage and were thus able to achieve our reduction target. Because changing the packaging shape also necessitates a change in the production process, we are aiming to further reduce the amount of packaging material through close cooperation among the packaging, manufacturing, and design divisions. 110 Amount of Packaging per Product (wood, cardboard, styrofoam, etc.) Daikin Awarded by Japan Packaging Institute for 50% Reduction in Packaging of Ceiling Mounted Cassette Type Air Conditioners We changed the packaging shape of our air conditioners to accommodate the change from horizontal storage to vertical storage, thus reducing storage space needed and reducing the size of buﬀer material, resulting in 50% less packaging material and a 25% improvement in storage eﬃciency. By developing a thin bottom tray that combines the tray and buﬀer material, we were able to dramatically improve the eﬃciency of packaging work. For these eﬀorts, Daikin received an Electric Equipment Packaging Award in the Good Packaging category in the 2015 Japan Packaging Contest sponsored by the Japan Packaging Institute. 111 Reusing Repair and Reusing Parts that have Already Been Replaced In the Daikin Group, we try to use resources eﬃciently. We take parts that have already been replaced and that contain multiple components, such as printed circuit boards, and we repair any malfunctions or replace the worn-out components. These parts (the printed circuit board, for example) are then tested for quality by ensuring that they are functioning properly and, with the customer's permission, are used as replacement parts when performing repair on a product. Repair Reinforcing the Global Repair System Making products that last longer means that fewer resources are used. To this end, the Daikin Group is strengthening its repair system by establishing service outlets around the world to take customer repair requests and questions and enquiries regarding products. In Japan, the Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take inquiries. We will continue to strive for even greater customer satisfaction by improving the technical expertise and etiquette of our service engineers through an engineer certiﬁcation system. To ensure that customers phoning with repair requests get prompt responses, we have a database of past repair cases, practical know-how, and rules of thumb that Contact Center staﬀ can access immediately. By asking for necessary information and providing appropriate instructions to customers over the phone, we avoid unnecessary service calls, thus improving work eﬃciency and boosting customer satisfaction. As Daikin products are sold in an increasing number of countries, we are working to strengthen our service network in each country. By introducing service management systems, we are making workﬂow more eﬃcient and providing more high-quality and transparent service in every phase of customer interaction including through our service engineers and our partner companies. Recycling Residential Air Conditioners Daikin Achieves Recycling Ratio of 90%, Well above Obligations under Home Appliance Recycling Law The Home Appliance Recycling Law obligates Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners in manufacturers to recycle at least 80% of the FY2015 (Japan) material from their own air conditioners as well as recover and then reuse or destroy refrigerants. In ﬁscal 2015, we recovered about 250,000 products totaling 10,369 tons. The recycling ratio was 90% and the amount of ﬂuorocarbons recovered was 160 tons. 112 Eﬀective Use of Resources Waste Reduction Reducing Emissions 2% Reduction in Emissions per Production Unit Against FY2010 Up until ﬁscal 2010, the Daikin Group strove to recycle 100% of the waste generated during production processes. Starting in ﬁscal 2011, we switched our focus from recycling waste generated to reducing the amount of waste generated in the ﬁrst place. We thus strive to reduce total emissions (recycled materials and waste). Up until ﬁscal 2013, we strove to reduce waste by, for example, using returnable boxes and eliminating defective molded parts. Since ﬁscal 2014, emissions increased due to the eﬀect of things like in-house production, and as a result we were only able to reduce emissions per production unit by 2% against ﬁscal 2010. Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials for the Daikin Group 113 Eﬀective Use of Resources Water Resource Reduction Basic Policy on Water Resource Reduction The Daikin Group determines how much water it uses at its manufacturing sites and recycles as much water as possible in order to reduce water usage throughout the entire group. In addition, as a company doing business globally, we identify bases where water risk exists and strive to protect water resources throughout the entire value chain. Reducing Water Usage Reusing Waste Water to Reduce Water Intake At our plants, we periodically repair and patrol equipment that uses water in the production processes. The Daikin Group strives to reduce the water it uses by measuring the amount of water used and trying to reuse as much waste water as possible. As targets for ﬁscal 2015 against ﬁscal 2010, we strove to reduce water use per unit by the Daikin Group in Japan by 5% and water use per unit at overseas bases by 10%. In ﬁscal 2015, we reduced water intake per unit of production by 4% in Japan and by 18% overseas against ﬁscal 2010. This was achieved by utilizing waste water recycling equipment, using rainwater, and by modifying washing processes. In response to the important issue of water risk in recent years, we have identiﬁed bases where water risk exists and we are striving to reduce the amount of water we use. Amount of Water Intake for the Daikin Group 114 Response to Water Risk Operation Surveys in Water-stressed Regions Water risk has become a pressing issue in recent years. Based on the Aqueduct water risk mapping tool of the World Resources Institute (WRI), since ﬁscal 2014 the Daikin Group has been surveying water-stressed regions. As a result, we have determined that we are operating in ﬁve regions, including India and inland China, where water stress is an issue. Starting in ﬁscal 2015, in these regions and in production processes where we use large amounts of water, we decided to consider the amount of water intake minus the amount of wastewater as a loss of water resources. We therefore began surveying this amount of loss. In the near future, we intend to reﬂect this eﬀort in our Green Procurement Guidelines and have our suppliers start conducting surveys themselves, all as part of eﬀorts to better manage water resources throughout the value chain. 115 Environment Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Basic Policy on Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances The Daikin Group has a list of SVHC (substance of very high concern) based on the RoHS Directive and the REACH Regulation regarding chemicals contained in products. These are stated in our Green Procurement Guidelines, which we require our suppliers to abide by. We also have voluntary restrictions on which we base our eﬀorts to reduce the amount of the chemical substances that we use and emit in production processes. Management and Management and Reduction of Chemical Reduction of Chemical Compliance with J-Moss Substances Contained in Substances During Products Production We abide by laws and regulations We carry out voluntary reduction We report which of the six in managing chemical substances of the amount of chemical substances covered by J-Moss contained in our products. substances used in production (the marking of presence of the processes in our Chemicals speciﬁc chemical substances for Division. electrical and electronic equipment) are contained in our products. 116 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances in Products Compliance with Restrictions on Hazardous Chemicals Establishing Standards for Managing Chemical Substances in Products The Daikin Group has a list of designated control substances that are restricted under the RoHS Directive*1, the REACH Regulation*2, and other laws. These are stated in our Green Procurement Guidelines and we work to prevent the presence of these chemicals in our products. *1 The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) is a regulation in the EU prohibiting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. *2 The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into eﬀect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals (Green Procurement) (Page 146) Reduction of Chemical Substances in Fluorochemical Products In the Automotive Industry, Fluoride Materials Contribute to Reduced Leakage of VOCs In the automotive industry, the movement is toward Automobile Fuel Hose Made of Fluororesin stricter regulations to prevent the leaking of air-polluting volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from gasoline and other substances. NEOFLON CPT is a material for automobile fuel tubes and hoses that prevents permeation and leakage of VOCs in the hot engine surroundings. It reduces permeation to just one-ﬁfth of Daikin's previous product, NEOFLON ETFE. And NEOFLON CPT adheres to polyamide resins and general purpose rubbers used to make conventional fuel hoses, meaning it can be used for laminated tubes. In China and other emerging countries where automobile production is on the rise, ﬂuoride materials are replacing non-ﬂuoride materials to comply with stricter environmental regulations. Fluorine materials are also beginning to see growing use in developed countries, where environmental regulations are increasing in scope and severity. Daikin aims to respond to the growing demand that will be created by these trends. 117 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances During Production Management of Chemical Substances Daikin Group bases around the world take voluntary action to reduce the amounts of various chemical substances, such as PRTR substances and VOCs. Emissions of PRTR Substance Down by 23% Against Fiscal 2010 The Daikin Group in Japan worked toward a target of reducing emissions of PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register) substances in ﬁscal 2015 by 15% compared to ﬁscal 2010. In ﬁscal 2015, we were thorough in our eﬀorts to reduce PRTR emissions; for example, subsidiary Nippon Muki Co., Ltd. incorporated adhesive substitutes and strove to improve production yields, and the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division strove to prevent the vaporization of paint. As a result, emissions were reduced to 101 tons at the Daikin Group in Japan, a 23% reduction against ﬁscal 2010. Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law (Japan) PRTR Law (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law) Enacted in Japan in 1999, the PRTR Law is a legal framework in Japan for the calculation and publicizing of the amounts of certain hazardous chemical substances that are emitted or transferred as waste into the environment (air, water, and soil) or into public sewage systems. Other countries have similar regulations. The PRTR Law was revised in 2009. 118 Compilation of PRTR Substances in FY2015 (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) Amount emitted(tons) Amount transported (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways Chlorodiﬂuoromethane; HCFC-22 53.02 0.00 0.00 0.37 0.00 Dichloromethane; methylene dichloride 31.61 0.00 0.00 3.10 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-diﬂuoroethane; HCFC-142b 9.90 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Toluene 3.35 0.00 0.00 0.59 0.00 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetraﬂuoroethane; 1.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC-124 N-hexane 1.15 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 Chloroform 0.84 0.00 0.00 4.10 0.00 Phenol 0.76 0.00 0.00 0.77 0.00 Xylene 0.71 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Formaldehyde 0.42 0.68 0.00 0.30 0.00 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 0.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hydrogen ﬂuoride and its water-soluble 0.24 0.00 0.00 75.00 0.00 salts Ethylbenzene 0.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Poly(oxyethylene)alkyl ether(alkyl 0.02 0.00 0.00 44.00 0.25 C=12-15) N,N-dimethylacetamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Methylnaphthalene 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 5.10 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.10 0.04 Boron compounds 0.00 0.43 0.00 0.58 0.01 Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 8.74 0.00 Antimony and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.20 0.00 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene)diisocyanate 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.03 0.00 Zinc compounds(water-soluble) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.55 0.14 Tritolyl phosphate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 Molybdenum and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 Copper salts (water-soluble, except 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 complex salts) Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Tetrachloromethane 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 acid 119 Against Fiscal 2010, Total VOC Emissions in Japan Down by 19% and VOC Emissions Per Unit of Production Overseas Down by 19% The Daikin Group worked toward its target of reducing total VOC emissions in Japan by 20% in ﬁscal 2015 against ﬁscal 2010, and reducing VOC emissions per unit of production overseas in the same period by 10%. In ﬁscal 2015, as a result of recovering and recycling VOCs, and replacing them with less harmful substances, we achieved a 19% reduction in total emissions over ﬁscal 2010 in Japan and a per-unitof-production reduction of 19% overseas. Total VOC Emissions, and VOC Emissions Per Unit of Production (Daikin Group in Japan) Total VOC Emissions, and VOC Emissions Per Unit of Production (Daikin Group Overseas) Elimination of PFOA Emissions Total Elimination of the Manufacture and Use of PFOA by Developing Substitutes Perﬂuorooctanoic Acid (PFOA) is a man-made chemical substance that has been conventionally used as a polymerization aid for ﬂuororesins. It does not readily degrade in nature and is thus a substance of concern for the environment and human safety. At the end of 2015, as part of its eﬀorts toward sustainable management of chemical substances, Daikin Industries, Ltd. ceased manufacturing and using PFOA and similar compounds, as well as products made from these. 120 Management and Reduction of Chemical Substances Compliance with J-Moss Compliance with J-Moss We release information on the presence in our products of the six substances covered by J-Moss (the marking for presence of the speciﬁc chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment). Daikin room air conditioners are covered by J-Moss. Since 2001, Daikin has been determining and controlling chemical substances contained in products and we have stopped using substances speciﬁed under J-Moss. As a result, all models of our air conditioners (produced since July 2006) contain none of the substances exceeding the amounts under the standards. We will continue to actively provide information about our environmentally conscious products so that we can oﬀer customers a peace of mind when making purchases. J-Moss Also known as JIS C 0950, J-Moss is an abbreviation of The marking for presence of the speciﬁc chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment. J-Moss requires the labelling of electrical and electronic products containing six substances: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chromium, and two speciﬁed bromide ﬁre retardants (polybrominated biphenyls (PBB) and polybrominated biphenyl ether (PBDE)). There are seven types of products covered: (1) personal computers, (2) unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) electric refrigerators, (5) electric washing machines, (6) microwave ovens, and (7) clothes dryers. Daikin Products The substances contained in Daikin room air conditioners are shown on the table below. Note that the room air conditioners shipped in Japan starting in 2007 bear the Japan's Green Mark eco-label. Green Mark eco-label 121 Substances Contained in Room Air Conditioners Product type: Room air conditioner (indoor unit/outdoor units) Model: All models produced since in July 2006 (see note 3). Chemical substance code Class Pb Hg Cd Cr(VI) PBB PBDE Manufactured parts ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant system parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Electrical/electronic parts N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Compressor N/A ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Refrigerant ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ Accessories ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ ◯ JIS C 0950:2008 Note: 1 A ◯ symbol means that the substance contained does not exceed the allowable amount under the standard. Note: 2 N/A means the substance is not applicable for labeling. Note: 3 Models designated below. Indoor unit: Wall mount, embedded ceiling cassette (single ﬂow, double ﬂow), embedded wall, built-in amenity, ﬂoor standing Exterior unit: For the following: Pair type, System Pack, Multi-Split System, Wide Select Multi, Equipped with Hot Water Floor Heating function Overview of J-Moss Under Japan's Law for the Promotion of Eﬀective Utilization of Resources, relevant equipment must meet J-Moss standards. J-Moss (JIS C 0950) The marking for presence of the speciﬁc chemical substances for electrical and electronic equipment Gist of the Standards Indicating on labelling which of the speciﬁed chemical substances are contained in electrical and electronic equipment is meant to achieve the following: Management of chemical substances will be improved in all stages of the supply chain and life cycle. End consumers can easily understand the substances contained. It will lead to more eﬀective use of resources and less impact on the environment. Spread the use of electrical and electronic equipment in which substances are properly controlled. Products Covered (1) Personal computers, (2) Unit air conditioners, (3) TVs, (4) Electric refrigerators, (5) Electric washing machines, (6) Microwave ovens, (7) Clothes dryers 122 Speciﬁed chemical substances Chemical substance Code Standard for % by weight Lead Pb 0.1 Mercury Hg 0.1 Cadmium Cd 0.01 Hexavalent chromium Cr(VI) 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyls PBB 0.1 Polybrominated biphenyl ether PBDE 0.1 Content Labelling If the content of the speciﬁed chemical substance exceeds the standard values, its content must be indicated on the product itself, the packaging, and on catalogs and other documentation. This information must also be put on the company's Web site. The content of some of the chemical substances does not need to be indicated on Label indicating substances contained in the labelling, and other chemical substances do not need to be indicated on product labelling if they are below the standard value. However, these must still be shown on the company's Web site. Green Mark Labelling Electrical and electronic equipment whose content of the speciﬁed chemical substances does not exceed the standard values may bear Japan's Green Mark eco-label on the conditions stated in the Guidelines for Using the Green Mark for Speciﬁed Chemical Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment. Green Mark Note: The Guidelines are recognized by the following groups. Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA) Japan Electrical Manufacturers' Association (JEMA) Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) 123 Environment Environmental Management Basic Philosophy on Environmental Management A common goal of the entire Group is to build and operate ISO 14001-based environmental management systems (EMS) that will boost our environmental activities. The entire Daikin Group works to improve the eﬀectiveness of audits, avoid environmental risk, and educate employees on environment matters. Environmental Environmental Risk Environmental Accounting Management System Management We continuously build a We have measures in place to Environmental accounting gives a group-wide environmental prevent risk to the environment quantitative representation of the management system. and to minimize any costs and eﬀects of environmental damage should it environmental measures and occur. constitutes an important item of environment information. Environmentally Conscious Green Heart Factories and Green Procurement Design Green Heart Oﬃces We strive to develop products We pursue green procurement in We have a proprietary standard with low environmental impact. every way possible throughout for designating environmentally the entire supply chain and conscious facilities as Green include our suppliers in these Heart Factories or Green Heart eﬀorts. Oﬃces. Environmental Communication We put every eﬀort into communication activities aimed at expanding the circle of “Green Heart” (the concept of showing consideration for the Earth and caring for the environment). 124 Environmental Management Environmental Management System Environmental Management System Building a Group-Wide Environmental Management Promotion System The Daikin Group has built and operates an environmental management system (EMS) in accordance with ISO 14001. This EMS is shown in the diagram below. The creation of environmental management systems is also proceeding at companies that are new to the Daikin Group. By ﬁscal 2016, we aim to have all Daikin bases certiﬁed for ISO 14001. To ensure the reliability of data and improve our mechanisms for environmental management, we have had data veriﬁed by a third party since ﬁscal 2013. System Driving Environmental Management 125 Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation (FY2015) Building an Integrated EMS and Taking Environmental Action in Japan In 1996, individual production bases in the Daikin Group in Japan began creating and operating their own EMS for the sake of environmental protection. In 2004, based on a policy that advocated the integration of environmental and business activities and the full-ﬂedged pursuit of environmental management, all bases and subsidiaries (including non-production bases) in Japan received integrated certiﬁcation for ISO 14001, and this gave us a system for conducting environmental management across the entire group in Japan, including non-production bases such as sales companies. Each company division conducted business in its own environment-conscious way; for example, sales divisions carried out environmentally conscious marketing and design divisions designed products for minimal environmental impact. Since ﬁscal 2015, we have been preparing to achieve certiﬁcation for ISO 14001:2015 at all our worldwide bases. Global Environmental Meetings Boosting Environmental Action by Sharing Information and Discussing Challenges To ensure the continuous improvement of the Daikin Group's environmental management, environmental meetings are held once a year in four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/ Oceania). At the meetings, the company presidents, environmental heads, and environmental managers in each division at worldwide bases, along with the environmental managers in each division in Japan, share Group policy and medium and long-term targets. In ﬁscal 2015, in addition to the existing environmental meetings, we held the 2nd Global Environmental Meeting in The 2nd Global Environmental Meeting in Thailand with the aim of accelerating energy-eﬃciency action at Thailand all worldwide companies. Participating were environmental managers from bases in Japan, China, Oceania, and Europe. The concept of the meeting was “learn, talk, and take action,” with participants touring Daikinʼs two Thai plants to see examples of improvements, then breaking into small groups for animated discussions on future energy-eﬃciency activities. 126 Environmental Audits Audit by Internal Auditors and Third-Party Institutes Daikin Group companies certiﬁed for the integrated EMS undergo annual internal audits performed by third-party certiﬁcation institutes based on ISO 14001. In ﬁscal 2015, to comply with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, which went into eﬀect in April 2015 in Japan, the Daikin Group in Japan conducted internal audits that focused on areas such as conﬁrming the state of equipment management. In addition, we conﬁrmed how well Daikin branches were abiding with laws, and we noted any areas in which improvement was needed. Internal environmental audits held in the Daikin Group in Japan in ﬁscal 2015 revealed no major problems, and no cases of major non-conformance were found by third-party certiﬁcation institutes. However, there were problems discovered in relation to operational ambiguities, and in relation to the failure to consistently ﬁx certain problems across the entire organization. In order to solve these issues, we intend to revise our rules in ﬁscal 2016 in line with ISO 14001 revisions. Report from Audits (FY2015) Problems found from internal Problems found by third-party environmental audits certiﬁcation institutes Major 0 0 non-conformance Minor 17 0 non-conformance Items improved 136 6 Training Internal Auditors There are currently 93 internal auditors undergoing training and skills improvement at the Daikin Group in Japan. New and experienced auditors work in pairs so as to pass on skills from one generation to the next and 8 new auditors work as assistant auditors. Internal auditors also take annual training to improve their skills and ensure standards are being thoroughly met. In ﬁscal 2015, training for auditors had participants gaining an understanding of the important Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, as well as undergo study on what items need to be conﬁrmed during audits. In addition, they practiced pointing out problems based on objective facts. In ﬁscal 2015, seven auditors were promoted to audit managers, and 14 assistant auditors were promoted to auditors. We will continue to hold training under the internal auditor program, as well as have internal auditors experience audits in other parts of the organization, where they can ﬁnd successful cases they can bring back and replicate, thus improving the overall level of audits in the Daikin Group. In addition, as a key measure for ﬁscal 2016, we will educate internal auditors to ensure a smooth transition to the revised ISO 14001:2015. 127 Environmental Education Environmental Education that Leads to Employee Awareness and Action Be it through educational or on-the-job opportunities, the Daikin Group promotes employee awareness of how our business aﬀects the environment to encourage employees to take positive action for its preservation. In Japan, we hold e-learning on the intranet once a year in order to enhance employees' understanding about the environmental issues most important to Daikin. We have an in-house environmental newsletter that introduces actions that each company division are taking. At overseas bases certiﬁed for ISO 14001, we hold environmental education for employees geared to the needs of each base. PR and educational tools to raise employees' environmental awareness E-learning textbook In-house environmental newsletter FY2015 Environmental Education (All Daikin Group Companies in Japan) The Daikin Group in Japan conducted the following company-wide education. Individual company divisions also conducted their own educational activities. Name of activity Personnel involved No. of times held Environmental e-learning All employees Once With the goal of raising environmental awareness and knowledge, participants learn about a wide range of environmental issues, especially those directly related to Daikin's business, such as global warming and ozone layer depletion, as well as new environmental topics each year that are relevant and current. In ﬁscal 2015, participants studied the importance of water resources and the Paris Agreement, which was adopted at the 21st Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21). They also studied activities Daikin is pursuing to reduce CO2 emissions through both (1) its business and (2) its contribution to communities. (1) Daikin reduces CO2 emissions through its business by making air conditioners more energy eﬃcient, by spreading the sales of inverter products, and by using refrigerants with low environmental impact. (2) It reduces CO2 emissions through contribution to communities by working to protect the environment. Environmental managers education Environmental managers Once With revisions to ISO 14001 in September 2015, the Daikin Group in Japan intends to transition to the revised ISO 14001 in February 2017. In preparation for this, in ﬁscal 2015 an external instructor was invited to deepen participants understanding on the background of the ISO 14001 revisions, trends among other companies and in society in general, the philosophy of the revised ISO 14001, and the main points of the revisions. 128 Daikin Bases Certiﬁed for ISO 14001 (Japan, Overseas) Daikin Bases Certiﬁed for ISO 14001 (Japan) Japan 1996: Daikin Group in Japan* * Sakai Plant certiﬁed in October 1996. Certiﬁcation followed at Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s bases and domestic manufacturing subsidiaries. In March 2004, certiﬁcation for the Daikin Group in Japan was upgraded to integrated certiﬁcation. ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation for Overseas Subsidiaries (as of March 2016) Date Subsidiary certiﬁed Sep. 1997 Daikin America, Inc. Feb. 1998 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Feb. 1998 Daikin Europe N.V. Nov. 2001 Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Nov. 2001 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2002 Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Nov. 2002 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd., Huizhou Branch Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning (Thailand) Ltd. Jan. 2004 Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Jan. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Germany GmbH Jun. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning Spain S.A. Nov. 2004 Shenzhen McQuay Air Conditioning Co., Ltd. Dec. 2004 Daikin Airconditioning France S.A.S. Dec. 2004 Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Jan. 2005 Siam Daikin Sales Co., Ltd. Jan. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Central Europe Handels GmbH Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Poland Sp. zo.o Feb. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A Mar. 2005 Daikin Trading (Thailand) Ltd. Mar. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Asia Servicing Pte. Ltd. Apr. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning Belgium N.V. Dec. 2005 Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Dec. 2005 Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2006 Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Jun. 2006 Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Jul. 2006 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2006 Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Dec. 2006 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Mar. 2007 DAIKIN Electronic Devices Malaysia May 2007 McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. May 2007 Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Malaysia) Sdn., Bhd. Aug. 2007 Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong) Ltd. Nov. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Shanghai), Ltd. 129 Date Subsidiary certiﬁed Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Beijing), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Air-Conditioning Technology (Guanghou), Ltd. Dec. 2007 Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Jan. 2008 Cri-Tech Inc. Jan. 2008 AAF (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2008 AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Shanghai Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Beijing Branch Feb. 2008 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Branch Mar. 2008 Daikin America, Inc. (Orangeburg) Jun. 2008 Daikin Chemical Europe GmbH Jun. 2008 McQuay Suzhou Jul. 2008 Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o. Sep. 2008 Daikin Airconditioning Portugal S.A. Nov. 2008 Daikin R&D Sdn Bhd Jan. 2009 Daikin Airconditioning Greece S.A. Jan. 2009 American Air Filter Manufacturing Sdn Bhd Mar. 2009 DAIKIN Steel Malaysia Aug. 2009 DAIKIN Refrigeration Malaysia Apr. 2009 Daikin Air Conditioning South Africa Dec. 2009 Daikin Turkey A.S. Jan. 2010 J&E Hall Limited (United Kingdom) Jan. 2010 Daikin Applied Europe Jan. 2010 Daikin Applied Americas (Faribault) Jan. 2010 Daikin Applied Americas (Owatonna) Jan. 2010 AAF-Limited (United Kingdom) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Cooling) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Furnace) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Fayetteville) Mar. 2010 Goodman Global Group, Inc (Dayton) May 2010 Daikin Applied Americas (Dayton) Jul. 2010 Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2010 AAF International sro (Slovakia) Jan. 2011 AAF-International B.V. (The Netherland) Mar. 2011 Daikin Airconditioning Netherlands B.V. Mar. 2011 AAF (Wuhan) Co., Ltd. Feb. 2012 JiangXi DaTang Chemicals Co., Ltd. Mar. 2011 AAF (Columbia) Mar. 2012 AAF S.A.(Spain) Jun. 2012 AAF International (Louisville) Jun. 2012 McQuay Technology Aug. 2012 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. (Neemrana Plant) Jun. 2013 Daikin Applied Americas (Staunton) May 2015 Daikin Refrigerants Europe GmbH 130 Environmental Management Environmental Risk Management Environmental Risk Management Auditing and Improving Compliance with Environmental Laws and Regulations Once a year, the Daikin Group in Japan has company-wide environmental auditing teams conduct audits to check for legal compliance and ensure there are no environmental risks. We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at the production site of Daikin or a subsidiary. We also maintain close relations with neighborhood associations through factory tours and other activities so that we can have a joint system of emergency measures with local communities. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site̲data/index.html) Drills Held to Prepare Chemical Plants for Accidents We have systems in place that allow us to minimize environmental damage if there should be an accident or calamity at Daikin production sites around the world. The Chemicals Division and machinery divisions created the Disaster Prevention Manual, which details how to deal with emergencies like chemical and oil leaks and spills. The manual is the basis for regular emergency drills. In ﬁscal 2015, the machinery divisions held training that simulated chemical or oil leaks from delivery trucks in the machinery divisions, which included initial response and Disaster drill simulating a calamity occurring on identifying the cause of the leaks. In the Chemicals Division, a holiday (Kashima Plant) activity areas were divided into three zones: a hot zone, a warm zone, and a clear zone, so that provisions could be made for things like preventing the spread of pollution from hazardous substances and protecting workers from harm. 131 Close Communication with Communities to Prepare for Emergencies We place the utmost priority on ensuring the safety of residents living near our plants. Particularly with regards to facilities like our Yodogawa Plant, which is located in a residential area, we use risk assessment to eliminate as much risk as possible. We also strive to keep the public informed and communicate with government organs based on the principles of responsible care*. We have conducted regular exchanges with the public through neighborhood community association gatherings and plant tours, and we are working to establish systems of communication with these bodies so that both Daikin and the surrounding communities are prepared for emergencies. In ﬁscal 2014, we joined a conference for dialogue on current events in Osaka to present a report on Daikinʼs preparations for a possible major earthquake in the Tonankai and Nankai regions of Japan. Under an agreement between our Shiga Plant and the local municipality of Kusatsu, we reported the ﬁndings of one year of analysis and measurements of air, odors, water quality, sewage, noise, and vibration. * Responsible care: An initiative by the chemical industry in which companies strive to improve their environmental, safety and health performance in all stages from development and production to distribution, use, and ﬁnal consumption of chemicals. It also covers disclosure of the results of these eﬀorts in order to keep the public informed. Building Trust with Communities (Page 288) All Production and Use of the Fluorochemical Product PFOA and Similar Compounds Ended in 2015 At the end of 2015, as part of its eﬀorts toward sustainable management of chemical substances, Daikin Industries, Ltd. ceased manufacturing and using PFOA and similar compounds, as well as products made from these. For details, see Reducing PFOA Emissions (Page 120) Monitoring Environmental Standards Strict Management at Manufacturing Bases Exceeds Legal Restrictions The Daikin Group controls air and water pollution, as well as noise and vibration, using voluntary standards that are stricter than national environmental standards and local government by-laws. We regularly measure our various environmental impacts and work to either prevent or decrease them. Monitored environmental data for Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s four manufacturing bases is on the Daikin Web site. Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site̲data/index.html) 132 Measures for Soil and Groundwater Pollution Dealing with Soil Pollution at the Yodogawa Plant A soil pollution survey at the Yodogawa Plant revealed pollution of soil and groundwater from substances such as VOCs and ﬂuoride. The polluted soil was closed up and the groundwater was pumped up and puriﬁed. Surveys in recent years have revealed that the pollution concentration of the tetrachloroethylene and trichloroethylene used in the center of the site in the past has decreased; however, the concentration of dichloroethylene, which is generated when these two substances naturally break down, has increased. This occurs during the puriﬁcation process, and pumping up the groundwater has prevented this from spreading beyond the boundaries of the site. In addition, in 2013 the site was designated by the Osaka Prefectural Government as an Area for which Notiﬁcation is Required upon Change to Form or Nature* (under Japanʼs Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act), and construction work was subsequently carried out. All work was completed at the end of December 2015, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. applied to the government to have the site where the polluted soil was cleaned to be taken oﬀ the list of designated sites. * Area for which Notiﬁcation is Required upon Change to Form or Nature: A designation under Japanʼs Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act in which as a result of a soil pollution survey, non-conformance is discovered but the land is not suspected of posing a health hazard. Groundwater Cleanup Continues at Kashima Plant In 2000, the concentration of organic chlorine-based compounds in groundwater at the Kashima Plant was found to exceed environmental standards. We therefore removed and cleaned the contaminated soil, pumped out and cleaned the groundwater, and took precautions to prevent pollution from spreading to outside the plant and to remediate all types of pollution. Ongoing cleaning of the groundwater has resulted in reduced concentrations of pollutants. We will continue these cleanup eﬀorts to bring the levels down to within environmental standard values. Storage and Treatment of PCBs Implementing Strict Management and Disposal of Equipment Containing PCBs Daikin abides by national laws in properly managing equipment containing PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls). We have already begun disposing of some of this equipment through early registration with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO) and based on a JESCO PCB disposal plan. In ﬁscal 2013, we ﬁnished disposing of all condensers at the Yodogawa Plant. In ﬁscal 2014, we had a contractor reconﬁrm ballasts for lighting, and results showed that 350 of them contained PCBs. We plan to dispose of these starting in 2016. We are continuing to store equipment containing no PCBs, and we will dispose of it following completion and submission of revised paperwork to the government in the next ﬁscal year. 133 Daikin's Storage of PCBs Disposal plan (cost is Items disposed of (item and cost*) Plants and products stored approximated) FY2009 FY2011 FY2013 FY2016 and on 3 high-voltage Shiga Plant: 2 condensers, condensers 5 condensers, 126 ballasts (approx. 1.8 126 ﬂuorescent ballasts (approx. 5 million yen) million yen) Sakai Plant: 7 ballasts, 3 condensers, 36 liters of insulating oil, 7 ballasts, 2 condensers 1 condenser, 36 liters of additional (1.16 million waste cloths for wiping insulating oil, yen) oﬀ condenser oil waste cloths for wiping oﬀ (approx. 1 million yen) condenser oil Yodogawa Plant: 12 transformers 12 condensers 12 transformers, (approx. 32 million yen), (approx. 17 12 condensers, 448 ballasts million yen) 448 ballasts (approx. 15 million yen) * Cost is approximated, includes costs to recover, transport, and dispose of PCBs. 134 Environmental Management Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting FY2015 Environmental Accounting Figures Total environmental protection costs in FY2015 were ¥22.5 billion (investment in equipment: ¥3.2 billion; expenses: ¥19.3 billion), 98% over the previous year. For the air-conditioner business, we focused our R&D eﬀorts on developing technologies for energy eﬃciency and refrigerants. Amidst the growing importance of preventing global warming, we proceeded with the development of products and technologies that reduce environmental impact. Examples are R-32, a refrigerant that reduces global warming impact to just one-third that of conventional refrigerants, heat pump-type heating systems, which result in CO2 emissions less than half of those from conventional combustion-type heating, and inverter technology, which oﬀers both comfort and energy eﬃciency. Accounting Method The costs and eﬀects of Daikin's environmental eﬀorts were calculated based on the Environmental Accounting Guideline 2005 released by Japan's Ministry of the Environment. Costs of Environmental Conservation Expenses include labor costs but not depreciation expenses for investment in facilities. The expenses not full allocated to environmental protection were proportionally divided and totaled according to a relevant Daikin standard. Eﬀects of Environmental Conservation Please see the relevant page for details of each item. Economic Beneﬁts of Environmental Conservation Eﬀorts The environmental conservation eﬀects and economic beneﬁts were calculated by comparing the adjusted output to the previous ﬁscal year. 135 Breakdown of Environmental Conservation Costs (% of total) FY2015 Environmental Costs (¥ million) Cost of environmental conservation FY2014 FY2015 Category Major activities Amount of Amount of equipment Expenses equipment Expenses invested invested Cost in business area 1,421 5,525 1,590 5,695 Introduction, maintenance, and management of pollution prevention facilities/equipment, 1. Pollution prevention expenses for 442 1,382 665 1,818 measurement/analysis of air pollution control, water pollution control, vibration, and noise. Introduction of energy eﬃcient facilities/equipment, reduction of 2. Global environmental ﬂuorocarbon emissions in the 718 1,849 850 772 conservation production process, and recovery of ﬂuorocarbons. Reduction or recycling of waste, subcontracting of waste disposal, 3. Resource circulation 261 2,294 75 3,105 and resource conservation activities. 136 Recycling of used products, and recovery, recycling, and Upstream/downstream destruction of ﬂuorocarbons in 5 228 8 234 used products or products still in service. Running of company organization for environmental matters, environmental education, environmental information Management activities 11 1,107 19 1,159 disclosure, and establishment/maintenance of environmental management systems. Work on three major tasks for air Research and conditioners, and development of 1,354 12,897 1,580 11,930 development ﬂuorochemical products with minimized environmental impact. Provision of personnel and monetary aid to environmentSocial activities related organizations, and 0 272 3 188 environmental protection activities in local communities. Costs for puriﬁcation of polluted Environmental damage 0 67 0 67 groundwater and soil. Total 4,213 20,097 3,200 19,272 Total of investment in facilities within the period 78,400 11,2700 Total of investment in R&D activities within the period 42,900 46,100 Eﬀects of environmental conservation FY2014 FY2015 Eﬀects ﬁgures ﬁgures 1. Eﬀects of the Energy consumption -29,184 tons-CO2 231 tons-CO2 resources used for Reduction in water Eﬀects business activities 83,108 m3 374,313 m3 consumption corresponding with costs within 2. Eﬀects against Reduction in 12 tons 40 tons business area environmental impacts ﬂuorocarbon emissions and waste resulting from Reduction in waste business activities 2,689 tons -2,960 tons materials Number of residential air Eﬀects associated with conditioners collected Eﬀects to 230,000 units 250,000 units beneﬁts and services that Amount of ﬂuorocarbons upstream/ 164 tons 160 tons are calculated and based recovered downstream costs 204.7 tons 132.6 tons on business activities Amount of packaging material recycled 137 (¥ million) Economic beneﬁts of environmental conservation eﬀorts (monetary beneﬁts) Eﬀects FY2014 FY2015 Proﬁt Proﬁt from sale of recycled waste 1,919 2,118 Reduction in energy expenses resulting from energy conservation 643 844 Reduction in eﬀorts expenses Reduction in waste disposal expenses resulting from resource 331 1,174 conservation or recycling resources 138 Environmental Management Environmentally Conscious Design Environmentally Conscious Air Conditioners Commercialize Only Products that Meet 13 Assessment Criteria Besides factors like performance and ease of use, Daikin Industries, Ltd. stresses environmental performance in product development. We strive to raise this environmental performance by incorporating product assessment in the planning and design stages for new products. Product assessment consists of 13 assessment items that we strictly adhere to in developing products. We also assess global warming impact of air conditioners using the life cycle assessment (LCA) method, which allows us to determine the environmental impact at each stage of a product's life cycle. Products only make it to market after we have assessed them against their predecessor products to conﬁrm they exert less environmental impact. Product Assessment Items 1. Weight reduction of products 2. Use of recycled materials and parts 3. Packaging 4. Reduction in environmental impact in the manufacturing process 5. Energy and resource conservation in use 6. Product life extension 7. Ease of delivery/collecting/transporting 8. Raise possibility of reuse of resources 9. Ease of disassembly and separation of materials by hand 10. Ease of shredding/classifying for recycling 11. Environmental conservation capabilities 12. Disclosure of information 13. LCA 139 Environmentally Conscious Fluorochemical Products Contributing to Environmental Protection in a Range of Areas Fluorine mainly bonds with carbon atoms to Environmental Solutions Pioneered with become compounds that are highly stable and have Fluorochemical Products useful functions such as the ability to resist heat and repel chemicals. Daikin uses the unique characteristics of ﬂuorine to bring consumers a range of products that help protect the environment. Examples that save customers energy include ZEFFLE infrared reﬂective coating, which can be painted onto buildings to prevent rising temperatures inside and reduce the load on air conditioning, and NEOFLON ETFE, which prolongs the life of solar cells. Fluorine contributes to the mass-production of lithium-ion batteries and so is becoming increasingly used in electrolyte and other materials. Daikin Develops New Binder for High-Voltage, High-Capacity Lithium-Ion Batteries to Boost Performance Fluorochemical products are gaining increasing attention for their ability to improve the performance and safety of lithium-ion batteries. In July 2014, we released the VW700 Series, a PVdF binder for ﬂuorine-based cathodes for lithium-ion batteries, which uses Dakinʼs proprietary polymer technology to prevent deterioration even at high voltages, allowing batteries to have higher capacities and lengthening battery life by 10%*. We will continue our eﬀorts by developing components for lithium-ion batteries such as electrolytes, binders, and ﬂuororesins for packing. * Under testing, a 4.4-V battery was drained and charged 200 times and its charge-retaining capacity improved from 80% to 90%. Fluoride Materials Reduce Environmental Impact in Various Applications With ﬂuoride materials having superb heat and chemical resistance, we are conducting R&D into their use as material for fuel cells and for the oil and gas ﬁeld. Fluoride materials are also contributing to reduced environmental impact through their use in solar and wind power systems, and in lithium-ion batteries. We will continue to expand their use in renewable energy, new energy, and energy-saving applications. 140 Product Assessment Items Assessment item Assessment standard Weight and volume Have the weight and volume of products reduction of products, 1-1 (including main raw materials and parts) been and main raw materials reduced? 01. Weight reduction of and parts products Weight reduction of 1-2 Have fewer scarce materials been used? scarce materials Reduction of 1-3 Has less refrigerant (HFC) been used? refrigerants 2-1 Use of recycled plastics Have recycled plastics been used? Labelling use of Have parts been labelled as using recycled 02. Use of recycled 2-2 recycled plastics plastics? materials and parts Have reused parts been used, and are these 2-3 Use of recycled parts of standard quality? • Have weight and volume of packaging been Reduce weight of reduced? Has packaging been simpliﬁed? 3-1 packaging, simplify • Is used packaging material small and packaging separable? Can it be easily collected and transported? • Has the use of compound materials been reduced? 03. Packaging • Is it easy to separate each type of material Make it possible to 3-2 in compound materials? recycle more packaging • Have common materials been used across products? • Has packaging reuse been considered? Use recycled packaging 3-3 Has recycled packaging material been used? materials Reduce amount of Have products been designed so that less 04. 4. Reduction in 4-1 production waste waste is generated during production? environmental impact in the manufacturing process Energy eﬃciency in the Are product speciﬁcations such that less 4-2 production stage energy is consumed in the production stage? Improve energy Has the product been made more energy 5-1 eﬃciency during use eﬃcient during use? Reduce energy Has the product been made more energy 5-2 consumption in eﬃcient in standby? 05. Energy and resource standby mode conservation in use Include energy and Are there energy and resource saving 5-3 resource saving functions? functions Reduce amount of Has the amount of consumables been 5-4 product consumables reduced? 141 Assessment item Assessment standard Improve durability of Are products, parts, and materials more 6-1 products and main durable than before? parts and materials • Does construction make it easy for users to remove and attach? Greater ease of • Do parts need to be replaced less often replacement and 6-2 than before? maintenance of • Is there more information than before consumables regarding parts replacement posted on the main unit and in the user manual? • Have parts requiring maintenance and repair Possibility and greater been clearly indicated? 06. Product life extension 6-3 ease of maintenance • Are parts common across products? and repair • Does construction allow for easy maintenance and repair? • Are users and repair companies being provided with maintenance and repair information that will extend product life? Are the content, explanations, and illustration Tell customers how to methods of the information improved over 6-4 get longer use out of previous information? products • Can Daikin provide repair companies with breakdown diagnosis and repair measures, as well as information related to safety and other matters? Improve handling and • Have items been loaded evenly and safety of products balanced, and can collection and transport 7-1 during delivery, take place safely? collection, and • For heavy, bulky items, are handles and 07. Ease of transport wheels properly positioned? delivery/collecting /transporting Improve loading eﬃciency of products Is it easy to improve loading eﬃciency, and is 7-2 during delivery, there no danger of items falling oﬀ? collection, and transport Raise possibility of use 8-1 Have easy-to-recycle plastics been used? 08. Raise possibility of of plastics reuse of resources Has the overall possible recycling ratio of the 8-2 Raise recycling ratio product been raised? • Does construction make it easy to disassemble products and remove parts by Easy to disassemble hand? 9-1 products and separate • Do products have a recycling logo that 09. Ease of disassembly parts by hand indicates greater ease of disassembly? Is and separation of materials information provided that makes disassembly by hand easy? Reduce compound Is there less use of compound materials that 9-2 materials make parts and materials separation diﬃcult? Use common materials Have common materials been used across 9-3 across products products? 142 Assessment item Assessment standard • Is shredding with a shredder easy? • Can products and parts ﬁt into a shredder? 10. Ease of • Has there been a check to ensure that there shredding/classifying for 10-1 Make shredding easier are no substances that may damage or dirty recycling the equipment or the materials that will be reused? Do products use low global warming potential Use low global warming 11-1 refrigerants, which contribute less to global potential refrigerants warming? 11-2 Reduce PVC Has the amount of PVC been reduced? • Have safety measures been taken and has refrigerant been properly recovered so that there are no leaks of refrigerants or 11. Environmental refrigerator oil during collection and Protect environment conservation capabilities transport. 11-3 during recycling and • Are refrigerant recovery methods stated in disposal stages the documentation? • Can parts, including environmentally harmful substances, be removed using standard tools? Provide information to Have users and relevant contractors been 11-4 persons at all stages of provided with proper information? the life cycle Label product, parts, Are there energy and resource saving 12-1 user manual, functions? packaging, etc. • Do product catalogs and the website 12. Disclosure of provide users with information on matters information such as energy eﬃciency and resource Provide information in eﬃciency functions? 12-2 product catalogs and • Is there documentation giving information on the website on how to recycle and protect the environment, and information on safety during product disposal? Has a lifecycle assessment been conducted Determine the regarding the environmental impact at each 13-1 environmental impact lifecycle stage, such as materials, production, at each lifecycle stage transport, use, and ﬁnal disposal? 13. LCA Consider how to Does a lifecycle assessment show that the reduce environmental product exerts less environmental impact in 13-2 impact during the terms of CO2 emissions and global warming lifecycle potential? 143 Environmental Management Green Procurement Green Procurement Daikin Group Requests that Worldwide Suppliers Abide by Green Procurement Guidelines The Daikin Group established its Green Procurement Guidelines in ﬁscal 2000 and requires suppliers in Japan and overseas to abide by these in the procurement of materials and parts used in manufacturing. We mark suppliers on environmental protection activities using a green procurement checklist. In addition, the ErP Directive obligates manufacturers of energy-using and energy-related products (ErP) to reduce their energy consumption. To comply with this directive, Daikin's green procurement survey for suppliers determines energy-induced CO2. We are discussing individual measures that will remedy the particular problems of suppliers, and those who get a perfect score on the survey are evaluated as 'green suppliers'. In March 2015, we published the eighth edition of the Green Procurement Guidelines, which reﬂects the latest environmental laws and adds prohibited chemical substances to the list of designated chemical substances. We will continue to revise these guidelines to reﬂect changing environmental laws and situations. Calls for Improvement and Guidance at Overseas Bases We hold meetings for suppliers to explain the importance of green procurement in order to further raise the green procurement rate. At divisions in Japan and at bases overseas, we are striving to make green procurement a ﬁrmly rooted part of doing business. In ﬁscal 2015, we held explanatory meetings for local staﬀ and started green procurement at Cri-Tech Inc., a subsidiary of Daikin America, Inc. In addition, Goodman Manufacturing Company, L.P., Daikinʼs air conditioner base in North America, carried out a green procurement survey at suppliers that work with Goodman Manufacturing Company, L.P., DAIKIN APPLIED AMERICAS INC., and AAF International, and compiled the results of the surveys. In Thailand, China, and Europe, suppliers evaluated at a rank of “B” or lower were requested to make improvements and were given guidance in doing so. As a result of these eﬀorts, the green procurement rate in ﬁscal 2015 was 65%. 144 The requirements for green procurement have been gradually increasing to include items such as banned chemical substances and protection of biodiversity and water resources, and every year surveys are becoming increasingly strict. Although there are cases in which the green procurement rate, which shows the results of survey, goes down, rather than focus only on such numbers, we believe that it is more important to ensure that surveys lead to suppliers improving based on the latest edition of the green procurement checklist. We will continue holding explanatory meetings at overseas bases and aim to raise the green procurement rate in regions where it is low. Green Procurement Rate (All world regions) Staﬀ at Daikin America, Inc. attended green procurement explanatory meetings Green Procurement Rate by Region (%) Other countries in North Japan China Thailand Europe All regions Asia and America Oceania FY2011 96 91 98 87 81 3 84 FY2012 99 92 98 90 83 36 89 FY2013 95 96 98 84 86 38 84 FY2014 94 97 98 76 91 39 78 FY2015 96 95 95 65 93 38 65 Value of goods procured from suppliers Green procurement rate = who meet our assessment criteria Value of all goods procured 145 Overview of Green Procurement Guidelines, 8th Edition Essential conditions for suppliersʼ management Environmental Management System We request our suppliers to structure environmental management system to obtain ISO 14001 certiﬁcation. Compliance Promotion of voluntary activities of improving environment energy conservation, waste reduction, and improvement of transport means. Provision of information Essential conditions for products Chemical substance management 1. Restriction on use of chemical substances 2. Cooperation to investigation of chemical substances 3. Voluntary reduction of substances ranked to reduce, and the implementation of adequate management procedures of them Packaging materials When designing work is involved, eco-friendly design must be employed. For details, see the Green Procurement Guidelines. (Supply Chain Management) (Page 267) Biodiversity Protecting water resources Compliance with Restrictions on Toxic Chemicals Establishing Standards for Managing Chemical Substances in Products The Daikin Group has a list of SVHC (substance of very high concern) based on the RoHS Directive*1 and the REACH Regulation*2 regarding chemicals contained in products. These are stated in our Green Procurement Guidelines, which we require our suppliers to abide by. In July 2015, the requirements for purchasing goods requiring chemical substances management (ASB040004K) were revised, with banned substances added and threshold management strengthened. The newly added banned substances are four kinds of phthalate ester*3, and BNST (Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, reaction products with styrene and 2,4,4-trimethylpentene)*4. In July 2016, the requirements for purchasing goods (ASB040004L) was revised, with EU biocide rules newly added. *1 The RoHS Directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive) is a regulation in the EU prohibiting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. *2 The REACH Regulation on chemical substances went into eﬀect in Europe in June 2007. REACH obligates companies manufacturing or importing at least 1 ton of chemical substances a year in the EU to register with EU authorities. REACH covers almost all chemicals on the market in the EU. *3 As of March 31, 2015, under the EU Directive EU2015/863, four kinds of phthalate ester were added as controlled substances. These will be restricted under the directive from July 22, 2019, but the Daikin Group will cease using them in production starting on January 1, 2019. *4 As of March 14, 2015, BNST (Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, reaction products with styrene and 2,4,4-trimethylpentene) is prohibited under the Canadian Environmental Protection Act. 146 Speciﬁed Chemical Substance List (for products) Control levels Substance name Cadmium and cadmium compounds Chromium VI compounds Lead and lead compounds Mercury and mercury compounds Tributyl tin oxide (TBTO) Tributyl tins (TBTs) compounds *1 Triphenyl tins (TPTs) compounds *1 Dibutyltin compounds (DBTs) *1 Dioctyltin compounds (DOTs) *1 Polybrominated biphenyls (PBBs) Polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) Deca-Bromodiphenylether (Deca-BDE) *2 Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) Polychlorinated terphenyls (PCTs) *2 Prohibited Polychloronated napthalenes (C1=>3) Short chain chlorinated paraﬃns Perﬂuorooctane sulfonate (PFOSs) *3 F gas (HFC, PFC, SF6) *4 Asbestos Azocolourants and azodyes which form certain aromatic amines *5 Ozone depleting substances (other than HCFCs) *6 Radioactive substances Phenol,2-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(1,1-dimethylethyl) *2 Dimethly fumarate (DMF) *7 HBCD (Hecabromocyclododecane) PFOA (Perfuluorooctane acid) BNST (Benzenamine, N-phenyl-, reaction products with styrene and 2,4,4trimethylpentene)*11 Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs)*12 Scheduled DEHP, DBP, BBP, DIBP Prohibition Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) *8 Reduced Ozone depleting substances (only HCFCs) Beryllium oxide (BeO) *2 Phthalates (DINP, DIDP, DNOP) *2 Perchlorates *2 Managed Nickel and nickel compounds *9 Brominated ﬂame retardants (other than PBBs, PBDEs, or HBCD) Formaldehyde *2 EU REACH Regulation (SVHC: substances of very high concern) group (Prohibited materials speciﬁed by this guideline are excluded) *10 147 *1 The use of TBTs and TPTs is prohibited as of July 2010. The use of DBTs is prohibited as of January 2012 (January 2015 for certain substances). The use of DOTs is prohibited as of January 2012. However, only Commodities that touch the skin and Two-component normal temperature silicone modules will be prohibited. *2 Materials added to JIG representation material (July 2009). Added to the EU Directive EU2015/863 as controlled substances, these will be restricted under the directive from July 22, 2019. *3 The use of PFOSs is prohibited as of May 2009 under the POPs Agreement. Prohibited as of April 2010 under Japan's Law Concerning the Evaluation of Chemical Substances (except for applications in semiconductors, etching, and business photographic ﬁlm). *4 The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc) is prohibited in one-component foams (except when required to meet national safety standards). (Banned in the EU starting in July 2008.) The use of F gas (HFC, PFC, etc.) is permitted for refrigerants. *5 Limited to applications in azo dyes and pigments which constitute the speciﬁc amines deﬁned by the German Consumer Goods Ordinance and which come into contact with the human body for long hours. *6 The use of HCFC for the production of foams shall be prohibited, and the use as refrigerants for Japan and EU models shall also be prohibited. *7 Use prohibited as of May 2009 (formerly used as a fungicide in leather products and furniture before being prohibited in the EU). *8 There are fewer substances that can be used as PVC substitutes. *9 In cases in which the nickel comes into contact with the human body for long hours. *10 All SVHC (substances of very high concern) added in future shall be managed. Postscripts do not need to be added in future. *11 The Prohibition of Certain Toxic Substances Regulations, prohibited the manufacture, use, sale, oﬀer for sale or import of certain toxic substances including BNST and products containing these substances in Canada from March 14, 2015. *12 Rubber or plastic components that come into direct as well as prolonged or short-term repetitive contact with the human skin or the oral cavity shall not contain more than 1 mg/kg (0.0001 % by weight of this component) of any of the PAHs. 148 Environmental Management Green Heart Factories and Green Heart Oﬃces Green Heart Factories Certifying Environmentally Conscious Plants Through an In-House Standard The Daikin Group has an in-house standard for evaluating and certifying environmentally conscious plants for their environmental and social performance. Plants scoring at least 85 points out of 100 are certiﬁed as Green Heart Factories, while those scoring at least 95 points are certiﬁed as Super Green Heart Factories. As of the end of ﬁscal 2015, three bases in Japan and four bases overseas had been certiﬁed as Super Green Heart Factories. In ﬁscal 2015, Rotex Heating Systems GmbH and Daikin Isitma ve Sogutma Sistemleri San. Tic. A. S. (Turkey) achieved Green Heart Factory status, bringing the total to ﬁve bases in Japan and 20 bases overseas. Green Heart Oﬃces Green Heart Oﬃce Initiative Daikin began the “Green Heart Oﬃce” initiative in ﬁscal 2011 to improve environmental consciousness at non-production bases. Awareness raising activities have included an environmental poster design contest aimed at promoting Green Heart Oﬃces, with the winning entry being put up in Daikin oﬃces for everyone to see. With these eﬀorts gradually spreading through the Daikin Group, in ﬁscal 2014, we created a Green Heart Oﬃce checklist that we trialed in the Daikin Industries, Ltd. Head Oﬃce and the Tokyo Oﬃce. The checklist includes a graph with the items “paper,” “garbage,” and “electricity” on the vertical axis, and the items “awareness” and “contribution” on the horizontal axis. In addition, we created the three ranks of Gold Class, Silver Class, and Bronze Class for each oﬃce zone. This allows us to make comparative assessments among bases. We plan to expand this eﬀort across the Daikin Group to raise the level of the Green Heart Oﬃce initiative. 149 Environmental Management Environmental Communication Daikin Environmental Report Reports Published in Japan and Other World Regions Since 1998, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has published an environmental report (now called the Sustainability Report) to inform all stakeholders of the Daikin Group's environmental philosophy and eco-actions. We supplement these reports with more detailed information on our website. Our overseas Group companies also publish environmental reports once a year. There are versions for Asia and Oceania, Europe, and China. In addition, Daikin in China also publishes its own CSR Report. Asia and Oceania Europe China Environmental Ads Environmental Protection Information through Ads on Trains and in Newspapers Daikin Industries, Ltd. has ads on public transport and in newspapers dealing not just with products but also reporting on world topics like environmental protection and air conditioning trends. Daikin Energy Saving Solution Ads above Train Doors Ads in ﬁscal 2015 were on the theme of reducing environmental impact. The ads introduced Daikinʼs eﬀorts to spread the use of the low-global-warming-potential refrigerant HFC-32. 150 Environmental Awareness Activities Daikin Website Oﬀers Enjoyable Way to Raise Environmental Awareness The Daikin Industries, Ltd. website shows visitors how to use air conditioning in an economical, environmental conscious way, and teaches about the environmental issues Daikin faces. The site oﬀers an enjoyable way for people of all ages to learn about the relation between air conditioners and the environment. Daikin plans to continue providing information on topics such as air and environmental problems and how to save electricity. 151 Environment Protecting Biodiversity Basic Policy on Protecting Biodiversity Our society is built upon the many blessings that nature gives us. The source of these blessings is biodiversity. Daikin's business has a major eﬀect on biodiversity through its contribution to global warming. Thatʼs why we strive to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in all of our business activities. We also work to protect biodiversity through environmental contribution activities. Through our focus on protecting and nurturing forests, “natureʼs air conditioners,” we continuously strive to maintain balance in the worldʼs ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance of the natural world. Protecting Biodiversity Biodiversity Awareness The Daikin Group works to Besides supporting employees in maintain balance in the world's their volunteer work to protect valuable nature and ecosystems biodiversity, the Daikin Group so that we can help bring back places great importance on the abundance of the natural providing information and world. education to the general public. 152 Protecting Biodiversity Protecting Biodiversity Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity Protect and Rejuvenate the Gifts of Nature Human society is made possible thanks to the many blessings of biodiversity. For example, our rich forests provide us with oxygen through photosynthesis, they act as natural air conditioners by giving oﬀ water vapor that keeps atmospheric temperature from rising, and they act as air puriﬁers by removing pollutants from the atmosphere. As a company whose job it is to provide comfortable air environments, Daikin likes to call forests 'nature's air conditionersʼ. That's why we do all we can to protect biodiversity, both through our business and through environmental contribution activities. The biggest impact, in the Daikin Groupʼs business activities, on biodiversity is the emission of greenhouse gases. We therefore strive to minimize greenhouse gas emissions in all stages of our business: development and design, production, and sales. As for our environmental contribution activities, we focus on protecting and fostering the natural riches of forests, which we call ʻnatureʼs air conditioners.ʼ In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in eﬀorts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature and the creation of new forests on our premises. We oﬀer support to the employees who are conducting these activities, and we strive to provide information and education to the general public. The ideas stated here form our Basic Philosophy on Protecting Biodiversity, which we established in September 2010. Basic Policy of Protecting Biodiversity We act for the sake of abundant greenery and fresh air. Thinking Behind Our Basic Philosophy (established September 2010) Our society is built upon the many blessing that nature gives us. The source of these blessings is biodiversity. The loss of this biodiversity would hurt our water, food, and other aspects of our life. Daikin's business also has a major eﬀect on biodiversity through our contribution to global warming. To contribute to a sustainable society, we strive to reduce our contribution to global warming throughout our business activities, and to maintain balance in ecosystems so that we can help bring back the abundance of the natural world. 153 Main Eﬀorts In Business Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout Our Business Activities Reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout our entire business activities, including product development and production, transportation, sales, service, and the supply chain. Outside of Business Protection and Rejuvenation of the Blessings of Nature 1. In the countries and regions in which we do business, we work with governments, residents groups, NGOs, and NPOs in eﬀorts including the protection and rejuvenation of nature. 2. We create new forests on our premises. 3. We support employees in their volunteer work. 4. We provide the public with information and education. Eﬀorts in Nature Preservation Areas “Forests for the Air” Project Underway in 7 Locations Worldwide As a social contribution project to celebrate its 90th anniversary, in June 2014 Daikin Industries, Ltd. kicked oﬀ its 10-year “Forests for the Air” project. Together with NGO Conventional International and the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, the project is expanding on previous reforestation and forest protection activities in seven locations around the world. The aim is to contribute to forest protection in cooperation with locals whose lives are intertwined with these forests. “Forests for the Air” project (http://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/index.html) Daikin Supports Environmental Protection on the Shiretoko Peninsula In July 2011, Daikin Industries, Ltd., the Shiretoko Nature Foundation, and the towns of Shari and Rausu signed an agreement to protect the wilderness of the Shiretoko Peninsula, a UNESCO World Natural Heritage Site. In 2016, the parties signed an agreement for the second phase of this eﬀort as part of Daikinʼs “Forests for the Air” project, under which Daikin will provide ﬁnancial support and send volunteers for a period lasting until the end of March 2024. By contributing to reforestation and environmental protection, and by helping ensure that the human and bear populations live in Employees erect a fence to keep out Sika deer harmony, we are striving to preserve the forests of Shiretoko for future generations. In ﬁscal 2015, a cumulative total of 23 employees volunteered during May and September, completing 1,200 meters of a deer fence along the Iwaobetsu River to prevent Sika deer from eating seedlings. 154 Wild animals in Shiretoko Brown bears Yezo deer Steller's sea eagle Trout Dilapidated riparian forest (Iwaobetsu River Basin, Hokkaido) Protecting the Natural Environment of Shiretoko: People and Nature Living in Harmony (http://www.daikin.com/csr/shiretoko/index.html) Working on Reforestation in Indonesia Since June 2008, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been working with international NGO Conservation International (CI) on a reforestation project in Gunung Gede Pangrango National Park in Java Island to rejuvenate the forest and its ecosystems. This is part of Daikinʼs “Forests for the Air” project. This national park is covered with valuable tropical forests that are home to many unique species designated as endangered. But in the last several decades, it has suﬀered serious damage as land is cleared for agriculture and people cut down trees to support their lifestyle. The aim of this project is to protect the remaining forest by planting local species of trees, supporting farming that utilizes the replanted areas (agroforestry), and providing residents with environmental education. These eﬀorts have so far contributed to the rejuvenation of forests that The seedlings planted have grown into trees (c) Conservation International, Photo by Anton beneﬁt both people and the environment. Ario In the seven years up to June 2015, about 150,000 trees (local species) were planted on about 300 hectares with the help of 644 local farmers and 20 national park rangers. With this forest now protected under a moratorium period, Daikin Industries, Ltd. and CI have joined in a 10-year project under which the parties will continue managing the reforested areas while at the same time working to ensure that local communities can coexist sustainably with their forests. This reforestation project in Indonesia has been carried out with the support of users of Daikin products. 155 Helping create a livelihood for local farmers: (Left) Preparing cucumbers grown in the planted forest to be sold in the market; (Right) fresh-water ﬁsh aquaculture (c) Conservation International, Photo by Anton Ario The reforestation project in Indonesia is a joint eﬀort between Daikin and customers who use its products The reforestation project allows Daikin customers to contribute to reforestation while they enjoy operating their air conditioners in an energy eﬃcient way. Each time a customer in Japan pushes the “Comfortable eco operation” button on the remote control of Daikinʼs Urusara (R-Series) residential air conditioner, an illustration of a tree on the remote controlʼs screen grows a little bigger. When the tree becomes full grown (when 10 points are accumulated), the customerʼs name is listed as one of the supporters at a site of a reforestation project. In ﬁscal 2015, 266 customers were The board shows the names of Daikin registered as project supporters. customers who support reforestation See Reforestation in Indonesia (http://www.daikin.com/csr/environment/reforestation/index.html) 156 Projects in Surrounding Neighborhoods Rejuvenating Community Forests in Osaka Prefecture Daikin strives to protect forests near its bases. One of these eﬀorts is an agreement between Daikin, Osaka Prefecture, Takatsuki City, and forest owners to protect a community forest area. The agreement was signed at a ceremony in May 2012 at the Osaka Prefectural oﬃce. Under the agreement, the prefectural government uses the Adopt a Forest system to mediate companies' purchases from private land owners so that forest land is preserved. This agreement covers the Harashiroyama forest in Takatsuki City, which traditionally was used to harvest bamboo, and to obtain wood for ﬁrewood and making charcoal. In recent years though, there are not enough people to manage it and so it has fallen into disrepair due to problems that include overgrowth of bamboo. To return the bamboo forests back to productivity, Daikin is working with local residents to thin out the woods and Izuhara Adopt a Forest signing ceremony rejuvenate this local forest. Daikin employees can also go to Harashiroyama anytime they wish to work up a sweat and contribute to the rejuvenation of community forests. In ﬁscal 2015, a cumulative total of 118 employees and their family members volunteered. With these activities in Harashiroyama now well established, eﬀorts are underway to expand the community forest initiative beyond the protection of bamboo trees. To this end, the Izuhara Adopt a Forest agreement in Ibaraki, Osaka Prefecture was signed in March 2016 and forest preservation has begun. Forest preservation activity in Izuhara This program will run until March 2020 with the goal of returning the neglected coppice forest to its rich, natural ecosystem. Eﬀorts at Bases Daikin Ales Aoya Training Center Works to Protect and Rejuvenate Natural Forests on Coastal Dunes and Beaches Daikin Ales Aoya in Tottori Prefecture, Japan is a center for the training of employees who will be active on the world stage. The facility is located at Idegahama, a beach known for its 'whistling sand'. The area is home to a typical coastal vegetation ecosystem: starting from the beach, one can see annual grass give way to perennial grass, and short trees gradually give way to taller trees. However, this coastal vegetation has been rapidly disappearing in the last decade or two. 157 When Daikin Industries, Ltd. built this facility here, it began to not just protect these rare beaches and dunes, but also bring back the nature that had been lost so that this coastal ecosystem could once again return to its natural state. We began by surveying the region's vegetation to get a detailed understanding of the geography. Based on this, we made a proposal to plant vegetation. After implementation, we had advice from experts in the monitoring and fostering of the vegetation. Daikin Ales Aoya also acts as a multi-purpose training facility where employees can raise their environmental awareness through courses such as seedling-planting during new employee training. We also provide opportunities for local residents to utilize Daikin Ales Aoya. In May 2015, it was used by the Open University of Japan for a ﬁeld work course on protecting and revitalizing natural environments. In June, it was used by Tottori University as a testing ground for a garden management practicum in which students conducted ﬁeld work in protecting coastal vegetation and planting trees in coastal areas. We also held a sand dune vegetation management event at Daikin Ales Aoya, where we presented our coastal vegetation protection activities and had local residents help us carry out some of the actual work. Outside Honors for Daikin Ales Aoya Selected for inclusion in the list of 100 top companies contributing to biodiversity, October 2010 sponsored by the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Architecture Given Excellent Stage 2 ranking (equivalent to the middle of a 5-stage assessment December 2011 system) under the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System (SEGES) of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure Given the Green Society Contribution Award and the Green Cities Award Encouragement Fiscal 2013 Prize from the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure Given Excellent Stage 3 ranking (equivalent to second highest level of a 5-stage assessment system) under the Social and Environmental Green Evaluation System December 2014 (SEGES) of the Organization for Landscape and Urban Green Infrastructure. This is one level higher than it earned under SEGES in 2011 Bird's-eye view of Daikin Ales Aoya Monitoring vegetation To restore coastal forests, a fence was constructed to protect the seedlings from salt air and sand 158 Certiﬁcate for the Green Cities Award Encouragement Prize Certiﬁcate showing that Mark of certiﬁcation for the Daikin is one of 100 top SEGES (Social and companies contributing to Environmental Green biodiversity Evaluation System) Species on the endangered lists of Tottori Prefecture and the national government Beachwort Siberian sea rosemary Scutellaria strigillosa Heteropappus hispidus These species are eﬀective at resisting invasive species and are important to protecting beach vegetation Shiga Plant Rejuvenates a Community Forest for Coexistence Between People and Nature The Shiga Plant of Daikin Industries, Ltd. began work to rejuvenate a community forest on its premises in ﬁscal 2012. The project area was named the Daikin Shiga Forest and it was decided to use ﬁreﬂies as a way to assess the eﬀectiveness of the rejuvenation eﬀorts. Employees assisted in creating an environment where these ﬁreﬂies could live. For example, creeks were repaired and greenery was planted along them, and trees were planted in the forest. In addition, seeds from plants in a nearby community forest were planted in the homes of Daikin employees, and the seedlings that grew from these seeds were planted in the employeesʼ homesʼ gardens. This boosts awareness of biodiversity among employees. 159 Creating Biotopes at Daikin Worldwide Factories Daikin production bases around the world are creating biotopes on site where employees and their families are planting trees and other vegetation. 160 Protecting Biodiversity Biodiversity Awareness Raising Employee Awareness Employee Volunteers Help Protect Biodiversity Daikin Industries, Ltd. supports the volunteer activities of its employees. Working together with “Do!,” the employeesʼ group for promoting environmental volunteer eﬀorts, the company strives to help employees gain a greater awareness of the value of nature. In ﬁscal 2015, a cumulative total of 141 Daikin Industries, Ltd. employees joined activities including rejuvenating a bamboo forest in Harashiroyama, Osaka Prefecture and preserving a forest in Shiretoko, Hokkaido Prefecture. Employees have also joined in a forest preservation program that began in March 2016 in Izuhara, Osaka Prefecture. Daikin also provides environmental volunteer information through media including its website and an in-house environmental newsletter. Employee volunteers in a bamboo forest in Harashiroyama 161 Environment History of Environmental Activities History of Environmental Activities Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) Environmental Pollution Control System established Environmental Pollution Control 1970s Committee established Environmental Pollution Control Regulations enacted Environmental Month started Daikin Group Environmental Control Committee established Daikin Group Environmental 1980s Management Regulations enacted Began dealing with ﬂuorocarbon problem Began HFC 1991 mass-production Director responsible for environmental 1992 protection and Global Environment Dept.established Actions Principles on Environmental 1993 Protection enacted Environmental Action Plan enacted Began building environmental 1994 management system Released chiller using HFC refrigerant Ceased production 1995 Environmental audits launched Started air conditioner of CFC forums Acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in all 1996 Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases in Japan Began working toward ISO 14001 1997 certiﬁcation in overseas production bases 162 Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) Released Super Inverter 60 ultra-energy-eﬃcient commercial air conditioner 1998 First Environmental Report published Released HFC multipurpose air conditioner for buildings, HFC residential air conditioners Established Environmental accounting introduced, 1999 ﬂuorocarbon Environmental Meetings launched destruction facilities Released Super Inverter ZEAS ultra-energy2000 Start of green procurement eﬃcient HFC air conditioner Environmental Action Plan 2005 enacted Achieved zero waste emissions in Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases in Japan (machinery divisions) 2001 Regional Environmental Meetings launched Environmental meetings started in each of four regions (Europe, North America, China, and Asia/Oceania) Began ﬂuorocarbon recovery and destruction Basic Environmental Policy of the business 2002 Daikin Group enacted Completed Conversion to HFC refrigerant for all major products (in Japan) Aquired integrated ISO 14001 2003 certiﬁcation in Daikin Group in Japan Achieved zero waste emissions in all 2004 Daikin Industries, Ltd. production bases in Japan Released Daikin Altherma Environmental Action Plan 2010 air-to-water heat-pump 2006 enacted space and hot water heater in Europe Held air conditioner 2007 forums in Europe and the U.S. 163 Air Condtioning Chemicals Daikin Group Divisions(Japan) Division(Japan) Started Re: AIRCON Project for reforestation in Indonesia Formulated the latter half of the Released worldʼs ﬁrst VRV Fusion 10 strategic management plan, system (mult-split type air 2008 which stresses proactive contribution conditioner for building) to solving environmental problems, as using CO2 refrigerant well as business expansion Held air conditioner forums worldwide (Europe, U.S., Japan) Held air conditioner 2009 forums in China The Daikin Group worldwide achieved Held air conditioner 2010 its targets for greenhouse gas forums in Asia/Oceania emissions by a wide margin Formulated Environmental Action Plan 2015 2011 Started environmental protection activities in Shiretoko Released Urusara 7 residential air conditioner, 2012 world's ﬁrst air conditioner to use the new HFC-32 refrigerant Released FIVE STAR ZEAS, world's ﬁrst 2013 commercial air conditioner to use new refrigerant HFC-32 Released cooling-only variable speed (inverter) 2014 Started Forests for the Air project air conditioners for emerging countries Daikin oﬀers companies worldwide free access to its 93 patents on the manufacture and sale of HFC-32 air 2015 conditioners Daikin's Policy and Comprehensive Actions on the Environmental Impact of Refrigerants published 164 Environment Endorsement as an Eco First Company Daikin Industries, Ltd. First Company in Air Conditioner Industry to be Endorsed as an Eco First Company by Ministry of the Environment On November 11, 2008, Daikin Industries, Ltd. was presented with oﬃcial certiﬁcation for the Eco First Program established by Japan's Ministry of the Environment in April 2008. The award recognized Daikin's Eco First Commitment of environmental protection targets. Daikin is now the ﬁrst company in its industry to earn the right to use the Eco First symbol. The Eco First symbol Under the Eco First Program, companies make a commitment to the Ministry of the Environment to carry out voluntary environmental protection activities aimed at meeting the targets of the Kyoto Protocol. As the world's only developer and manufacturer of both air conditioners and their ﬂuorocarbon refrigerants, Daikin makes it a top priority to reduce global warming. The company does all it can to alleviate environmental problems and focus on business areas that make this possible, establishing environmentally strategic themes, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and developing and disseminating the use of products that help customers reduce global warming. Under our Eco First Commitment, which we revised in March 2012, the Daikin Group is striving to achieve both environmental sustainability and corporate growth by making the most of environmental technologies such as inverters and heat pumps to drive our business. Daikin Group's Eco First Commitment 1. Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from business activities. By ﬁscal 2015 we will reduce the greenhouse gas emissions (CO2, HFC, PFC) from manufacturing processes of the entire group (including overseas companies) to one-third of ﬁscal 2005 levels. We will reduce emissions through oﬀgassing measures that include the recovery and destruction of ﬂuorocarbons from plants in Japan and overseas. 2. Develop and disseminate products that help reduce the eﬀects of global warming. We will strive for a worldwide dissemination of inverter products, which oﬀer dramatic reductions in power consumption. We will step up sales of residential inverter air conditioners in China so that they are present in 50% of home by ﬁscal 2015. In the market for large-capacity commercial-use air conditioners, we will disseminate more highly eﬃcient models with inverter functions, such as highly eﬃcient air-cooled heat-pump chillers and turbo refrigerators. 165 Keeping in mind the speciﬁc needs of customers in each region, we will develop and disseminate heat pump systems for hot water heater and heating systems, which oﬀer far higher energy eﬃciency than conventional combustion systems. We will strive to disseminate heat pump products such as natural-refrigerant (CO2) hot water supply and combination systems of air conditioners, refrigerators, and freezers for convenience stores. We will take our energy-eﬃcient solutions business worldwide with our remote monitoring system for air conditioning equipment. We will strive to disseminate our ﬂuorochemical products, such as ﬁlm material used in solar cells and other renewable energy products, and Zeﬄe thermal insulation coating, which when painted onto buildings contributes to reduced air conditioning burden. With consideration for environmental performance, safety, and eﬃciency, we will conduct worldwide sales of air conditioners using HFC32, a refrigerant with a global warming potential just one-third of conventional refrigerants. 3. Keep refrigerant leaks to an absolute minimum by recovering and destroying refrigerants in all stages from manufacture to ﬁnal product disposal. We will take requests for ﬂuorocarbon recovery from customers in Japan 24 hours a day every day of the year, and we will properly treat ﬂuorocarbons at destruction facilities. To step up measures to prevent ﬂuorocarbon refrigerant emissions during product use, we are conducing inspections on commercial air conditioners to prevent leaks before they happen, and we are keeping records of refrigerant ﬁlling work. 4. Thoroughly manage chemical substances and reduce the amounts released. In Japan, we will further reduce emissions of PRTR substances by improving recovery work and incorporating processes that do not use PRTR substances. By ﬁscal 2012, we will completely eliminate the use of PFOA (perﬂuorooctanoic acid), which has been used in the manufacturing of ﬂuorochemical products in Japan. 5. Provide education for children, the future stewards our planet, that will help them create a sustainable society. In Japan, we will create educational programs that will make children think about sustainability, and we will provide these programs free-of-charge to elementary schools. We will give children the opportunity to learn about sustainability by providing activities such as factory tours and sales events, and by operating a special environmental website. Environment (Page 66) 166 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ New Value Creation Helping Solve Social Issues …………………… 170 Working Toward Sustainable Development Goals…………………………… 173 167 CSR for Value Provision New Value Creation The Source of Sustainability for Society and the Company Amid todayʼs globalization, technology is changing and advancing at greater speed than ever. It is becoming tougher for a company to oﬀer diﬀerentiated products or services so that customers purchase based on price. For a company to grow in this situation, it must provide advanced value by combining state-of-the-art technologies resulting in new products that help society solve problems in ﬁelds such as energy, the environment, and health. Sharing Dreams and Ambitions Inside and Outside Daikin to Realize a Healthy, Comfortable Lifestyle through Air Technology today is advancing at an unprecedented pace. To create new value in this world, a company must think outside the box and pursue “collaborative innovation” that pools a wide range of knowledge and technologies. In November 2015, we established the Technology and Innovation Center, which acts as the core of our eﬀorts to pursue collaborative innovation. Through the center, we can combine resources both inside and outside Daikin and provide new products and services that bring happiness and joy to customersʼ lifestyles, and come up with technologies that contribute to solving problems society faces in the areas of environment, health, and medicine. 168 Working Toward Helping Solve Social Issues Sustainable Development Goals We cooperate with industry The Daikin Group seeks ways to groups and other companies, and contribute to achievement of the work in industry-academia tie-ups United Nationsʼ Sustainable in order to create technologies Development Goals (SDGs). that help solve societyʼs problems. 169 New Value Creation Helping Solve Social Issues Cooperation with Inﬂuential Figures and Industry Groups Daikin Air Forum Since Fiscal 2013, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has held the Air Forum, a platform for discussion between outside experts and Daikin engineers on how to take on societyʼs challenges with regards to air. The ﬁfth session of the Air Forum took place in December 2015 at the Technology and Innovation Center, which opened in November 2015. Naoki Miyano, an associate professor at Kyoto University and a committee member of the Daikin Kyoto University Innovation Program (DKIP), delivered a lecture titled “What is new social value?” Participants, including experts in ﬁelds such as air conditioning, architecture, life sciences, and medicine, then discussed this topic in detail. World Sleep Conference: Better Quality of Sleep through Air Research In March 2016, Daikin Industries, Ltd., Showa Nishikawa, Lion Corporation, and Renaissance Inc. jointly established the World Sleep Conference, a project to improve peopleʼs health through better sleeping. The goal is to focus on the importance of sleep, deﬁne ways to create new health movements that promote better sleep, and make peopleʼs lives more fulﬁlling and healthy. To this end, the World Sleep Conference provides information through a range of media aimed at realizing better health through sleep, with contributions by sleep researchers and experts in cultural disciplines that cross the boundaries of industries and research ﬁelds. It is known that sleep aﬀects not just physical health but mental health as well, and negative sleep patterns can lead to depression and insomnia, and a fall in things like concentration and productivity. With people increasingly suﬀering from sleep-related problems, Daikin Industries, Ltd. focused on the close relationship between sleep and warm environments. The company used the TICʼs newly built Sleep and Metabolism Laboratory to replicate actual human sleeping environments in order to study the correlation between sleep and warmth. The result has been new products and services that will improve the quality of sleep through the power of air. 170 Participation in the World Green Building Council Daikin Industries, Ltd. joined in the World Green Building Council (WorldGBC) to contribute to the reduction of energy consumption in buildings through energy eﬃcient air conditioners. WorldGBC is an international network of organizations such as certiﬁcation bodies and business enterprises in 72 nations, sharing information to promote green building across the globe. At the conference held in March 2016, Daikin presented the results of demonstration tests conducted together with Nagoya University on the development of energyeﬃcient air conditioners that could help realize zero-energy buildings (ZEB)*. * ZEB: A zero-energy building is one that eﬀectively consumes zero energy thanks to the energy eﬃciency of the building and equipment, as well as the use of renewable energy sources on-site to power the building. Open Innovation through Industry-Academia Collaboration Agreement with Kyoto University in Humanities and Sciences June 2013, Daikin Industries, Ltd. and Kyoto University Prototype of air conditioner that concluded a comprehensive collaboration agreement with the brings people together: blending goal of creating and researching new themes focusing on sensual stimulation and design social values toward future-oriented solutions in the ﬁelds of air quality, environment, and energy. The aim of this program goes beyond the sciences as the two parties will actively engage the participation of researchers in the humanities as well in order to create innovations that contribute to society and economy. At a humanities and sciences workshop titled Concepts in Air, participants came up with six concepts for the creation of new value through air; for example, how air can make food more delicious and bring people together. Under this agreement, the parties are currently working to ﬁnalize the technological issues that are needed to realize each concept. Areas are divided by level of temperature, images, and lighting to provide either relaxing or stimulating environments. Future Joint Research Laboratories Established with Nara Institute of Science and Technology In October 2012, Daikin Industries, Ltd. and the Nara Institute of Science and Technology (NAIST) established the Future Joint Research Laboratories. In conventional agreements between industry and academia, the corporation generally names the project content and the university carries out the necessary project research. But this collaboration between Daikin and NAIST begins with a quest for pressing social issues, followed by discussions on how to solve them and then the start of research toward this goal. 171 Daikin and NAIST are currently proceeding with research on the theme of clean innovations aimed at high-level anti-fouling. At the same time, the two parties hold periodic discussions aimed at ﬁnding the next research theme. In December 2015, Daikin and NAIST held a contest for students to come up with ideas on the theme “air conditioning and IoT.” The dreams and original ideas of the students are sure to lead to the creation of new value. Collaboration with Kansai University In November 2012, Daikin signed an agreement with Kansai University to collaborate fully on ways to contribute to communities in education, research, and human resource development. Through this collaboration, we are oﬀering free lectures on ﬂuorine and helping accelerate joint research. Joint Research Course with Osaka University In 2006, Daikin launched the Daikin (Fluorine Chemistry) Joint Research Chair at Osaka University under which Daikin provides research funds and sends researchers to the university with the aim of combining the companyʼs ﬂuorochemicals technologies with the universityʼs advanced research capabilities in order to come up with innovative fundamental technologies. One of the fruits of this collaboration is the development of a proprietary n-type semiconductor PNP, a crucial component in organic thin-ﬁlm solar cells, which are garnering attention as a way to generate electricity in an environmentally conscious way. In ﬁscal 2015, the parties succeeded in developing a new n-type semiconductor with higher voltage than PNP, and high solvent solubility that makes it ideal for manufacturing paint-on semiconductors. They are currently creating prototypes with semiconductor manufacturers. In ﬁscal 2016, the 11th year of the joint research chair, Daikinʼs air conditioning and other divisions joined this collaboration as the Daikin (Fluorine Chemistry) Joint Research (Chair) was re-launched as the Daikin Research Alliance Laboratories in order to conduct more comprehensive collaboration with Osaka University. Tie-up with Tsinghua University In 2003, the Tsinghua-Daikin R&D Center was established at Tsinghua University in Beijing, one of Chinaʼs top universities. Since then, Daikin and the university have worked together to jointly develop air conditioner technologies. In ﬁscal 2016, in addition to research into chemical technologies, the Tsinghua-Daikin R&D Center began research aimed at solving environmental issues. The center works with leading researchers in environmental ﬁelds such as air quality, water quality, and energy. 172 New Value Creation Working Toward Sustainable Development Goals Our modern world is undergoing constant change that is bringing about problems like poverty, inequality, and climate change. To mount a global eﬀort toward solving these problems, in September 2015 the United Nations adopted “Transforming our world: the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development” and established the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The Daikin Group aims to contribute to the realization of the SDGs by identifying three themes: environment, cities, and health and comfort. Our aim is to use our world-class technologies to reduce environmental impact while at the same time providing new value in the form of a healthy, comfortable way of living. Value Creation for the Earth Responding to Climate Change while Providing Air Conditioning Systems with Less Environmental and Energy Impact With global warming causing increasingly frequent occurrences of abnormal weather, the eﬀects are being felt not just as changes in the natural environment but also as the spread of infectious diseases and other threats to human health. The rise in atmospheric temperature, economic advancement, and population growth around the world are fueling a constantly increasing demand for air conditioners. However, there are fears that large amounts of electricity consumption and refrigerant leakage will accelerate global warming. As a global air conditioner manufacturer, the Daikin Group is working to decrease greenhouse gas emissions through the dissemination of inverter air conditioners and low-global-warming-potential refrigerants. In addition, we are utilizing our ﬂuorochemical technologies and developing and providing new materials that contribute to the use and spread of renewable energy. Value Creation for Cities Creating Spaces that Respond to the Needs of Urbanization Economic and population growth in emerging countries are causing rapid urbanization. The number of mega-cities with populations exceeding 1 million is on the rise, and these cities will require increasing amounts of energy. And with rising atmospheric temperatures, they will also require air conditioners to provide residents with comfortable living environments. 173 Meanwhile, in the industrialized countries, where populations continue to drop, workers increasingly require comfortable spaces where they can do their jobs easily and productively. The Daikin Group provides air conditioners that create environments to meet the needs of people in both emerging and industrialized countries. Furthermore, we are working on realizing zero-energy buildings, which use renewable energy sources in order to eﬀectively achieve a net energy balance of zero, and utilizing ICT technologies, which promote energy eﬃciency through comfortable air conditioner operation throughout an entire town. The goal is to realize livable cities that achieve comfort and energy eﬃciency through city-wide air conditioner control. Value Creation for Health and Comfort Contributing to the Reduction of Air Pollution and Safe Food Distribution to Achieve Both Healthy Living Environments and Economic Development With economic development come rapid industrialization, exploding population growth in cities, and ballooning traﬃc volume ̶ all of which contribute to more hazardous chemicals in the atmosphere that are detrimental to human health, as well as to spiraling healthcare costs. The Daikin Group believes that an eﬀective way to reduce air pollution is to place ﬁlters on factories and other facilities that give oﬀ emissions containing hazardous chemicals. We also strive for pleasant indoor environments by making products that remove not only air pollutants but also odors. Despite the shortage of food in todayʼs world, large amounts of it must still be thrown away because temperatures for the storage of transportation of food cannot be eﬀectively controlled. Besides contributing to optimal temperature control, the Daikin Group provides refrigeration equipment for commercial use and marine transport that is driven by proprietary freshness control and energy eﬃciency technologies. By contributing to the creation of a global cold chain system in which fresh food is transported from producing to consuming regions, we help alleviate world food shortages by ensuring that less food needs to be thrown away. These technologies are also used in the transport of pharmaceuticals that require strict temperature control, thus helping ensure that hospital patients get the treatment they need. Daikin contributes to both healthy living environments and economic development. 174 Sustainable Development Goals: SDGs 1. No poverty 2. Zero 3. Good 4. Quality 5. Gender hunger health and education equality well-being End poverty in all its End hunger, achieve Ensure inclusive and Achieve gender forms everywhere food security and Ensure healthy lives equitable quality equality and empower improved nutrition and promote education and all women and girls and promote well-being for all at all promote lifelong sustainable age learning opportunities agriculture for all 6. Clean 7. Aﬀordable 8. Decent 9. Industry, 10. Reduced water and and clean work and innovation inequalities sanitation energy economic and growth infrastructure Reduce inequality Ensure availability and Ensure access to within and among sustainable aﬀordable, reliable, Promote sustained, Build resilient countries management of water sustainable and inclusive and infrastructure, and sanitation for all modern energy for all sustainable economic promote inclusive and growth, full and sustainable productive industrialization and employment and foster innovation decent work for all 11. 12. 13. Climate 14. Life below 15. Life on Sustainable Responsible action water land cities and consumption communities and Take urgent action to Conserve and Protect, restore and production combat climate sustainably use the promote sustainable Make cities and change and its oceans, seas and use of terrestrial human settlements Ensure sustainable impacts marine resources for ecosystems, inclusive, safe, consumption and sustainable sustainably manage resilient and production patterns development forests, combat sustainable desertiﬁcation, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss 16. Peace, 17. justice and Partnerships strong for the goals institutions Strengthen the means Promote peaceful and of implementation and inclusive societies for revitalize the global sustainable partnership for development, provide sustainable access to justice for development all and build eﬀective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels 175 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Customer Satisfaction Product Quality and Safety ………………………… 179 Protecting Customer Information ………………… 192 Customer Satisfaction………………………………… 186 176 CSR for Value Provision Customer Satisfaction Responding to Growing Demand in Emerging Countries Daikin is accelerating expansion of its overseas business, especially in emerging countries where air conditioner demand is growing. It is essential for sustainable growth that we provide products and services that satisfy the needs of local customers. Providing Peace of Mind and Reliability through a Focus on Customer Orientation, Experience, Performance, and Advanced Technologies The Daikin Group does business in over 145 countries. We ensure a high standard of quality to earn customer trust, while at the same time meeting the needs of each regionʼs weather and culture and abiding by local laws and regulations. We strive to boost customer satisfaction through products and services that match local needs. 177 Protecting Customer Product Quality and Safety Customer Satisfaction Information We believe that it is a We listen to customersʼ opinions We manage and use personal manufacturerʼs mission to provide and requests so that we can information about customers in society with safe, high-quality anticipate their needs and bring an appropriate manner. products and services. them greater satisfaction. 178 Customer Satisfaction Product Quality and Safety Product Quality and Safety Policy We Operate under the Belief that Customers Are Buying Quality With this in mind, we strive to stay ahead of customer needs by providing high-quality products and services based on our corporate policies of Absolute Credibility, Enterprising Management, and Harmonious Personal Relations. Our quality control is based on the idea that the added value we give to products is quality, and that this quality is what customers are buying. And each Daikin employee constantly puts quality ahead of everything else. In the air conditioning divisions, our quality policy is “Provide high-quality products through relentless improvement activities.” In the service division, under a quality policy of “Achieve the highest level of service quality (in speed, accuracy, and politeness),” we strive to always provide customers with service quality of true value. Our Chemicals Divisionʼs quality policy is to provide quality that sells and that satisﬁes customersʼ demands. We aim to achieve work methods that put the customer ﬁrst. In April 2014, the Daikin Group formulated the Global Quality Guarantee Rules. As Daikinʼs development, production, and marketing activities overlap across the globe, these rules state the quality philosophy to be commonly shared across the Daikin Group, as well as who has the responsibilities and authority for the smooth monitoring and, if necessary, remedy or quality issues. Product Quality Management Structure Thorough Management in Development, Procurement, and Production All major manufacturing bases in the Daikin Group are ISO 9001-compliant and have quality assurance systems conforming to this international standard. Company divisions maintain high levels of product quality and ensure proper management of each department, such as development, parts procurement, and production. We are also improving quality at our contract manufacturers. Each division undergoes an internal audit so that we can assess our quality situation and if necessary further improve it. Based on our annual Daikin Group policy, each division formulates its key quality measures and targets, which are used to create a detailed quality program (ﬁscal year action plan). This has resulted in greater product quality and a gradual decrease in the cost of dealing with complaints in the air conditioning divisions. 179 In ﬁscal 2015 in the air conditioning divisions, we strove to meet our targets for reducing costs related to quality defects by ensuring that we purchase only quality parts and by reinforcing quality rectiﬁcation measures. This resulted in the cost of dealing with complaints decreasing by 15% compared to ﬁscal 2011. In the Chemicals Division, we stepped up quality control in order to prevent poor appearance of ﬁnished ﬂuororesin products. Quality Control System Quality Control Process Award of Excellence at 34th Conference of Frontline Forepersons in Nagoya Tomoyuki Sugiura of Daikinʼs Shiga Plant received a best example prize at the 34th gathering of frontline directors in Nagoya. The event is sponsored by the Japan Management Association (JMA). The inaugural gathering was held in 1982 as an opportunity for the sharing of information and presentations of on-the-job case studies by front line directors, the highest-ranking personnel at manufacturing worksites. Participants vote on case studies they consider Mr. Sugiura receiving the best example prize to be model examples, with the top selections receiving best example prizes. Mr. Sugiura received the prize for his modiﬁcation of the cross-ﬂow fan balance, which blows air from the indoor air conditioner unit. It was a tenacious, bottom-up eﬀort that included working with his own and other Daikin divisions and developing new measuring instruments to improve the precision of parts so that 94% of products passed quality inspections the ﬁrst time. Cooperation with Suppliers Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers (Supply Chain Management) (Page 263) 180 Employee Education We Hold Daily Meetings to Raise Quality Awareness Every division in the Daikin Group has numerous quality education activities so that employees can continue to raise their quality awareness. In the air conditioning divisions, the 19th of every month is designated as quality day, when each division holds small-group discussions on product quality. Each division also holds 10-minute daily quality meetings at which they share past examples of quality issues and discuss ways to solve current issues. We strive to raise sensitivity to quality during the development stage by once a week sharing the “quality calendar” among the product groups. This calendar includes past problems with products on the market and measures to prevent the reoccurrence of such problems. Other ways we strengthen quality communication include small-group activities every Wednesday and monthly noon-time meetings at which we discuss ways to boost product quality and improve work processes. In the Chemicals Division, new employee orientation for the sales, research, and production divisions includes guidance on the philosophy of quality assurance. Improving Quality During Development Only Those Products That Pass Our Strict Design Review for Product Safety Are Manufactured The air conditioning divisions have reformed their development process with a stricter, more segmented design review (DR)*. First, the personnel in charge of the relevant divisions inspect the proposed products for conformity to Daikin standards using the four criteria of an individual design review (DR): product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-eﬀectiveness, and compliance. Products that pass the individual DR are then subject to a gate DR: six stages of design reviews and to-market reviews by top management. Only those that pass all standards make it to market. We raised our product safety standards to ensure that products are safe to use by our customers, and we conduct design reviews in order to solve problems with previous products. In ﬁscal 2011, we established development process management guidelines in the advanced product development stage, which allowed us to make the design review even stricter. In the Chemicals Division, we have been conducting reviews based on a four-level management system consisting of development theme veriﬁcation, technology establishment, business-viability establishment, and mass-productivity. As key review standards, in addition to the four criteria of product quality, monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), cost-eﬀectiveness, and compliance, we focus on safety and environmental consciousness. In ﬁscal 2015, because we cannot get evaluations from customers and the industry with regards to criteria in the stage of business-viability establishment, we increased the number of inspections we do to strengthen design review functionality. 181 As our business increasingly globalizes, we will conduct the same high level of design reviews at our overseas product development bases. We will continue to make even safer and higher quality products by discovering and solving problems early in the development stage, and by developing products with a ﬁrm understanding of how customers will actually use them. * Design review: In a process involving the entire Daikin organization, products under development are assessed for quality of design and all other processes leading up to product realization. Only those that pass each stage can move forward. Development Process Raises Quality (Air Conditioning Divisions) Handling Product Accidents Establishing Protocol for Promptly Handling Product Accidents Daikin products are designed based on quality standards and design standards that ensure that, even if users err in operating the machinery or use it beyond recommended limits, there is no danger for the users; and even if there is a product accident, the danger to the user is minimized. In case of a product accident, we have systems in place that allow us to quickly relay the necessary information and handle the problem, and minimize the impact on the product users and the general public. We also place top priority on detecting product problems before they lead to a major accident. When the cause of a minor accident is discovered, we determine whether this could also cause a major accident and we reﬂect this into the development of future products. In ﬁscal 2015, there were no cases of product recall. 182 Free Inspection and Repair of Room Air Conditioners and Residential Air Puriﬁers It was discovered that there is a possibility of smoke and ﬂames being generated by the air-blowing fan motor on residential air conditioner indoor units manufactured by Daikin Industries, Ltd. between September 2006 and August 2010, and on residential air puriﬁers manufactured by Daikin between September 2006 and April 2011. To ensure customers can enjoy safe use of these products, we are oﬀering free inspection and repair of the damaged parts of these products. Free Inspection and Repair Customers owning the models in question should phone this number. 0120-330-696 (24 hours a day, every day; toll free in Japan only) Product Safety Voluntary Action Guidelines The Daikin Group (hereinafter, the Group ) believes that its most important management task is to provide products that satisfy customers from the standpoint of our customer when designing and making products that have a high level of safety and quality. To this end, we have formulated the following basic policies on product safety in eﬀorts to provide ever-greater levels of safety and quality in products. 1. Legal Compliance The Group shall observe the Consumer Product Safety Act and other product-related laws and safety standards. 2. Ensuring Product Safety The Group shall establish a quality management system and execute measures to maintain product safety in all processes extending from product design to production, sales, and after sales service. And the Group shall display appropriate, easy-to-understand instructions and warnings on products and in instruction manuals to ensure the safe use of our products by our customers. 3. Collecting and Providing Product Accident Information The Group shall actively collect information from our customers concerning accidents involving Daikin products and quickly report this information to our executive management while providing customers with suitable information. 4. Immediate and Appropriate Response to Product Accidents In the unlikely event of a safety problem occurring in the use our product, our ﬁrst and primary concern shall be for the safety of our customers, and we shall take immediate actions to minimize and prevent the occurrence of a serious accident. Actions to be taken immediately shall include repairing or replacing the product in question, publicizing the problem through the appropriate media, and submitting a statutory report on the problem to the relevant authorities. All relevant people outside the company, including sales company personnel, will be informed of the situation. 5. Product Safety Promotion The Group shall establish a quality assurance system that it uses to ensure product safety and quality. We shall ascertain information related to the safety and quality in the marketplace and provide accurate feedback to personnel within our company in order to reﬂect it into future product design and manufacture. 183 6. Education, Training, and Monitoring The Group shall constantly make every eﬀort to promote the safety and quality of our product through widespread education and training within the company in laws and regulations on product safety. We also shall regularly monitor work to ensure product safety is being achieved. (Formulated in June 2007) Disclosing Product Information Air Conditioning Divisions: Clear and Concise Product Use Instructions The Consumer Product Safety Act obligates companies to design products for safety and provide consumers with information and warnings so that household product accidents can be avoided. Based on the failsafe* philosophy, Daikin's system of checks ensures that customer safety is the top priority in design and that design review (DR) leads to safe products. Our website also provides consumers with information including the model number and production year of products already on the market. In April 2009, the Ministerial Ordinance of technical standards for the Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Law went into eﬀect. We abide by this ordinance by placing labels on our residential air conditioners and ventilation fans (which are covered by this law) that state the duration of product use. In Japan, about one-third of the product accidents are the result of improper product operation. We therefore strive to provide customers with accurate, easy-to-understand operating instructions so that they can use our products safely. The air conditioning divisions conduct product labeling in compliance with industry guidelines, such as the Guidelines for Labeling Household Products for Safe Use (5th edition, revised October 2015), published by the Association for Electric Home Appliances, and the Revisions Labeling Procedures (March 2010), published by the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association. When we make product user manuals, we make sure they are readable, easy to understand, and easily searchable. This ensures that customers can use products with peace of mind. We work with our design, quality control, service, and sales departments to improve areas of customer confusion in order to make manuals with which customers can get the answers they need quickly. For the installation product user manual of commercial air conditioners developed in ﬁscal 2014, we changed the page size from A1 to A4 to make the text larger and easier to read, helping ensure the product would be properly installed and thus provide safe use. * Failsafe: Checks and measures are in place to ensure safety in case of a breakdown of mechanisms or systems. Chemicals Division: Holding Workshops on Fluorochemical products While the ﬂuorochemical products produced by the Chemicals Division are highly advanced and highly functional materials, molding/processing them can sometimes require specialized methods. Not only do representatives of the Technical Service Department visit our customers to explain about our products, but we also conduct customer-oriented training seminars, titled the Fluorine Classroom, to explain about the special properties of ﬂuorine materials and the guide them on the molding/processing methods using the facilities and equipment available to the company. In ﬁscal 2015, we promoted better understanding among customers with four workshops on the topics of plastics, rubber, and paint. 184 Our website includes the safety data sheets (SDSs) and technical documents, as well as information on how to spot imitation products and precautions regarding the return of high-pressure gas cylinders. In June 2014, we overhauled our Japanese website to give site users more thorough information on products. Universal Design in Product Development Developing Products that Anyone Can Use Easily The Daikin Group incorporates universal design (UD) into product development to enable even the elderly and physically disabled to operate products with ease. Universal design is central to the concept of monotsukuri (the art of manufacturing), because it involves designing a product so that everyone, no matter what their age or physique, can use it with ease. We are continuing steady eﬀorts in universal design training so that the concept becomes second nature to all engineers. Example of Universal Design Guidelines for Universal Design of Smartphone Software In December 2012, Daikin Industries, Ltd. began providing an application, Daikin Smart APP, that allows users to control air conditioning using a smartphone. The application allows control not just from within the room; users can also easily check air conditioner operation, turn it on or oﬀ, and switch modes from an outside location. We also created universal design guidelines to ensure applications were easy for anyone to use. Through a usability test, we sought the optimal button size and layout for preventing operation errors. This allows anyone to use the product intuitively and stress-free. In April 2014, we made available for download the Daikin Home Controller APP, which allows control of air conditioners, the Eco-Cute, ﬂoor heating, and other home appliances from a smartphone or tablet. Applications allow operation of multiple products from a smartphone 185 Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction Policy Boosting Customer Satisfaction by Anticipating Future Needs Our group philosophy states that our mission, and the essence of our existence, is to identify and realize our customers' future needs and dreams, even those that they themselves may not yet be aware of. By providing high quality products, materials, and service, as well as earnestly proposing new products, we want to not only improve convenience and comfort for customers, but also increase the level of customer satisfaction. Based on these principles, each division of Daikin Group formulates its policies according to the particular needs and circumstances of customers in order to improve customer satisfaction. The air conditioning divisionsʼ customers are end users and dealers. The division's basic policies for ensuring customer satisfaction are stay ahead of customers' needs and present new products suggested by the sales division for end user satisfaction, and stay ahead of the times and one step ahead of our competitors by oﬀering a tailored solution for the satisfaction of dealers. The After Sales Service Division of the air conditioning divisions, which bears responsibility for product maintenance, has the basic policy of the ultimate in quality service through speed, accuracy, and good manners and is working to increase the skills of its service engineers and raise the level of their response to customers. The Chemicals Division has identiﬁed improvement of quality, stable supply, appropriate cost, and response to needs (development of new products) as the main points to increase customer satisfaction, and aims to gain greater trust and satisfaction from customers by continually assessing information regarding the level of customer satisfaction and making improvements accordingly. Customer Response and Support System Air Conditioning Divisions: Building a Worldwide Customer Service System The Daikin Contact Center is open 24 hours a day, every day of the year to take repair requests and oﬀer technical advice on air conditioners to customers around Japan. Overseas as well, we are building up our after-sales service system so that customers can get the service they need according to the situation in their particular country or region based on Daikin's service motto of “speed, accuracy, and good manners.” By establishing Call Centers and providing technical information on the Internet, we are striving to boost customer satisfaction. 186 Taking customer phone calls at contact centers (left: China; right: France) Understanding and Reﬂecting Customer Needs Customer Inquiries Used in Improving Products and Developing New Ones Requests, complaints, and other information obtained by the Contact Centers is recorded in a database. Information regarding the opinions and requests that sales representatives obtain from customers is shared among the Quality Division and relevant departments, who investigate causes and establish countermeasures to improve products and services. In the technical questions that account for about 40% of the information gathered by the Contact Centers, we ﬁnd ideas that help us improve quality; for example, the information enables us to make early detection of issues we face in the market. The information obtained from customer inquiries, including common key words and their frequency, are stored in a database that is shared with the relevant Daikin divisions and used to solve potential quality problems. In order to continue creating products that anticipate future customer needs, we will use customer opinions as a guide to new product concepts. Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center (Japan) (China) 187 Stepping Up Worldwide Marketing Research With the Daikin Group rapidly accelerating business expansion around the world, it is important that we raise customer satisfaction by accurately and promptly grasping customer needs in each world region and reﬂecting these in our products. To this end, we are switching from an air conditioner development system centered in Japan to a decentralized one in which regional bases conduct product development and research, and we are stepping up our worldwide market research. Since opening R&D centers in China and Europe, we have been gradually stepping up development functions at Residential multi air conditioning systems for bases in Asia, Oceania, and North America. bathroom in China In China, we have been developing products to meet customer needs; for example, air conditioners that ﬁlter PM2.5, a major problem in China, indoor units especially for kitchens that ﬁlter strong oily smoke, and indoor units for bathrooms with improved dehumidifying and drying functions. Survey Results Go Toward Improving Products and Services Daikin Group divisions conduct customer surveys to enhance customer satisfaction. By constantly surveying and analyzing the voice of customers, we can further boost the quality of our service. Air Conditioning Divisions: Questionnaire on Products In order to determine customer needs and levels of satisfaction, the Air Conditioning Sales Division gathers opinions on products on the Daikin website. We also gather information by questioning customers visiting volume retail outlets, and by having Daikin air puriﬁer users be product monitors. In ﬁscal 2015, we received 109 replies to the questionnaire on our website. Opinions gathered go toward improving our products. In ﬁscal 2014, some customers commented that the dehumidifying eﬀect was insuﬃcient at near the set temperature. In response, we developed the Premium Cooling function, which realizes eﬀective air conditioning even during high outside temperatures through eﬃcient, comfortable temperature and humidity control even when the air conditioner is installed in high temperature environments or where heat is easily trapped. Air Conditioning Divisions: Questionnaire on After-Sales Service The After Sales Service Division strives to determine and improve the level of customer satisfaction with after-sales service by every year sending surveys to a random sampling of customers after a Daikin product is ﬁxed. As a result of such eﬀorts, every year Daikin receives a high rating for the overall satisfaction* ﬁgure: in ﬁscal 2015, it was 4.05 out of 5, We believe this is a result of eﬀorts to complete repairs in a single visit, and of educational and training eﬀorts to improve repair techniques and get better at dealing with customers, all under our slogan of Customer ﬁrst. 188 Overall Satisfaction Chemicals Division: Customer Questionnaire In the Chemicals Division, we distribute questionnaires once a year that help us boost customer satisfaction. The ﬁscal 2015 questionnaire results showed high ratings from customers on quality, product delivery, and technical service. However, they also expressed a desire for Daikin to speed up response. We continue to strive to communicate more actively with customers. Employee Education 3-Year-Long Training and Service Awards Among Daikin Bases The Daikin Group strives to improve the quality of service by teaching employees the necessary knowledge and techniques. At Daikin in Japan, besides basic training in air conditioner service quality, a variety of training courses and license-certiﬁcation course are oﬀered to each management level and job description. In the three-year-long Service University training program, just like in university, participants can choose the courses right for their job. They also have regular tests to ensure they are retaining what they have learned. At service bases across Japan, teams are created that compete against each other in the annual Service Awards tournament. There, teams are quantitatively judged and awarded for their level of service in ﬁve stages including the criteria of our after sales service policy: speed, accuracy, and good manners. This makes for a fun way to raise our ability to oﬀer customer satisfaction. Employees at overseas Daikin bases in each country earn certiﬁcation by taking the courses they need at dedicated educational institutes. There are also periodic seminars for sharing information on technologies and new products. In China and other Asian countries, skills events are held where participants engage in friendly competition in areas like repair techniques, telephone response, and quality of parts packaging. Skills Competitions All Over Japan Service engineers' individual technical expertise is crucial to providing quality service. We hold workshops and giving technical assessment tests to all service engineers. Our rule is that service engineers must be certiﬁed with a minimum level of skill before they can do repair work alone. To further improve their abilities, we hold high-level training for chief engineers. So far, a cumulative total of 1,200 people have passed the certiﬁcation test for chief engineers. 189 We are striving to provide training and education that raises skill levels and produces service engineers who carry out precise, appropriate work on the job, thus providing customers with what they demand in terms of techniques and skills. In ﬁscal 2015, we held the ﬁrst-ever nationwide service skills competition in Japan for participants who had won competitions at their respective bases. Twenty people faced oﬀ in skills events. Overseas, training centers in each region host technical training courses and evaluation tests for Daikin engineers and distributors. Daikin in China has an engineer certiﬁcation system, and Daikin strives to improve engineersʼ abilities in not only repairing but also in installation and overhauling. The Chemicals Division: Sharing Broad Knowledge About Product Features and Their Target Fields, Etc. The sales representatives of the Chemicals Division need to listen to researchers and product developers, who are Daikin customers, about the product functions they seek and oﬀer them the ideal products for their needs. In order to optimize product functions in accordance with the circumstances of these customers, it is essential to have diverse knowledge of such things as processing methods, amount of additives, and temperatures. For this purpose, once a month the Chemicals Division holds meetings covering business, research, and manufacturing to share not only business information, but also knowledge regarding products. By giving concrete examples of product applications and use, as well as relaying customer needs, these meetings aid in the development of new products and applications, and they give customers a deeper understanding of product features. Customers thus leave with new ideas for product application. The Division also makes opportunities for the sharing of superior business skills within the Division, and makes use of the Fluorine Classroom customer education program as an opportunity for personnel to educate themselves and deepen their knowledge. The Chemicals Division will continue to train personnel so that they acquire a deep knowledge on the use ﬂuorine in various business situations. Providing Customers with Information Chemicals Division: Providing Information Through Various Forums In the Chemicals Division, many of the inquiries are requests to survey the chemicals in products and to provide technical data. Sales representatives of Daikin Industries, Ltd. act as contacts and respond to inquiries in cooperation with the divisions of technical service, research and development, quality assurance, environment, and safety. To further strengthen trust between our company and customer businesses, we hold yearly exchange meetings between top-level personnel, such as the Difreon Gas Meeting and the Gratitude-to-Customers Meeting. In ﬁscal 2015, 51 members of 32 companies took part in the Difreon Gas Meeting. At the “Gratitudeto-Customers Meeting,” 103 members of 90 companies took part, representing not just sales companies but manufacturers and suppliers as well. Participants heard an explanation of business policy and deepened relations between themselves and with Daikin. 190 Air Conditioning Divisions Hold Daikin HVAC Exhibition The air conditioning divisions make use of products shown at the biannual HVAC & R, the air conditioning industryʼs largest trade fair, to hold the Daikin HVAC Exhibition in eight locations around Japan. The aim is to provide more detailed knowledge to customers who are considering buying Daikin air conditioning products. Support for Distributors and Dealers Training Courses Teach Air-Conditioning-Related Techniques Daikin Industries, Ltd. has ﬁve training centers around Japan where we hold a variety of courses so that distributors can learn design, installation, and service techniques. With the goal of oﬀering customers service that is practical and easy to understand, and oﬀering this service in a pleasant manner, the centers use the latest simulation machinery, videos, and other instructional tools to provide training that simulates actual working conditions and situations. There are also systematic step-up training to improve trainees' Skills training for distributors levels, solution training that helps dealers meet their diversifying needs, solution seminars aimed at improving customer satisfaction, and certiﬁcation/preparatory classes. There are a total of 51 courses. To help distributors gain a deeper understanding of the importance of environmental protection, we are oﬀering them ﬁve courses in environmental solutions. Trainees in all courses receive eco-booklets, which contain general knowledge on global warming and ozone layer destruction, handling ﬂuorocarbons, and steps to mitigating global warming. These issues are expanded on in the courses. eco-booklet Demand is growing in cold climate regions. In response, we opened a Daikin Training Center in Sendai, Miyagi Prefecture in 2014 and in Sapporo, Hokkaido Prefecture in 2015. At these centers, technicians of dealers can improve their abilities through hands-on training in areas like air conditioner installation and servicing. Daikin's overseas Group companies also hold technical training for their dealers to raise customer satisfaction and ensure their employees can work in safety. 191 Customer Satisfaction Protecting Customer Information Protecting Customer Information Personal Information Managers and Thorough Employee Education To properly protect the range of customer information entrusted to us, the Daikin Group has a Personal Information Protection Policy, as well as various in-house rules for information protection. Personal information managers in each division follow these in-house rules in leading employees in the strict protection of personal information. Since 2005, we have striven to strengthen information management through annual conferences of personal information managers, who make every eﬀort to reduce risk related to conﬁdential information and personal information. Particularly in divisions that handle repair information data on customers on a daily basis, we do everything possible to keep this information secure. To continually monitor and improve on our information security system, employees conduct their own self assessments, the legal department conducts legal audits, and the Internal Auditing Department conducts audits. Information Security (Corporate Governance) (Page 250) 192 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Human Resources Employee Evaluation and Treatment …………… 196 Labor Management Relations ……………………… 206 Workplace Diversity, Equal Opportunity ……… 197 Occupational Safety and Health…………………… 208 Work-Life Balance …………………………………… 202 Fostering Human Resources………………………… 214 193 CSR for Value Provision Human Resources Responding to Rapid Globalization The past 10 years have seen the rapid globalization of the Daikin Group, with the number of overseas employees today standing at ﬁve times that of a decade ago. These employees̶our human resources̶represent the most crucial factor in meeting the expectations of our various stakeholders in order to fully realize Daikinʼs strengths in the ﬁelds of “environment,” “new value creation,” and “customer satisfaction.” Respecting Individual Personalities and Values, and Maximizing the Potential of Each Employee The Daikin Group advocates people-centered management in the belief that people are the source of a companyʼs competitiveness. To leverage our strengths to contribute to society, we are creating an organization under which all of our worldwide employees can use their unique talents to the fullest. 194 Employee Evaluation and Workplace Diversity, Equal Work-Life Balance Treatment Opportunity The Daikin Group oﬀers fairness We strive for greater We have a range of work systems of opportunity and reward : a organizational strength by having that allow employees to work workplace where employees are a diverse range of employees̶all ﬂexibly and have ﬂexible rewarded for putting their genders, ages, nationalities, races, schedules. motivation to work and taking and levels of occupational every opportunity for success. experience̶working to mutually understand one another's distinct values. Labor Management Occupational Safety and Fostering Human Relations Health Resources Because we believe that With the goal of achieving a “zero Based on the belief that people cooperative labor management accident” workplace, we place top grow through work experience, relations are the foundation of priority on ensuring a safe, the Daikin Group develops company management, we place healthy working environment employee capabilities through the utmost emphasis on equality where employees can work in on-the-job training (OJT) and of labor and management as well peace of mind. other eﬀorts. as mutual trust between both sides. 195 Human Resources Employee Evaluation and Treatment Employee Evaluation and Treatment Policy The Daikin Group oﬀers fairness of opportunity and reward : a workplace where employees are rewarded for putting their motivation to work and taking every opportunity for success. Employee Evaluation and Treatment Pursuing Fairness of Opportunity and Reward In ﬁscal 2001, we eliminated standardized wage scales based on age and seniority, along with uniform pay raises. Instead, we switched to a compensation system that rewards performance, not age or seniority. Our performance evaluation focuses on how well employees improve their abilities. This evaluation also looks at job results in three categories called achievements, challenging spirit, and growth. To ensure even greater fairness of evaluation, managers evaluate their staﬀ only after consulting with other managers. Employees are also evaluated based on their level of contribution to company successes and to the organization as a whole. In 2002, this compensation system was extended to include Daikin Group companies in Japan. In ﬁscal 2011, we began formulating uniﬁed worldwide guidelines that cover our philosophy of performance-based pay and detail how job results should be reﬂected in pay. This will give the entire Group a fair, credible compensation system. Job Placement Creating Opportunities to Understand Employee Circumstances Whenever possible, Daikin Industries, Ltd. asks employees where they want to work and if possible assigns them to the departments and sections of their choice. If new employees cannot be placed in the department or section of their desire due to personal aptitude and company needs, we do all we can to gain their understanding. Every year, employees ﬁll out their own record of work, which includes a column for free comments about health, family, and job positions desired. When we consider transferring an employee, we look at these comments and talk to them in eﬀorts to ensure, whenever possible, that their job desires and spirit of challenge is reﬂected in the posts they are assigned to. For employees who wish to work overseas, we have established a practical training system to support employees in foreign positions. We will continue to build rewarding workplaces for our employees by matching their dreams and goals with those of Daikin. 196 Human Resources Workplace Diversity, Equal Opportunity Workplace Diversity Policy The Daikin Group believes it is our people who make us competitive. A company can only grow stronger by having a diverse range of employees working within an organization that is conducive to mutual understanding of one another's distinct values and that allows everyone to shoot for a lofty goal. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state that while respecting diverse values and approaches to work, we shall mutually accept our respective diﬀerences, act in harmony, gather the abilities we possess, and strive to be a Group in which each member expresses his or her ambitions and then takes bold actions with great passion and perseverance to realize those ambitions. Based on this philosophy, we strive for diverse management in which we make the most of the talents of all genders, ages, nationalities, races, skin color, religions, physical abilities, sexual orientation and gender identity, and levels of occupational experience. The Daikin Group's employee make-up is becoming increasingly diverse, with a greater number of non-Japanese and women in our ranks. Since introducing our rehiring system in 1991, we have been making greater use of Daikin's experienced retirees. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries, Ltd.) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Number of employees 6,705 974 6,774 1,025 6,810 1,084 6,839 1,151 6,844 1,189 Average range of services 16.8 10.5 16.5 10.4 16.4 10.3 16.6 10.3 16.7 10.5 (years) Average age 41.2 34.3 41.7 35.1 41.6 34.6 41.5 34.5 41.3 33.8 Number of managers 933 21 939 21 951 22 957 29 984 36 Number of board members 45 1 47 1 47 1 46 1 48 1 Number of foreign nationals 34 21 38 20 38 20 47 29 52 21 Note: Includes employees on loan 197 Maximizing the Talents of Women Accelerating Eﬀorts to Maximize the Talents of Women in Japan Daikin Industries, Ltd. has striven to maximize the talents of female employees to create identical working conditions for both men and women in order to reach our goal of using the talents of all employees to the fullest By the end of ﬁscal 2020, our goal is to have at least one female oﬃcer and 100 female managers (10% of all managers; rate as of end of March 2016 was 3.5%). In New Diversity Management ﬁscal 2015, we set aside management posts in each division as female Selection 100 management training positions and systematically trained candidates for these positions. We also launched our Young Female Employees Challenge Program for those hoping to become managers. We are also trialing a sponsor system, in which the immediate superiors of female candidates for oﬃcer and executive positions oﬀer their support. Under our mentor system, we provide support to Nadeshiko Brand women through advice on matters such as their careers and workplace issues. For these eﬀorts, Daikin Industries, Ltd. was chosen for the New Diversity Management Selection 100, under which the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) commends enterprises selected as excellent in diversity management. It was also granted “Nadeshiko Brand” designation by METI and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) as a company that is exceptional in promoting L-boshi womenʼs success in the workplace. In August 2016, Japanʼs Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) awarded Daikin the highest level of certiﬁcation (L-boshi certiﬁcation) for being a company that shows excellence in promoting the talents of women in the workplace. Hiring Women Increasing Percentage of Female Employees As of April 2016, women accounted for 15.4% of all employees of Daikin Industries, Ltd. Starting in ﬁscal 2013, we began our policy of hiring more women for technical and skills positions. As a result, women periodically hired accounted for more than 30% of all new employees hired for the third consecutive year. In ﬁscal 2015, we began collaborating with universities to hold lectures and round-table discussions that would help prepare women for careers, and we stepped up eﬀorts to hire more women. Our goal is to take on 100 women a year through our periodic hiring and have women account for 17% of all employees, which exceeds the 15.5% average (ﬁscal 2013) for the manufacturing industry. There were 85 women newly hired in April 2016, 31.1% of all those hired. 198 Number of People Periodically Hired and Women as Percentage of Total (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Re-employment of Retired Employees Re-employing More than 100 Veteran Workers Each Year In 2001, Daikin Industries, Ltd. became one of the ﬁrst companies in Japan to introduce a re-employment system. Retirees wishing to continue working at Daikin following retirement can use their skill and knowledge in a ﬂexible employment system that allows them to work reduced hours and on call. Since introducing this system, over 100 have been re-employed each year. In ﬁscal 2015, there were 596 retirees working under this system at Daikin. Eight of these re-employed veterans have been assigned to overseas posts so that they can impart their superior skills and know-how to our bases in other countries. We are working to raise motivation among these re-employed veterans by giving bonuses to those demonstrating outstanding contribution to company performance. All group companies in Japan have also had this re-employment system since ﬁscal 2006, when Japan put into eﬀect the Revised Law Concerning Stabilization of Employment of Older Persons. Those applying for this system may work until they are 65, with their working hours and pay scale decided on by labor and management. The contribution of these experienced workers is becoming more important with Japan's declining birthrate and aging population. We plan to place these workers in positions that are best for them by considering their requests and expertise and by having them consult with their superiors. Number of Re-employed Workers and Rate of Re-employment (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) 199 History of Daikin's Re-employment System 1979 Retirement age extended from 55 to 60. 1991 Introduction of re-employment system for employees up to 63. 2001 Age raised from 63 to 65. 2004 Senior Skill Specialist contract employee system introduced. 2005 Experience worker revitalization project started. 2006 System introduced at Daikin Group companies in Japan. Employment of People with Disabilities Hiring More People with Disabilities across the Entire Group The Daikin Group strives to hire people with disabilities based on its policy of providing opportunities for them to grow personally and make contributions to society through production activities. In 1993, based on the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities, Daikin Industries, Ltd. established Daikin Sunrise Settsu Co., Ltd., a cooperative venture with the Osaka Prefecture and Settsu City governments. This venture gives people with disabilities greater opportunity Daikin Sunrise Settsu (Japan) to make the most of their skills at workplaces designed speciﬁcally with their employment in mind. Including the employment of people with disabilities at many group companies and expanding their employment at special subsidiary companies, we are increasing the disabled employment ratio for Daikin Group as a whole. As of the end of ﬁscal 2015, 2.15% of workers in the Daikin Group are disabled, a percentage above the legal requirement. Number of People with Disabilities Employed and New plant of Daikin Sunrise Settsu Employment Rate (Group companies in Japan) *1 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two people with disabilities. *2 Employment rate = number of people with disabilities employed / number of people employed. 200 Daikin Overseas Bases Hire Disabled Workers Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. has been doing all it can to hire people with disabilities and it currently has 67 disabled employees. In April 2014, the company was recognized by the government as an occupational training base for people with disabilities. In July 2015, the company placed ﬁfth in an exhibition celebrating the abilities of disabled persons from all over China. In November 2015, a group of disabled employees from Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. took part in an exhibition of the achievements of educational groups in Shanghai City, winning an award for best teamwork. These are just a few examples of how disabled employees at Daikin in China are taking the initiative to make their mark in society. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. has 22 disabled employees, and Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. has 19 disabled employees. Employees of Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. at an exhibition of the achievements of educational groups in Shanghai City Promotion of Local Personnel at Overseas Bases Making Local Employees Leaders at Overseas Bases As Daikinʼs business globalizes, we are trying to globalize our management as well by promoting more employees at overseas bases to managerial positions. We have the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program for locally hired managers at worldwide bases in order to give them the capabilities to run Daikin subsidiaries in their own countries. As of the end of ﬁscal 2015, local nationals accounted for about 51% of the presidents at overseas Daikin bases and about 47% of the directors. Of Daikin's 20 European sales bases, 13 of them had local nationals as presidents. Diversity Education for Employees Training Japanese Employees for Work at Overseas Bases Daikin Industries, Ltd. has a variety of training for Japanese employees who will be working at overseas bases so that they are able to respect the values of local employees and communicate with them properly. The goal of this training is to help the appointees adapt as smoothly as possible to their new country by boosting their knowledge of things like its current aﬀairs, peopleʼs thinking and values, and the main considerations when doing business there, as well as by deepening their understanding of Our Group Philosophy, which is the unifying force for all group employees. Some of the appointees will take language training if necessary. About 95 Daikin Industries, Ltd. employees took part in this training in ﬁscal 2015. 201 Human Resources Work-Life Balance Work-Life Balance Policy Daikin Industries, Ltd. stresses a work life balance for employees. We have a range of systems and measures that allow us to make use of a diverse range of human resources. The company has established an action plan that is already underway for helping employees with children continue both work and home duties with peace of mind. We have been certiﬁed as a company complying with the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. We have been particularly active in urging male employees to take advantage of our systems for both childcare leave and childcare support. Helping Employees Match Work Schedule with Lifestyle Employing Flexible Work Systems such as Flex Time and Discretionary Work System To allow this diverse range of employees to work under ﬂexible conditions and working hours, we use the ﬂex time system. We also have a discretionary work system that can be taken advantage of by not just the R&D department but also by employees in other company departments conducting duties such as planning, proposals, and surveys related to company operations. Thanks to these eﬀorts to give employees ﬂexible working conditions and working hours, Daikin had an employee turnover of just 3.9% (including mandatory retirement age employees) in ﬁscal 2014: this is far below the average of 15.5% for all industries in Japan (according to a 2014 survey by Japan's Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare). Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) 202 Support for Childcare While Working Creating a Workplace Where Employees Can Balance Their Jobs and Childcare Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to create an environment where employees can continue their jobs even after having children. In ﬁscal 2013, we began oﬀering the full support of outside specialists to employees searching for nursery schools for their children. Besides providing information on nursery schools and how to go about ﬁnding a suitable one, this service oﬀers advice and counseling for everyone from pregnant mothers to those ready to put their children in a nursery school. This service is used by employees taking childcare leave. In April 2014, we implemented our fourth action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Under this action plan, we introduced more ﬂexible work options for employees making an early return from childcare leave, improved the childcare support cafeteria plan* and gave employees more choices under this plan, and for employees making an early return to the workplace increased the amount of subsidies from the company, to a maximum of 600,000 yen, to pay for childcare services. In January 2016, Daikin introduced a work-at-home system to give employees the chance to work at home yet still continue to take on the challenges of their jobs. This system provides three choices: full-time employees can work up to once a week at home; employees returning to the workplace less than six months after starting childcare leave can work up to four times a week at home; and employees can have more freedom in choosing when and where they work. We will continue to help employees achieve an ideal balance of work and childcare while also using their talents to the fullest. *Childcare support cafeteria plan: A system under which Daikin provides subsidies for childcare service fees incurred by employees with children whose spouse is also working. Fees may be daycare fees incurred when the employee is working overtime or on a business trip, or hospital bills when the child is sick. 128 Male Employees Take Childcare Leave Daikin Industries, Ltd. encourages male employees to take extended leave for childcare and aims to create a work environment in which male employees feel comfortable taking childcare leave. We are revising company systems to stay ahead of revisions to relevant Japanese laws; for example, we lifted restrictions on childcare leave for men with at-home spouses, and male employees are allowed to take childcare leave twice as compared to only once previously. We are also thoroughly publicizing these systems and encouraging male employees to take childcare leave. As a result of our eﬀorts to promote awareness and use of the childcare leave system among our employees, 128 men took childcare leave in ﬁscal 2015. Men were able to take childcare leave by timing it with the birth of their children and taking it before their spouses returned to the workplace from childcare leave. We will continue to help men play a greater role in childcare by building an environment where both men and women can balance work and childcare while also using their talents to the fullest. 203 Number of Employees Taking Leave Before and After Child Birth and Number Taking Childcare Daikin Industries, Ltd. Leave (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) achieved the targets of its ﬁrst action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. For Symbol Showing this, the company was Certiﬁcation as a certiﬁed by the Osaka Company Supporting Labour Bureau (Ministry of Employees Childcare Health, Labour, and Eﬀorts Welfare). Support Systems for the Balance of Work and Family 1992 Introduction of childcare leave system and shortened working hours for parents. First action plan based on the Law for Measures to Support the Development of the Next 2005 Generation. Achievement of goals of ﬁrst action plan. 2007 Creation of second action plan. Introduction of childcare cafeteria plan. Reassessment of childcare leave and family care leave in accordance with the revised Child 2010 Care and Family Care Leave Act. Achievement of goals of second action plan. 2012 Creation of third action plan (implementation period: April 2012 to March 2014). Revision of childcare cafeteria plan. 2013 Introduction of nursery school assistance service. Creation of fourth action plan (April 2014 ‒March 2019). Revisions to childcare cafeteria plan. 2014 Introduced ﬂexible working conditions and subsidies for childcare service fees to help workers making early return to work from childcare leave. Trial system for allowing employees to work up to once a week at home. 2016 Introduction of work-at-home system. 204 Support for Family Care Family Care Leave and Shortened Working Hours Daikin Industries, Ltd. is doing all it can so that employees can take leave to care for their family when necessary, with minimal stress, and therefore create an environment in which employees can continue working for Daikin under these circumstances. Under our family care leave system, employees can take leave up to a maximum of 365 days for each family member who requires care, once for each time that member's condition becomes such as to require care. Under our system for adjustment of working hours for family care, employees can opt to work a staggered or ﬂexible work schedule or shorter hours (six hours per day) up to a maximum of 365 days for each family member who requires care. Short family care leave is also possible, whereby employees may take up to 5 days leave each year if needed to care for 1 family member, or up to 10 days leave for 2 or more family members. Number Taking Family Care Leave (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Other Employee Beneﬁt Systems (some are abridged) Pension Deﬁned contribution pension The employee gets three days of paid leave between the Seniors' leaves system month the employee turns 55 and retirement age. Paid leave Participation in Japan Overseas Employees may be allowed to take time oﬀ work for this. Cooperation Volunteers 205 Human Resources Labor Management Relations Labor Management Relations Policy Daikin Industries, Ltd. believes that cooperative labor management relations are the foundation of company management. We therefore place the utmost emphasis on equality of labor and management, as well as mutual trust between both sides. Our stance has, and always will be, to face the truth in solving all problems, and to speak frankly and draw clear lines between what is and what is not possible. Except for managers and some contract employees, everyone at Daikin Industries, Ltd. is a union member. The company holds frank discussions with the labor union. As soon as business plans are clariﬁed, management holds a meeting where it explains these plans to the labor union. In ﬁscal 2015, there were 22 such meetings held at the head oﬃce. Participants discussed topics including boosting eﬀorts to improve the quality of work and eﬀorts toward the establishment of a Technology and Innovation Center. Meetings were held at branches as needed. Employee working conditions and status are matters discussed between labor and management, with results of these discussions promptly reported to employees of the various divisions. Respecting the Rights of Workers Speciﬁcation in Work Regulations and Agreements and Publicizing of Respect for Workers Rights At Daikin Industries, Ltd., we believe that the company should respect its employees as individuals and strive to improve their welfare, and that employees should fulﬁll their duties as workers. The principle of respect for the rights of the worker is speciﬁed in work regulations and labor agreements. To ensure understanding of workers' rights, we give a thorough explanation of the work regulations and labor agreement to new employees when they join the company, and the labor union also conducts similar education of employees. 206 Dialogue with Employees Hearings for Employees to Improve Working Conditions Daikin Industries, Ltd. has about 10 hearings a year with at least 3% of its employees (approximately 240 employees). Salary negotiations are held between labor and management with consideration for factors including company performance, operational issues, world trends, and the work of the labor union. Interviewing each employee based on these factors results in that person receiving a salary that both sides agree is fair under the circumstances. Besides salary, employees are also given hearings when there are matters to report from the company, such as new ﬁscal year policies, budget and performance reports, and a message from the president at bonus time. Other ways that we hold dialogue with employees include meetings between managers and their workers during announcement of annual targets and employee evaluations. Listening to frank employee opinions ensures that we can continuously improve labor-management relations. 207 Human Resources Occupational Safety and Health Occupational Safety and Health Policy The Daikin Group's Group Compliance Guidelines state that besides ensuring a safe workplace, we will gain the trust of the community through a policy of safety ﬁrst in which we are constantly aware of and taking action on the safe operation of our factories. To achieve this, we constantly strive to create a zero accident workplace where Daikin employees and subcontract employees work safely, both for their own sake and to instill a feeling of safety in the minds of residents around our factories. Occupational Safety and Health Management Structure Occupational Safety and Health Committee at Each Daikin Site Leads Safety and Accident-Prevention Eﬀorts The chart below shows the Daikin Group's system for occupational safety and health and security. An Occupational Safety and Health Committee at each Daikin site leads eﬀorts through the creation of voluntary annual slogans, proposals for occupational safety and health plans, and the implementation of the PDCA cycle for safety activities. These committees also ensure the safety of facilities and prevent accidents through risk assessments. They also raise employee receptiveness to and awareness of workplace safety through activities including site patrols to make sure rules are being followed and hands-on workshops. The committees also send members to other sites to exchange safety information with committee members there. System for Occupational Safety and Health 208 Occupational Safety and Health Management System 24 Bases Certiﬁed for OHSAS 18001 and Other Standards The Daikin Group has production bases around the world and we ensure safe plant operation and worker safety through the creation of occupational safety and health management systems (OHSAS) at each base, as well as certiﬁcation for international standards such as OHSAS 18001. Under this system, we use risk assessment to reduce the risk of health and safety problems, and we ensure that we are continuously in compliance with laws and regulations. As of the end of ﬁscal 2015, there were three Daikin plants in Japan and 21 Daikin Group companies overseas certiﬁed for OHSAS 18001. Daikin Bases Certiﬁed for OHSAS (Japan) Date Certiﬁcation Base certiﬁed Sep. 2006 JISHA OSHMS Kashima Plant, Daikin Industries, Ltd. Aug. 2012 OHSAS 18001 Sakai Plant, Daikin Industries, Ltd. Dec. 2012 OHSAS 18001 Shiga Plant, Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Bases Certiﬁed for OHSAS (Overseas) Date Certiﬁcation Subsidiary certiﬁed Nov. 2002 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. May 2007 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Mar. 2009 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Aug. 2009 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Motor (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Oct. 2009 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Mar. 2010 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Device Czech Republic s.r.o May 2010 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jun. 2010 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Turkey A.S. Jun. 2010 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Apr. 2010 OHSAS 18001 McQuay Air Conditioning & Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2011 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Europe N.V. Jan. 2011 OHSAS 18001 Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Mar. 2011 OHSAS18001 Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Co., Ltd. Feb. 2012 OHSAS18001 Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Feb. 2012 OHSAS18001 Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. AS/NZS 4801:2001 Mar. 2012 Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. certiﬁcation Mar. 2013 OHSAS18001 Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. Oct. 2013 OHSAS18001 Daikin Air-conditioning (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Dec. 2013 OHSAS18001 Daikin Hydraulics (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Jan. 2013 OHSAS18001 Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Mar. 2015 OHSAS18001 AAF (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. 209 Occurrence of Labor Accidents Entire Daikin Group Aims to be “Zero Accident” Workplace The Daikin Group aims for a “zero accident” workplace through a range of safety and health eﬀorts. Joint safety and security meetings are held twice a year to share information in order to raise safety levels throughout the Daikin Group. Daikin bases around the world carry out their own safety activities, such as education and safety patrols, aimed at achieving a “zero accident” workplace. Both the ratio of occupational accidents and the severity rate at Daikin Industries, Ltd. continue to be far below the average for the manufacturing industry in Japan. Frequency Rate*1 (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Severity Rate*2 (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) *1 This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, *2 This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in expressed in number of casualties for every 1,000,000 man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. working hours. Number of Workplace Accidents Resulting in Time oﬀ Work (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) 210 Employee Education and Training Hands-On Training Raises Safety Awareness at Daikin Worldwide Each site of Daikin Industries, Ltd. conducts courses and training in occupational safety and health. An important focus in recent years has been hands-on training that simulates situations where certain actions or situations could invite danger. Using specially made devices and machines, employees take part in hands-on training in which they experience what it is like to caught in or trapped by machinery in the equipment manufacturing industry, where such accidents are common; and where they see ﬁrsthand the danger of ﬁre and pressure caused by chemical reactions common in the chemicals manufacturing industry. Combined with theoretical learning in the classroom, the hands-on training makes for an eﬀective program. In ﬁscal 2014 at the Yodogawa Plant, emergency shut-down simulation training was held in which participants could experience what it would be like if the plant had to halt operations in a crisis. Making use of behavioral data on past malfunctions or abnormalities, and the knowledge of experts, a virtual emergency shut-down was implemented so that participants could take part in drills to ﬁgure out what measures would need to be taken. We also aim for zero workplace accidents at overseas bases through eﬀorts such as safety education and safety patrols. For example, at O.Y.L. Manufacturing Company Sdn. Bhd. in ﬁscal 2014, 1,329 employees took part in training in which models and other methods were used to experience possible crises arising on the job. Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety (Supply Chain Management) (Page 265) Employee Health Management Supporting Employee Health through Checkups and Counseling Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to maintain employees' health by providing all employees with semi-annual health checkups, as well as semi-annual special checkups for those engaged in specialized work, as required by health and safety laws. Employees who are found to have problems are put under the direct guidance of the company health clinic and are given thorough guidance in necessary measures to take. Employees working excessive hours are checked by an industrial physician, and if the employee needs special attention, he or she and his or her superior will receive guidance from the physician. In ﬁscal 2015, all employees in the Chemicals Division took their regular health checkups, with 46% having problems that needed attending to, a decrease over the previous year. In response, we are continuing to work on primary prevention measures. In order to improve employee health at the Yodogawa Plant, employees are being encouraged to take part in a walking program sponsored by the public health insurance association, in which they aim to walk 10,000 steps a day for 106 consecutive days. The program was joined by over 2,000 employees, over half of whom walked more than 10,000 steps a day. We are also striving to raise awareness of health among employees through, for example, talks given twice a year by an industrial physician on the dangers of smoking, and seminars held three times with the cooperation of Kagome Co., Ltd. and Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd. on the topic of food and health. In the air conditioning divisions, bases hold annual sporting events with the aim of improving health and facilitating good relations among employees. At the Sakai Plant, over 1,000 employees take part in these events every year. 211 Mental Health Awareness of Individuals and Organizations Dealing with Mental Health Issues and Provision of Specialist Care Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to maintain the physical and mental health of employees. Based on guidelines from the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, four types of mental health care measures, such as self-care and care by dedicated outside staﬀ, are planned and implemented at all bases depending on the needs of each base. For example, Industrial physicians provide mental health checkups to employees who are transferred and to newly hired employees after three months, as well as to employees who questionnaires have showed are facing problems. There are also mental health lectures. At Daikin bases in countries like the U.S., Thailand, and Australia, there are mental health counselors and help lines to ensure that employees enjoy a pleasant workplace. Shortening Working Hours Eliminating Long Working Hours by Obligating Employees to Leave at Closing Time and Boosting Work Eﬃciency Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to eliminate long working hours through measures such as obligating employees to leave the oﬃce at closing time once a week and prohibiting employees from coming to work on their days oﬀ (unless absolutely necessary and approved by the department head). In this way, we are making a concerted eﬀort to improve both work rule compliance and work eﬃciency. Yearly plans are made for each employee's duties and working hours, and to ensure that work and personnel management are in line with the plans, checklists are ﬁlled out to manage daily work. Furthermore, by implementing a planned 5-day paid work leave system and establishing 3 days of general paid leave, we aim to promote respect for work-life balance and a more vibrant work environment. Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave Average Hours of Overtime per Employee (Daikin (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) Industries, Ltd. only) 212 Measures to reduce working hours 1. Daily management of operations Self-checks and mutual-checks using checklists. 2. Raising awareness and changing company culture Managers lead the way by not working on days oﬀ or late at night. Change from calculating working hours by month to calculating by week in order to more quickly adjust work plans and work load. Workplaces voluntarily establish their own rules regarding working for especially long hours. 3. The 5 Rules Ensure that employees leave work at closing time once a week. Nobody works on days oﬀ. Do not allow employees to work excess hours. Do not make employees do unpaid overtime. Late night work is prohibited. Each department sets its own maximum permitted work time. 4. Clarify management of operations Implement a work attendance system. 5. Set goals to improve productivity and work eﬃciency in each division 213 Human Resources Fostering Human Resources Philosophy The Daikin Group believes that practicing the principle of Our Group Philosophy and People-Centered Management is essential to the growth of the group. Our philosophy states that the cumulative growth of all group members, regardless of nationality or company, serves as the foundation for the group's development. Based on the belief that people grow through work experience, the Daikin Group develops employee capabilities through training opportunities that include on-the-job training (OJT)*1 in which each person is given the job most suitable to using unique talent and fostering individual growth. Since ﬁscal 2015, we have been operating the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program to foster local nationals who work in group management or who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. The program is divided into two sections: for those who are currently managers, and for those who are manager candidates. This training program teaches participants things like Daikinʼs corporate culture and the groupʼs unique management philosophy. *1 OJT: Employees learn and acquire the general knowledge, technical knowledge, skills, and commitment required of their positions while performing their jobs. *2 Oﬀ-JT: Employees study outside of their current workplaces in order to acquire the knowledge and skills needed for their jobs. Education Systems Raising up Personnel through Work Experience to Take the World Stage With the Group's business spreading worldwide, it is crucial that we train people to be leaders with the management skills to guide employees with a diverse range of values in a common direction. To this end, in May 2008, we established the Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. With the goal of fostering the leaders of our worldwide bases, this center hosted skill trainers workshops for Daikin Group employees, group training for new employees, the Daikin Leadership Development Program, which fosters the next Daikin Ales Aoya Global Training Center generation of Daikin executives, and overseas base practical training for fostering young, globally minded employees. In ﬁscal 2015, more than 12,000 employees made use of the training center. 214 Besides Daikin employees, the training center has many repeat visits by Daikin customer employees, and over the past three years it has operated at a high operational capacity of 80-90%. Because Daikin believed that its current training facilities were not suﬃcient to meet group-wide needs to boost human resource capabilities, in June 2014 a seminar house was added to Daikinʼs recreational facilities in Tateshina, Nagano Prefecture. This facility is made use of in every possible way. In its idyllic setting amidst the abundant nature of Tateshina and far from the hectic big city, it hosts participants who are able The Daikin recreational facility in Tateshina, to concentrate for extended periods on discussions, brushing Nagano Prefecture up their abilities to make strategy proposals, conduct problemsolving, brain storm thoughts and ideas, and generate concrete plans. It is also used for lobbying activities and exchanges with other companies, and as a place to invite top sales people or important customers. We will continue to implement a variety of measures to boost human resources and facilitate mutual communications between the headquarters and branch oﬃces; these include boosting global recruitment, increasing the number of inter-regional and international deployments, and creating competitive assessment and reward systems. Education System 215 New Employee Training The goal of new employee training is to foster business people capable of frankly expressing their own opinions and communicating with people with diﬀering opinions. Trainees learn what it takes to be a company employee, and about the past, present, and future direction of the Daikin Group. There are also ﬁve days of English-language training as part of eﬀorts to help new employees become global citizens and understand other cultures. New employees also spend ﬁve nights and six days at the Daikin Ales Aoya global training center in Tottori Prefecture, Japan. There, hands-on, participatory training has new employees holding discussions and practicing concepts focusing on Daikin's People-Centered Management and how to become an ideal employee. Overseas Base Practical Training To ensure we have internationally minded employees who can lead our global business in future, we send young employees (ages from mid-20s to late 30s) to work at overseas bases for between one year and two years. Unlike other Daikin employees working overseas, these people take on practical work projects as they cooperate with local dealers, suppliers, business partners, and universities, striving to think outside the box, take on new challenges, and improve their abilities to communicate within foreign cultures. In ﬁscal 2015, 25 young employees took part in this training. Since the program started in ﬁscal 1999, a total of 202 employees have participated. Starting this year, Daikin will send about 40 employees a year to newly emerging and other countries. In May 2015, we began training in Japan for young employees from overseas Daikin bases. Study Trips in Japan Daikin sends young employees in Japan to universities in order to improve their technological skills, acquire MBAs, widen their perspective, and build human resource networks. As of ﬁscal 2015, there were ﬁve Daikin employees studying at Toyota Technological Institute of Japan. Daikin Leadership Development Program, Global Daikin Leadership Development Program Daikin fosters the next generation of leaders through the Daikin Leadership Development Program, which trains Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s executives, and the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program, which is for local nationals who are managers at Daikin's overseas bases. Centered on Our Group Philosophy and our People-Centered Management, the program turns out executives who can lead and manage their company for the common good of the entire Daikin Group. In ﬁscal 2013, we opened the Daikin Leadership Development Program up to other employees besides managers to step up The Global Daikin Leadership Development the training of next-generation leaders. The Global Daikin Program Leadership Development Program, which started in ﬁscal 2015, represents a revamped eﬀort of our previous training at the Daikin Business School. In ﬁscal 2015, there were 190 people studying in the Daikin Leadership Development Program and 102 in the Global Daikin Leadership Development Program (including those at the former Daikin Business School). 216 Passing on Skills Focus on Trainers Conveying Techniques to Overseas Bases In 2001, Daikin Industries, Ltd. introduced a system to pass on advanced skills to young workers. This system ensures that we give the next generation of technical leaders the advanced skills that form the foundation of manufacturing. In the air conditioning divisions, workers with advanced skills are designated as Takumi after demonstrating their mastery in the areas of brazing, lathing, sheet metal working, arc welding, die making, and tooling. The Chemicals Division has since ﬁscal 2006 had a system to designate Experts, who pass their advanced skills on to others. These Takumi and Experts Opening ceremony (participantsʼ oath) teach their skills at Daikin bases worldwide, thus fostering future engineers and technical leaders. In April 2010, we established a new trainer system to foster future Takumi and Experts and thus make up for a shortage of their numbers. These Takumi, Experts, and Trainers go on to become instructors who teach selected employees in periodic skills training held at production bases around the world. In ﬁscal 2015, for the ﬁrst time, an employee of a Daikin overseas base earned the designation of Takumi. As of the end Participating in a skills competition of ﬁscal 2015, there were 34 Takumi and 90 Trainers (26 in Japan, 64 at overseas bases) in the air conditioning divisions, and seven Experts in the Chemicals Division. By 2020, Daikin plans to increase the number of Trainers to 161. This will raise the skills level at overseas bases and allow Daikin to respond to base expansion resulting from the construction of new plants and the acquisition of other companies. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Human Resources̶Transferring Japanese Skills to Ensure High-Quality Production Worldwide (Page 62) 217 Skills Competitions and Skills Training Boost Level of Production Workers In ﬁscal 2003, Daikin began a techniques competition to boost the skills level at its production bases in Japan. The next year, overseas bases were included in a new biannual event called the Global Skills Competition. Fiscal 2014 saw the largest participation ever, with 145 participants from 13 countries facing oﬀ in competitive skills events. In years when there are no skills competition held, we hold skills training sessions for future leaders. At these sessions, Takumi, Experts, and Trainers are the instructors, teaching employees selected from production bases around the world the Daikin way of training people and making products. At the ﬁscal 2015 training sessions, there were 14 employees from production bases in Japan and four from overseas. Skills workshops are also held at overseas group companies and among companies in certain world regions. Participants at each Daikin base share information such as how well skills are being passed down, problems, and goals, as part of the overall eﬀort in the Daikin Group to foster human resources possessing a high level of skills. Fostering Young Engineers and Technicians Experienced Workers Pass On Techniques and Skills Since 1994, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has worked to boost the level of its manufacturing by having a Kaizen Team of experienced workers lead training for young employees in the production division. During the four-to-six-month training, each young employee is led by two or three experienced workers. Participants get practical work in the main aims of the particular session, taking classroom lectures in subjects like electrical circuitry, as well as applied learning in sheet metal working, arc welding, and circuitry. The system began with training for mid-level employees but now focuses on passing on skills and techniques to young employees. Apart from the passing on of techniques and skills, this training is aimed at giving the young employees a rare opportunity to interact with veterans and thus raise their awareness about the value of carrying on Daikinʼs tradition of skill. This training has been particularly helpful in raising productivity in the Air Conditioner Manufacturing Division as participants can use what they have learned immediately on the job. As of ﬁscal 2015, a total of 154 employees at the Sakai Plant and 103 employees at the Shiga Plant have taken this training. 218 Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property Two Systems Stimulate Creation of Intellectual Property Daikin Industries, Ltd. has two systems for stimulating employees' motivation to invent and for spurring the creation of intellectual property. The ﬁrst is the Compensation System for Employee Inventions, a system in which Daikin pays employees for inventions created on the job that result in patent applications as well as successful uses of the patent. In ﬁscal 2015, in addition to compensation for patent applications, Daikin compensated employees for 528 successful uses of the patent. The second is the Incentive System for Valuable Patents, which Awarding incentive bonuses to inventor group gives employees incentive bonuses for valuable patents. In representatives ﬁscal 2015, we awarded incentive bonuses to the creators of 90 patents. While these systems are aimed at stepping up Daikin's intellectual creativity, they also represent an eﬀort to promptly tackle pressing issues, such as increasing the quality and quantity of patents in competitive ﬁelds, and increasing the number of patents in our key technological ﬁelds, in particular in emerging countries. In ﬁscal 2014, we applied for 948 patents in Japan and 344 patents overseas. In ﬁscal 2015 in the air conditioning divisions, continuing on the previous yearʼs eﬀorts, we moved ahead with patents that would strengthen our hold on fundamental technologies related to heat exchangers, compressors, and inverters, and we continued on the previous yearʼs eﬀorts to boost the web of patents encompassing air conditioners using HFC-32, a refrigerant with low global warming potential that is also highly energy eﬃcient. In the Chemicals Division, we proceeded with a strategy for more advanced analysis of patent information so that we could conduct R&D ahead of that of our competitors that would lead to patent applications. We will also continue to conduct thorough advance patent surveys so that we can deal with problem patents early on and thus ensure that we eliminate patents that could hinder our development. We will also step up patent eﬀorts worldwide. Number of Patent Applications (Daikin Industries, Ltd. only) 219 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Corporate Governance Corporate Governance ……………………………… 223 Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings …… 248 Board of Directors Biographies …………………… 228 Prohibiting Bribes ……………………………………… 249 Risk Management ……………………………………… 239 Information Security ………………………………… 250 Compliance……………………………………………… 243 Respect for Intellectual Property Rights ………… 251 220 Fundamental CSR Corporate Governance Every time there is a corporate scandal, there are calls to step up the importance of corporate governance in order to strengthen management check functions. Improved corporate governance not only helps reduce corporate risk and avoid scandals; it also improves corporate proﬁtability and medium-to-long-term corporate value, and it supports sustainable growth. Therefore, corporate governance helps protect stakeholder beneﬁts, as well as return the beneﬁts of value created to society, thus promoting a virtuous economic cycle. Daikin Industries, Ltd. has adopted an integrated management system to speed up management processes. The integrated management system supports management responsibility, allowing directors to quickly make strategic decisions and conduct sound supervision in order to collaborate and fulﬁll their responsibilities in all aspects of management. Integrated management also supports business execution. We have Audit & Supervisory Board that improves the eﬀectiveness of auditing. The Board of Directors oversees the CSR Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, and other committees. We strive to achieve corporate governance that supports sustainable growth. Board of Directors Corporate Governance Risk Management Biographies Through an integrated Names and biographies of the We quickly and accurately get the management system for fast Board of Directors. big picture regarding risk, and we decision-making and execution, strive to reduce it by conducting we improve our operational speed cross-organizational risk and ensure sound, transparent management. management. 221 Free Competition and Fair Compliance Prohibiting Bribes Business Dealings The Daikin Group has a uniﬁed The Daikin group strives for fair We do our utmost to ensure that system for the promotion of business practices through business entertainment and compliance (corporate ethics, measures for complying with laws gift-giving related to business are legal compliance) and risk on anti-monopoly, misleading conducted within the laws and management. representations, and customs of each country and subcontracting in countries region. around the world. Respect for Intellectual Information Security Property Rights We have built an information Intellectual property is a valuable management system with speciﬁc company asset. We carry out in-house protocols in eﬀorts to proper and fair exercise of rights ensure complete control over in response to violation of our information security. intellectual property as well as respect other companies' intellectual property. 222 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Fundamental Corporate Governance Policy Further Boosting Corporate Value The Daikin Group believes that the role of corporate governance is to accelerate decision making and operational execution work in anticipation of and in response to changes in management tasks and the management environment while concurrently promoting consistently high levels of management transparency and soundness, thereby increasing the Group's corporate value. Going forward, the Group will continue to raise corporate value by ensuing the increasing sophistication of speedy management and still-higher levels of soundness and transparency. We will achieve this by constantly reviewing and implementing optimal corporate governance and by spreading best practices throughout the entire Daikin Group. Corporate Governance Structure Management and Operational Execution Systems Rather than adopt a U.S.-style committees system that completely separates decision making and work supervision from operational execution, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has adopted an integrated management system that it has judged to be eﬀective in speeding up decision making and execution based on the Daikin Groupʼs characteristics. In an integrated management system, directors quickly make strategic decisions and conduct sound supervision, thus achieving management responsibility through cooperation across all management and at the same time achieving work execution responsibility. The company is also strengthening monitoring functions from an independent perspective through measures such as the appointment of numerous external corporate oﬃcers. In addition, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has introduced an Executive Oﬃcer System to accelerate the speed of execution based on autonomous judgments and decisions in units handling each region, division, and function. Directors are selected with an emphasis on having a diverse range of personnel representing people of varying genders, nationalities and experience. As of June 2016, we have 12 directors (including one woman and two non-Japanese nationals) who oversee prompt and strategic decision making and sound management throughout the entire Group. Daikin Industries, Ltd. appoints three external directors with no vested interest in our company. We ensure these external directors have abundant experience and deep insight and can, therefore, oﬀer a sophisticated perspective on a broad range of issues as they participate in decision making and supervise management. Our main selection criterion therefore is directors of listed companies with a wealth of business experience. 223 We also ensure that our external directors do not hold more than ﬁve positions (including their position with Daikin Industries, Ltd.). To ensure that the external directors can eﬀectively contribute to Daikin Industries, Ltd.ʼs corporate governance system, the employees in the Management Planning Oﬃce are assigned to strive to provide the external directors with early notice of Board of Directors meetings. In addition, in the case that an external director is not able to attend a Board of Directors meeting, the assistants provide the external director with related materials and subsequently provide the external director with an explanation of the proceedings of the meeting and provide other assistance. Audit System Daikin Industries, Ltd. employs an Audit and Supervisory Board and seeks to nominate two or more outside members to its Audit and Supervisory Board. The principal nomination criteria for external Audit and Supervisory Board members are the same as those for external directors and include independence from the Company in terms of not having a relationship of interest with the Company. As of June 2016, Daikin Industries, Ltd.ʼs four Audit and Supervisory Board members include two external Audit and Supervisory Board members. The external Audit and Supervisory Board members attend meetings of the Board of Directors as well as other important meetings and receive reports. In addition, they are able to express diverse opinions. To ensure eﬀective audit functions, the Audit and Supervisory Board receives reports on important issues related to management and performance when necessary and also investigates relevant units, conﬁrms approval of documents, and regularly exchanges opinions with representative directors, executive oﬃcers, and the independent auditors. To ensure the eﬀectiveness of audit and supervisory board members, there is the Oﬃce of Audit and Supervisory Board Members and support staﬀ for assisting audit and supervisory board members in their duties. Staﬀ of the Oﬃce of Audit and Supervisory Board Members carry out their duties under the orders of corporate auditors. Audit and Supervisory Board membersʼ decisions on employee transfers and evaluations take into account the opinions of the Audit and Supervisory Board. Organizational Structure Supports Speedy Management Implementation We are striving to ensure prompt decision-making by having a smaller number of directors and having them take part in practical debate on issues. Three organs̶the Board of Directors Meeting, the Group Steering Meeting, and the Executive Oﬃcers Meeting̶are the main decision-making bodies and as a rule each is convened once a month. The Board of Directors is the Group-wide decision-making body for items stipulated in laws, regulations, and articles of incorporation. The board periodically conducts self assessments with regards to its eﬀectiveness. In ﬁscal 2015, the Board of Directors Meeting was convened 16 times, with external directors attending on average 91% of the meetings and external Audit and Supervisory Board members attending on average 84% of the meetings. The highest deliberation organ for the Groupʼs management system is the Group Steering Meeting, which strives to constantly speed up the pace at which Daikin decides on future direction and solves issues related to important management policy and strategies. The Group Steering Meeting was convened six times in ﬁscal 2015. To ensure that the interests of stakeholders other than shareholders are respected and protected, the Board of Directors oversees the Internal Control Committee, the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee, the Information Disclosure Committee, and the CSR Committee. 224 Corporate Governance Structure (as of end of June 2016) Corporate Oﬃcer Remuneration, Etc. To ensure the transparent management of its corporate oﬃcer personnel and remuneration processes, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has established the Human Resources and Compensation Advisory Committee. This committee engages in discussions and deliberations regarding issues including corporate oﬃcer nomination criteria, corporate oﬃcer candidates, and remuneration. The committee consists of ﬁve members, including three external directors, one in-house director, and one executive oﬃcer, with the committee chair being chosen from the external directors. The remuneration of directors and Audit and Supervisory Board members is determined so as to fall within the aggregate remuneration ceiling for directors and corporate auditors as set by a resolution at the general shareholdersʼ meeting. Based on a report from the Human Resources and Compensation Advisory Committee, the directorsʼ remuneration is determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors while the corporate auditorsʼ remuneration is determined by a resolution of the Audit and Supervisory Board. Daikin Industries, Ltd.ʼs corporate oﬃcer remuneration system is designed to accord with the Groupʼs management policy and respond to shareholdersʼ expectations by increasing corporate oﬃcersʼ motivation to promote a sustained increase in Group performance over the medium to long term and thereby contributing to a rise in the Groupʼs corporate value. Directorsʼ remuneration includes “ﬁxed compensation,” “performance-linked compensation” that reﬂects the Groupʼs short-term performance (net sales and operating income) and each directorʼs job responsibilities, and “stock options” that reﬂect the Groupʼs mediumto long-term performance. The performance-linked compensation of Daikin directors is given a somewhat higher ratio of linkage with performance than average to ensure that the incentive eﬀect of that compensation is suﬃcient. The remuneration of external directors and corporate auditors includes “ﬁxed compensation” only. Compensation levels are determined based on consideration of Daikinʼs performance and remuneration levels compared to those of other leading manufacturing companies in Japan after analyzing and comparing data from an outside specialized institution on the remuneration of corporate oﬃcers active in approximately 200 Japanese companies listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In ﬁscal 2015, the CEOʼs annual compensation was 230 million yen and the median employee compensation was 7.1 million yen. The CEO-to-employee pay ratio was thus 32-to-1. 225 Corporate Oﬃcer Remuneration (Fiscal 2015) Fixed Performance-linked Total compensation compensation (Million yen) (Million yen) Persons Category compensation paid (Million yen) Base Stock Bonus compensation options Director (Excluding external 1,254 775 128 350 10 directors) Audit and Supervisory Board member (Excluding external Audit and 65 65 3 Supervisory Board members) External corporate oﬃcers 59 59 4 Corporate Oﬃcers with Compensation Over 100 Million Yen (Fiscal 2015) Total of diﬀerent types of Total compensation (millions of yen) Name compensation Category Company (Million yen) Base Stock Bonus compensation options Noriyuki 338 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 213 27 97 Inoue Masanori 230 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 138 27 65 Togawa Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 109 13 41 Daikin (China) Ken Tayano 176 Investment Co., Ltd. President 12 (Consolidated subsidiary) Guntaro 119 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 75 13 30 Kawamura Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 6 13 29 Masatsugu Daikin Europe N.V. 117 Minaka Director (Consolidated 67 subsidiary) Jiro Tomita 105 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 61 10 33 Takashi 103 Director Daikin Industries, Ltd. 61 10 31 Matsuzaki Accounting Auditor Compensation (Fiscal 2015) Auditing expenses 201 million yen 226 Group-Wide Governance To ensure governance throughout the entire Group, including companies acquired by Daikin, the Group Management Meeting aims for action based on uniﬁed opinion throughout the Group. It does this by sharing important Group policies and basic strategies, as well as providing support for problem-solving in Group companies. The Group Auditors Meeting, made up of auditors from the main Group companies, works to strengthen auditing and control functions throughout the Group and ensure that these functions are working to the fullest. To further raise corporate governance and Group management as a multinational company, Daikin has put a Chief Global Group Oﬃcer position in place. Under this position, the Group strives to further improve cohesiveness across global operations. 227 Corporate Governance Board of Directors Biographies Noriyuki Inoue Position Chairman of the Board and Chief Global Group Oﬃcer Date of Birth March 17, 1935 Brief Personal History and Position Held March 1957 Entered the Company February 1979 Director of the Company February 1985 Managing Director of the Company June 1989 Senior Managing Director of the Company June 1994 President, Representative Director of the Company May 1995 Chairman of the Board and President, Representative Director of the Company June 1996 President, Representative Director of the Company June 2002 Representative Director, Chairman of the Board and CEO of the Company June 2014 Chairman of the Board and Chief Global Group Oﬃcer of the Company (Current position) Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held External Director of The Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. External Director of Hankyu Hanshin Holdings, Inc. Chairman of The Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts Chairman of Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Noriyuki Inoue has assumed a management role in the Company for many years, holding posts that include President, Representative Director, Chairman of the Board, and CEO. His management foresight has produced substantial results in global business expansion and enhancement of corporate value. We have appointed him to continue as Director, judging that his abundant experience and accomplishments are necessary for the Company to realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future, and that he is an appropriate person for the position of Director of the Company. 228 Masanori Togawa Position Representative Director, President and CEO Date of Birth January 11, 1949 Brief Personal History and Position Held April 1973 Entered the Company June 2002 Director of the Company June 2004 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company July 2006 Member of the HRM and Compensation Advisory Committee of the Company (Current position) June 2007 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2011 Representative Director, President and COO of the Company June 2014 Representative Director, President and CEO of the Company (Current position) Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director As Representative Director, President and COO since June 2011, and as Representative Director, President and CEO since June 2014, Mr. Masanori Togawa has displayed leadership in implementing the strategic management plan Fusion 15 and has contributed to its realization. We have appointed him to continue as Director, judging that his abundant experience and accomplishments are necessary for the Company to realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future, and that he is an appropriate person for the position of Director of the Company. 229 Chiyono Terada Position Member of the Board (external) Date of Birth January 8, 1947 Brief Personal History and Position Held June 1976 Founded Art Hikkoshi Center June 1977 Established Art Hikkoshi Center Co., Ltd. (Currently, Art Corporation), became a President and Representative Director of the above company (Current position) June 2002 Director of the Company (Current position) July 2006 Chairman of the HRM and Compensation Advisory Committee of the Company (Current position) Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held President and Representative Director of Art Corporation Chairman and Representative Director of Art Childcare Corporation External Director of Rock Field Co., Ltd. Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director The Company has beneﬁted from Ms. Chiyono Teradaʼs abundant experience and deep insight as a corporate manager, which she uses to supervise the Companyʼs management appropriately from an independent standpoint. In addition, Ms. Terada proactively makes proposals concerning management based on the viewpoint of consumers, such as the importance of the Companyʼs brand, and measures to further promote the active role of female employees. We have appointed her to continue as External Director, believing that she will continue to contribute to enhancement of the Companyʼs corporate value. 230 Tatsuo Kawada Position Member of the Board (external) Date of Birth January 27, 1940 Brief Personal History and Position Held March 1962 Entered Fukui Seiren Kako Co., Ltd. (Currently, Seiren Co., Ltd.) August 1981 Director of the above company August 1985 Managing Director of the above company August 1987 President of the above company June 2003 President and COO of the above company October 2005 President, CEO and COO of the above company June 2011 Chairman, President, CEO and COO of the above company June 2014 Chairman and CEO of the above company (Current position) Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held Chairman and CEO of Seiren Co., Ltd. External Director of Hokuriku Electric Power Company External Audit & Supervisory Board Member of Hokuhoku Financial Group, Inc. Chairman of Fukui Chamber of Commerce and Industry Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Serving as Representative Director of Seiren Co., Ltd., Mr. Tatsuo Kawada has abundant experience and deep insight as a corporate manager in areas such as shifting to new business models, generating innovation, and reforming corporate culture. We have appointed Mr. Kawada as External Director, believing that he will use his experience and insight to supervise the Companyʼs management appropriately from an independent standpoint, and that he can contribute to enhancement of the Companyʼs corporate value by making proposals from a broad and advanced perspective concerning management in general. 231 Akiji Makino Position Member of the Board (external) Date of Birth September 14, 1941 Brief Personal History and Position Held March 1965 Entered Iwatani Corporation June 1988 Director of the above company June 1990 Executive Director of the above company June 1994 Senior Executive Director of the above company June 1998 Executive Vice President of the above company April 2000 President of the above company June 2004 President and Executive Oﬃcer of the above company June 2012 Chairman, CEO and Executive Oﬃcer of the above company Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held Chairman, CEO and Executive Oﬃcer of Iwatani Corporation Chairman of the Board of Iwatani Industrial Gases Corporation Representative Director and Chairman of the Board of Central Sekiyu Gas Corporation Limited Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Serving as Representative Director of Iwatani Corporation, Mr. Akiji Makino has abundant experience and deep insight as a corporate manager in the energy and environmental ﬁelds, service businesses, and other areas. We have appointed Mr. Makino as External Director, believing that he will use his experience and insight to supervise the Companyʼs management appropriately from an independent standpoint, and that he can contribute to enhancement of the Companyʼs corporate value by making proposals from a broad and advanced perspective concerning management in general. 232 Ken Tayano Position Member of the Board, Senior Executive Oﬃcer Date of Birth January 12, 1947 Brief Personal History and Position Held April 1970 Entered the Company June 2000 Associate Oﬃcer of the Company June 2002 Senior Associate Oﬃcer of the Company June 2004 Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company, Representative of China business of the Company (Current position), Member of Global Air Conditioning Committee of the Company (Current position) May 2009 Chairman of the Board and President of Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (Current position) June 2011 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2013 In charge of air conditioning business in Japan of the Company (Current position) June 2014 Representative Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company (Current position) December 2014 Chairman of the Board of Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. (Current position) Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held Chairman of the Board and President of Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Chairman of the Board of Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Co., Ltd. Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Ken Tayano has abundant experience and accomplishments, including having been involved in management of the air conditioning business in China and in Japan. We have appointed Mr. Tayano to continue as Director, judging that he is an appropriate person to help the Company realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future. 233 Masatsugu Minaka Position Member of the Board, Senior Executive Oﬃcer Date of Birth July 9, 1953 Brief Personal History and Position Held October 1983 Entered the Company July 2005 Director and President of Daikin Europe N.V. (Current position) June 2007 Associate Oﬃcer of the Company, Member of Global Air Conditioning Committee of the Company (Current position) June 2008 Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2010 Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2011 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer (Current position), Representative of air conditioning in Europe, the Middle East and Africa of the Company (Current position) Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held Director and President of Daikin Europe N.V. Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Masatsugu Minaka has abundant experience and accomplishments, having been involved in management of the air conditioning business in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. We have appointed Mr. Minaka to continue as Director, judging that he is an appropriate person to help the Company realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future. 234 Jiro Tomita Position Member of the Board, Senior Executive Oﬃcer Date of Birth August 7, 1949 Brief Personal History and Position Held April 1970 Entered the Company June 2008 Associate Oﬃcer of the Company November 2009 Director and Vice President of Daikin Europe N.V. May 2010 Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2010 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2011 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company (Current position) June 2015 In charge of Global Operations Divisionof the Company (Current position), In charge of manufacturing technology of the Company (Current position) May 2016 Leader of ATT project (Current position), Leader of SSJ project of the Company (Current position) Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Jiro Tomita has abundant experience and accomplishments, having been involved in global air conditioning business operations, mainly in production and production technology. We have appointed Mr. Tomita to continue as Director, judging that he is an appropriate person to help the Company realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future. 235 Takashi Matsuzaki Position Member of the Board, Senior Executive Oﬃcer Date of Birth December 23, 1958 Brief Personal History and Position Held April 1982 Entered the Company June 2004 Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2008 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2010 Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2012 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company (Current position) June 2015 In charge of R&D in North America (including applied solutions, commercial & industrial refrigeration, ﬁlter and dust collection) of the Company (Current position) May 2016 Leader of GRT project of the Company (Current position) Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Takashi Matsuzaki has abundant experience and accomplishments, having been involved mainly in operations related to R&D. We have appointed Mr. Matsuzaki to continue as Director, judging that he is an appropriate person to help the Company realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future. 236 Koichi Takahashi Position Member of the Board, Senior Executive Oﬃcer Date of Birth May 24, 1956 Brief Personal History and Position Held April 1979 Entered the Company June 2006 Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2007 In charge of Accounting, Finance, and Budget (Current position), General Manager of Finance and Accounting Division of the Company (Current position) June 2010 Director and Executive Oﬃcer of the Company June 2011 Chairman of Information Disclosure Committee (Current position), Chairman of Development Committee for Operational Adequacy Promotion System (Current position) June 2013 Leader of IZS Project of the Company (Current position) June 2014 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the Company (Current position), In charge of IT development of the company Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Koichi Takahashi has abundant experience and accomplishments, having been involved mainly in accounting and ﬁnancial operations. We have appointed Mr. Takahashi to continue as Director, judging that he is an appropriate person to help the Company realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future. 237 Yuan Fang Position Member of the Board (non-resident) Date of Birth March 9, 1956 Brief Personal History and Position Held June 1994 Deputy General Manager and General Manager of Sales of Shanghai Oﬃce of the Company June 2009 Senior Executive Oﬃcer of Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. June 2011 Director and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of the above company June 2012 Associate Oﬃcer of the Company (Current position) May 2014 Chairman of the Board of Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong) Ltd. (Current position) June 2015 Regional General Manager, air conditioning business in emerging nations in the ASEAN and Oceania of Global Operations Division of the Company (Current position), Vice Chairman and Senior Executive Oﬃcer of Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. (Current position) Signiﬁcant Positions Concurrently Held Vice Chairmanand Senior Executive Oﬃcer of Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Chairman of the Board of Daikin Airconditioning (Hong Kong) Ltd. Reasons for Nominating Candidate for Director Mr. Yuan Fang has abundant experience and accomplishments with regard to the air conditioning business in China and emerging nations in the ASEAN and Oceania regions. We have appointed Mr. Fang as Director, judging that he is an appropriate person to help the Company realize sustainable enhancement of corporate value in the future. 238 Corporate Governance Risk Management Basic Policy The directors and executive oﬃcers in charge of a duty have the authority and responsibility to create a Group-wide, cross-organizational system that covers the entire sphere of that duty; for example, in terms of product liability and quality, safety, production and sales activities, and disasters. To deal with risk across the entire company, oﬃcers in charge of compliance and corporate ethics, through the legal department, identify major risks based on risk management principles, and these are deliberated by the Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee in order to formulate measures to deal with risk. Corporate Ethics and Risk Management 239 Principal Risks Associated with the Daikin Groupʼs Operations Identifying Major Risks and Proposing and Implementing Measures With the Daikin Group expanding rapidly around the globe, we have introduced company-wide, crossorganizational risk management in order to quickly get an overall picture of risks from a global point of view and reduce the risks. All divisions carry out annual risk assessments in which they determine important risks and create measures to deal with them. Based on the results of these assessments, the most important company-wide risks are determined, with measures proposed and implemented to deal with them in order to reduce risk. In ﬁscal 2015, eﬀorts involved six key risk areas: earthquakes, product liability and quality, intellectual property, information leaks, overseas crisis management, and improper accounting practices. Cross-Organizational Risks for Fiscal 2015 1. Earthquakes 2. Product liability and quality 3. Intellectual property 4. Information leaks 5. Overseas crisis management 6. Improper accounting practices The following are possible risks aﬀecting the Daikin Groupʼs ﬁnancial situation, business performance, and other areas. Please note that forward-looking statements made here are based on knowledge current as of the end of March 2016. Risks Directly Aﬀecting Operations (1) Sudden changes in politico-economic conditions or supply-demand relationships in principal markets The Group provides goods and services throughout the world, and there is a possibility that Group performance could be impacted if politico-economic changes occur in such markets as Japan, Europe, North America, China, and other countries in the Asian region. In particular, the Group is proactively developing business operations outside Japan through measures including constructing new air-conditioning equipment manufacturing facilities and acquiring air-conditioning equipment dealers in Europe as well as establishing manufacturing and marketing companies in China. There is, thus, a possibility that the Groupʼs performance could be impacted by business environment changes in one or more global regions. These changes could include the deterioration of economic conditions, raw material price surges, and/or the intensiﬁcation of competition with other companies. In the United States, on November 1, 2012, Dakin completed all procedures for the acquisition of Goodman Global Group, Inc. (Head Oﬃce: Houston Texas; hereinafter “Goodman”) for a purchase price of US$3.7 billion (including the reﬁnancing of Goodmanʼs existing debt). 240 By means of this acquisition, Daikin intends to reinforce Goodmanʼs sales network̶the largest sales network in the U.S. residential and commercial air-conditioning equipment market̶through the launch of environmentally friendly products incorporating Daikinʼs state-of-the-art environmental technologies. In doing so, Daikin aims to bring about new trends in the U.S. air-conditioner market that will enable the Group to realize business expansion and contribute to environmental protection. Furthermore, Daikin hopes to further improve its competitiveness by leveraging Goodmanʼs low-cost management know-how to develop business in emerging economies and volume-zone markets. Daikin also hope to use this know-how to reform the Groupʼs earnings structure, including at operations in advanced economies. There is a possibility that the degree of progress toward realizing these objectives could impact the Daikin Groupʼs performance. (2) Changes in demand for air conditioners due to cold summer weather and other unusual weather patterns Air-conditioning and refrigeration operations accounted for 89.4% of the Daikin Groupʼs consolidated net sales in ﬁscal 2014. Therefore, the Group strives to accurately monitor weather information and weatherrelated demand trends in the worldʼs principal markets. It also employs ﬂexible manufacturing methods and marketing policies designed to minimize the impact of those demand trends on its performance. However, depending on the magnitude of demand changes resulting from cold summer weather or other unusual weather patterns, there is a possibility that the Groupʼs performance could be impacted. (3) Large ﬂuctuations in currency exchange rates Overseas sales accounted for 75.4% of the Daikin Groupʼs consolidated net sales in ﬁscal 2015. The acceleration of global business development going forward is expected to further elevate this overseas sales ratio. Consolidated ﬁnancial statements are prepared by translating local currency-denominated items, including sales, expenses, and assets, for Group operations in each global region, into Japanese yen. Accordingly, depending on currency exchange rates at the time of the currency translation, there may be an impact on yen translation values even when there has been no change in local currency-denominated ﬁgures. In addition, because some of the Group transactions in raw materials and component procurement and in the sale of goods and services are foreign currency-denominated, there is a possibility that changes in currency exchange rates could impact manufacturing costs and sales performance. To avoid such currency exchange rate-related risks, the Group undertakes short-term risk hedging via forward exchange contracts and similar instruments. Daikin also undertakes mediumto long-term measures to continuously adjust procurement and manufacturing operations and optimize them for changing currency exchange-rate trends, and to balance imports and exports in each currency. Through this, the Group works to realize a business structure that is not greatly impacted by changes in currency exchange rates. However, currency exchange rate-related risks cannot be completely avoided. (4) Major product quality claims The Daikin Group conducts the highest level of quality control on all products it manufactures, no matter what country they are manufactured in. In new product development, we strive to constantly improve quality, cost, and development speed by revamping all processes̶starting in the pre-development stages̶in a cooperative eﬀort synchronizing the four facets of design, manufacturing technology, purchasing, and suppliers. Although the Group has liability insurance in case a product claim arises, there is still the possibility that major product quality claims could impact Group performance. (5) Major problems in manufacturing The Daikin Group takes every possible measure to prevent problems at its worldwide manufacturing bases, and it constantly works to improve its safety inspections and security measures, especially in the chemicals business. In preparation for potential manufacturing problems, the Group has insurance covering things like damage to equipment and lost proﬁts. However, there is the possibility that major manufacturing problems could impact Group performance. 241 (6) Major changes in the market prices of securities Securities of the Daikin Group are held mainly for the purpose of mutually expanding business with and strengthening relationships between Daikin and its business partners. However, factors such as ﬂuctuations in the stock market and bankruptcy of business partners could possibly impact Daikin Group performance. (7) Impairment of long-lived assets The Daikin Group records a variety of tangible and intangible assets, including assets for business purposes and goodwill arising from the acquisition of another company. It may be necessary to book impairment losses on these assets; for example, due to a decline in business performance or in the market value of the assets, they may not generate the expected cash ﬂow. Such impairment losses could impact Daikin Group performance. (8) Natural disasters Natural disasters can aﬀect Daikin Group manufacturing, sales, and distribution bases, leading to a possible impact on Group performance. Preparing for Earthquakes Revamping Earthquake Risk Measures and Stepping Up Safety Measures Daikin has made earthquake risk measures a key company-wide theme and we are formulating measures via task-speciﬁc teams. Based on estimates made by the Central Disaster Management Council of Japan's Cabinet Oﬃce (such as estimated maximum magnitude and maximum tsunami height), we have made and are implementing proposals in areas including reinforcement of earthquake resistance at our plants and ﬂooding measures at our chemical plant, as well as evacuation drills to prepare for ﬂooding. We are also creating a business continuity plan (BCP) that includes concrete measures to eliminate risk and we are putting this plan into action. Group companies are all proceeding with their own BCPs. Measures to Deal with Information Leaks Stepping Up Information Leak Prevention Preventing information leaks is a Group-wide concern. IT-related divisions and compliance-related divisions cooperate closely, and personal information managers and IT security managers in each division lead eﬀorts to minimize the risk of information leaks. Recently, there has been a rash of targeted attack emails. In response, the Group has stepped up eﬀorts, including supplementing employee training with actual practice in dealing with such targeted attack emails. 242 Corporate Governance Compliance Group Compliance Guidelines These compliance guidelines set forth the basic premises to observe as a basic framework for compliance for all Group companies as well as each and every one of their executives and employees in the worldwide expansion of the Daikin Group. Believing that violation of Group Compliance Guidelines constitutes a form of risk, we strive to achieve compliance and risk management throughout the entire Daikin Group. Items of the Group Compliance Guidelines 1. Providing Safe, High Quality Products and Services We shall make every eﬀort to ensure the safety and quality of our products and services from the standpoint of our customers. Should a problem occur regarding safety, we shall immediately take appropriate action. 2. Free Competition and Fair Trading We shall perform fair corporate activities in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations relating to fair competition and fair trade of each country and region. 3. Observing Trade Control Laws We shall not participate in any transactions that may undermine the maintenance of global peace and security and world order in compliance with all applicable export and import related laws and regulations of each country and region as well as Daikin Group Policy. 4. Respect and Protection of Intellectual Property Rights Recognizing that intellectual property rights are important company assets, we shall strive to protect and maintain our intellectual property rights and eﬀectively utilize them. Furthermore, we shall respect and make every eﬀort not to infringe upon the intellectual property rights of other companies. 5. Proper Management and Utilization of Information We shall properly manage and eﬀectively utilize the conﬁdential information of our company, the conﬁdential information obtained from other companies, and the personal information of our customers and employees and shall not obtain any information through improper means. We shall thoroughly execute IT security management for our computer systems and the data-resources saved on them. 6. Prohibition of Insider Trading To maintain the trust of the securities market, we shall not use non-public information about the Daikin Group or other companies to buy or sell stocks or other securities (insider trading). 7. Timely and Appropriate Disclosure of Corporate Information Aiming to be an open company with high transparency and earn the respect of society, we shall actively convey corporate information in a timely fashion not only to shareholders and investors but also to a wide spectrum of society, and engage in two-way communication. 243 8. Preservation of the Global Environment We shall observe all applicable environment laws and regulations of each country and region and practice initiatives that sustain and improve the environment in all aspects of our business operations, including product development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, and services. Also, each and every one of us shall strive to promote environmentally conscious actions. 9. Ensuring the Safety of Operations We shall take all possible precautions for safe operations and act with a mindset of Safety First to ensure the safety of the workplace and further gain the trust of people in the regions we serve. 10. Respect for Human Rights and Diversity in the Workplace and Observance of Labor Laws We shall respect the human rights of each and every employee and diversity in values and approach to work while striving to create a workplace that is safe and comfortable to work. We shall also observe both the letter and spirit of all labor laws and regulations of each country and region, and under no circumstances sanction the labor performed under compulsion or against a person's will (forced labor), or labor of children who do not meet the minimum age requirements for labor as regulated by laws and regulations of each country and region (child labor). 11. Protection of Company Assets We shall properly manage the tangible and intangible assets of our company to protect and utilize eﬀectively these assets. 12. Proper Handling of Accounting Procedures We shall comply with all accounting standards and tax laws of each country and region as well as internal company rules in properly performing accounting procedures and shall make every eﬀort to improve internal controls. 13. Practicing Moderation in Entertainment and Gift Exchanges We shall exercise moderation and perform within the acceptable range of social norms and obey the laws and regulations of each country and region in regards to entertainment and exchange of presents performed relating to our business. In particular, we shall neither entertain nor provide gifts of monetary value to public oﬃcials at home and abroad in violation of applicable laws and regulations in each country and region. 14. Maintaining a Firm Attitude against Anti-social Activities We shall take a ﬁrm attitude against anti-social force or organization that threatens the safety and order of the citizens of society. 15. Observing Each Category of Industry Law and Regulation We shall accurately comprehend and observe all business laws and regulations of each country and region applicable to our business activities. Management Structure Conducting Integrated Group-Wide Promotion of Compliance and Risk Management The Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee is the organ for leading group-wide corporate ethics activities. It is headed by the oﬃcer in charge of compliance and corporate ethics and made up of general managers and presidents of major Group companies in Japan. As a rule, this committee meets twice a year to discuss and work toward solving a variety of issues. Matters deliberated upon at these meetings are reported to Daikin executives twice a year. 244 Monthly meetings are held by compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs), who are appointed in each division and major Group company in Japan. The goal of the CRLs is to follow the state of compliance and risk management activities, share information, and carry out compliance education and training, thus fostering an atmosphere of compliance and ensuring thorough measures to deal with risk. Building Compliance and Risk Management Systems for Overseas Group Companies Modeled on Daikin Industries, Ltd. in Japan, a compliance and risk management system has been built for each country and world region to match particular local needs. Each of these systems has compliance committees and Corporate Ethics Handbooks, and they conduct regular self assessments and risk management checks. In addition, Corporate Ethics and Risk Management Committee members of Daikin Industries, Ltd. regularly visit overseas Group companies to join compliance committee meetings, where they conﬁrm the state of compliance and risk Compliance meeting in China (Suzhou) management, and share information. This process enables Daikin Industries, Ltd. and its overseas companies to share and implement each other's best practices. Corporate Ethics and Risk Management 245 Compliance and Risk Management Eﬀorts Handbook for Corporate Ethics, and Regular Self Assessments Daikin's Handbook for Corporate Ethics summarizes employee rules for action and behavior to ensure compliance in Japan. Moreover employees in Japan have been given compliance cards and are urged to carry these with them at all times to ensure that they always follow rules and ethics. In the area of legal compliance, compliance and risk management leaders (CRLs) in each division head eﬀorts to gather the latest legal information and check to see if laws are reﬂected in company rules and manuals. There are also daily triple checks Handbook for Corporate to ensure everyone is following laws and company rules and manuals. We also have Ethics self assessments, a Daikin initiative, which are conducted once a year in all divisions and Group companies to ensure soundness in both legal compliance and risk matters. Based on the results of these self assessments, the legal department conducts legal audits in divisions and Group companies, while the Internal Auditing Department conﬁrms legal compliance through audits. In the area of risk management, all divisions conduct risk management checks along with self assessments. If any major risks are identiﬁed by these checks, measures are drawn up to reduce such risks. The members of the legal department tour overseas group companies to lead eﬀorts such as the creation of the Handbook for Corporate Ethics and the conducting of self assessments. Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain (Supply Chain Management) (Page 262) Education Focus on Educating Employees Toward Thorough Compliance We strive to make every employee constantly aware of compliance through a special emphasis on educational activities. We constantly improve these through better compliance education tools and improved ways to relay the importance of compliance. For example, employees who are studying look at case studies related to legal matters in speciﬁc areas, such as sales, production, and procurement. Education is also divided by employee category, with courses for directors, new employees, newly appointed managers, CRLs, and other kinds of employees. Moreover, to raise employees' compliance awareness, training is supplemented by sessions with individual division heads and managers, who repeatedly remind workplace employees about the importance of compliance from their own experience. Since ﬁscal 2012, Daikin's Compliance Caravan made up of representatives from the legal department, various Daikin divisions, and group companies has been touring branches around Japan to explain the assumed risks and key points of compliance. This training includes active dialogue on case studies relevant to Daikin business. Every two months, employees receive an email newsletter called Daikin Compliance News, which uses familiar case studies to raise employee awareness of the importance of compliance. In ﬁscal 2014, the members of legal department toured overseas group companies to explain and educate employees on the Daikin Groupʼs anti-bribe guidelines. 246 Major Legal Violations in the Daikin Group in Fiscal 2015 The Daikin Group makes it a rule to publicly announce all instances of major legal violations related to business operations. There were no cases of business-related major legal violations in ﬁscal 2015. Help-Line Help-Line for Corporate Ethics Oﬀers Counseling and Gathers Opinions We have a Help-Line for Corporate Ethics in the legal department, where employees can give opinions or receive consultation on all corporate ethics matters. Through the help-line, all advice sought and opinions expressed are kept strictly conﬁdential, and reported matters are dealt with promptly and appropriately. No retribution is taken against either those persons reporting problems and seeking advice, or those persons helping investigate the reported matters. The legal department investigates all queries and opinions to the Help-Line, and works with related company divisions to decide on measures to prevent the reoccurrence of problems. This makes for the smooth creation of measures and the solution of problems. To ensure that the help-line is well publicized, the help-line's contact information is provided on the compliance card that all employees carry with them at all times. 247 Corporate Governance Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings Free Competition and Fair Business Dealings Thorough Compliance with the Anti-Monopoly Act, Misleading Representations Act, and Subcontract Act Based on our Group Compliance Guidelines, which state that we conduct free competition and fair business dealings, the Daikin group conducts fair business practices through measures for complying with laws on anti-monopoly, misleading representations, and subcontracting in countries around the world. For example, annual training plans are made based on the needs of each division. As necessary, we assign experts such as lawyers and employees in the legal department as instructors for these division-based training courses. In this way, communication with each division ensures the most eﬀective training. At the same time, self assessments include checks that relevant laws are being obeyed. For more information, see Education. (Page 246) 248 Corporate Governance Prohibiting Bribes Basic Policy on Prohibiting Bribes The Group Compliance Guidelines clearly state that the Daikin Group shall conduct business entertainment and gift-giving within the laws and customs of each country and region. We are especially strict in enforcing this in relation to gifts and entertainment for government oﬃcials. Eﬀorts to Ensure Moderate Business Entertainment and Gift-Giving To this end, we hold company-wide training so that employees obey rules on sound and transparent relations with government oﬃces, are compliant with the Political Funds Control Law and the Public Oﬃces Election Act, and conduct moderate entertainment and gift-giving with suppliers. In ﬁscal 2014, we created guidelines with detailed directives related to entertaining, gift-giving, and invitations for government oﬃcials. In ﬁscal 2015, we continued on the previous yearʼs eﬀorts to distribute these throughout all divisions and companies in the Daikin Group in Japan and overseas. 249 Corporate Governance Information Security Proper Management and Use of Information Proper Management and Use of All Conﬁdential Information Including That of Other Companies The Group Compliance Guidelines state that we manage and use conﬁdential information appropriately. Information managers in each division follow in-house protocols in thoroughly managing conﬁdential information, be it our own or that of other companies. The system undergoes continuous improvement as employees carry out their own self assessments, the legal department carries out legal audits, and the Internal Auditing Department conducts internal audits. And with the increasingly widespread problems of companies losing information over the Internet, we are striving to raise the awareness of employee regarding managing their information; for example, we have strict company policy regarding employeesʼ use of social media. Personal Information See Protecting Customer Information (Customer Satisfaction) (Page 192) 250 Corporate Governance Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Respect for Intellectual Property Rights Acquire Intellectual Property Rights While Respecting That of Other Companies As Well Daikin Industries, Ltd. understands that intellectual property rights constitute a valuable company asset. We thus strive to both protect these rights and use them eﬀectively. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state that we will respect other companies' intellectual property rights and ensure that our inventions do not infringe on these rights. Using the guidelines, we formulated more detailed points in our Compliance Action Guidelines, which state that we will acquire patents and avoid infringement by having the person in charge of R&D at Daikin be the person responsible for a patent and having the researcher/developer understand that he/she is the sole developer of the product or invention. In new product and new technology development, part of the design review process involves verifying that these products and technologies do not infringe on existing patents. In collaborations with other companies, conﬁdential technologies and know-how disclosed to the other party is designated as such and kept out of reach. Intellectual Property Manager in Research Department To actively support researchers/developers, the legal department assigns an intellectual property manager in each division. The intellectual property managers keep in contact with each other, and manage the variety of intellectual property matters that come up daily (ﬁling/acquisition of rights, reduction of risk of infringement upon and infringement by other companies, etc.). They also educate employees at various levels on intellectual property and reward Daikin patent awardees. And to ensure strategic implementation of intellectual property activities, they form patent networks with researchers/developers and strengthen global intellectual property survey functions. Moreover, with the globalization of our R&D bases, we are appointing intellectual property managers at each of these bases. We will continue to strive to better manage our intellectual property rights by acquiring and using a greater number of patents and higher quality patents. 251 Strengthening the Intellectual Property Rights System in Line with Globalization of Business and R&D Bases We are also strengthening our intellectual property rights systems at our overseas R&D bases. At Daikin Industries, Ltd. and at overseas group R&D bases, starting with those of our Group companies in China, we are striving to obtain various intellectual property rights. China has overtaken the U.S. as the country with the most patent applications. It also has more intellectual property court cases than the U.S. Against this background, the Daikin Group is actively acquiring intellectual property rights in China, and is stepping up applications for patents, utility models, devices, and trademarks. In emerging countries like India and Brazil, and in emerging countries in southeast Asia, we are stepping up device applications as a way to eﬀectively prevent product copying and boost patent applications. In ﬁscal 2015, we held classroom and on-the-job training for intellectual property managers and developers at overseas R&D bases. At the on-the-job training, participants dug up inventions that Daikin Industries, Ltd. has made over the years, and studied the changing ways available to prevent other companies from infringing on Daikinʼs patents. As in ﬁscal 2014, we again held our global intellectual property conference (for the second time), where participants strengthened bonds by exchanging information on what they are doing at their particular bases. In ﬁscal 2016, we intend to conduct systematic eﬀorts to have overseas R&D bases gain more autonomy over their own intellectual property duties. Encouraging Employees to Create Intellectual Property See Spurring the Creation of Intellectual Property (Human Resources) (Page 219) Scientiﬁc Technology Transfer Worldwide Free Access to Patents for Equipment Using Next-Generation Refrigerant Daikin Industries, Ltd. has been oﬀering free access to a cumulative total of 93 basic patents necessary for companies to develop and commercialize air conditioners that use HFC-32 refrigerant. The company has been doing this in emerging countries since September 2011 and worldwide including industrialized countries since September 2015. The aim is to promote the use of HFC-32 worldwide. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment ̶ Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (Page 47) 252 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Respect for Human Rights Respect for Human Rights …………………………… 255 253 Fundamental CSR Respect for Human Rights A manufacturer doing business worldwide can negatively impact human rights in numerous ways; for example, by emitting exhaust and wastewater from factories that pollutes the air and public waterways, harms the health of humans, and destroys natural ecosystems, or by working with suppliers who employ child labor or forced labor. Multinational companies must therefore abide by global standards, such as the United Nationsʼ “Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights,” in protecting and respecting human rights throughout the entire supply chain. Based on the laws and regulations of each country and region, the Daikin Group shows respect for basic human rights in accordance with international norms. The Daikin Group takes part in the United Nations Global Compact for aligning operations to universally accepted principles on issues such as human rights and labor standards. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state our policies for respect for individual human rights, diverse values, and ways of looking at work, and our policy of no child labor or forced labor. Respect for Human Rights Based on the laws of countries and regions around the world, the Daikin Group shows respect for basic human rights in accordance with international norms. 254 Respect for Human Rights Respect for Human Rights Policy and Management Structure Respecting Human Rights in Action Guidelines Based on the U.N. Global Compact Based on the laws of countries and regions around the world, the Daikin Group shows respect for basic human rights in accordance with all international norms. The Daikin Group takes part in the United Nations Global Compact for aligning operations to universally accepted principles on issues such as human rights and labor standards. Our Group Compliance Guidelines state our policies for respect for individual human rights, diverse values, and ways of looking at work, and our policy of no child labor or forced labor. The Group Compliance Guidelines were revised to create the Compliance Action Guidelines, which detail the laws and regulations that Daikin Industries, Ltd. and the Daikin Group in Japan must follow. Based on the Global Compliance Guidelines, the Handbook for Corporate Ethics for each major overseas group company was revised to ensure thorough respect for human rights in the workplace. In ﬁscal 2015, we intend to create a publication called Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines, which will cover issues such as respect for human rights throughout the supply chain. See Participation in the Global Compact (Page 43) Examples of How Business May Aﬀect Human Rights Plant and site Construction of large-scale sites may aﬀect the local environment and construction cause harm to local residents. Suppliers may be suspected of involvement in child labor or forced labor. Procurement Suppliers must prove they are not using conﬂict minerals from the Democratic Republic of the Congo or surrounding countries. Overseas subsidiaries may make employees work longer hours than allowed under labor laws or may pay them less than the minimum wage. Manufacturing Exhaust gas and wastewater from plants may cause air and water pollution, which may result in harming the health of local residents. Users may improperly use Daikin products, which may result in Sales infringement of the human rights of local residents. 255 Respecting Human Rights Conﬁrming Action through Self Assessments The Daikin Group clearly speciﬁes respect for human rights in the workplace through its Group Compliance Guidelines, a compilation of laws and actions to be followed that is part of the Handbook for Corporate Ethics. To ensure that there is no infringement on human rights, the Daikin Groupʼs annual compliancefocused self assessments include human rights criteria. Each Daikin overseas group company has its own Handbook for Corporate Ethics, created based on the Group Compliance Guidelines, that is the basis for thorough action toward respecting human rights. We also take part in Global Compact Network Japan, where we learn from each otherʼs actions and experts in order to raise the level of our own human rights eﬀorts. In ﬁscal 2016, we are planning to release a publication titled Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines, which will include the topic of respect for human rights in the supply chain. Human Rights Education Raising Human Rights Awareness through Periodic Education Sessions and Assessments Daikin Industries, Ltd. conducts human rights education and awareness sessions with the goal of creating a workplace free of discrimination and where all people are respected. Daikin Industries, Ltd. strives to raise awareness of human rights through annual human rights training held for job descriptions including all oﬃcers, as well as new employees and newly appointed managers and mid-level employees including those in Daikin aﬃliates. It also runs a series on human rights in its in-house magazine. Daikin America, Inc. has all employees join in annual courses that are focused on building a workplace of mutual respect among all employees. Preventing Harassment Educating Managers on Sexual and Power Harassment The Compliance Action Guidelines promote respect for human rights and diversity and compliance with labor laws in the workplace. It is our policy to respect human rights by building a fair, bright, and positive workplace that is free of sexual harassment and power harassment. 256 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Supply Chain Management Philosophy on Suppliers……………………………… 259 Green Procurement Guidelines …………………… 267 Working Closely with Suppliers …………………… 262 257 Fundamental CSR Supply Chain Management Along with globalization comes the spread of the supply chain into more and more countries, and with this come labor-related problems such as human rights, child labor, forced labor, and occupational safety and health, as well as other problems like environmental destruction. In addition, companies with supply chain problems face consumer boycotts, which forces more and more of them to solve their environmental and social issues. Daikin and other companies must therefore step up CSR eﬀorts in the supply chain and other facets of business. The Daikin Group formulated a Purchasing Policy in 1992 that is the basis for fair dealings with suppliers. Both inside and outside the group, we fulﬁll our social responsibility throughout the entire supply chain through CSR activities in quality, human rights, labor, and other areas, in addition to green purchasing. Working Closely with Green Procurement Philosophy on Suppliers Suppliers Guidelines The Daikin Group formulated a To raise product quality and Based on our Green Procurement Purchasing Policy in that is the ensure safety, we build a Guidelines, we cooperate with basis for fair dealings with relationship of trust with suppliers suppliers in conducting green suppliers. through ongoing communication. purchasing. 258 Supply Chain Management Philosophy on Suppliers Philosophy on Fair Dealings Dealings Based on Our Purchasing Policy The Daikin Group formulated a Purchasing Policy in 1992 that is the basis for fair dealings with suppliers. Purchasing Philosophy and Purchasing Policy Purchasing Philosophy: Respect Independence and Cooperation and Competition Purchasing Policy: Fair relations based on an open-door policy Provide open, equal, and fair opportunities for all companies, regardless of their locality, size, and sales results. Mutual growth through mutual trust Create open conditions for business dealings and respect free competition. Look for good partners In procuring from overseas, look for companies to share common proﬁt and oﬀer society useful products. Observe laws, and maintain conﬁdentiality Observe laws on business dealings and respect the spirit of these laws. Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines to be Formulated Throughout the supply chain, we tackle CSR issues like the environment, human rights, and labor. We place particular emphasis on determining our CO2 emissions, eliminating the use of designated chemical substances, and forbidding the use of conﬂict minerals. In ﬁscal 2016, we intend to create the Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines and explain these to our suppliers. 259 Green Procurement Ensures Thorough Chemicals Management Under the Daikin Groupʼs Green Procurement Guidelines, we restrict the use of certain chemicals in the products we purchase, and we make sure that our suppliers around the world also follow these guidelines. By having our suppliers ﬁll out the green procurement checklist, we can assess and manage how well they are doing in protecting the environment. Green Procurement (Environmental Management) (Page 144) Green Procurement Guidelines (Page 267) Basic Concept of Green Procurement Daikin give priority to suppliers who actively undertake initiatives implementing our requests. In particular, adherence to Daikin requests related to chemical substances is essential. For the purpose of reduction of greenhouse gases in collaboration with our suppliers, we request them to provide their CO2 equivalent emission amount. Through resource conservation by the waste volume reduction and prevention of global warming activity, we promote the Green procurement activity which leads to the biological diversity protection. Dealings Based on Our Basic Policy Regarding Conﬂict Minerals The Daikin Group is concerned that some of the conﬂict minerals have been funding armed conﬂicts and is linked in the process to serious human rights violations. We established our Basic Policy Regarding Conﬂict Minerals in July 2013. Basic Policy Regarding Conﬂict Minerals To ensure that the Daikin Group does not inadvertently provide assistance to inhuman acts of armed groups in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries, we are taking active measures to uphold appropriate mineral procurement by raising transparency of the supply chain in cooperation with our global business partners. Fair Dealings Management Structure Giving All Suppliers an Equal Opportunity through an Open Door Policy The Daikin Group has an open door policy on choosing suppliers in which we welcome bids from any company, regardless of nationality, size, or years in business. In our air conditioning divisions, information on product specs, desired quality and cost, and delivery times is posted on our website in order to achieve equality of opportunity. All companies satisfying our criteria become eligible to do business with us. In our Chemicals Division as well, we do business with any supplier meeting our criteria for speciﬁcations, quality, price, and delivery time. 260 Regular Assessment of Suppliers to Review Business Relationship Before starting business dealings in the Daikin Group, we ensure potential partners understand our Purchasing Policy, and we assess them on consistent standards. After business dealings begin, we conduct assessments based on ISO 9001 and then review the business relationship accordingly. In the air conditioning divisions, before we start transactions with new suppliers, we use the Supplier Assessment Standard Sheet to judge companies based on their administration, quality, price, delivery, and environmental measures. We ensure that suppliers are in compliance with laws, and we assess them in aspects such as voluntary eﬀorts to step up environmental activities. In ﬁscal 2015, such assessments resulted in Daikin bringing on three new suppliers. Suppliers continue to be assessed every year based on our Assessment System for Continuation of Business. Companies that do not meet our assessment standards are required to make improvement plans that Daikin follows up on. In the Chemicals Division, we assess new and existing suppliers based on ISO 9001 from the perspective of ﬁve criteria: management control, safety control, quality control, environmental control, and supply capability. In ﬁscal 2015, such assessments resulted in Daikin bringing on six new suppliers. We strive to fairly assess suppliers from multiple perspectives, having numerous Daikin representatives negotiate with them and making regular visits to their companies. Awards System for Suppliers The Daikin Group recognizes the ongoing contribution suppliers make through annual awards: the CEO Award, the COO Award, and the Special Award. Every ﬁscal year in each division, the supplier demonstrating the most outstanding contribution to development, production, quality, price, delivery, environment, and globalization receives the Special Award. From among the Special Award winners, all Daikin divisions get together to choose exemplary contribution and present the COO (chief operating oﬃcer) Award and the CEO (chief executive oﬃcer) Award. In addition, every 10 years, suppliers who achieve a certain average level of sales volume over ﬁve years and are poised to continue this level are rewarded for their years of service with the Long-Term Suppliers Award. Risk Management in the Supply Chain Risks in the supply chain include supply problems due to earthquakes and other natural disasters, bankruptcy due to suppliersʼ ﬁnancial troubles, supply problems due to the breaking of laws and accidents, and stoppage of the international ﬂow of goods due to political or economic problems in certain countries. We have created an in-house system for making quick decisions on suppliers aﬀected by risk, and we update our databases as needed in order to improve our ability to deal with problems when they arise. 261 Supply Chain Management Working Closely with Suppliers Ensuring Legal Compliance in the Entire Supply Chain Doing Everything Possible to Help Suppliers Achieve Compliance The Daikin Group strives to achieve legal compliance throughout the supply chain by doing everything possible to help suppliers abide by laws. In the air conditioning divisions, we raise supplier awareness through written requests for legal compliance and meetings four times a year at which we introduce case studies. When renewing agreements with suppliers, those that fail to meet our standards are asked to write up plans for improvement, which we follow up on. We are looking into conducting such follow-ups throughout the year, not just once a year, so that we can help suppliers raise their standards. We also provide information on compliance with environment-related laws on a special website for suppliers. In the chemicals division, we carry out unscheduled audits. We also have suppliers ﬁll out supplier self-diagnosis sheets during on-going assessments. So that we can judge their progress, these sheets contain check items related to eliminating excessive and unfair labor, and the respect of human rights at supplier companies. Ensuring Compliance with the Subcontract Act Japan's Subcontract Act covers several thousand Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s suppliers and subcontractors. There are several thousand Daikin suppliers and subcontractors covered by the Subcontract Act. Our Subcontract Act Compliance Guidelines ensure that all Daikin divisions are in compliance with the Act in respect to matters such as prompt payment. We constantly strive to raise awareness among employees in relevant divisions of the importance of compliance through both in-house and third-party seminars. Comprehensive compliance inspections ensure that appropriate payment methods are being followed. We also constantly check the ﬁnancial situation of subcontractor suppliers and production outsource suppliers and, if necessary, implement assistance measures such as relaxation of payment methods. Helping Suppliers Build Quality Environmental Management Systems Supporting Suppliers in Creating Complete Environmental Management Systems Daikin Industries, Ltd. requires that its suppliers follow the Green Procurement Guidelines and that they establish and operate their own environmental management systems. 262 Amidst increasingly strict chemical control laws, in ﬁscal 2014 we published a revised edition (8th edition) of our Green Procurement Guidelines, which adds banned chemical substances (BNST and PHAs) to the list of designated chemical substances. We require suppliers to have an environmentand quality-based supply chain under which they properly execute environmental management systems they have established themselves. Using a green procurement survey, Daikin Industries, Ltd. determines the eﬀectiveness of suppliersʼ environmental management systems and helpʼs suppliers improve these systems when necessary. In ﬁscal 2015, as a new part of our CSR procurement eﬀorts, we again surveyed suppliers on their use of conﬂict minerals (the four minerals of gold, tantalum, tin, and tungsten, which are mined in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and surrounding countries and are used by rebel groups to purchase weapons). Green Procurement (Environmental Management) (Page 144) Green Procurement Guidelines (Page 267) Raising Product Quality and Ensuring Safety Together with Suppliers Suppliers Take Part in Quality Improvement Conferences, Receive Quality Guidance Suppliers are indispensable to our goal of providing customers with reliable products. Daikin strives to raise quality by working closely with its suppliers. In our air conditioning divisions, we hold brieﬁngs to enlist the help of suppliers in improving quality and achieving zero defects. We also hold the monthly Supplier Quality Conference as a focus on quality for speciﬁc Daikin suppliers. If a supplier delivers defective parts, we assess and analyze the quality of the parts we purchase and, in serious cases, request that suppliers report on improvement eﬀorts at quality Quality improvement announcement meeting improvement announcement meetings and quality improvement proposal meetings. Other measures we take include going to visit suppliersʼ factories to oﬀer assistance. We also strive to raise technical expertise at supplier companies by dispatching our “Takumi,” who have been certiﬁed as outstanding engineers in the Daikin Group, and encouraging suppliers to take part in Daikin skills competitions. In our Chemicals Division, we hold an annual quality forum for sharing Daikin quality policies and giving suppliers a chance to report on their quality improvement activities. We also conduct quality audits at suppliers to ensure they are conducting measures to maintain and improve quality. And we hold technical exchange meetings, where Daikin and engineers at our suppliers work to jointly solve quality issues. Besides conducting periodic quality surveys at the production sites of suppliers to our worldwide bases, we hold meetings where we engage in dialogue with suppliers on ways to improve their quality. We will continue to strengthen communication with suppliers to ensure our products are of the highest quality. 263 Helping Suppliers Improve Quality Air Conditioning Divisions Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s policy and progress are explained and legal compliance is Supplier meetings stressed through model examples. (4 times/year, 128 companies took part in ﬁscal 2015) Supplier Quality Parts we purchased are inspected each month for defects and quality improvement Conference measures carried out. (Each month) Quality improvement Suppliers with quality problems must report on improvement measures. (In ﬁscal announcement 2015, four quality improvement announcement meetings were held for a total of 59 meetings, quality companies and 228 quality improvement proposal meetings were held for 35 improvement companies.) proposal meetings Auditing institution conducts regular external audit, and internal audit are conducted Quality audits jointly in the Air Conditioning Manufacturing Division and at suppliers. Visits to suppliers Managers visit suppliers. Chemicals Division Introduction of Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s quality policy, defect rate and quality cost of Quality Forum purchased goods, quality diﬀerences among companies, and activities aimed at improving quality. (Once a year; 69 companies took part in ﬁscal 2015) Suppliers who provided defective products underwent audits based on ISO 9001. Quality audits (Conducted at 18 companies in ﬁscal 2015.) Aiming for Zero Defects through ZD Activities at Bases Worldwide Since ﬁscal 2007, the air conditioning divisions have been working with suppliers taking part in the Supplier Quality Conference in an initiative called ZD (zero defect) activities. The goal is to achieve zero defects through 3S (visual checks), preventative measures (look for potential problems in production processes), and prevention of reoccurring problems (through regular maintenance). In ﬁscal 2015, one ZD announcement meeting was held and two individual announcement meetings for 18 companies were held to exchange information. In addition, as ZD activities prior to the start of manufacture of new products, we held process checks of parts used in new technologies in order to prevent defects in products. ZD Activities with Suppliers 264 Stepping Up Quality Control in China In ﬁscal 2015, Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. strove to improve quality control at its suppliers. With the number of participating suppliers up dramatically over the previous year ̶ from 20 to 97 ̶ the company held training that gave suppliers practice and testing of fundamental knowledge. Those that passed the test were asked to submit proposals for quality improvement, and the 10 suppliers with excellent results were commended. Suppliers present their quality improvement ideas at a meeting held by Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Business Partners Contribute to Plant Safety Providing Business Partners Working in Daikin Plants with Safety Information and Conducting On-Site Patrols Daikin Industries, Ltd. asks for business partners' cooperation in making plants safer. There are many employees of business partners working in Daikin plants. Safety patrols of the plants are conducted to help keep these people safe. We hold bi-monthly plant safety liaison meetings and weekly meetings for managers of human resource dispatch companies, all part of our eﬀorts to provide awareness and information on safety in the plants. With so many vehicles entering and exiting plants, safe driving is crucial. That's why we hold regular driving safety seminars for delivery vehicle drivers to teach them traﬃc rules and promote safe driving. In the Chemicals Division, where the majority of the plants are staﬀed by partner companies, major safety inspection and maintenance work is conducted once a year. We have numerous measures to ensure the safety of all workers; for example, we hold safety workshops for subcontractor employees, installation practice sessions, and other advance preparation, and we provide workers with information on chemical substance toxicity with SDS (safety data sheets). In ﬁscal 2015, training focused on workers who are unfamiliar with the rules and their jobs. An advisor team was formed with the goal of ensuring that rules are followed and to provide oversight and support for safe work procedures, and to encourage closer communication among all workplace staﬀ. Also in ﬁscal 2015, the Chemicals Division held safety workshops in June with participation by approximately 400 drivers and truck delivery managers. Occupational Safety and Health (Human Resources) (Page 208) 265 Building a Relationship of Growth Communication is Key to Building Understanding and Trust The Daikin Group takes every possible opportunity to communicate with suppliers and promote mutual understanding and trust. In the air conditioning divisions, the head and oﬃcers of the Global Procurement Division, and executives regularly visit suppliers, where they lead brieﬁngs, goodwill gatherings, and awards ceremonies as part of communication enhancement eﬀorts. In ﬁscal 2013, we held four supplier brieﬁngs, sharing production information with suppliers and providing those Workshop for dealers of the Oil Hydraulics considering staring overseas operations with advice. Division In April 2014, we re-started our air conditioner purchasing cooperation association. The aim of this association is to provide the impetus for innovation leading to new and better manufacturing; for example, counter the weakening of Japanʼs manufacturing amidst intensifying globalization by helping make Japanese suppliers more internationally competitive and by boosting our ability to quickly respond to sudden changes such as exchange rates and market conditions. Through this association we hold information exchange gatherings four times a year, where we promote information sharing among suppliers, as well as debate among those in diﬀerent sectors, Quality Forum sponsored by the Chemicals Division so that we can build among them a relationship of mutual beneﬁt and growth. In ﬁscal 2015, we took a tour of the Yaskawa Innovation Center of Yaskawa Electric Corporation. In addition, we gave factory tours to quality and production managers of member companies to show them what Daikin is doing to constantly improve quality. The Chemicals Division fosters good relations through the Quality Forum. In addition, purchasing managers keep in close contact with suppliers to gather and exchange information in areas such as technology, quality, and prices. Any problems that come up are solved through extraordinary or emergency support requests to relevant divisions. 266 Supply Chain Management Green Procurement Guidelines Green Procurement Guidelines Helping Suppliers be Legally Compliant In ﬁscal 2000, the Daikin Group established the Green Procurement Guidelines, and it has been promoting environmental management throughout the entire supply chain in order to provide more environmentally responsible products. At our major manufacturing bases in Japan, China, and Southeast Asia, we help suppliers abide by the Green Procurement Guidelines and inspect products from our suppliers to determine the chemical substances they contain. To help suppliers comply with laws and regulations, we hold meetings to explain environmentally related laws and how the Daikin Group abides by these, and release information on our Web site. Overview of the Green Procurement Guidelines (PDF ﬁle) Guidelines PDF Data(926KB )(Mar.2015 revised) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/supplier/guidelines.pdf) Green Procurement Inspection List PDF Data (386KB )(Mar.2015 revised) (http://www.daikin.com/csr/supplier/inspection.pdf) You need the Adobe Reader application, oﬀered by Adobe Systems Incorporated, to read PDF ﬁles. If it is not installed in your computer, please download an appropriate version of the application according to the model and speciﬁcations of your computer. Download Adobe Reader 267 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement …………………………… 270 Dialogue with Government and Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors ……… 272 Industry Groups ……………………………………… 274 268 Fundamental CSR Stakeholder Engagement The business activities of a company have direct and indirect eﬀects on stakeholders, society, and the environment. For a company to achieve sustainable growth, it must not simply act unilaterally but rather must pursue dialogue to grasp stakeholdersʼ concerns and expectations, and settle on management that creates a virtuous circle between all parties. This process is called stakeholder engagement and it is central to a company fulﬁlling its corporate social responsibility. The Daikin Groupʼs main stakeholders are the customers to whom we provide the Groupʼs products and services, those directly aﬀected by our business including shareholders, investors, employees, and business partners, as well as members of local communities, who are aﬀected by our business activities. Moreover, the national and local governments of the countries where we do business, and those countriesʼ industry groups, are connected to our eﬀorts to improve environmental performance and disseminate environmental technologies. We thus pursue dialogue wherever possible with stakeholders and reﬂect their opinions in our management. Dialogue with Shareholders Dialogue with Governments Stakeholder Engagement and Investors and Industry Groups The Daikin Group uses every The Daikin Group takes increasing To alleviate and solve societyʼs means possible to gather the responsibility to release problems, the Daikin Group opinions of stakeholders and information on its business actively pursues dialogue with reﬂect them in our management, situation promptly and properly. concerned parties, oﬀering all with a focus on engaging our We are particularly diligent about proposals and calling for action. stakeholders. being transparent with our shareholders and investors. 269 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement So that we can continue to contribute to society, the Daikin Group uses every means possible to gather the opinions of stakeholders, report these to company oﬃcers, and reﬂect them in our management, all with a focus on engaging our stakeholders. The Daikin Groupʼs main stakeholders are the customers to whom we provide the Groupʼs products and services, those directly aﬀected by our business including shareholders, investors, employees, and business partners, as well as members of local communities, who are aﬀected by our business activities. Moreover, the national and local governments of the countries where we do business, and those countriesʼ industry groups, are connected to our eﬀorts to improve environmental performance and disseminate environmental technologies. But no single group of stakeholders has priority over another; they are all important to the Daikin Group. 270 Stakeholder Engagement Eﬀorts Main dialogue methods and Main dialogue representatives at Stakeholders opportunities Daikin Daily sales activities Contact Center Showrooms Sales divisions Customer (Page 176) Dialogue during repair visits Service Division “Thank You” sales events and product explanations at distributors Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders Shareholders and investors Brieﬁngs for investors General Aﬀairs Department (Page 272) Annual Report, business reports Corporate Communication Division Information for investors on Website Daily procurement activities Supplier brieﬁngs Procurement business Supplier Quality Conferences Procurement Division partners (Page 257) Quality improvement announcement meetings Quality audits Interviews based on employee self-assessments Labor-management council Human Resources Division Employees (Page 193) meetings, labor union council Corporate Planning Department meetings Group Management Meeting Global managersʼ meetings Informing local community of emergency disaster drills Communities (Page 277) Factory tours for local citizens Companies, workplaces Involvement with local groups and events NPOs, NGOs (Page 274) Dialogue with NPOs and NGOs CSR Division Dialogue with government representatives in each country National and local Companies, workplaces, PR Dialogue with UN representatives governments, industry, divisions, CSR Division, Research academia (Page 274) Participation in industry activities Department Research in joint industry‒ academia initiatives Air conditioner forums Environmental forums, Environment (Page 274) environmental exhibitions CSR Division Various environmental PR and environmental education activities 271 Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors Philosophy Daikin Industries, Ltd. places the utmost importance on its responsibility of providing stakeholders with timely, proper information disclosure. In particular, we believe it is our duty to raise management transparency by disclosing information to shareholders and investors in every possible way. To this end, we have a Disclosure Policy that stipulates standards and methods for information disclosure. In accordance with our Disclosure Policy and the Tokyo Stock Exchange's standards for timely information disclosure, we use our website, news organizations, and the TD-NET online system provided by the Tokyo Stock Exchange to disclose information on recalls, the occurrence of loss on valuation of securities, and decisions such as the establishment of sales companies. In addition, for product, technical, and other information that we decide must be made public, we do so after consultation between the relevant company divisions. Disclosing Information in a Fair and Timely Manner Maximizing Information Disclosure through Brieﬁngs and Our Website Daikin Industries, Ltd. conducts a range of IR activities aimed at improving understanding in areas like our company's current state and management philosophy for shareholders and investors. For analysts and institutional investors, we hold interim and end-of-year ﬁnancial performance brieﬁngs, and conference calls every ﬁrst and third ﬁnancial quarter. In addition, we visit and hold talks with institutional investors in Japan and other countries. We speak with investors on nearly 350 occasions through business brieﬁngs, factory tours, and face-to-face End-of-year ﬁnancial performance brieﬁng for meetings. analysts and institutional investors We try to provide a wealth of information on the IR site of our home page and disclose information ̶including documents required by law such as securities reports and documents related to our business performance̶in a prompt, fair, and timely manner. Our top executives also strive to relay ﬁrsthand company philosophy and direction in as many ways as possible. The opinions from shareholders and investors are reﬂected in our management. Since ﬁscal 2010, the Tokyo Branch has had an IR manager in charge of media relations, and this has allowed us to better meet the information needs of institutional investors. We will continue to stress dialogue with all investors and do everything we can to disclose information through a range of media. 272 Respect for Exercising Voting Rights Helping More Shareholders Exercise Voting Rights To ensure that shareholders have more time to consider new proposals before voting at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, we send announcements of the meeting at least a week earlier than is legally required, and we post the information on the Daikin website and on the website of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. To remedy the discrepancy in information available in Japan and other countries, we translate announcements of shareholder meetings into English and send these to overseas institutional investors, we have an English version of our website, and we post the results of shareholder voting on our website. We strive to get as many shareholders as possible to exercise their voting rights by allowing voting over the Internet: those who cannot attend meetings in person can still exercise their voting rights by personal computer or mobile phone. We have also adopted a platform for exercising voting rights, which makes it even easier for institutional investors to vote. As a result of these eﬀorts, the percentage of voting rights exercised reached 85.68% in ﬁscal 2015. The number of votes cast over the Internet also increased to 1,495,922 in ﬁscal 2015 (902 shareholders). Voting Rights Exercised Voting rights exercised Votes cast over the Internet Shareholders voting online Fiscal 2011 78.18 1,056,103 1,115 Fiscal 2012 81.55 1,244,629 900 Fiscal 2013 82.07 1,337,000 868 Fiscal 2014 83.24 1,443,620 923 Fiscal 2015 85.68 1,495,992 902 Breakdown of Shareholders (March 31, 2016) 273 Stakeholder Engagement Dialogue with Government and Industry Groups Daikin Cooperates in Formation of Environmental Policy Daikin Calls on All Concerned Parties to Participate in Selection of Next-Generation Refrigerants As it does business in countries around the world, the Daikin Group ties up and cooperates with national and local governments and industry groups to come up with proposals and to call on all parties concerned for the betterment of society. Particularly in the area of selecting and enacting the use of next-generation refrigerants, we are participating in international conferences, seminars, academic conferences, and exhibitions and working closely with representatives of industry groups, UN organs, and environmental ministries of governments, discussing regulations, standards, and refrigerant trends and eﬀorts to phase out certain refrigerants, and providing as much information as possible to help countries choose the new refrigerants that are best for them. We plan to continue sharing information on refrigerant technology with the relevant people around the world. Daikin Joins Projects by Japanese Government and International Organizations Daikin participated in emerging countries support program sponsored by various bodies such as Japanʼs Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) under which we hosted trainees from emerging countries and provided manufacturers and sales companies in these countries with technical support. METI had Daikin carry out a survey, under the Global Warming Mitigation Technology Promotion Project, aimed at ﬁnding ways to spread the use of air conditioners using HFC-32 in combination with inverter technology in India. The survey showed that adoption of HFC-32 and inverter technology could result in CO2 reductions of up to 17.45 million tons-CO2 in 2020. Daikin is also taking part in a project to switch to HFC-32 in Thailand, where METI is oﬀering bilateral ﬁnancial aid as part of support for developing countries under the Montreal Protocol, and in a United Nations-led project to switch refrigerants in the Gulf nations. See Key Activities of Fiscal 2015: Environment ̶ Creating a New Market that Contributes to the Mitigation of Global Warming (Page 47) 274 Environmental Forums and Exhibits Exchanging Opinions with Experts on Key Issues at Air Conditioner Forum Since 1995, the Daikin Group has held forums in Japan where Daikin and noted names in air conditioning and design exchange opinions on the future of air conditioning. With Daikin's rapid business expansion worldwide, since ﬁscal 2007 we have extended these forums to Europe, China, North America, Asia, and Oceania, exchanging opinions on topics such as the environment and energy with the most well known experts in these regions and gaining valuable insights that we have been applying to our technological and product developments and to our business. In ﬁscal 2015, a forum in Mexico focused on energy-eﬃcient technologies and next-generation refrigerants, and forums in Europe got participants excited about the possibilities for Daikinʼs Technology and Innovation Center. Daikin took part in the 24th IIR International Congress of Refrigeration (ICR2015) in August 2015, the ﬁrst time the ICR was held in Japan, where the company provided information in areas such a refrigerants and energy eﬃciency. Daikin was also a sponsor and took part in the planning, preparation, and running of the event, sitting on the ICR executive committee as a member of the Japan Society of Refrigerating and Air Conditioning Engineers (JSRAE). Besides our participation so far in international conferences of groups such as the Japan Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Industry Association (JRAIA) and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE), we will take part in the International Sorption Heat Pump Conference (ISHPC 2017) in 2017 in Tokyo and the 9th Asian Conference on Refrigeration and Air-conditioning (ACRA 2018) in 2018 in Sapporo. Air conditioner forum in North America Daikin displays air conditioners using next-generation refrigerants at trade shows around the world 275 Fiscal 2015 Air Conditioner Forums Region Date Main discussion topics Invited guests 19 participants (university Latest trends in U.S. air conditioning industry, North America May 2015 professors, specialists, role of smart air conditioning etc.) 19 participants from 10 January Technology and Innovation Center: facilities, countries including Europe 2016 concepts, initiatives university professors, specialists 22 participants from 10 Sustainable initiatives in green building, IAQ countries including Asia, Oceania March 2016 (indoor air quality) improvement initiatives university professors, specialists Technology and Innovation Centerʼs nZEB June, 21 participants including initiatives, lecture from invited instructor on Japan December university professors, smart society and using big data, 2015 specialists introduction to Manchester Project Active Information Exchange with NPOs and NGOs We exchange opinions whenever possible with NPOs and NGOs involved in the environment and other issues, and the information we obtain goes into managing Daikin better. In September 2015, we met with the Institute for Governance & Sustainable Development (IGSD) to exchange opinions on our oﬀer of worldwide free access to 93patents for equipment using the next-generation refrigerant HFC-32. The IGSD is an American NGO that works to support the development of sustainable technologies that contribute to solving problems such as climate change. IGSD President Durwood Zaelke said that Daikinʼs forwardlooking initiatives contribute to alleviating the eﬀects on climate change and constitute a model case for other companies hoping to be environmentally advanced corporations. Participating in CSR-Related Groups and Collaborating with Other Companies The Daikin Group takes part whenever possible in the activities of various CSR-related groups under the auspices of, for example, the United Nations and the Japanese government. Besides discussions and information exchange with these groups on CSR philosophy and actions, we also collaborate with other private companies in order to step up our CSR activities and improve the content of our eﬀorts. In ﬁscal 2015, we took part in the Global Compact Network Japanʼs subcommittees on stakeholder engagement, SRI (socially responsible investing)/ESG (environmental, social, governance), supply chain, reporting, and a Kansai regional subcommittee, as well as in a CSR and compliance research conference, the Eco-First Promotion Conference, and the World Green Building Council. See Participation in the Global Compact (Page 43) See Endorsement as an Eco First Company (Page 165) Participation in the World Green Building Council (Page 171) 276 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Communities Daikin s Philosophy of Social Contribution……… 280 Harmony with Communities Protecting the Environment ………………………… 282 ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Art and Culture 301 Supporting Education ………………………………… 284 Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Sports ………… 303 ̶ Strengthening Bonds ……………………………… 288 List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities …… 306 277 Fundamental CSR Communities The Daikin Group has over 80 production sites and 213 group companies in over 145 countries. With demand growing particularly quickly in emerging countries such as China, India, and countries in Latin America, we are accelerating the spread of our global business. To ensure that our business operates smoothly at each and every base, it is imperative that we take into consideration the cultural and historical background of each region in contributing as a member of the community and building a mutually beneﬁcial relationship. Based on the condition of fulﬁlling our corporate social responsibility of creating jobs and existing in harmony with local companies, our fundamental policy is to respect the culture and history of each country and region and, as a member of the regional society where we do business, foster strong ties with the community. Centered around our pillars of protecting the environment, supporting education, and living in harmony with communities, our employees take the leading role in conducting activities that beneﬁt communities and in solving social issues from a global perspective based on SDGs (sustainable development goals). Daikinʼs Philosophy of Protecting the Environment Supporting Education Social Contribution We aim to be a company ﬁrmly The Daikin Group provides people The Daikin Group contributes to rooted in the regions where we around the world with a clean air society through state-of-the-art do business and we strive to environment, and we contribute technologies, and we support the contribute in ways that beneﬁt to solving environmental education of future generations in each region. problems on a global scale. order to contribute to the advancement of technology and the creation of a sustainable society. 278 Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to ̶ Contributing to ̶ Strengthening Bonds Promotion of Art and Promotion of Sports Culture We provide the regions where we To achieve harmony with To achieve harmony with do business with the support they communities, we contribute to the communities, we contribute to the need in order to help them promotion of the culture and art promotion of sports in each progress proactively. of each country and region. country and region. List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities Here is a list of all the social contribution activities undertaken by the Daikin Group around the world. 279 Communities Daikinʼs Philosophy of Social Contribution Daikinʼs Philosophy of Social Contribution Three Pillars: Protecting the Environment, Supporting Education, Living in Harmony with Communities The Daikin Group does business globally and strives to be a locally rooted company wherever it operates, with its employees taking the initiative in conducting activities that are valuable to local society. We use our management resources eﬀectively in doing everything possible to contribute to society by protecting the environment, supporting education, and living in harmony with communities. 1. Protecting the Environment As a worldwide provider of pleasant air environments, we contribute to solving environmental problems on a global scale. A particular focus is on activities that ensure we pass on to future generations the forests that nurture our Earthʼs precious air. 2. Supporting Education By contributing state-of-the-art technologies to society, we support education for future generations and help build a society where both technological advancement and sustainability are possible. 3. Living in Harmony with Communities In conducting our business around the world, we help communities to progress proactively by providing them with the support they need in the areas of local culture, arts, sports, and disaster relief. Charitable Activities Donating to a Range of Causes: Art, Culture, Sport, Education, Etc. The Daikin Group donates money to numerous arts, culture, sports, and educational programs as part of its social contribution eﬀorts. Besides donating on a regular basis for the promotion of culture and sports in Okinawa and the Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts, we have in recent years been giving more to international exchange and cooperation causes as we strive to contribute to societies around the world. 280 Donations in FY2015 (Daikin Group) Daikin Aids Victims of Natural Disaster The Daikin Group gives donations to help victims and contribute to restoration following earthquakes and other natural disasters. In ﬁscal 2015, Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. and Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. made monetary donations to support victims of an earthquake in April 2015 in Nepal. Daikin made a monetary donation of 10 million yen through the Japanese Red Cross Society to provide relief and rebuilding to beneﬁt victims of the April 2016 earthquake in Kumamoto, Japan. List of Support for Disaster Victims (Page 314) 281 Communities Protecting the Environment Policy on Environmental Protection Daikin Industries, Ltd. works with a range of groups, including governments, local citizens, and NGOs to protect and rejuvenate natural environments. Protecting Precious Environments Around the World “Forests for the Air” Project In 2014, Daikin Industries, Ltd. launched its “Forests for the Air” project in seven worldwide locations where biodiversity is threatened. The project is an initiative to protect forests, which give us clean air, for the sake of future generations. For this 10-year support project, Daikin Industries, Ltd. has signed an agreement with Conservation International and the Shiretoko Nature Foundation to protect forests in Japanʼs Shiretoko Peninsula, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and in Indonesia, Brazil, Cambodia, India, China, and Liberia. Human activity is a major reason that forests are disappearing around the world; for example, they convert forests to cropland and cut trees to make ﬁrewood or charcoal. To help solve such problems in each region, Daikin leads projects that help locals earn a living while at the same time protecting forests and their biodiversity. “Forest for the Air” Project (http://www.daikin.com/csr/forests/index.html) Protecting Biodiversity (Page 152) The “Forests for the Air” project operates in seven worldwide locations 282 Projects in Surrounding Neighborhoods U.K.: Tree-Planting to Absorb CO2 from Business Activities Since 2010, Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. has been conducting an initiative under which it plants enough trees to absorb the CO2 it emits through its business activities. The company plants trees in a protected forest in Scotland. The company planted 2,200 trees in ﬁscal 2013 and 4,000 trees in ﬁscal 2014. It is estimated that these trees are enough to oﬀset double the amount of CO2 that the company emits. In ﬁscal 2015, the company planted 2,150 trees. Employees of Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. plant trees List of Support for Environmental Protection (Page 306) Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site̲data/index.html) 283 Communities Supporting Education Policy on Contributing to Education The Daikin Group, through its local companies, supports education for youth. By donating ﬁnancial aid, oﬀering technical courses, and conducting grass-roots activities, we seek to cooperate with and gain the trust of local communities. Eﬀorts in Japan Daikin Develops the Circle of Life Free Environmental Education Program on Biodiversity for Elementary School Children Daikin Industries, Ltd., in cooperation with NGO Conservation International (CI), our partner in reforestation activities, has developed an environmental education program called Circle of Life, to teach elementary school children about biodiversity. The program focuses on Daikin's reforestation eﬀorts in Indonesia. The lessons keep children interested and eager as they take part in role-playing and other activities that teach them how changes in ecosystems aﬀect their lives and how their lives in Japan are related to the world's environmental problems. Students role-play in a forestry issues discussion The course covers four lessons in the classroom, and schools can request to have extra lessons taught by Daikin employees. Since April 2010, Daikin has been providing schools all over Japan with free teaching materials. In ﬁscal 2015, approximately 2,000 students from 30 schools took part in the program, and 15 of these welcomed Daikin employees to lead the lessons. In ﬁscal 2014, for its Circle of Life education program, Daikin received the Award for Excellence at the Career Education Awards sponsored by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry of Japan. A Daikin Industries, Ltd. employee leads an environmental lesson at a school 284 Daikin Leads Science Classes at Elementary Schools In support of the Sakai Municipal Board of Educationʼs initiative to foster creative children who love science, Daikin employees take on the role of teachers in science experiments in schools. The children conduct actual experiments in which, for example, they see how an air conditioner conveys heat and cools the air, and how an air puriﬁer uses electricity to collect dust. In ﬁscal 2015, approximately 1,218 students at 15 elementary schools took part. Daikin employees conduct a science experiment for students using an air conditioner Science Classes at Junior High Schools Since ﬁscal 2015, we have been collaborating with Osaka Prefecture University on a program to teach experiment-based science classes at junior high schools in Sakai City, Osaka Prefecture in order to foster the next generation of scientists. With the aim of giving youngsters the opportunity to think and act with an open mind, Daikin employees take part as instructors in science classes that teach the workings of air puriﬁers. Junior high school students learn how an air puriﬁer works Participation in Local Education Programs Following a request from the Kamisu Municipal Board of Education, the Daikin Industries, Ltd. Kashima plant has been conducting educational presentations at local elementary schools since 2010 to get children interested in science. Members of the company's Security Control Department, Chemicals Division, Kashima Production Division, and Engineering Division take the role of instructors and give upper-class students hands-on lessons. Daikin brought enough teaching materials and equipment for all students to observe and take part in experiments and thus ensure that each and every student experienced ﬁrsthand the joy of science. The Daikin employees (from the Kashima Plant) lead program is improved each year by having students write their an elementary school class feelings and opinions following the classes. Factory Tours for Elementary and Junior High School Students We open our plants to the community by conducting tours for the local community association and elementary and junior high school children. 285 In ﬁscal 2015, the Yodogawa Plant held factory tours for 144 students of two nearby elementary schools. The students observed the Eco-Cute storage tank line and the oil hydraulic equipment line, tried operating screw-driving equipment, took part in ﬂuorochemical experiments, and joined in electricity, chemistry, and machinery hands-on experiments. The factory also invited nearby junior high school students to experience a workday in the industry, with three grade eight students seeing ﬁrsthand things like the sorting and assembly of parts. The Sakai Plant invited 276 students from three elementary schools for factory tours. The Shiga Plant, meanwhile, hosted 215 students from one elementary school. Students expressed their opinions of the plant tours and work experience tours in letters to Daikin and all spoke highly of the Daikin work places. Daikin will continue to strive for an open relationship with the community by hosting factory tours whenever possible. A factory tour at the Yodogawa Plant Letters sent from students following their tour of the Yodogawa Plant Hands-On Events Foster Interest in Technology Daikinʼs Solution Plaza fuha:TOKYO and fuha:OSAKA hold events called “Become an Air Professor!” in order to get children interested in the air around them. There are hands-on events that use experiments to help participants understand the importance of the environment and what Daikin is doing to protect it. For example, participants actually take apart air conditioners to see how heat pumps work. There are also events especially for adults to learn about air conditioners, as well as events where they can take apart air conditioners. . In ﬁscal 2015, fuha:TOKYO hosted a cumulative total of 4,550 people at its events while fuha:OSAKA welcomed 240. Children learn how a heat pump works at Hands-on learning at fuha:OSAKA fuha:TOKYO 286 Supporting Japanese Students Studying Overseas Daikin Industries, Ltd. sponsors a program, run by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology, to send Japanese high school and university students overseas. By providing this program through scholarships and other means, Daikin Industries, Ltd. is contributing to more opportunities for young Japanese to see the world and grow into global citizens who respect a wide range of values. Eﬀorts Overseas Training Technical School Students in Emerging Countries We oﬀer scholarships and take in interns as part of eﬀorts to provide technical school students in emerging countries with better employment opportunities. We also have tours of our worldwide factories to raise interest in technology among local students. For example, Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. oﬀers local students employment opportunities through the Daikin Class, held at and in collaboration with a technical trade school in Gansu Province, and through scholarships and internships. Students in the Daikin Class at a local technical trade school (Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.) Supporting Construction of Day-Care Centers and Schools Daikin Europe N.V. supported the construction of a day-care center in Gambia where 181 children attend. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. provided support for four public schools in the form of repairs to walls and doors, the installation of potable water facilities, washrooms, and fans, and the provision of desks and chairs. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Ltd. supported the installation of this school washroom List of Support for Education (Page 307) Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site̲data/index.html) 287 Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Strengthening Bonds Philosophy We want to be a good corporate citizen by being keen to the problems of the communities we operate in and conducting activities that lead to solutions. Employees at regional Daikin bases have planned ways to interact with local communities. Employees will continue to be front and center by listening to the needs of the community: this will make Daikin a known and trusted member of local society. Building Trust with Communities Responding Sincerely to Opinions from Local Communities Each company site has an oﬃce or representative assigned to promote communication with local communities. Assigned personnel hold regular meetings with local community representatives and take other measures to proactively promote company-community interactions and receive any community complaints. And with the aim of being a plant open to the community, each Daikin company site welcomes community associations and citizens for factory tours. Designees at each company site look into complaints and suggestions from local community members and, if necessary, Dialogue meeting at the Soka Station discuss them to the relevant departments of the Headquarters, and then make a sincere eﬀort to respond. At the Soka Station, Daikin received a request from the Saitama Prefectural government to hold an opinion-exchange meeting to discuss the dramatic reduction in recent years of Fluorocarbon gas emissions. In October 2013, therefore, an environmental dialogue meeting was held between local residents, government oﬃcials (from the prefectural and municipal governments, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and the Ministry of the Environment), and Soka Station managers. Participants were happy that they could better understand what the Soka Station does and how it has reduced Fluorocarbon gas emissions. 288 Correspondence between Company Sites and Local Community Members Site Type of Correspondence Group meeting with local community association (once yearly) Community interactions via municipal government, police, ﬁre departments, and labor Sakai Plant standards oﬃce Participation in the Sakai City environmental executive committee Visits to companies in industrial park (once yearly) Information exchanges with major local companies (twice yearly) Visits to local businesses and neighboring community association boards (about twice yearly) Shiga Plant Interactions with relevant public oﬃces and aﬃliated organizations (attendance at general meetings and board meetings with the municipal oﬃce, police, ﬁre departments, and other related departments) (when necessary; about four times yearly) Local community association board factory tour and group meeting (once yearly) Exchange with local community association (4 times a year) Group meetings to discuss association activities and various topics with municipal government, police, ﬁre departments, and labor standards oﬃce, etc. The local impact of two years of construction of the Technology and Innovation Center provided an opportunity to deepen communication with the community and build a relationship of trust. The construction company and Daikinʼs facilities and general aﬀairs divisions regularly visited each home in neighborhoods where construction vibration and Yodogawa Plant noise would be unavoidable to explain the situation clearly and considerately. If any residents voiced the slightest dissatisfaction, they were paid a visit to conﬁrm and deal with the problem. A system was in place to listen directly to any concerns that were voiced. At the request of neighboring community associations, the Yodogawa Plant publishes a newsletter twice a year. It is distributed with circulars twice a year to 21 community associations to promote communication with local citizens. Providing human resources and other assistance for various local community activities Administrative board factory tour Kashima Plant Attendance at cordial gatherings meetings Attendance at regional meetings of the Japan Responsible Care Council Meetings and talks with municipal government and nearby neighborhood associations Soka Station Participation in ﬁre department, police, and industry associations A Safe Plant Open to the Community The Daikin Group does all it can to make its plants safe so that nearby residents can live in peace of mind. When there is noise or vibration from operations of a plant, we set up a number that residents can call so that we can quickly deal with any complaints. Besides group meetings with community associations to discuss topics like safety and disaster prevention, Daikin plant employees take part in local disaster prevention drills as part of their eﬀorts to work with the community in making Daikin facilities safe. 289 Disaster Preparedness and Disaster Prevention Drills at All Sites The Daikin Group has measures in place at all sites should there ever be a natural disaster. Besides providing its factories as evacuation shelters in the event of a disaster, Daikin companies have supplies of food, water, and emergency equipment. In August 2012, Japanʼs Central Disaster Management Council announced the damage estimated in case of the possible future major earthquake along the Nankai trough. In case of such an earthquake, all relevant Daikin bases are ready to use their experience from the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011, and they have revised measures based on the predictions of the Central Disaster Management Council. Daikin sites hold disaster prevention drills every year, which are analyzed afterwards to study ways to improve disaster prevention measures. Daikin bases in Japan have introduced an employee safety conﬁrmation system for determining and whereabouts and safety of employees when disaster strikes. Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants (Page 293) Interactions with Local Communities (Japan) Deepening Interactions with Local Communities Daikin realizes the importance of interacting with local residents as a member of the community. In 1973, Daikin Industries, Ltd. became one of the ﬁrst companies to create a Local Community Section within its organization, through which it has been deepening interactions with local communities. Instead of this Local Community Section, today each company plant makes eﬀorts to interact directly with local communities. Daikin's goal is to be a good corporate citizen that creates closeness among all people and works with communities in order to abundant lives and lifestyles. We will continue to value our relationship with nearby citizens and strive to be a company known and loved for its contributions to society. Also as part of eﬀorts to be a trusted and valuable member of society, we hold factory tours, summer festivals, and other events to promote communication and understanding between Daikin and communities. Deepening Community Relations around the World at Summer Bon Dance Festivals The Daikin-sponsored traditional Bon dance festival is a major event attracting large crowds of locals every summer. The Bon dance festival began in 1971 as a social gathering for young employees of our Yodogawa Plant, and later expanded into a program open to the community and eventually grew to encompass the entire area. The event has evolved into one of Japan's largest corporate-sponsored Bon dances and has been reported in media around the world as a successful example of interactions between companies and the community. 290 In ﬁscal 2015, Bon dance festivals at Daikin plants in Japan welcomed more than 40,000 visitors. The Sakai Plant celebrated its 40th edition of the Bon dance festival, with attractions including a taiko drum performance by young employees and commemorative gifts for early arrivals making this a colorful summer festival. In addition, Daikin bases in China, the U.S., and other countries also held Bon dance festivals. The Bon dance at Daikin America, Inc. welcomed 20,000 locals Conducting Neighborhood Cleanup and Tree-planting Activities Employees at the Daikin plants in Yodogawa, Shiga, Sakai, and Kashima regularly pick up litter and pull up weeds in the surrounding areas. At the Yodogawa Plant, regular cleanups were held and total participation came to 1,303 employees (cumulative total) for 2015. Daikin employees also took part in a cleanup of waterways bordering on the Yodogawa Plant. In ﬁscal 2015, the Yodogawa Plant responded to concerns from the local community regarding fears of damage from torrential rain and the lack of cleanup participants due to the aging population, Yodogawa Plant employees pick up litter expanding the cleanups from once to twice yearly, in spring and autumn. The 137 cleanup participants included division and section managers, union members, dormitory residents, and partner company employees. Once a month at the Sakai Plant, employees take turns joining a Sakai City beautiﬁcation program to pick up litter and create an esthetically pleasing local environment. At the Kanaoka Plant, employees plant vegetation and clean up around the plant; and at the Rinkai Factory, employees pick up litter around the factory and along the median of the road. About 50 employees take part in each activity. At the Shiga Plant in ﬁscal 2015, a cumulative total of 1,500 employees took part in three cleanups of the surrounding area aimed at totally eliminating litter. At the Kashima Plant, a cumulative total of 210 employees took part in monthly cleanups around the perimeter of the plant, as well as an annual weeding eﬀort. In December 2015, the Tokyo Oﬃce signed an agreement for an adopt-a-forest program with the local government of Minato Ward in Tokyo and since January 2016 has been conducting monthly cleanup activities around the Konan entrance of JR Shinagawa Station. A cumulative total of 71 employees took part in cleanups between January and March 2016. 291 Interactions with Local Communities (Overseas) Contributing to Communities Around the World Daikin meets local needs by interacting with and contributing to each of the communities it is located in. Daikin bases overseas also provide locals with factory tours whenever possible in order to gain citizens' understanding and be a company truly rooted in the community. Employees at Daikinʼs worldwide bases take part in cleanups of surrounding areas and scenic spots. Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. The company formed a volunteer brigade that is involved in environmental protection and other community service. The company gave Christmas presents to a facility housing children from homes experiencing domestic violence List of Activities for Local Citizens (Page 312) Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site̲data/index.html) 292 Safety and Disaster Prevention at Plants Support for Fireﬁghting Site Activity Overview, results The plants formed an in-house ﬁreﬁghting division, and Sakai Plant Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit in each division a ﬁreﬁghting unit was formed. Thirteen employees from the Yodogawa Plant joined the special ﬁreﬁghting team of Settsu City, which is the ﬁrst of its kind in Japan. Since January 2010, in the case of a large ﬁre in the Settsu area, the Yodogawa Plant ﬁreﬁghters drive their ﬁre engine to the scene and help under the guidance of the Settsu City Fire Department. Yodogawa Plant ﬁreﬁghters took part in Settsu Cityʼs New Yearʼs ﬁreﬁghting parade in January 2015. Joined the special ﬁreﬁghting team of Settsu City Yodogawa Plant The plants formed an in-house ﬁreﬁghting division, and Shiga Plant Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit in each division a ﬁreﬁghting unit was formed. An organization was set up with separate units to handle ﬁreﬁghting, guidance, rescue, and information Kashima Plant Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit provision in case of a ﬁre. The ﬁreﬁghting units keep the ﬁre in check until the local ﬁre department arrives. Each division formed its own in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit. Soka Station Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit At site disaster drills (April and November each year), the unit conducts evacuation and ﬁreﬁghting drills with the ﬁre department. Members in all divisions of Tsukuba site formed their own in-house ﬁreﬁghting units. Once a year they hold Tsukuba Training Center Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit evacuation training and ﬁreﬁghting practice jointly with the local ﬁre department. Units formed in the Head Oﬃce and Esaka site. Head Oﬃce Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit Periodic ﬁreﬁghting drills held. A ﬁreﬁghting unit was formed in each division. Once a year, these units take part in various drills sponsored Tokyo Oﬃce Formation of in-house ﬁreﬁghting unit by the JR Shinagawa East Building, and they conduct evacuation and ﬁreﬁghting drills. 293 Communication with Neighboring Companies and Residents Site Activity Overview, results The Sakai Plant is a member of an association of 17 companies in the Sakai and Senboku waterfront areas Cooperation with neighboring Sakai Plant for disaster prevention. The association has an companies emergency communication network and meets regularly for various drills. There are 110 employees living nearby who are registered. When necessary, a team is gathered by Yodogawa Plant An emergency rescue team was formed rounding up employees either from their homes or workplace. Daikin helps the local government to rescue disaster victims. Formation of a rescue support system The plant is provided for use as an emergency for local disaster victims shelter for nearby residents (for example, the ﬁeld Shiga Plant is opened up to the public). The Shiga Plant will dispatch industrial physicians and Support of ﬁre prevention in case of its in-house ﬁre-ﬁghting unit, and oﬀer the plant as an disaster evacuation shelter. To administrate local matters, Daikin joins with local Communication with neighboring Kashima Plant companies to be the contact point for local companies government and citizens. In 2000, Soka Station, Soka City, and ﬁve neighboring communities signed an agreement to cooperate in preparing for natural disasters. These three groups have agreed to work together regularly on plans to implement after major Agreement signed for regional disaster earthquakes occur. An expert panel of the Central cooperation Disaster Management Council of the Cabinet Oﬃce Soka Station recognized the Soka Station as an outstanding example of a corporation acting as a bridge between local citizens and local government in supporting disaster relief. Under the disaster agreement, ﬁreﬁghting drills are Regional joint disaster training held with neighboring town associations. In May 2016, 627 took part. The center is a member of an association of Cooperation with neighboring companies in the local industrial park, which shares Tsukuba Training Center companies information on topics like environmental promotion, ﬁre prevention, and blood donation activities. Participated in the tenant association of the JR Shinagawa East Building (July), and joined as an Cooperation with neighboring Tokyo Oﬃce observer in ﬁreﬁghting drills of the building's companies restaurants (March). This helped conﬁrm the ﬁreﬁghting system of the building. 294 Contributing to Local Safety Site Activity Overview, results Daikin worked with the Kinki Regional Police Bureau in Head Oﬃce Support for local safety activities a safety patrol campaign. Took part in the Sonezaki traﬃc safety association. Daikin took part in the North Sakai Police Crime Support for local safety activities Prevention Committee and the North/West Sakai Traﬃc Safety Association. The Sakai Plant is registered as a place children can Sakai Plant Children's protection shelter take sanctuary from threats. Took part in disaster prevention drills sponsored by an Disaster training association of companies in the Sakai and Senboku waterfront areas for disaster prevention. Joint disaster training held (with participation of local ﬁre and police departments) Control damage, conﬁrm people's safety (evacuation), hold earthquake training, hold disaster training (3 times a year) Installed breathing apparatus, held ﬁre hydrant usage competition (once a year). Participated in disaster training held by Osaka Yodogawa Plant Prefecture and Settsu City (once a year). Took part in nighttime patrols. Participation in local safety activities Took part in nationwide awareness activities for ﬁre prevention (in spring and autumn). Took part in nationwide traﬃc safety campaign. Held driving safety seminars for suppliers (stressed on-site road safety; twice a year). Held safety seminars Invited police oﬃcer to give employees driving safety seminar (once a year) The Yodogawa Plant is registered as a place children Children's protection shelter can take sanctuary from threats. Disaster training was held once a year for the plant grounds and employee dormitory; ﬁre hydrant usage Disaster training competition held (October); plant disaster training held (June, November); evacuation training for earthquakes held. Participation in the Fire Prevention The Shiga Plant took part in a disaster prevention Association training convention in unison with the ﬁre department. Shiga Plant Participation in local safety activities Konan Fire Department: Took part in joint disaster training. 295 Site Activity Overview, results Held disaster training (twice a year), joined ﬁre hydrant Disaster training usage training (once a year), held public relations training (once a year) Joint disaster training was held with the ﬁre department as part of cooperation among companies in the industrial park (once a year). As part of cooperation among companies, once-a-year training was held with ﬁreﬁghters, labor board Participation in local safety events personnel, and police oﬃcers as instructors. The goal was to raise safety and disaster awareness. Kashima Plant Rescue training Participation in disaster training events with the ﬁre department, labor board, and police department. Police oﬃcers were invited to be instructors at a traﬃc Safe driving course held safety training conference (once a year) to help drivers improve their road manners. Contest to prevent accidents and abide The Soka Plant took part in a rules-of-the-road contest by rules of the road held annually by the Police Department. Soka Station Holds disaster training with ﬁve neighborhood Regional joint disaster training associations. (May each year) Participation in meeting of Tokyo The Tokyo Oﬃce took part in scheduled meetings and Metropolitan Police Department to training sessions, as well as responded to various prevent organized crime. requests. Tokyo Oﬃce Joined in disaster training sponsored by the ﬁre and Participation in local disaster training disaster prevention association of the JR Shinagawa East Building. Use Equipment during Disasters, and Secure Supplies for Emergencies Site Activity Overview, results Secured emergency supplies such as water, food, and Secure supplies for emergencies ﬁre prevention equipment. Sakai Plant Daikin is registered as a corporate supporter of Lend equipment to disaster relief ﬁreﬁghting activities. (In emergencies, Daikin lends equipment like forklifts.) The plant makes eﬀective use of site equipment Use of equipment during disasters, and (ﬁre engines, ﬁreﬁghting equipment; sends secure supplies for residents for employees as well). emergencies Suﬃcient supplies have been set aside for all local residents in case of a major earthquake. Emergency materials and equipment are placed in Yodogawa Plant all major buildings. At a meeting during a factory tour, participants conﬁrm that there are enough emergency supplies stored 296 Site Activity Overview, results Emergency supplies are stocked (ﬂashlights, portable Shiga Plant Secure supplies for emergencies toilets, blankets, etc.). Stored emergency supplies (gas masks, ﬂashlights, megaphones) and emergency necessities to last employees 3 days (food, water, portable toilets, blankets, etc.). Expanded emergency materials to be prepared for logistics accidents. Secure emergency equipment and food Kashima Plant Stored water, food, ﬁreﬁghting equipment, etc. Secure supplies for emergencies Soka Station Exhibit and disaster drills were held with the Joint regional disaster training held surrounding community. Stored three days worth of food, drink, and emergency Secure supplies for employees who Tsukuba Training Center supplies (ﬂashlights, blankets, gas burners, portable cannot return home during a disaster toilets, etc.) for employees and training participants. Purchased and stored emergency supplies for the Head Oﬃce and Esaka Building. During ﬁre drills, Secure supplies for emergencies conﬁrmed how to use these supplies (particularly Head Oﬃce rescue-related supplies). Health and Safety Committee and Human Resources Place AEDs at Head Oﬃce, Esaka, oversee the placement of AEDs in all bases under Fukuoka, Nagoya, and Hiroshima Head Oﬃce jurisdiction. Emergency supplies are stocked (helmets, gloves, towels, stretchers, etc.); these are inspected regularly. According to a new Tokyo by-law regarding measures for people in Tokyo who cannot return Secure emergency supplies, ensure home in a disaster (enacted in April 2013), extra presence of registered AED personnel purchases were made of emergency supplies (emergency food and drinking water), and enough was stored to last 3 days for 400 people. At the Tokyo Oﬃce same time, for employees who absolutely must be sent home on foot due to family situations, supplies that these employees might need while walking home were stored (about 60 personsʼ worth). The local ﬁre department was invited to give a workshop on life-saving techniques (once a year). The goal is to get more people certiﬁed in life-saving skills (to be in charge of AEDs). AEDs were installed in June 2014. 297 Earthquake Measures Site Activity Overview, results Established code of conduct for tsunami Measures against tidal wave and disaster response, and tsunami secured emergency Earthquake reinforcement and supplies. evacuation training drills All buildings on-site have been inspected Sakai Plant for earthquake resistance. Reinforcement work is proceeding as planned. Evacuation training drills were held. Conducted periodic drills in preparation for earthquake and tsunami (measures for initial response, evacuation, and for cases of late-night disaster and cut-oﬀ lifelines, early ﬁre response, rescue) Basic earthquake measures policy: Save people above all, ensure safety • Measures for an earthquake with a seismic intensity of 6: Reinforcement work completed on main buildings under current earthquake-resistance standard (ﬁscal 2009) • Measures for 2-meter tsunami: Measures for loss of infrastructure such as power. 1. Complete emergency measures before tsunami arrives (within 2 hours), ensure the chemical plant is safe, and evacuate employees to a high, safe place. 2. Use secured emergency power, close up dangerous chemicals to render them harmless, and safely shut down plant (turn oﬀ, cool down, close). Disaster drills (3 times a year) Evacuation drills held at all locations (evacuation shelters in high places) Ensure uniﬁed evacuation time and safety Revise earthquake scale assumptions conﬁrmation within 2 hours. and conduct Yodogawa Plant Earthquake reinforcement Verify that disaster materials and equipment are usable and can be accessed quickly. Infrastructure loss measures Evacuation and emergency measures Verify measures for night shift. Emergency stoppage of equipment and machinery, drills for measures. Measures to prevent equipment and machinery from falling over Formulate uniﬁed standards (guidelines) (implement at all bases). Execute measures in each division (completion expected in ﬁscal 2014). Create hazard map (danger sources, evacuation) Revise evacuation routes, evacuation shelters, sources of danger. Revise all evacuation routes and evacuation shelters for the site. Emergency measures manual Secure communication protocol Install satellite phones (communication among work sites) Use walkie-talkies (one for each division, one for division headquarters) 298 Site Activity Overview, results Earthquake reinforcement completed (cafeteria, No. 1 plant, No. 2 plant, product warehouse), earthquake reinforcement work in progress (parts Earthquake reinforcement and warehouse, jig and tool plant). Shiga Plant evacuation training drills Evacuation training drills were also held (Disaster drills once, ﬁre drills once). Installed walky-talkies for use in disasters (21 in plant, 1 at company housing building). Established two new tsunami evacuation shelters in high locations to use in case of a large tsunami warning, and held evacuation drills using these shelters. Kashima Plant Tsunami measures Revised disaster drills at bases (based on past earthquake experience, changed evacuation routes Revision of disaster drills at bases etc.). Held specialized earthquake evacuation drills Revision of product storage rules (April, November) Soka Station Measures to prevent falling over of Revised product storage rules based on past ﬁxtures earthquake experience. Took measures to prevent falling over of ﬁxtures and other equipment in oﬃces. Took measures to prevent equipment from falling over. Earthquake reinforcement and disaster Carried out comprehensive disaster drills in Tsukuba Training Center drills preparation for large-scale earthquake (a seismic intensity of 6) To further earthquake risk measures, a memorandum (measures for transfer of building functions in case of Head Oﬃce Improve earthquake risk measures earthquake, tsunami measures, and risk management measures) was sent to bases and aﬃliates. Measures were taken to prevent cabinets, furniture and ﬁxtures, and equipment with casters (MFPs, laser printers, shredders, etc.) from falling over in an earthquake. Joined in disaster training sponsored by the ﬁre and disaster prevention association of the JR Shinagawa East Building (September). Held drills in using satellite telephones (September). Earthquake reinforcement, evacuation In case of a disaster occurring at night or on a Tokyo Oﬃce drills, measures for employees who holiday, appointed emergency staﬀ to be cannot return home dispatched to conﬁrm the extent of damage at the JR Shinagawa East Building prior to setting up a disaster task force. Established guidelines outlining initial response in case of earthquake. The guidelines state that, as a rule, employees should wait inside the Shinagawa East Building if an earthquake occurs during working hours. Written rules were made regarding what Daikin managers should do to conﬁrm safety of employees in a disaster. 299 Typhoon Measures Site Activity Overview, results A meeting was held to examine measures to take in Kashima Plant Meeting on typhoon measures case of a typhoon. Preventative measures were drawn up for safe operation or stoppage of machinery. Safety Conﬁrmation System Site Activity Overview, results Built a conﬁrmation system that uses safety Sakai Plant Safety conﬁrmation system conﬁrmation and broadcast services. Hold response drills once a year. A system was established that can conﬁrm the safety of employees approximately 20 minutes after a Yodogawa Plant Safety conﬁrmation system disaster occurs. Emergency materials and equipment for searching and restoration are placed in all major buildings. Established a system for conﬁrming employee safety following a disaster. Shiga Plant Safety conﬁrmation system Drills held in replying to this system (once every ﬁscal quarter); drills held since December 2013. Established a system for conﬁrming the safety of Kashima Plant Safety conﬁrmation system employees after a disaster occurs. Drills held in replying to this system (once a year). Soka Station Safety conﬁrmation system Drills held in replying to this system (twice a year). Drills held in replying to this system (once a year); also Tsukuba Training Center Safety conﬁrmation system checked ability to respond to this system at all times. Established a system for conﬁrming the safety of Head Oﬃce Safety conﬁrmation system employees after a disaster occurs. The system is currently being strengthened. Held communication drills to conﬁrm a system for contacting employees to ensure they are safe following a disaster (twice a year). Also checked on those employees who did not respond when contacted during implementation of the safety conﬁrmation system. In case of a disaster occurring on a holiday or at night, Tokyo Oﬃce Safety conﬁrmation system as a means of immediate contact with regular employees of the Tokyo Oﬃce and with managers sent to handle the situation at the Tokyo Oﬃce, and as a means of communication between members of the Tokyo Oﬃce Occupational Safety and Health Committee, established a system using a broadcast function for safety conﬁrmation. Drills are held in replying using the broadcast function (twice a year). 300 Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Art and Culture Policy on Contributing to Furthering Art and Culture Established to promote art and culture, the Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts supports a wide range of activities including exhibitions by the National Museum of Art, lectures, academic research, and publications. Overseas as well, we support local culture through the sponsorship of music festivals and other events. Eﬀorts in Japan The Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts The world's outstanding artistic and cultural works transcend national borders. Daikin Industries, Ltd. is committed to bringing the joy of these works, and the creativity they inspire, to a wider audience. This desire has compelled Daikin to focus on promoting art and music. In March 1996, Daikin Industries, Ltd. established the Daikin Foundation for Contemporary Arts to mark the company's 70th anniversary on October 25, 1994. In the foundation's ﬁrst year, Daikin Industries, Ltd. donated ¥200 million for the basic fund, followed by another ¥200 million after three years. With another donation of ¥100 million in 2004, Daikin's 80th anniversary, total founding so far amounts to ¥500 million. The foundation supports a wide range of projects designed to teach art appreciation, such as exhibitions at the National Museum of Art, Osaka (NMAO), lectures, publications, surveys, and research. In April 2013, the foundation became a public interest incorporated foundation. In March 2016, the foundation celebrated its 20th anniversary. To mark this occasion, Daikin is stepping up foundation-sponsored activities with the aim of energizing the culture and arts of Osaka, the birthplace of Daikin Industries, Ltd. 301 Daikin Supports the Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Daikin Industries, Ltd. supports the Osaka-based Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra. Formed in 1970, it became a speciﬁed nonproﬁt corporation in 2003. The orchestra is an integral member of local society, giving community concerts at its practice hall and hiring as many local musicians as possible. Since 2004, Daikin Chairman of board Noriyuki Inoue has been a director on the orchestra's committee, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. has sponsored concerts by the orchestra in Nara, Kyoto, Hyogo, and Daikinʼs home base of Osaka. Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Eﬀorts Overseas Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. supports Pilsen Philharmonic Orchestra. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. has held an annual concert since 2007 with the aim of promoting arts and culture. List of Support for Promotion of Arts and Culture (Page 310) Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report / site̲data/index.html) Concert in China 302 Communities Harmony with Communities ̶ Contributing to Promotion of Sports Philosophy To promote sports, the Daikin Group sponsors local sports teams and sporting competitions. A major example is Daikinʼs sponsorship for almost 30 years of the Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Eﬀorts in Japan With the aim of deepening relations between Okinawa and mainland Japan, every spring we sponsor the Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament, the opening event of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament Daikin Hosts the Ever Onward With Okinawa Tournament with the Vision of Boldly Taking on the Future, Together With Okinawa In order to expand the circle of interaction among people through sports, Daikin Industries, Ltd. sponsors the Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament, a pro event. Our hope is that our promotion of sports will contribute to the advancement of life in Okinawa. The Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament was inaugurated in 1988 as the opening round of the Japan Ladies' Pro Golf Tour. As its sponsor, Daikin contributed the slogan Ever Onward With Okinawa, indicating our desire to join with Okinawa in boldly addressing the challenges of the future. A number of participants in the amateur tournament have gone on to take part in the pro tour 303 Local Amateur Golfers Invited to Participate in Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament The Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament was created to help develop and revitalize the Okinawa golf scene. It has been an open tournament since 1997, giving Okinawa's amateur golfers the chance to compete with top professional players. Those aspiring to play in the tournament proper must ﬁrst qualify in the Daikin Orchid Ladies' Amateur Golf Championship, which has been the proving ground for many professional female golfers active today such as Ai Miyazato, Shinobu Moromizato (Daikin Industries, Ltd.'s pro), and Mika Miyazato. In preparation for the 2016 Summer Olympics, when golf will be Teresa Lu was the winner of the tournament's reinstated as an oﬃcial Olympic sport, participation in this 29th edition tournament has been increased from four to ﬁve players. This gives amateurs the chance to experience the intense competition of professional golf and thus better prepare to carry the ﬂag for Japan in the next Olympics. Bridging Okinawa and the Mainland The pro and amateur tournaments and the pre-tournament festival enable representatives of local and mainland businesses to interact in an informal setting and gain a better understanding of each other's perspectives. This has led to the emergence of the Okinawa Konwakai, an organization created to consider future development in Okinawa. The association, whose members include the presidents of major corporations and other experienced business personalities, organizes a variety of vibrant activities that include forums and presentations on how to promote and develop Okinawa. Discussions at the Okinawa Konwakai gave rise to a commerce conference held in Okinawa in 2014. By making Okinawa a hub of international distribution, it can contribute to new foreign sales channels for specialty products from all over Japan. Local Volunteers Contribute to a Successful Tournament Local volunteers from the city of Nanjo can be counted on to provide their invaluable time and labor to help run the tournament. The volunteer program was launched in 1997, and in ﬁscal 2015, a cumulative total of 567 volunteers took part in making the event a success. In appreciation of their eﬀorts, Daikin donates books to the local Tamashiro Junior High School every year. The Orchid Bounty Foundation Supports the Culture and Sports of Okinawa All competitors in the professional and amateur tournaments provide their assistance by raising money through the Orchid Bounty fundraiser. These funds, augmented by donations from the sponsors, are used to aid the development of Okinawa prefecture, the tournament venue. Speciﬁcally, funding is provided to public organizations and individuals promoting artistic, cultural, sporting, and educational activities. In 2016, Orchid Bounty donated ¥5.7 million to a total of 11 organizations and individuals, bringing the total contributions The Orchid Bounty donation ceremony since 1995 to ¥129.6 million. 304 Local Junior High School Students Invited to Watch Tournament Every year, many of the students from the local Tamashiro Junior High School are invited to watch the tournament. This gives the students a valuable opportunity to learn about and experience the joy of golf. In ﬁscal 2015, about 125 grade seven students were invited. Not only do the students get to see the women's pro golfers battle it out on the course, they also get a comprehensive look behind the scenes of the tournament as they observe the work of groups like the greens-keepers, mass media, and tournament organizers. Eﬀorts Overseas Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. supports the Pilsen hockey team through eﬀorts including aiding in the publishing of team-related books, and buying game tickets to distribute to employees. It also sponsored the 7th Pilsen Half Marathon. List of Support for Promotion of Sports (Page 311) Report by Business Site (http://www.daikin.com/csr/report/site̲data /index.html) Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. supports the publishing of books on the Pilsen hockey team 305 Communities List of Daikin's Social Contribution Activities List of Support for Environmental Protection Base Recipient of support, details of support “Forests for the Air” project Forest protection in Shiretoko (Japan), Indonesia, Cambodia, China, India, Brazil, and Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Liberia. Rejuvenating a forest in Harashiroyama, Takatsuki City, Osaka Prefecture. Rejuvenating a forest in Izuhara, Ibaraki City, Osaka Prefecture. Employees and their families took part in tree-planting. Participated in Energy Hunt campaign aimed at reducing energy usage at home and at Daikin Europe N.V. work. Held Mobility Week, during which employees take bicycles or public transport to work to reduce environmental impact. Company lends bicycles. Daikin Industries Czech Republic Implements an environmental education program for kindergarten children. s.r.o. Daikin Airconditioning U.K., Ltd. Planting trees to oﬀset CO2 emissions from its business activities. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Conducted tree-planting inside industrial park. Co., Ltd. Promoted beneﬁts of energy eﬃciency. Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Employees joined in local tree-planting activities. Co., Ltd. Opened cherry tree garden inside the factory premises to the public for an Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) environmental event. Co., Ltd. Providing environmental education to elementary school students. Conducted tree-planting in order to protect biodiversity in the tropical rainforest. Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Took part in 3R International Marathon & Carnival to help raise environmental awareness. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Conducting tree-planting activities at temples. Conducted tree-planting inside industrial park. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Held coral and mangrove rejuvenation activities. Daikin Applied Americas Inc. Supporting environmental education. 306 List of Support for Education Base Recipient of support, details of support Held “Circle of Life” environmental education program for elementary schools. Held science experiment classes at elementary schools. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Took part in program with Osaka Prefecture University to foster next generation of scientists through experiment-based classes at junior high schools. Support for the Sakai Rugby School The Kanaoka Factory lends its ﬁeld three times a month to the Sakai Rugby School. In ﬁscal 2015, about 150 elementary and junior high school rugby players took part. Factory tours to educate local elementary school students about working society Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Sakai In ﬁscal 2015, 276 students from three schools took Plant) tours. Kendo Training Hall for Children Classes were held three times a week, with 10 students each time. Factory tours for local elementary schools In ﬁscal 2015, 144 students from two schools took tours. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Yodogawa Plant) Experience work days for local junior high school students In ﬁscal 2015, three second-year junior high students from Daiyon Junior High School in Settsu City took part. Factory tours to educate elementary schools in the city about local industry Factory tours were oﬀered for elementary school students in the city as part of social studies lessons on local industry. In ﬁscal 2015, 215 students from one school took part. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Shiga Plant) Daikin ﬁeld opened to the public Daikin opened up its ﬁeld to the public to use for baseball, pitch-and-putt golf, softball, and other activities. Daikin invited children from day care centers to see the cherry blossoms in the plant's front garden. The tennis courts and other facilities were opened to the public. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Kashima Daikin employees give lessons at local elementary schools Starting in autumn 2010, Plant) employees led ﬂuorochemical experiments for upper-class elementary school students. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Soka Facilities were open to local citizens on weekends and holidays: children and teenagers Station) used the ﬁeld for sports, while the activities plaza was used for pitch-and-putt golf. Hosted internships for university students, gave factory tours, made donations to schools. Daikin Europe N.V. Supported construction of facilities and made monetary donation to day-care center in Gambia, West Africa. 307 Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Airconditioning Belgium Accepted internship students and held factory tours. N.V. Daikin Industries Czech Republic Accepted internship students, held factory tours, and donated air conditioners. s.r.o. Daikin Device Czech Republic Held factory tours for students, accepted student trainees, provided Japanese lessons, s.r.o. cooperated with university. Rotex Heating Systems GmbH Accepted internship students and held factory tours. Daikin Chemical France S.A.S. Accepted university students for internship and training. Daikin Airconditioning France Accepted internship students. S.A.S. Daikin Airconditioning Italy S.p.A. Supported a universityʼs participation in the Solar Decathlon Europe. Daikin Airconditioning Poland Sp. Accepted internship students, hosted training of air-conditioning for students. z o.o Accepted internship students, held factory tours, and provided scholarships. Daikin Turkey A.S. Conducted joint research with universities and gave lectures at universities Established social reconstruction fund jointly with university. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Held course for university students in air conditioning systems. Ltd. Sponsored science and technology contest a local university Held an interior designer contest. Daikin Air-Conditioning (Shanghai) Hosted university interns, gave factory tours, held seminars, etc. Co., Ltd. Established Daikin Class at local trade school. Provided scholarships to students. Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Held factory tours. Ltd. Daikin Device (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Provided educational support to partner universities Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Held factory tours. Co., Ltd. Awarded scholarships to local elementary and junior high school. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Held factory tours and made monetary donation to elementary schools. Co., Ltd. Hosted internship of 50 Malaysian students from local university or the overseas university for a two-to-three-month period. Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Held factory tours for students: cumulative total of 171 participants over several tours. Provided scholarships to students. Donated air conditioner to school library. Held factory tours for university students. Made monetary donation to elementary schools. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Held factory tours for 300 students ranging from elementary school to university. On Childrenʼs Day in January, donated scholarship to industrial park in Amata City. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. 308 Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Provided support for schools in the form of repairs to walls and doors, the installation of Ltd. potable water facilities, washrooms, and fans, and the provision of desks and chairs. Daikin Australia Pty., Ltd. Made donations to educational center. Tied up with university to provide scholarships. Held homestay program in Japan for Daikin America, Inc. American high school students. Hosted internship students. Daikin Applied Americas Inc. Hosted internship students, provided scholarships. 309 List of Support for Promotion of Arts and Culture Base Recipient of support, details of support National Museum of Art, Osaka Kansai Philharmonic Orchestra Kansai Nikikai Public Interest Incorporated Association Osaka Philharmonic Orchestra Telemann Institute Japan Support Group Tokyo Nikikai Opera Foundation New Japan Philharmonic NHK Symphony Orchestra New National Theatre, Tokyo Association for Corporate Support of the Arts Kamigata Entertainment Culture Society National Association of High School Guitar and Mandolin Music Friendship Society of National Museum of Art, Osaka Takarazuka Review Supporters Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Osaka Nohgaku Youseikai Kouenkai Osaka Symphony Orchestra National Museum of Ethnology Fan Club of Mozart-Kammerorchester Japan Art Stream 2014 Shigeyama Otofu Kyogen 2014 Dojima Yakushido Kaitokudo Osaka Wasso Cultural Exchange Association Exhibition of Shosoin Treasures Japanese Red Cross Society, Osaka Chapter Midosuji Illumination Living & Design 2014 SHIKI THEATRE COMPANY Daikin Industries Czech Republic Pilsen Philharmonic Orchestra s.r.o. Sponsored international music festival Young Prague. Contributed to restoration of bronze statue of Roman emperor Caligula. Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Has held an annual concert since 2007 with the aim of promoting arts and culture. Ltd. Daikin America, Inc. Made donation to local theater. Daikin Applied Americas Inc. Supported local music events and ﬁlm festivals. 310 List of Support for Promotion of Sports Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Japan) Daikin Orchid Ladies Golf Tournament Employees took part in the Pilsen Half Marathon. Daikin Industries Czech Republic s.r.o. Supported the publishing of books on the Pilsen hockey team. Supported Dragon Boat Club Crew World Championships. Daikin Applied Europe S.p.A. Sponsored a tennis tournament for wheelchair athletes. Daikin Airconditioning Central Europe Handels GmbH Daikin America, Inc. Made donations to support construction of facilities for baseball and softball. 311 List of Activities for Local Citizens Base Recipient of support, details of support Holds annual Bon dance festival. Continued participation in Adopt a Road cleanup initiative Under Sakai City's public cleanup campaign, employees took turns cleaning up the streets once a month. The area around the plant and nearby sidewalks were cleaned. At the Kanaoka Plant, employees planted greenery nearby and cleaned up the streets, and employees Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Sakai of the waterfront plants picked up litter on the Plant) median dividing the main street. Anti-noise measures Employees patrolled the plant at night to ensure there was no disturbing noise or vibration that would disturb nearby residents. When the sound-proof wall was erected, to make the structure less imposing, a sound-proof glass wall was put up at strategic points, and trees were planted. Aesthetic measures To improve the view from the adjacent high-rise apartment building, the plant roof had its rust removed and was painted. Holds annual Bon dance festival. Cleanup Areas around the site cleaned up (once a month). Employees took part in cleanup of local waterways (twice a year). Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Yodogawa Area around main and west gates (near bus stops) Plant) was cleaned up (everyday). Aesthetic improvement of urban area Sponsored a 'tulip art' event in Settsu. Won award of excellence in corporate category of Settsu City environmental festival. Holds annual Bon dance festival Weeding and cleanup Employees removed weeds that had spread to adjoining public roads and picked up litter. Cleanup Litter was picked up around the plant (3 times a year). Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Shiga Plant) Greenery enhancement Weeding, ﬂower planting, and care for the cherry trees was carried out. To mark the Shiga Plant's 40th anniversary, in ﬁscal 2010, 40 cherry trees were planted on the premises and cherry trees were donated to Kusatsu City. 312 Base Recipient of support, details of support Holds a summer festival. Cleanup around the plant Cleanup staﬀ were sent out (twice a month), cleanup days of plant held (once a month). Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Kashima Plant) Took part in cleanup of industrial park along with other companies The association of 24 companies in the industrial park held a cleanup twice a year. Daikin Industries, Ltd. (Soka Holds annual Bon dance festival and cleanups of areas surrounding the site (twice a Station) year), takes part in regional joint disaster training, holds blood donation drive. Holds annual Bon dance festival. Held blood donation drive. Supported Shanti-Shanti, an organization which helps bring children of various Daikin Europe N.V. nationalities and backgrounds aged 6 to 13 years old through the power of music. Donates to local charities. Holds cleanup activities along nearby coastline. Daikin Industries Czech Republic Gathered plastic bottle caps to raise money to pay for medical care for young girl s.r.o. patients. Gathered donations from company and employees before Christmas and donated Daikin Device Czech Republic, money to local orphanage. s.r.o. Cleaned up area around the factory. Donated vitamins to local orphanages. Gathered plastic bottle caps to raise money to donate to service dog training center. Daikin Chemical Netherlands B.V. Gathered stamps and plastic bottle caps to raise money to purchase guide dogs for the blind and to support people with cystic ﬁbrosis, a type of genetic disorder. Made donation to the WWF to protect endangered species. Daikin Turkey A.S. Sponsored the Sakura Project, an eﬀort to help women ﬁnd rewarding work. Cleaned up mountain hiking trails. Holds annual Bon dance festival. Daikin Air-conditioning (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Held blood donation drive. Formed a volunteer brigade. Xi'an Daikin Qing'an Compressor Forty employees joined a local environmental campaign in picking up litter. Co., Ltd. Cleaned up along the Yangtze River. Daikin Fluorochemicals (China) Held blood donation drive. Co., Ltd. Visited a childrenʼs hospital and made donations. Daikin Fluoro Coatings (Shanghai) Cleaned up area around the factory. Co., Ltd. Gave to charity for needy families. Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Held a blood drive in which 192 employees took part. Donated air conditioners to the police department and hospitals. Joined blood donor clinics for the Thai Red Cross. Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Held events and gave presents on Childrenʼs Day. Cleanup up coastal areas. 313 Base Recipient of support, details of support Donated air conditioners to schools and other institutions. Donated water tanks and electric pumps to schools for use on playgrounds and school farm ﬁelds. Donated daily necessities to organization for intellectually disabled. Joined blood donor clinics sponsored by Thai Red Cross. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Held blood donation drive. Daikin Airconditioning India Pvt. Invited local elementary school students to watch games of the Asia Cup cricket Ltd. tournament. Supported Summer of Surf campaign in honor of life guards who play the vital role of protecting lives at the beach. Supported an organization called NSW Police Legacy by helping in the publishing of a childrenʼs safety handbook. Daikin Australia Pty. Ltd. Held a Christmas party, where donations gathered were donated to a childrenʼs hospital. Held a drive to collect toys to donate to a shelter for children taken from homes experiencing domestic violence. Held a food bank drive to collect food items to donate to a charity. Holds annual Bon dance festival. Since 1994, DAI has been supporting the community through donations to the NPO United Way. It also holds a charity golf tournament. Daikin America, Inc. Employees participated in Chemical Collection Day in Decatur, a day to safely dispose of old paint, insecticides, motor oil, ﬂuorescent lamps, and other items that will be recycled. Employees volunteered to help hospice patients do gardening work. Employees supported Girlfriend Gala, an event to promote womenʼs leadership. Supported Christmas and Easter parties for the disabled. Daikin Applied Americas Inc. Made donation to the local community through the United Way. List of Support for Disaster Victims Base Recipient of support, details of support Daikin Europe N.V. Made monetary donations to support victims of an earthquake in April 2015 in Nepal. Daikin Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Made monetary donations to support victims of an earthquake in April 2015 in Nepal. Daikin Compressor Industries Ltd. Made monetary donations to support victims of an earthquake in April 2015 in Nepal. 314 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Honors for Daikin 315 Sustainability Report Honors for Daikin Awards for 2016 For biodiversity protection activities in Indonesia, won the Aroma Environment Association of Japan Prize in the 5th Contest for Corporate Activities on Biodiversity. For the 2016 Sustainability Report, won the Another Voice Award (CSR report category) in the UCDA Award 2016, sponsored by the Universal Communication Design Association). Awards for 2015 Overall CSR (Including SRI) Daikin Group Chosen for inclusion in the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes THE INCLUSION OF DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LTD IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HERIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF DAIKIN INDUSTRIES, LTD BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Chosen for inclusion in the Morningstar Socially Awarded Bronze Class and recognized as an Responsible Investment Index Industry Mover in the RobecoSAM Sustainability Awards 2016 Chosen for Thomson Reuters Top 100 Global Innovators for 2015 316 Environmental Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Industries, Ltd., Goodman Global Group, Inc. Daikin Industries, Ltd. was awarded the Ministerʼs Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade Recognized by the White House for continuing and Industry for “promotion of energy commitment to reducing greenhouse gas conservation through worldwide expansion of emissions high eﬃciency HFC-32 air conditioners;” and the Chairman Prize of Energy Conservation Center, Japan (ECCJ) for its VRV Series of multi-split Daikin Refrigeration (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. type air conditioners for commercial buildings in Awarded Green Factory Award from Suzhou Japan in the Energy Conservation Grand Prize Industrial Park Economic and Trade Development for excellent energy conservation equipment Council, Suzhou Industrial Park Purchase and (Product and Business Model Category) for Trade Association, and the Suzhou Industrial Park ﬁscal 2015 by ECCJ Energy Conservation Center Received the 2015 Environment Ministerʼs Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity in recognition of reducing greenhouse gases through dissemination of HFC-32 air conditioners 317 Product Honors Daikin Group Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Good Design Award Named one of the top 10 new brands and one of Product Category the top 10 air conditioner brands for ﬁscal 2015 For following products: Urusara 7 series; by the Chinese Association of Refrigeration residential multi air conditioner indoor unit for Named a recommended air puriﬁer by the China bathroom and kitchen for China; residential air Household Electric Appliance Research Institute conditioner for Australia; BMS (base model (CHEARI) platform for residential air conditioners); residential air conditioner for Turkey Selected as an Excellent Business Partner in the Architecture and facility Category air conditioner category of the 2016 China Real Daikin Eau de Ciel Tateshina seminar house Estate Developers Top 500, as reported by the China Real Estate Research Association and China Real Estate Appraisal Daikin Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Received a Factory Management Award in the Good Factory Awards, sponsored by the Japan Management Association (JMA) 318 Human Resource Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Chosen for the New Diversity Management Selected for the list of Chinaʼs Top Selection 100, and granted the “Nadeshiko Organizationally Advanced Companies in strategy Brand” designation; by Japanʼs Ministry of for Human Resource 2015, and named to the list Economy, Trade and Industry of 100 Model Human Resources Companies; by 51job, Chinaʼs leading human resource solutions provider Social Contribution Honors Daikin Industries, Ltd. Daikin Industries, Ltd. Weather Calendar was awarded Ministerʼs Prize, the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the highest honor in the National Calendar Contest in Japan For the 2015 Corporate Social Responsibility Report, received an award of excellence in the Environmental Communication Awards, sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment and the Global Environmental Forum 319 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Data 320 Sustainability Report Data Pages focusing on environmental performance information and social performance indicators can be found here. Companies covered by data: D Daikin Industries, Ltd. JG Including group in Japan OG Overseas group companies only OJG Including group companies in Japan and overseas Quality and Customer Satisfaction Number of Inquiries to the Contact Center JG (thousands) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Repair inquiries 796 751 767 715 736 Technical advice 719 725 735 699 674 Parts inquiries 325 315 324 318 312 Others 40 38 42 44 48 Total 1,880 1,829 1,867 1,776 1,770 Customer Satisfaction with After-Sales Service* D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Overall 4.06 4.07 4.06 4.10 4.05 satisfaction * Results from surveys sent to a random sampling of customers within two weeks after a Daikin product is ﬁxed. A weighted average of a ﬁve-stage assessment. Low-Impact Products Materials Used D (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Iron 52,349 48,757 62,734 67,760 61,986 Copper 13,998 12,945 14,170 14,620 13,316 Aluminium 8,297 8,043 11,637 11,408 11,667 Plastics 11,319 11,348 19,130 18,499 18,369 Chemicals (PRTR107,165 98,187 126,346*1 122,426 122,795 designated) Packaging 10,990 13,515 10,253*2 8,079 10,371 Other metals 1,754 1,446 1,264 *1 From ﬁscal 2010 to 2012, calculation covered PRTR substances and refrigerants, but starting in ﬁscal 2013 other materials were included as well. *2 Classiﬁcation was changed in ﬁscal 2013, with packaging material other than wood and paper being included in each item. 321 Recycling of Residential Air Conditioners JG 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Residential air conditioners collected by major manufacturers 2.34 2.36 2.96 2.22 1.50 (including Daikin) (units: million) Residential air conditioners collected by Daikin only (units: 200 210 280 230 250 thousand) Weight of products recycled or reused (tons) 8,998 10,523 10,783 10,369 Amount recycled (tons) 7,776 7,947 9,313 9,661 9,419 Recycling ratio (%) 86 88 88 89 90 Iron (%) 40 39 38 36 36 Copper (%) 8 8 8 9 8 Aluminium (%) 7 7 7 6 5 (Breakdown) Mixture of non-ferrous and iron composite 35 33 34 34 35 materials (%) CFCs (%) 0.1 Other valuable materials (%) 10 13 13 15 16 Fluorocarbons recoverd (tons) 128 135 158 164 160 Low-Impact Production 1) Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Production) OJG (Thousand tons-CO2) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CO2 (Energy) 540 550 550 510 490 580 590 580 670 680 710 HFC 760 680 500 270 200 120 120 110 150 140 140 PFC 2,840 2,050 1,770 920 650 940 840 650 490 650 400 Total 4,140 3,280 2,820 1,700 1,340 1,650 1,560 1,340 1,300 1,460 1,260 CO2 Emissions per Production Output OJG (%) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CO2 emissions rate for entire Group with 100 86 80 80 86 83 75 74 81 85 85 FY2005 set as 100% CO2 Emissions per Sales from Transportation (Air-conditioning) D (%) 2001 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 CO2 emissions per sales with 100 80 72 74 72 71 69 68 67 65 63 FY2001 set as 100% 322 Amount Destroyed in Fluorocarbon Recovery and Destrution (At Time of Repair and at Time of Disposal) JG (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Recovered ﬂuorocarbons at 33 31 30 58 72 time of disposal Recovered ﬂuorocarbons at 320 345 303 317 329 time of repair Note: Amount destroyed at Yodogawa Plant, Kashima Plant, or one of the contracted destruction facilities around Japan. Note: Figures until ﬁscal 2013 are for Daikin Industries only, and ﬁgures from ﬁscal 2014 are for the Daikin Group in Japan. 2) Energy Consumption Energy Consumption OJG 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electricity (MWh) 586,423 568,186 633,454 662,269 725,625 City Gas (million 79.02 75.86 82.77 81.81 85.49 m3) LPG (tons) 2,606 2,946 2,726 2,630 2,770 Steam (GJ) 658,963 285,391 721,531 738,095 792,769 Petroleum (kl) 4,108 5,366 2,719 2,218 1,571 3) Green Procurement Green Procurement Rate by Region* OJG (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Japan 96 99 95 94 96 Thailand 98 98 98 98 95 China 91 92 96 97 95 Europe 81 83 86 91 93 Other countries in 87 90 84 76 65 Asia and Oceania North America 3 3 38 39 38 All regions 84 89 84 78 65 * Green procurement rate= Value of goods procured from suppliers who meet our assessment criteria / Value of all goods procured 4) Water Water Used OJG (Thousand m3) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water Used 6,680 6,710 7,310 7,070 7,010 Water Use per Unit of Production Output OJG (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Overall water used per unit with 88 89 93 91 87 FY2010 set as 100% 323 Waste Water OJG (Thousand m3) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Waste Water 4,940 4,820 5,040 4,690 5,230 5) Water Pollutant and Air Pollutant Emissions Air Pollutant Emissions D (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NOx 24 39 28 31 31 SOx 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 VOC 426 379 386 396 381 Air Pollutant Emissions JG (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NOx 27 39 28 31 31 SOx 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 VOC 427 380 387 397 382 Air Pollutant Emissions OG (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 NOx 75 94 77 62 64 SOx 30 20 5 4 6 VOC 1,139 1,152 973 926 1,006 6) Chemical Substance Emissions Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law D (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Release of substances 114 108 93 90 99 designated by PRTR Law Release of Substances Designated by the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law JG (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Release of substances 115 111 95 92 101 designated by PRTR Law 324 Compilation of PRTR Substances (PRTR substances of which at least 1 ton was handled) JG (tons) 2015 Amount emitted (tons) Amount transported (tons) Substance name Public Air Soil Waste Sewage waterways Chlorodiﬂuoromethane; HCFC-22 53.02 0.00 0.00 0.37 0.00 Dichloromethane; methylene dichloride 31.61 0.00 0.00 3.10 0.00 1-chloro-1,1-diﬂuoroethane; HCFC-142b 9.90 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Toluene 3.35 0.00 0.00 0.59 0.00 2-chloro-1,1,1,2-tetraﬂuoroethane; HCFC-124 1.40 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N-hexane 1.15 0.00 0.00 1.00 0.00 Chloroform 0.84 0.00 0.00 4.10 0.00 Phenol 0.76 0.00 0.00 0.77 0.00 Xylene 0.71 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Formaldehyde 0.42 0.68 0.00 0.30 0.00 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 0.30 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Hydrogen ﬂuoride and its water-soluble salts 0.24 0.00 0.00 75.00 0.00 Ethylbenzene 0.20 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Poly(oxyethylene)alkyl ether(alkyl C=12-15) 0.02 0.00 0.00 44.00 0.25 N,N-dimethylacetamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Methylnaphthalene 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 N,N-dimethylformamide 0.01 0.00 0.00 5.10 0.00 Acetonitrile 0.00 0.00 0.00 3.10 0.04 Boron compounds 0.00 0.43 0.00 0.58 0.01 Ferric chloride 0.00 0.00 0.00 8.74 0.00 Antimony and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.20 0.00 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene)diisocyanate 0.00 0.00 0.00 1.03 0.00 Zinc compounds(water-soluble) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.55 0.14 Tritolyl phosphate 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.05 0.00 Molybdenum and its compounds 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.03 0.00 Copper salts (water-soluble, except complex 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 salts) Allyl alcohol 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Tetrachloromethane 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Water-soluble salts of peroxodisulfuric acid 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 VOC Emissions OJG (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Japan 427 380 387 397 382 Overseas 1,150 1,164 981 931 1,006 Entire Group 1,577 1,544 1,368 1,328 1,388 325 7) Waste Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials OJG (tons) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Amount of Waste and Recycled 92,639 89,690 94,865 99,890 102,653 Materials Amount of Waste and Recycled Materials per Unit of Production Output OJG (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Overall waste generated per 96 93 93 99.8 98 unit with FY2010 set as 100% Recycling Ratio OJG (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Japan 99.8 99.8 99.7 99.7 99.9 Overseas 72.3 72.6 76.6 81.5 77.8 Entire Group 82.0 81.8 83.4 86.9 83.8 Environmental Management Report from Audits JG (cases) 2011 2012 2013 Problems found Problems found Problems found Problems found Problems found Problems found from internal by third-party from internal by third-party from internal by third-party environmental certiﬁcation environmental certiﬁcation environmental certiﬁcation audits institutes audits institutes audits institutes Major 2 0 5 0 3 0 non-conformance Minor 38 0 43 0 37 0 non-conformance Items improved 219 5 229 6 194 9 2014 2015 Problems found from Problems found by Problems found from Problems found by internal environmental third-party certiﬁcation internal environmental third-party certiﬁcation audits institutes audits institutes Major 0 0 0 0 non-conformance Minor 24 0 17 0 non-conformance Items improved 157 7 136 6 Ratio of Employees Belonging to Facilities That Obtained ISO 14001 Certiﬁcation OJG (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Japan 100 100 100 100 100 Overseas 83 83 84 91 93 326 Employees 1) Number of Employees, Hiring, etc. Employee Composition (Data for Daikin Industries, Ltd.) (Note: Number currently employed) D As of end of As of end of As of end of As of end of As of end of As of end of March 2010 March 2011 March 2012 March 2013 March 2014 March 2015 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of 6,717 961 6,705 974 6,774 1,025 6,810 1,084 6,839 1,151 6,844 1,189 employees Average range of services 17.1 10.0 16.8 10.5 16.5 10.4 16.4 10.3 16.6 10.3 16.7 10.5 (years) Average age 41.8 34.2 41.2 34.3 41.7 35.1 41.6 34.6 41.5 34.5 41.3 33.8 Number of 936 16 933 21 939 21 951 22 957 29 984 36 managers Number of board 44 1 45 1 47 1 47 1 46 1 48 1 members Number of foreign 30 21 34 21 38 20 38 20 47 29 52 21 nationals Note: Includes employees on loan Note: Figures as of ﬁscal year-end Employee Make-up by Region OJG 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of companies employees companies employees companies employees companies employees companies employees Daikin Industries, 1 6,550 1 6,668 1 6,733 1 6,845 1 6,870 Ltd. (Only) Domestic Group (Excluding 29 4,594 28 4,673 28 4,707 28 4,729 28 4,848 Daikin Industries, Ltd.) China 32 12,471 34 13,824 33 16,857 32 19,044 33 18,791 Southeast Asia, 37 9,377 39 10,149 40 10,739 38 10,593 38 11,237 Oceania Europe, Middle 59 6,466 58 6,476 57 6,605 58 6,774 59 7,175 East, Africa North America, 25 4,652 48 9,608 51 10,599 54 11,194 55 11,884 Latin America Total 183 44,110 208 51,398 210 56,240 211 59,179 214 60,805 Note: Figures as of ﬁscal year-end 327 Number of Employees Leaving, Employee Turnover D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Men 204 266 236 247 254 Women 42 49 56 48 59 Total 246 315 292 295 313 Employee 3.9% 4.0% 3.7% 3.7% 3.9% turnover Number of Women Periodically Hired; Percentage of All Employees D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Men 172 215 170 179 174 Women 42 60 92 80 83 Total 214 275 262 259 257 Women as % of all 19.6% 21.8% 35.1% 30.9% 32.3% employees Note: Number of people joining the company on April 1 2) Occupational Safety and Health Number of Accidents Resulting in Time Oﬀ Work D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Accidents resulting in time 15 5 1 4 3 Number of oﬀ work accidents resulting in time Commuting oﬀ work accidents 6 3 2 1 1 resulting in time oﬀ work Frequency Rate* D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Daikin Industries, 0.20 0.32 0.06 0.25 0.19 Ltd. National average 1.62 1.59 1.58 1.66 1.61 for all industries National average for manufacturing 1.05 1.00 0.94 1.06 1.06 industry * This shows the frequency of work-related calamities, expressed in number of calamities for every 1,000,000 working hours. Frequency rate = Number of calamities by industrial injuries / Total actual working hours 1,000,000 Severity Rate* D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Daikin Industries, 0.00 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 Ltd. National average 0.11 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.07 for all industries National average for manufacturing 0.08 0.10 0.10 0.09 0.06 industry * This shows the severity of the calamity, expressed in man-days lost per 1,000 hours worked. Severity rate = Total number of working days lost / Total actual working hours 1,000 328 3) Re-employed Workers Number of Re-employed Workers D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Number of 185 2 170 7 136 4 105 6 123 7 retirees Number of re-employed 171 1 150 6 120 4 96 6 103 5 workers Percentage re-employed after 92.0% 88.1% 88.6% 91.9% 83.1% retiring 4) Disabled People Employed Number of People with Disabilities Employed JG 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of people with disabilities 301 287 294 297 303 employed*1 Employment 2.49 2.34 2.07 2.19 2.15 rate*2 *1 Legally, one severely disabled person employed is counted as two people with disabilities. *2 Employment rate = number of people with disabilities employed / number of people employed Note: Figures as of ﬁscal year-end 5) Work-Life Balance Number Taking Leave Before and After Child Birth and Employees Taking Childcare Leave D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number taking leave before and Women 33 48 69 71 85 after child birth Men 93 93 120 130 128 Number taking Women 58 68 88 101 112 childcare leave Total 151 161 208 231 240 Total 184 209 277 302 325 Number Taking Family Care Leave D 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number taking Men 1 2 2 2 0 family care leave Women 0 1 1 1 0 Total 1 3 3 3 0 329 Percentage of Employees Taking All Paid Leave D (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of Daikin Industries, 93.4 92.9 94.4 94.8 94.8 Ltd. employees Percentage of Japanese workers in the manufacturing industry 55.3 56.5 57.6 58.7 54.7 (according to Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare) Average Hours of Overtime per Employee D (hours) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Hours 222.30 225.60 227.50 205.60 201.70 Periodic Health Checkup Results D (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 % of employees 97 97 97 98 99 taking checkup % of employees requiring 47 50 61 53 72 treatment 6) Patent Applications Number of Patent Applications 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Japanese 1,141 686 898 1,136 948 applications Overaseas 242 202 378 344 344 applications 330 Shareholders and Investors Consolidated Sales by Business Segments (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Air Conditioning/Refrigeration 85.5 86.8 89.3 89.3 89.5 Equipment Chemicals 10.9 9.6 7.9 7.8 7.9 Oil Hydraulics, Defense 3.6 3.6 2.8 2.9 2.6 Systems, and Electronics Consolidated Sales by Region (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Japan 38.9 38.3 28.9 26.0 24.6 China 17.7 18.2 18.1 18.5 17.1 Asia and Oceania 13.4 14.4 13.4 14.2 14.9 Europe, Middle 19.5 18.4 16.9 15.8 16.7 East, and Africa North America, 10.5 10.7 22.7 25.5 26.7 Latin America Net Sales (¥ billion) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Consolidated 1,218.7 1,290.9 1,877.7 1,915.0 2,043.7 Non-consolidated 446.6 462.7 503.7 477.6 500.4 Total Assets (¥ billion) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Consolidated 1,160.6 1,735.8 2,011.9 2,264.0 2,191.1 Non-consolidated 797.7 1,140.1 1,264.8 1,346.7 1,308.3 Ordinary Proﬁt (¥ billion) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Consolidated 81.8 94.1 155.6 194.2 209.5 Non-consolidated 35.4 35.7 44.6 75.7 86.5 Fiscal Year End Stock Prices (yen) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fiscal year end 2,253 3,690 5,782 8,046 8,412 stock prices Dividends (yen) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dividends 36 36 50 100 120 331 Breakdown of Shareholders 2011 2012 2013 Number Number Number As % of all As % of all As % of all of Shares held of Shares held of Shares held shareholders shareholders shareholders voters voters voters Financial 160 135,128,030 46.1% 137 133,897,630 45.7% 139 124,217,630 42.4% institutions Securities 96 11,044,961 3.8% 69 6,489,682 2.2% 84 10,276,183 3.5% companies Other 653 34,995,334 11.9% 580 29,567,732 10.1% 558 33,388,138 11.4% corporations Foreign 476 77,871,495 26.6% 478 94,612,756 32.3% 586 104,370,042 35.6% corporation Individuals, 48,782 34,074,153 11.6% 40,398 28,546,173 9.7% 33,431 20,861,980 7.1% other Total 50,167 293,113,973 100.0% 41,662 293,113,973 100.0% 34,798 293,113,973 100.0% 2014 2015 Number of As % of all Number of As % of all Shares held Shares held voters shareholders voters shareholders Financial 146 128,490,830 43.8% 152 140,252,048 47.9% institutions Securities 79 7,541,543 2.6% 73 8,047,833 2.7% companies Other 516 33,322,051 11.4% 513 30,800,241 10.5% corporations Foreign 672 105,460,144 36.0% 689 97,020,517 33.1% corporation Individuals, other 28,443 18,299,405 6.2% 27,500 16,993,334 5.8% Total 29,856 293,113,973 100.0% 28,927 293,113,973 100.0% Dividends to Shareholders Equity (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dividends to shareholders 43.3 35.6 39.9 45.3 46.3 equity Voting Rights Exercised 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Voting rights 78.18 81.55 82.07 83.24 85,68 exercised (%) Votes cast over 1,056,103 1,244,629 1,337,000 1,443,620 1,495,992 the Internet Shereholderes 1,115 900 868 923 902 voting online 332 Business / Financial Data (Consolidated) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Years ended Years ended Years ended Years ended Years ended (Forecast) March 31, 2012 March 31, 2013 March 31, 2014 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 Net Sales 1,218.7 1,290.9 1,787.7 1,915.0 2,043.7 2,080.0 (¥ billion) Operating Income 81.2 88.6 156.5 190.6 217.9 220.0 (¥ billion) Ordinary Income 81.8 94.1 155.6 194.2 209.5 217.0 (¥ billion) Net Income 41.2 43.6 92.8 119.7 137.0 140.0 (¥ billion) Earnings Per 141.37 149.73 318.33 410.19 469.23 479.39 Share (yen) Overseas 61 62 71 74 75 Business Ratio (%) Free Cash Flow -35.0 35.7 86.9 60.2 78.3 (¥ billion) Return on Assets 3.6 3.5 4.9 5.6 6.3 (%) Return on Equity 8.3 7.8 13.1 13.1 13.4 (%) Shareholders' 43.3 35.6 39.9 45.3 46.3 Equity Ratio (%) Plantand-Equipment 48.3 54.3 59.4 784 112.7 Investment (¥ billion) Reseach & Development 33.0 33.6 40.2 52.8 46.1 Costs (¥ billion) Liability with 33.6 40.7 34.5 29.3 27.8 Interest Ratio (%) Donations D (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Environmental protection 26 22 25 45 64 Educational support 19 40 14 7 7 Sports, art, 12 12 26 4 11 culture Local Living in harmony communities, 9 14 11 6 6 with communities welfare, others International 10 13 17 39 11 exchange Disaster relierf 24 0 7 0 0 333 Governance Executive Compensation 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number 13 13 12 13 12 Directors Amount of compensation 801 823 979 1,185 1,284 (¥ million) Number 5 4 6 4 5 Audit & Supervisory Board Amount of Member compensation 89 89 89 90 94 (¥ million) Number 18 17 18 17 17 Total Amount of compensation 891 913 1,069 1,275 1,378 (¥ million) Note: About compensation amounts For ﬁscal 2011, the compensation amount for the term of oﬃce of one auditor and one director who retired is included. For ﬁscal 2012, the compensation amount for the term of oﬃce of one director who retired is included. For ﬁscal 2013, the compensation amount for the term of oﬃce of two auditors who retired is included. For ﬁscal 2014, the compensation amount for the term of oﬃce of one director who retired is included. For ﬁscal 2015, the compensation amount for the term of oﬃce of one auditor who retired is included. Starting Salary (yen) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 University grad 215,000 215,000 220,000 225,000 225,000 Masters 234,800 234,800 239,800 244,800 244,800 PhD 258,800 258,800 263,800 268,800 268,800 Note: Figures are those during April of each year. 334 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Third-Party Verification Third-Party Veriﬁcation ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………… 336 Method of Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data ……………………………………………………………………… 339 335 Sustainability Report Third-Party Veriﬁcation To ensure reliability of the content of this report, the Daikin Group had a third-party veriﬁcation conducted for data on greenhouse gas emissions, water use, and wastewater. Data Covered by Veriﬁcation Environmental Impact Data on Business Operations in FY2015 Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from business operations of four production bases in Japan of Daikin Industries, Ltd., eight production subsidiaries in Japan, and 42 production subsidiaries overseas. Category 1 (purchased goods and services), 4 (upstream transportation and distribution), 6 (business travel), and 11 (use of sold products) emissions of Scope 3 GHG emissions calculated in line with the GHG Protocolʼs ʻCorporate Value Chain (Scope3) Accounting and Reporting Standard.ʼ Scope of Review Contribution to CO2 Emission Reduction through the Use of Products Contribution to CO2 emission reduction through the use of inverter air conditioners sold in emerging countries in FY2015. Contribution to CO2 emission reductions through the use of air conditioners sold in Japan in ﬁscal 2015. Contribution to greenhouse gas emission reductions through ﬁscal 2015 worldwide sales of air conditioners that use HFC-32 low-global-warming potential refrigerant. 336 337 338 Third-Party Veriﬁcation Method of Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions Data Greenhouse gas emissions data are calculated as follows. (1) Use of fuel at sites (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 1 The scope of calculation covers four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries, eight manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, and 43 manufacturing subsidiaries overseas. However, the following may not be included in calculation: newly consolidated bases, sites that are newly established and that donʼt yet have a data collection system in place, and sites whose emissions are negligible. As well, for sites where data procurement is diﬃcult, calculation is based on estimates of past data, for example. Heat generation per unit, CO2 emissions coeﬃcient: Based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment); for natural gas in Japan, the coeﬃcient used is based on the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. (2) Emissions of HFC and PFC in production processes at sites Scope 1 The scope of calculation covers four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries, eight manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, and 43 manufacturing subsidiaries overseas. For estimates of HFC and PFC emissions, material balances and emissions coeﬃcients are set and calculated based on methods stipulated in the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Global warming coeﬃcients of HFC and PFC: Coeﬃcients provided in the IPCC Second Assessment Report. (3) Non-energy-induced CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6 emissions in production processes at sites Scope 1 The scope of calculation is as follows. Four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries (Non-energy-induced CO2, CH4, N2O, SF6). Calculations are based on emissions coeﬃcients stipulated in the Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. Global warming coeﬃcients: Coeﬃcients provided in the IPCC Second Assessment Report. 339 (4) Use of electricity and heat at sites (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 2 The scope of calculation covers four manufacturing bases of Daikin Industries, eight manufacturing subsidiaries in Japan, and 43 manufacturing subsidiaries overseas. CO2 emissions coeﬃcients are as follows. Purchased electricity: In Japan: 0.384 kg-CO2/kWh Based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment) Overseas: Based on Report on Survey of Estimates of CO2 Unit Emissions in Power Generation Fields in Countries of the World (Japan Electrical Manufacturersʼ Association), or on coeﬃcients conﬁrmed by power companies servicing each site. Purchased heat: 0.068kg-CO2/MJ Based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, Ministry of the Environment) For Kashima Plant, 0.05 kg-CO2/MJ (surveyed value by site) (5) Purchased products and services (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Period: April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Scope of calculation covers components and materials purchased for air conditioners, water heaters, oil hydraulic products, and ﬂuorochemical products produced in Japan, China, Thailand, Malaysia, Belgium, and the Czech Republic. For each, purchased amount is multiplied by CO2 emission coeﬃcient. CO2 emission coeﬃcient is based on CFP Program Basic Database Ver. 1.01 (data in Japan), by the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry, and the Inventory Database for Environment Analysis, by the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, and the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry For chemicals, approximately 80% of the highest volume ones were selected, and a 100% value estimate calculation was done. (6) Transport and transmission (Upstream) (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Period: April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Scope of calculation covers transport, including imports, of products and parts (compressors) sold in Japan by Daikin Industries. For calculation method, transport in ton-kilometers (transport amount X transport distance) is multiplied by CO2 conversion coeﬃcient. CO2 conversion coeﬃcient: Within Japan: Based on Act on the Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. From overseas to Japan: Based on simple calculation tool for logistics CO2 emissions, by Policy Research Institute for Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. (7) Business trips (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Period: April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 Scope of calculation covers business trips in Japan and overseas by employees of Daikin Industries and its consolidated subsidiaries in Japan. 340 Transportation cost is multiplied by CO2 emission coeﬃcient. Transportation cost is cost of travel minus lodging, daily allowance, and other expenses that can be excluded. In Japan: Transportation cost X emission coeﬃcient per amount paid (Air ﬂight: Domestic). Overseas: Transportation cost X emission coeﬃcient per amount paid (Air ﬂight: International). CO2 emission coeﬃcient is based on the database of emission unit values (Ver. 2.0) of the Report on Emissions Unit Values for Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, etc., by Organizations Throughout the Supply Chain, by the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Emission coeﬃcient uses the most expensive air ﬂights. (8) CO2 emissions in use of products sold in Japan (Energy-induced CO2) Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers CO2 emissions from the use of residential air puriﬁers, central air conditioners, residential water heaters, residential air conditioners, factory air conditioners, and air conditioners for buildings, stores, and oﬃces sold in Japan, ASEAN, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, and the EU in ﬁscal 2014. Calculation method: Annual electricity consumption X product lifecycle X electricity CO2 emission coeﬃcient X products sold in ﬁscal 2014. Annual electricity consumption and others are as follows. Annual electricity Catalog values for room air conditioners, assumed conditions of actual use for other consumption: products. Product lifecycle: 10 years for room air conditioners, water heaters, and air puriﬁers, 13 years for other products. Electricity CO2 In Japan: 0.348 kg-CO2/kWh; emission based on Environmental Activity Evaluation Program (Eco-Action 21) (1998, coeﬃcient: Ministry of the Environment). Overseas: Based on Report on Survey of Estimates of CO2 Unit Emissions in Power Generation Fields in Countries of the World (The Japan Electrical Manufacturersʼ Association), or on “Methodology for Ecodesign of Energyrelated Products (COWI, VHK).” Up to 80% of the total sales volume, in order of highest selling products, was calculated, and a 100% value estimate calculation was done. (9) Refrigerant leakage in use of products sold in Japan Scope 3 Scope of calculation covers refrigerant leakage during use of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment sold in Japan, ASEAN, China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Australia, and the EU in ﬁscal 2014. Calculation method: Annual leakage rate X product lifecycle X global warming coeﬃcient of refrigerant X products sold in ﬁscal 2014. Annual leakage rate and others are as follows. Annual leakage rate: Revisions of Emission Coeﬃcient, Etc. During Use of Refrigeration and Air Conditioning Equipment, by Manufacturing Industries Bureau, Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, March 17, 2009. Product lifecycle: 10 years for residential products, 13 years for commercial refrigeration and air conditioning equipment. Global warming coeﬃcient of refrigerant: Coeﬃcients provided in the IPCC Second Assessment Report. Up to 80% of the total sales volume, in order of highest selling products, was calculated, and a 100% value estimate calculation was done. 341 Sustainability Report 2 016 －Web version－ Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 (G4) …………………………………………………………………… 343 342 Sustainability Report Guidelines GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 (G4) This page contains information on the standard disclosure items of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Until ﬁscal 2015, the Daikin Group stipulated and took action on four key CSR themes ̶the environment, quality and customer satisfaction, human resources, and social contribution̶on which it based its mediumand long-term CSR targets and plans. The table below shows the relationship between these CSR targets and plans and aspects of the standard disclosure items designated in the G4 guidelines. CSR targets and plans for ﬁscal 2016 onwards are currently being formulated. For details on materiality identiﬁcation in the Daikin Group, see CSR Management. (Page 32) Relationship Between Key Daikin Group CSR Themes and Aspects of Standard Disclosure Items of Version 4.0 of GRI Guidelines Key CSR Medium-term CSR Goals Boundaries G4 Why the Aspect Themes and Plans (by Fiscal 2015) (of impact) Aspects is Material Environment Providing the World with Products That Help Customers Reduce CO2 Emissions Focusing on air • Through expansion in the conditioners, which have an • Disseminating inverter widespread use of energyenvironmental impact products saving products such as through the large amounts • Disseminating those using inverters, aim to of electricity they heat-pump type help curtail CO2 emissions by Emissions • Daikin Group consume, and ﬂuorocarbon heating systems 30 million* tons for emerging Products and • Consumers refrigerants, which have an • Oﬀering energy-saving countries. Services impact on climate change, solutions • Disseminate of air Daikin is developing and • Developing future conditioners using the low releasing products and refrigerants global warming potential services that reduce these refrigerant HFC-32. impacts. 343 Key CSR Medium-term CSR Goals Boundaries G4 Why the Aspect Themes and Plans (by Fiscal 2015) (of impact) Aspects is Material Minimize environmental impact from production and other activities Reduce ﬁscal 2015 levels to 1/3 • Greenhouse gases (67%) of the level compared Emissions with ﬁscal 2005. Reduce overall amount of Eﬄuents and • Waste waste. Waste • Water Reduce amount of water used. Water As a manufacturer, we are obligated to reduce the Emissions • Reduce PRTR substances environmental impact of • Chemicals • Daikin Group Eﬄuents and our production activities. • Reduce VOCs • Suppliers Waste We therefore strive to reduce greenhouse gas • Have major production sites emissions throughout the certiﬁed as Super Green supply chain. Heart Factories. • Green Heart Factories • Have all production sites certiﬁed as Green Heart Factories. Have major bases in Japan • Green Heart Oﬃces certiﬁed as Green Heart Oﬃces. Expand the Green Heart circle to Daikin worldwide Join local governments, citizens, To prevent forest and NPOs to make • Daikin Group Biodiversity depletion, a cause of Environmental and social environmental and social • Local Local climate change, we focus contribution activities contributions at each global communities Communities on working closely with base according to regional and society Emissions communities to protect characteristics. forests. Quality and Customer Satisfaction Giving Customers the Ultimate Satisfaction • Daikinʼs quality standard gives superior, optimal products Customer As we accelerate that earn customer trust. Health and expansion of overseas • Daikin Group • Safety & Quality • We have a system for Safety business, we prioritize • Customers • Customer Satisfaction developing products that Product and products and customer • Suppliers meet the needs of Service satisfaction that match customers, wherever they Labeling local needs. live. Human Resources Through People-Centered Management, Creating a Workplace Where Employees Can Demonstrate Their Abilities As overseas employees • Become a corporate group make up an increasing with global values by working Training and portion of the Daikin • Human Resource autonomously and freely in Education Groupʼs human resources, Development line with Our Group Diversity and we focus on creating a • Diversity of Employees Philosophy and shared Equal work environment • Balancing the policies and strategies. • Daikin Group Opportunity conducive to employeesʼ Responsibilities of • Communicate between head Employment personal growth, based on Work and Family oﬃce and local bases. Occupational the belief that “the • Occupational Safety & • Maximizing the talents of Health and cumulative growth of all Health women and experienced Safety group members serves the employees. foundation for the group's development.” 344 Key CSR Medium-term CSR Goals Boundaries G4 Why the Aspect Themes and Plans (by Fiscal 2015) (of impact) Aspects is Material Social Contribution Employees Taking the Initiative In Local Grassroots Action • By working to protect the environment, support education, We believe that and live in harmony • Contribute to society as a collaborating with residents • Daikin Group with communities, respected and trusted Local of the regions where we do • Local Daikin employees take company with roots in Communities business to make their communities the lead in community communities around the Biodiversity communities better will in and society service aimed at world. turn contribute to the providing each region growth of Daikin. with the support it needs. 345 G4 Content Index General Standard Disclosures ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Strategy and Analysis a. Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or ◎ G4-1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the 6.2 Top Message organization and the organizationʼs strategy for addressing sustainability. a. Provide a description of key impacts, G4-2 risks, and opportunities. Organizational Proﬁle ◎ G4-3 a. Report the name of the organization. a. Report the primary brands, products, ◎ G4-4 and services. a. Report the location of the organizationʼs ◎ G4-5 headquarters. a. Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the ◎ G4-6 organization has signiﬁcant operations or that are speciﬁcally relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. a. Report the nature of ownership and 6.3.10 ◎ G4-7 6.4.3 legal form. Daikin Group 6.4.4 a. Report the markets served (including Business Overview 6.4.5 geographic breakdown, sectors served, 6.8.5 ◎ G4-8 and types of customers and beneﬁciaries). a. Report the scale of the organization, including: ⋅ Total number of employees ⋅ Total number of operations ⋅ Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for ◎ G4-9 public sector organizations) ⋅ Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) ⋅ Quantity of products or services provided 346 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. GC Workplace ◎ G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of principle Diversity, Equal the organizationʼs work is performed by 6 Opportunity workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any signiﬁcant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in 6.3.10 the tourism or agricultural industries). 6.4.3 a. Report the percentage of total GC 6.4.4 Labor ◎ G4-11 employees covered by collective principle 6.4.5 Management bargaining agreements. 3 6.8.5 Relations a. Describe the organizationʼs supply ◎ G4-12 Value Chain chain. a. Report any signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding the organizationʼs size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: ⋅ Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions ◎ G4-13 ⋅ Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) ⋅ Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES a. Report whether and how the ◎ G4-14 precautionary approach or principle is Risk Management addressed by the organization. a. List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, Participation in the ◎ G4-15 principles, or other initiatives to which Global Compact the organization subscribes or which it endorses. 347 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue a. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: ◎ G4-16 ⋅ Holds a position on the governance body ⋅ Participates in projects or committees ⋅ Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues ⋅ Views membership as strategic Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organizationʼs consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents. ◎ G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in Editorial Policy the organizationʼs consolidated ﬁnancial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. a. Explain the process for deﬁning the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. ◎ G4-18 Editorial Policy b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Deﬁning Report Content. a. List all the material Aspects identiﬁed in ◎ G4-19 CSR Management the process for deﬁning report content. a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: ⋅ Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization ⋅ If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report CSR Targets and ◎ G4-20 either: Achievements ‒‒The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or ‒‒The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material ⋅ Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization 348 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue a. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: ⋅ Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization ⋅ If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, CSR Targets and ◎ G4-21 groups of entities or elements for Achievements which the Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identiﬁed ⋅ Report any speciﬁc limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization a. Report the eﬀect of any restatements of information provided in previous ◎ G4-22 reports, and the reasons for such restatements. a. Report signiﬁcant changes from ◎ G4-23 previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. Stakeholder Engagement a. Provide a list of stakeholder groups Stakeholder ◎ G4-24 engaged by the organization. Engagement a. Report the basis for identiﬁcation and Stakeholder ◎ G4-25 selection of stakeholders with whom to Engagement engage. a. Report the organizationʼs approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and Stakeholder ◎ G4-26 by stakeholder group, and an indication Engagement of whether any of the engagement was undertaken speciﬁcally as part of the report preparation process. a. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and Stakeholder ◎ G4-27 concerns, including through its Engagement reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. Report Proﬁle a. Reporting period (such as ﬁscal or ◎ G4-28 Editorial Policy calendar year) for information provided. a. Date of most recent previous report (if ◎ G4-29 Editorial Policy any). a. Reporting cycle (such as annual, ◎ G4-30 Editorial Policy biennial). a. Provide the contact point for questions Inquiries (on CSR ◎ G4-31 regarding the report or its contents. and Environment) 349 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue GRI CONTENT INDEX a. Report the ʻin accordanceʼ option the organization has chosen. b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. c. Report the reference to the External ◎ G4-32 Guidelines Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ʻin accordanceʼ with the Guidelines. ASSURANCE a. Report the organizationʼs policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Third-Party ◎ G4-33 c. Report the relationship between the Veriﬁcation organization and the assurance providers. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organizationʼs sustainability report. Governance GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE AND COMPOSITION a. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify Corporate ◎ G4-34 any committees responsible for Governance decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. a. Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental G4-35 and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. a. Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or 6.2 positions with responsibility for G4-36 economic, environmental and social CSR Management topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. a. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, G4-37 environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. 350 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue a. Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: ⋅ Executive or non-executive ⋅ Independence ⋅ Tenure on the governance body ⋅ Number of each individualʼs other Board of Directors G4-38 signiﬁcant positions and commitments, Biographies and the nature of the commitments ⋅ Gender ⋅ Membership of under-represented social groups ⋅ Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts ⋅ Stakeholder representation a. Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Corporate G4-39 oﬃcer (and, if so, his or her function Governance within the organizationʼs management and the reasons for this arrangement). a. Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the 6.2 criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: ⋅ Whether and how diversity is considered Corporate G4-40 ⋅ Whether and how independence is Governance considered ⋅ Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered ⋅ Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved a. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report whether conﬂicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as G4-41 a minimum: ⋅ Cross-board membership ⋅ Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders ⋅ Existence of controlling shareholder ⋅ Related party disclosures HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODYʼS ROLE IN SETTING PURPOSE, VALUES, AND STRATEGY a. Report the highest governance bodyʼs and senior executivesʼ roles in the development, approval, and updating of G4-42 the organizationʼs purpose, value or 6.2 CSR Philosophy mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. 351 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODYʼS COMPETENCIES AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION a. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance G4-43 bodyʼs collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance bodyʼs performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such 6.2 evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such G4-44 evaluation is a self-assessment. b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance bodyʼs performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODYʼS ROLE IN RISK MANAGEMENT a. Report the highest governance bodyʼs role in the identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance bodyʼs role in the implementation of due diligence G4-45 Risk Management processes. b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance bodyʼs identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social 6.2 impacts, risks, and opportunities. a. Report the highest governance bodyʼs role in reviewing the eﬀectiveness of G4-46 the organizationʼs risk management Risk Management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. a. Report the frequency of the highest governance bodyʼs review of economic, G4-47 Risk Management environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODYʼS ROLE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING a. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and G4-48 approves the organizationʼs 6.2 sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. 352 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue HIGHEST GOVERNANCE BODYʼS ROLE IN EVALUATING ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE a. Report the process for communicating G4-49 critical concerns to the highest governance body. a. Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were 6.2 communicated to the highest G4-50 governance body and the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. REMUNERATION AND INCENTIVES a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: ⋅ Fixed pay and variable pay: ‒‒Performance-based pay ‒‒Equity-based pay ‒‒Bonuses ‒‒Deferred or vested shares ⋅ Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments Corporate G4-51 ⋅ Termination payments Governance ⋅ Clawbacks ⋅ Retirement beneﬁts, including the diﬀerence between beneﬁt schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance body, senior executives, and all other employees b. Report how performance criteria in the 6.2 remuneration policy relate to the highest governance bodyʼs and senior executivesʼ economic, environmental and social objectives. a. Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and Corporate G4-52 whether they are independent of Governance management. Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organization. a. Report how stakeholdersʼ views are sought and taken into account G4-53 regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 353 ISO 26000 GC Core External Core Inditcator WEB Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue a. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organizationʼs highest-paid individual in each country Corporate G4-54 of signiﬁcant operations to the median Governance annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. a. Report the ratio of percentage increase 6.2 in annual total compensation for the organizationʼs highest-paid individual in each country of signiﬁcant operations G4-55 to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and Integrity a. Describe the organizationʼs values, GC principles, standards and norms of ◎ G4-56 principle CSR Philosophy behavior such as codes of conduct and 10 codes of ethics. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on GC G4-57 ethical and lawful behavior, and matters principle Compliance related to organizational integrity, such 10 6.6.3 as helplines or advice lines. a. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, GC G4-58 and matters related to organizational principle Compliance integrity, such as escalation through 10 line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. 354 Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Economic Disclosures on management approach CSR and Strategy Economic Performance 6.8 Direct economic value generated and 6.8.3 Charitable G4-EC1 distributed. 6.8.7 Activities 6.8.9 Financial implications and other risks and GC Environmental G4-EC2 opportunities for the organization's principle 6.5.5 Accounting activities due to climate change. 7 Coverage of the organization's deﬁned G4-EC3 6.8.7 beneﬁt plan obligations. Financial assistance received from G4-EC4 government. Market Presence 6.3.7 Ratios of standard entry level wage by GC 6.3.10 G4-EC5 gender compared to local minimum wage principle 6.4.3 at signiﬁcant locations of operation. 6 6.4.4 6.8 6.4.3 Proportion of senior management hired GC 6.8 CSR Targets and G4-EC6 from the local community at signiﬁcant principle 6.8.5 Achievements locations of operation. 6 6.8.7 Indirect Economic Impacts 6.3.9 Development and impact of infrastructure 6.8 Key Activities: G4-EC7 investments and services supported. 6.8.7 Environment 6.8.9 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, 6.7.8 G4-EC8 including the extent of impacts. 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.8.9 Procurement Practices 6.4.3 Propotion of spending on local suppliers at 6.6.6 G4-EC9 signiﬁcant locations of operation. 6.8 6.8.7 355 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue ENVIRONMENTAL Disclosures on management approach Environment Materials GC Overview of G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. principle 6.5.4 Environmental 7, 8 Impact GC Percentage of materials used that are G4-EN2 principle 6.5.4 recycled input materials. 8 Energy GC Overview of Energy consumption within the G4-EN3 principle 6.5.4 Environmental organization. 7, 8 Impact GC Overview of Energy consumption outside of the G4-EN4 principle 6.5.4 Environmental organization. 8 Impact GC G4-EN5 Energy intensity. principle 6.5.4 8 Reducing GC 6.5.4 Greenhouse Gases G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. principle 6.5.5 during Production 8, 9 and Transportation GC Overview of Reductions in energy requirements of 6.5.4 G4-EN7 principle Environmental products and services. 6.5.5 8, 9 Impact Water GC G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. principle 6.5.4 7, 8 GC Water sources signiﬁcantly aﬀected by Water Resource ○ G4-EN9 principle 6.5.4 withdrawal of water. Reduction 8 GC Percentage and total volume of water G4-EN10 principle 6.5.4 recycled and reused. 8 Biodiversity Operational sites owned, leased, managed GC in, or adjacent to, protected areas and G4-EN11 principle 6.5.6 areas of high biodiversity value outside 8 protected areas. ○ Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products, and services on GC Protecting G4-EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas principle 6.5.6 Biodiversity of high biodiversity value outside 8 protected areas. 356 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue GC Protecting G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. principle 6.5.6 Biodiversity 8 ○ Total number of IUCN Red List species GC and national conservation list species with G4-EN14 principle 6.5.6 habitats in areas aﬀected by operations, 8 by level of extinction risk. Emissions Overview of Environmental GC Impact Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions G4-EN15 principle 6.5.5 Reducing ◎ (Scope1). 7, 8 Greenhouse Gases during Production and Transportation Overview of Environmental GC Impact Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN16 principle 6.5.5 Reducing ◎ emissions (Scope2). 7, 8 Greenhouse Gases during Production and Transportation Overview of Environmental GC Impact Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) G4-EN17 principle 6.5.5 Reducing ◎ emissions (Scope3). 7, 8 Greenhouse Gases ○ during Production and Transportation Reducing GC Greenhouse Gases G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. principle 6.5.5 during Production 8 and Transportation Reducing GC Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) Greenhouse Gases G4-EN19 principle 6.5.5 emissions. during Production 8, 9 and Transportation Low Environmental Impact GC Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 6.5.3 Refrigerants G4-EN20 principle (ODS). 6.5.5 Recovery and 7, 8 Destruction of Fluorocarbons GC Overview of Nox, Sox, and other signiﬁcant air G4-EN21 principle 6.5.3 Environmental emissions. 7, 8 Impact 357 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Eﬄuents and Waste GC Overview of Total water discharge by quality and 6.5.3 G4-EN22 principle Environmental destination. 6.5.4 8 Impact Overview of GC Total weight of waste by type and disposal Environmental G4-EN23 principle 6.5.3 method. Impact 8 Waste Reduction GC Total number and volume of signiﬁcant Environmental Risk G4-EN24 principle 6.5.3 spills. Management 8 ○ Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed GC hazardous under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 principle 6.5.3 Waste Reduction Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and 8 percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and GC 6.5.3 Water Resource G4-EN26 related habitats signiﬁcantly aﬀected by principle 6.5.4 Reduction the organizationʼs discharges of water and 8 6.5.6 runoﬀ. Products and Services 6.5.3 Extent of impact mitigation of GC Value Chain 6.5.4 G4-EN27 environmental impacts of products and principle Environmentally 6.5.5 services. 7, 8, 9 Conscious Design ○ 6.7.5 Percentage of products sold and their GC 6.5.3 Eﬀective Use of G4-EN28 packaging materials that are reclaimed by principle 6.5.4 Resources in category. 8 6.7.5 Products Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and Major Legal GC total number of non-monetary sanctions Violations in the G4-EN29 principle for non-compliance with environmental Daikin Group in 8 laws and regulations. Fiscal 2015 Transport Overview of Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of Environmental transporting products and other goods GC 6.5.4 Impact G4-EN30 and materials for the organizationʼs principle 6.6.6 Reducing CO2 operations, and transporting members of 8 Emissions during the workforce. Transportation Overall GC Total environmental protection Environmental G4-EN31 principle 6.5 expenditures and investments by type. Accounting 7, 8, 9 358 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Supplier Environmental Assessment GC Percentage of new suppliers that were 6.3.5 G4-EN32 principle screened using environmental criteria. 6.6.6 8 Supply Chain Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative GC Management 6.3.5 G4-EN33 environmental impacts in the supply chain principle 6.6.6 and actions taken. 8 Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about GC environmental impacts ﬁled, addressed, G4-EN34 principle 6.3.6 No violation and resolved through formal grievance 8 mechanisms. SOCIAL LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Disclosures on management approach Human Resources Employment Workplace Total number and rates of new employee GC Diversity, Equal G4-LA1 hires and employee turnover by age principle 6.4.3 Opportunity group, gender and region. 6 Work-Life Balance Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees ○ that are not provided to temporary or 6.4.4 G4-LA2 parttime employees, by signiﬁcant 6.8.7 locations of operation. GC Return to work and retention rates after G4-LA3 principle 6.4.4 parental leave, by gender. 6 Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding GC operational changes, including whether G4-LA4 principle 6.4.3 these are speciﬁed in collective 3 agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management‒worker health G4-LA5 and safety committees that help monitor 6.4.6 and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and ○ 6.4.6 Occupational G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of 6.8.8 Safety and Health work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Workers with high incidence or high risk of 6.4.6 G4-LA7 diseases related to their occupation. 6.8.8 Health and safety topics covered in formal Occupational G4-LA8 6.4.6 agreements with trade unions. Safety and Health 359 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Training and Education Average hours of training per year per GC Fostering Human G4-LA9 employee by gender, and by employee principle 6.4.7 Resources category. 6 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 6.4.7 Fostering Human G4-LA10 ○ continued employability of employees and 6.8.5 Resources assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular GC Employee performance and career development G4-LA11 principle 6.4.7 Evaluation and reviews, by gender and by employee 6 Treatment category. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and Corporate 6.2 breakdown of employees per employee GC Governance 6.3.7 ○ G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, principle Workplace 6.3.10 minority group membership, and other 6 Diversity, Equal 6.4.3 indicators of diversity. Opportunity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men 6.3.7 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of GC 6.3.10 G4-LA13 women to men by employee category, by principle 6.4.3 signiﬁcant locations of operation. 6 6.4.4 Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices 6.3.5 Percentage of new suppliers that were G4-LA14 6.4.3 screened using labor practices criteria. 6.6.6 Supply Chain Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 6.3.5 Management G4-LA15 impacts for labor practices in the supply 6.4.3 chain and actions taken. 6.6.6 Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about labor G4-LA16 practices ﬁled, addressed, and resolved 6.3.6 No violation through formal grievance mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS Respect for Disclosures on management approach Human Rights Investment Total number and percentage of signiﬁcant investment agreements and GC 6.3.3 G4-HR1 contracts that include human rights principle 6.3.5 clauses or that underwent human rights 2 6.6.6 screening. Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning GC Respect for G4-HR2 aspects of human rights that are relevant principle 6.3.5 Human Rights to operations, including the percentage of 1 employees trained. 360 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Non-discrimination GC Total number of incidents of discrimination G4-HR3 principle 6.3.6 No violation and corrective actions taken. 6 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 6.3.3 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed in 6.3.4 which the right to exercise freedom of GC 6.3.5 G4-HR4 association and collective bargaining may principle 6.3.8 be violated or at signiﬁcant risk, and 3 6.3.10 measures taken to support these rights. 6.4.5 6.6.6 Child Labor 6.3.3 6.3.4 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as GC 6.3.5 having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child Respect for G4-HR5 principle 6.3.7 labor, and measures taken to contribute to Human Rights 5 6.3.10 the eﬀective abolition of child labor. 6.6.6 6.8.4 Forced or Compulsory Labor 6.3.3 Operations and suppliers identiﬁed as 6.3.4 having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of GC 6.3.5 Respect for G4-HR6 forced or compulsory labor, and measures principle 6.3.7 Human Rights to contribute to the elimination of all 4 6.3.10 forms of forced or compulsory labor. 6.6.6 Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained GC 6.3.4 in the organizationʼs human rights policies G4-HR7 principle 6.3.5 or procedures that are relevant to 1 6.6.6 operations. Indigenous Rights 6.3.4 6.3.6 Total number of incidents of violations GC 6.3.7 G4-HR8 involving rights of indigenous peoples and principle 6.3.8 actions taken. 1 6.6.7 6.8.3 Assessment Total number and percentage of GC 6.3.3 operations that have been subject to G4-HR9 principle 6.3.4 human rights reviews or impact 1 6.3.5 assessments. 361 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Supplier Human Rights Assessment 6.3.3 GC Percentage of new suppliers that were 6.3.4 G4-HR10 principle screened using human rights criteria. 6.3.5 2 6.6.6 6.3.3 Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative GC 6.3.4 G4-HR11 human rights impacts in the supply chain principle 6.3.5 and actions taken. 2 6.6.6 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights GC G4-HR12 impacts ﬁled, addressed, and resolved principle 6.3.6 No violation through formal grievance mechanisms. 1 SOCIETY Compliance Disclosures on management approach Communities Local Communities Percentage of operations with 6.3.9 GC implemented local community 6.5 G4-SO1 principle engagement, impact assessments, and 6.5.3 1 ○ development programs. 6.8 Operations with signiﬁcant actual and GC 6.3.9 G4-SO2 potential negative impacts on local principle 6.5.3 communities. 1 6.8 Anti-corruption Total number and percentage of GC operations assessed for risks related to 6.6 G4-SO3 principle Compliance corruption and the signiﬁcant risks 6.6.3 10 identiﬁed. GC Communication and training on 6.6.3 Compliance G4-SO4 principle anti-corruption policies and procedures. 6.6.6 Prohibiting Bribes 10 GC Conﬁrmed incidents of corruption and G4-SO5 principle 6.6.3 No violation actions taken. 10 Public Policy GC Total value of political contributions by 6.6 G4-SO6 principle country and recipient/beneﬁciary. 6.6.4 10 Anti-competitive Behavior Compliance Total number of legal actions for 6.6 Free Competition G4-SO7 anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 6.6.5 and Fair Business monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6.7 Dealings 362 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and Major Legal total number of non-monetary sanctions Violations in the G4-SO8 for non-compliance with laws and Daikin Group in regulations. Fiscal 2015 Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society 6.3.5 Percentage of new suppliers that were 6.6 G4-SO9 screened using criteria for impacts on 6.6.6 society. 6.8 Supply Chain 6.3.5 Management Signiﬁcant actual and potential negative 6.6 G4-SO10 impacts on society in the supply chain and 6.6.6 actions taken. 6.8 Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Number of grievances about impacts on 6.3.6 G4-SO11 society ﬁled, addressed, and resolved 6.6 No violation through formal grievance mechanisms. 6.8 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Disclosures on management approach Satisfaction Customer Health and Safety Percentage of signiﬁcant product and 6.7 service categories for which health and 6.7.4 Product Quality G4-PR1 safety impacts are assessed for 6.7.5 and Safety improvement. 6.8.8 ○ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7 voluntary codes concerning the health and 6.7.4 Handling Product G4-PR2 safety impacts of products and services 6.7.5 Accidents during their life cycle, by type of 6.8.8 outcomes. Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information 6.7 required by the organizationʼs procedures 6.7.3 for product and service information and Disclosing Product G4-PR3 6.7.4 labeling, and percentage of signiﬁcant Information 6.7.5 product and service categories subject to 6.7.9 such information requirements. ○ Total number of incidents of 6.7 non-compliance with regulations and 6.7.3 G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and 6.7.4 No violation service information and labeling, by type 6.7.5 of outcomes. 6.7.9 Results of surveys measuring customer 6.7 Customer G4-PR5 satisfaction. 6.7.6 Satisfaction 363 ISO 26000 Material DMA and GC Core External WEB Aspects Indicators Principle Subjects Assurance / Issue Marketing Communications G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. No violation Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing 6.7 G4-PR7 No violation communications, including advertising, 6.7.3 promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints 6.7 G4-PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy No violation 6.7.7 and losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.7 G4-PR9 No violation concerning the provision and use of 6.7.6 products and services. 364 -
