OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO 1 OUR OPERATIONS 20 About ADM 20 OUR REPORT 2 Where We Operate 21 Materiality Assessment 2 Sustainability Governance 22 OUR COMMITMENTS 5 Technology and Innovation 22 Environmental Policy 6 R&D Internally & In Collaboration with External Partners 23 Our Commitment to No-Deforestation 7 Efficiency Improvements 24 Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights 7 GMOs25 Code of Conduct 8 Environmental26 Commitment to Ethical Conduct and Anti-Corruption Compliance 9 Tracking/Management 26 Issues and Resolutions 9 Energy 27 Signatory of the UN Global Compact 10 Emissions 28 Signatory of ITC’s Trade for Sustainable Development Principles 10 Water 29 Memberships10 Waste 30 Food Safety and Quality 31 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 11 Supplier Expectations 12 OUR PEOPLE 33 No-Deforestation, No-Peat and No-Exploitation Implementation 12 Health & Safety 34 Palm 13 OUR COMMUNITIES 36 Soy 15 ADM Cares 36 Respect for Human Rights Implementation 17 Strong Roots 37 Supply Chain Partnerships and Certifications 18 Strong Communities 37 Strong Bonds 38 APPENDIX39 Third party verification 39 GRI Content Index 42 ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LETTER FROM THE CHAIRMAN AND CEO DEAR STAKEHOLDERS: One of the most important elements of our implementation of hundreds of efficiency Armed each day with enthusiasm and work to build the world’s most successful projects and operational improvements creativity, our nearly 32,000 colleagues and enduring global agribusiness and foodproduce impressive results, as we achieved around the globe are dedicated to growing ingredient provider is our commitment to further reductions in our carbon emissions, our business in ways that are ethical, demonstrating respect for our colleagues, water and energy use per unit of production. responsible and sustainable. I am proud our communities and the environment. The These results put us on a path to meet of the progress we are making, and look steps we take to act more sustainably as a or exceed our original goal of achieving forward to continuing our good work. company – both now and in the future – are 15 percent reductions in each area in the Thank you for taking the time to review helping to ensure that ADM remains a leader coming years. ADM’s 2016 Corporate Sustainability in our industry. Through ADM Cares, our social investment Report. We welcome your comments and In 2016, we made measurable progress program, we provided more than $11 suggestions at sustainability@adm.com. in the areas of social and environmental million in grants to organizations making responsibility as we continued along a meaningful difference in the areas of our sustainability journey. In 2015, ADM education, sustainable agriculture, hunger adopted and began implementing a relief, and the environment. Safety is another comprehensive No-Deforestation Policy key priority in our sustainability efforts. and a Respect for Human Rights Policy, While nearly 80 percent of our locations and we took great strides last year to completed the year with no recordable advance those commitments. We are injuries, there is need for improvement of extremely proud to be a participant in the our safety record. Our vision that “Only Zero UN Global Compact and remain committed Is Acceptable” will continue to guide our to its Ten Principles, which are focused on actions as we implement improvement plans upholding responsibilities in the areas of and strive to reach our goal of zero incidents Juan R. Luciano human rights, labor, the environment, and and zero injuries. Chairman and CEO anti-corruption. In 2016, we also saw the ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 1 OUR REPORT Materiality Assessment In 2016, ADM engaged Deloitte Advisory to undertake a formal • Representation – Stakeholders who represent key institutions with materiality assessment to help inform our Corporate Sustainability whom the organization interacts, such as community leaders, local Report. We asked Deloitte to apply its knowledge of the Global politicians, etc. Reporting Initiative (GRI) methodology and our industry to select The following stakeholder groups were included as part of the stakeholders for engagement. Deloitte narrowed the field of potential materiality assessment: topics to a specific set that could be rated and ranked by stakeholders. • ADM leadership – interviews The process did not limit materiality to a select number of topics; rather, all topics that scored a certain rating were marked as material. • Investors – interviews Working with ADM, Deloitte included and surveyed a variety of internal • Analysts – secondary research and external stakeholders and conducted secondary research that • Customers – interviews and secondary research included a review of documents published by a variety of parties. • Employees – survey To select the list of stakeholders to include in the materiality • Trade associations – interviews and secondary research assessment, ADM and Deloitte applied GRI’s stakeholder selection • Regulators – secondary research criteria as outlined below: • Civil society/NGOs – interviews • Responsibility – Stakeholders linked to the organization through The process revealed that several key topics were consistent across legal, financial, operational regulations, contracts and/or policies. all stakeholder groups, with deforestation, human rights, and • Influence – Stakeholders who have the ability to influence whether environmental criteria among the primary concerns raised. or not the organization can reach its intended goals, including those with formal decision-making power, internally or externally. • Proximity – Stakeholders on whom the organization depends for daily operations and those living close to operation sites. • Dependency – Stakeholders who are most dependent on the organization’s operations, such as customers/clients reliant on the organization’s products and services, and suppliers for which the organization is a large client. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 2 OUR REPORT In order to define materiality, topics were then further ranked and prioritized based on current management programs; potential risks; and economic, environmental, and social impacts. Human Rights & Labor Conditions GHG Emissions Ongoing engagement via Supply Chain Management customer feedback, NGO Impact to stakeholders Land Use and Biodiversity Food Safety/ inquiries, and the efforts of Customer Safety our investor relations team Water Management Customer Satisfaction have provided continuing Community Relations feedback that helps direct Indirect Economic Impacts Technology & Innovation our programs. To ensure Energy Management proper long-term focus, Governance and Ethics Regulatory Compliance Employee Diversity the materiality assessment Health & Safety will be updated at regular Waste Management Material Used and Traceability intervals in the future. Smallholder Farms Global Trade M at Pricing er ia lit Product Disclosure and Labeling y Th Employee Education/Training re sh Employee Benefits and Wellness ol d Product Transport Impact to ADM Core Business/Product Economic Environmental Labor Social ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 3 OUR REPORT ADM sustainability initiatives that address topics that are significant to stakeholders Community Relations GHG Emissions Supply Chain Management ADM Cares provided more Emission reductions through Commitment to Nothan $11M in grant to CO2 efficiency programs as well as Deforestation and Commitment organizations — See our operational improvements — to Respect Human Rights — Communities section. See Our Operations section. See Supply Chain section. Energy Management Human Rights & Labor Technology & Innovation Energy reductions through Conditions 38 Innovation centers, 700 efficiency programs and Commitment to Respect Human scientists and engineers operational improvements — Rights, which is applicable to globally, and collaboration See Our Operations section. employees as well as suppliers with external partners — — See Our Supply Chain section. See Our Operations section. Food Safety/ Customer Safety Land Use & Diversity Water Management Food and feed safety audits, Commitment to No Deforestation, Reduction in water through third party certifications, which covers both the palm oil efficiency programs and continuous improvement and soy supply chains — operational improvements — program covering food safety See Our Supply Chain section. See Our Operations section. systems and procedures ­— See Our Operations section. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 4 OUR COMMITMENTS ADM has set forth several key social and environmental corporate policies. Collectively, these commitments outline our expectations for our colleagues, business partners and contractors, and our organization as a whole. They establish clear standards that govern our approach to rawmaterial sourcing, environmental stewardship and employee conduct, among other areas, and they state our positions on issues of widespread public interest. These standards were developed with input from our operations, law, compliance, environmental, and health and safety teams, and were approved by Chairman and CEO Juan Luciano. Establishing clear guidelines and expectations ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 5 OUR COMMITMENTS Environmental Policy A Commitment to Good Stewardship ADM’s Environmental Policy sets forth our commitment to: • Establish programs and practices intended to ensure operations are conducted in an environmentally sound manner and that applicable laws and regulations are followed; • Commit the resources needed to support and implement these programs and practices; • Perform periodic evaluations to ensure that the ADM environmental programs and practices established to support its requirements are working effectively; • Communicate and reinforce accountability for environmental stewardship throughout the company; • Provide training as needed to assist colleagues in understanding their environmental responsibilities and carrying out their job duties in ways consistent with sound environmental practices; • Participate constructively in the process of creating reasonable environmental laws, regulations, polices and guidelines to safeguard the workplace, the community and the environment; and • Develop, design and operate facilities and conduct activities taking into consideration the efficient use of energy and materials, environmental impact, and safe and responsible management of waste. You can read the entire Environmental Policy here. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 6 OUR COMMITMENTS Our Commitment to No-Deforestation Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights Working to Protect Delicate Forest Ecosystems Helping to Protect Workers throughout and Biodiversity Worldwide the Global Supply Chain As one of the world’s leading agricultural processors and foodADM is committed to ensuring colleagues, suppliers and contractors ingredient providers, ADM is committed to building traceable and respect workers’ rights and comply with all applicable local, national transparent agricultural supply chains that protect forests worldwide. and international laws governing working conditions. Though with few exceptions we are not a grower of crops, we work The commitment contains strict prohibitions against the unlawful use of independently and with industry partners and other stakeholders to child labor, forced labor and bonded labor, and includes several other improve the quality of crops in the global supply chain, the lives of farmers guidelines to protect workers and communities from exploitation. and communities that grow them, and the environment we share. You can read the entire Commitment to Respect Human Rights here. You can read the entire Commitment to No-Deforestation here. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 7 OUR COMMITMENTS Code of Conduct Working to Achieve the Right Results, the Right Way ADM’s Code of Conduct helps our employees make sound decisions and illustrates proper action for conducting business. It promotes a shared understanding of what it means to achieve the right results, the right way. The code ensures ADM employees do their part to build and maintain trust with stakeholders, including colleagues, customers, business partners, shareholders and communities. It applies to all employees, officers, directors and contract workers/agents of ADM, as well as all of our divisions and affiliates in every country in which we operate. Our expectation is that, when working on ADM’s behalf, our suppliers, business partners, agents and consultants will uphold the principles of our code. The code offers guidance on the appropriate handling of specific situations including, but not limited to, Fair Dealing and Competition, Fair Treatment of Suppliers, Government Customers, Conflicts of Interest, Anti-Corruption, Trade Controls, and Accurate Books and Records. The Code of Conduct has been translated for all colleagues, and training is conducted annually. You can read the entire Code of Conduct here. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 8 OUR COMMITMENTS Commitment to Ethical Conduct • Anti-corruption training; and Anti-Corruption Compliance • Anti-corruption auditing; ADM is committed to doing business with integrity. This means avoiding • Anti-corruption monitoring; and corruption in all forms, including bribery. We abide by all applicable • Maintaining accurate books and records. anti-corruption laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the UK Bribery Act and local laws in every country in which we Issues and Resolutions do business. ADM’s commitment to compliance—including both internal policies ADM has an Anti-Corruption Program that provides a level of awareness and regulatory requirements—is supported by a formal grievance about anti-corruption laws in order to avoid inadvertent violations mechanism that is accessible to all ADM employees, as well as of the law and to enable employees to recognize potential issues in individuals outside of the company. ADM’s Law Department and time to address them appropriately. Our Anti-Corruption Program Compliance Office are responsible for taking prompt and appropriate encompasses compliance procedures and key controls designed to action to investigate reports of ethical or legal misconduct. ADM does minimize the potential for corruption in ADM’s global business dealings. not tolerate any form of retaliation for making a good faith report of It protects the company from anti-corruption risks in the context of: actual or potential misconduct. • Commercial transactions with government entities and government ADM provides, among others, the following pathways by which reports employees; can be filed: • Commercial bribery and extortion; • ADM Way Helpline, a third-part administered service available online • Hosting and gifting provided to government entities and government at www.theadmwayhelpline.com or via telephone (phone numbers employees; listed by country can be found on the Office of Compliance and Ethics page on ADM.com). • Government and private tenders; • The ADM Compliance Team, which can be reached at • Hiring current or former government employees; compliance@adm.com • Due diligence on third parties with which ADM does business; Consistent with our Commitments to No-Deforestation and Respect for • Donations and contributions; Human Rights, any concerns or issues raised through the Helpline will • Political contributions; be investigated and appropriate actions taken. To support transparency • Commercial bribery and extortion; efforts, issues and resolutions that are specific to deforestation or • Due diligence in the context of mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures human rights will be posted on our Progress Tracker. and investments; ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 9 OUR COMMITMENTS Memberships Signatory of the UN Global Compact ADM is a member of more than 200 business/trade associations and sustainability initiatives, including: In April 2016, ADM joined the UN’s Global Compact, the world’s largest CSR initiative. The Global Compact is intended to ensure that • ABRAPALMA – Brazilian Palm Association businesses operate responsibly by adhering to Ten Principles focused • American Soybean Association on human rights, labor, anti-corruption and the environment. • Brazilian Association of Vegetable Oil Industries You can learn more about the UN Global Compact at • Canadian Renewable Fuels Association www.unglobalcompact.org. • Corn Refiners Association • European Biodiesel Board Signatory of ITC’s Trade for Sustainable • FEDIOL – The European Union Oil and Proteinmeal Industry Development Principles Association ADM recently signed the International Trade Center’s (ITC) Trade • Food Supplements Europe for Sustainable Development Principles (T4SD). The principles set • The Forest Trust forth by ITC—an agency of the United Nations and the World Trade • International Sustainability and Carbon Certification (ISCC) Organization—promote sustainability, transparency and harmonization • National Biodiesel Board in supply chains, and support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. • National Oilseed Processors Association You can learn more about T4SD here. • The ProTerra Foundation • Roundtable on Responsible Soy • Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Oil (RSPO) • United Nations Global Compact For an extended list of organizations of which ADM is a member, please click here. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 10 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Working to Advance Sustainable Agriculture Worldwide ADM connects the harvest to the home, making products for food, animal feed, chemical and energy uses. With few exceptions, we do not grow crops; we instead buy them from growers or third parties that market crops from many different growers. We do, however, occupy a prominent position in the agricultural value chain that extends from the farm gate to the consumer’s plate, which is why we work closely with industry peers, trade associations, growers, governments, NGOs and operating communities to improve the quality and availability of crops in the global supply chain, and the lives of farmers and communities that grow these crops. Advancing toward a supply chain that respects the environment and workers’ rights. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 11 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN ADM procures agricultural commodities around the world, including Supplier Expectations from regions that are at a particular risk for deforestation and human ADM recognizes that healthy supplier relationships are critical to rights violations. Our policies and commitments apply to our entire our success and strives to promote mutually beneficial business supply chain with implementation activities focusing first on high-risk relationships based on the highest standards of ethical conduct. We geographies. We have identified soy in certain expansion areas of South choose our suppliers carefully to ensure they share our commitment to America and palm globally as high-risk commodities. Using the United integrity. ADM’s suppliers are expected to do business fairly, ethically, Nations Human Development Index (HDI), we have prioritized countries and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations at all times. within our global reach that are at a higher risk for human rights abuses. Additionally, suppliers are expected to understand and abide by the The clearing of forested, High Carbon Stock (HCS) and High principles described in our Supplier Expectations statement, which Conservation Value (HCV) areas for planting threatens biodiversity, can be found here. soil health, and vital carbon sinks as well as indigenous communities who rely on those areas for their livelihood. Agricultural production, particularly in countries with lower HDI values, has a higher risk of using No-Deforestation, No-Peat and No-Exploitation slave and child labor, not paying living wages, having unsafe working Implementation conditions and violating additional rights. These practices threaten the In May 2015, we announced our Commitment to No-Deforestation, development and livelihood of local communities. To address which includes provisions related to no-deforestation, no expansion these risks, ADM has established and begun implementation of a on peat, and no exploitation, with a focus on our palm and soy supply No-Deforestation Policy and a Respect for Human Rights Policy. chains. ADM has partnered with The Forest Trust (TFT) to implement the We require all colleagues and suppliers to comply with these policies. policy. The commitment aims to leverage the company’s role as a major buyer of crops to help create more sustainable, traceable agricultural supply chains that protect high carbon stock forests, important natural ecosystems and peatlands, as well as the human rights of individuals along the agricultural value chain. Action plans, traceability scores, and progress reports are published regularly on our Sustainability Progress Tracker. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 12 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Palm • Traceability – ADM successfully reached its stated goal, achieving • Monitoring and Verification – We are engaging our suppliers and 98 percent traceability for palm oil and 95.5 percent for palm kernel working with them to adopt No-Deforestation principles and values. oil (for oil purchased between Q4 2015 and Q3 2016). Detailed Currently, there is no single, widely accepted methodology for traceability scores by region can be found in the Traceability verification; however, ADM is working to identify approaches using Summary. remote sensing and satellite imagery. To encourage stakeholders to make valuable and independent contributions to the monitoring of • Transformation – In the fourth quarter of 2016, ADM began using supply chains and detection of issues, ADM has established a formal the Engagement for Policy Implementation (EPI) tool as the basis for Issues and Resolutions process that will enable any stakeholder to supplier engagement and the supply chain transformation process. raise a concern about ADM or any party in ADM’s supply chain. EPI creates a standardized framework for dialogue between ADM and suppliers about policy implementation and ADM’s responsible • Topics of Interest – In Q4 2016, ADM published a FAQ document to palm sourcing commitment. ADM plans to conduct a tour of the better communicate and explain ADM’s approach to No Deforestation palm oil industry in Southeast Asia, with an initial focus on the Sabah, for customers and other external stakeholders. We continue to Malaysia, region where ADM has significant origination exposure. This expand the FAQ to include updated information and new topics. effort will support our transformation work by generating a greater The document is available online as part of the understanding of the complex issues found throughout the industry Sustainability Progress Tracker. and offering insight into strategies being implemented by industry leaders. Also during Q4, transformation planning continued on our For more information about palm oil plantation in Pará, Brazil, with TFT completing a second, ADM’s progress related to in-depth field assessment focused on topics of interest and palm, click here. concern to smallholders. In addition, ADM is closely following the transformation activities of our direct suppliers – Wilmar and Olenex. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 13 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Percentage of the palm oil ADM can offer to North American and European customers that meets the RSPO Mass Balance Sustainable Palm Statistics 100% standard. All of ADM’s major palm oil refining facilities worldwide have been RSPO-certified and are able to meet existing market demand for RSPO-certified oil and derivatives. 270 Smallholder farmers participating in ADM’s sustainable palm oil production and processing program in Pará, Brazil. The program, which conforms to RSPO standards and is in the process of obtaining certification to those standards, encompasses approximately 7,500 hectares of oil palm plantation land in areas that have been approved by the government for palm cultivation. Smallholder participants have planted approximately 2,000 of those hectares; ADM manages the remaining land. In 2015, The Forest Trust (TFT) conducted a field assessment of the program and found a generally high standard of operations with respect to deforestation, community relations, labor practices and legality. 198,000 Metric tons of RSPO-certified palm 72,000 products (crude palm oil, palm kernel Metric tons of ISCC certified palm oil, palm-based derivatives and products sourced in 2016. factions) ADM handled in 2016. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 14 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Soy • Traceability – In 2016, ADM completed an updated soybean sourcing and subject matter experts to explore avenues for receiving and analysis for Paraguay, Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay and Bolivia. The sharing periodic information about these conflicts that will help refreshed soybean origination data provides a basis for targeting and regional staff address these issues. guiding transformation efforts and identifying potential shifts in soybean • Monitoring and Verification – ADM held advanced sourcing. ADM also participated in a multi-stakeholder dialogue on a No discussions with stakeholders on identifying and testing Deforestation strategy for soy, allowing us to engage with companies, methodology and monitoring tools to implement civil society groups and private sector and international institutions. a viable system to detect deforestation of native The dialogue included discussions hosted by the World Bank at vegetation. In Q4 2016, we selected two remotethe international level, as well as the United Nations Development sensing monitoring tools, both of which will undergo Programme (UNDP) Green Commodities Programme in Paraguay. further testing in a subset of ADM supplier farms. The • Transformation – ADM made progress incorporating aspects of the results will provide regional and farm-level analysis of No Deforestation Commitment into the company’s procurement land-use change in municipalities within ADM’s highand sourcing processes. The changes were focused on goals such risk priority areas for No Deforestation. Also, as noted in as achieving farm-level traceability of ADM soy, obtaining and the palm oil section above, ADM has a formal Issues and registering geospatial information of supply farms in high-risk areas, Resolutions process that will enable any stakeholder to raise and integrating analysis provided by remote sensing monitoring a concern against ADM or any party in ADM’s supply chain. into ADM’s sourcing decisions. This process required detailed • Topics of Interest – ADM Paraguay joined the Connecting Forests mapping of systems and processes in Paraguay and Brazil to identify Program, which provides seedlings to reforest degraded areas in decision points and information collected by each ADM department farms surrounding protected areas and parks that can act as a buffer throughout the procurement process. The information will enhance and create natural corridors along watercourses that have lost their ADM’s systems and reinforce procedures to operationalize the riparian forests. In total, seven counties in three different states No Deforestation Commitment. Additionally, ADM continued to will receive close to 280,000 native species seedlings. To date, 154 investigate indigenous-farmer conflicts in Brazil to better understand ADM suppliers have enrolled in the program and have committed to the nature of disputes in the region. We are working with stakeholders reforest close to 600 hectares. For more information about ADM’s progress related to soy, click here. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 15 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN 210,000 Metric tons of ISCC soy sourced in South America in 2015. Sustainable Soy Statistics 664,000 Metric tons of ADM Responsible Soy sourced in Brazil in 2016. You can read ADM’s Responsible Soybean Standard here. 979,000 Approximate number of hectares of farmland 10 Years in which ADM has been a signatory to the Brazilian Soy listed with Brazil’s Registry of SocioMoratorium. ADM’s participation confirms our commitment to Environmental Responsibility under the ADM/ refrain from trading in soy originated in areas within the Amazon Aliança da Terra “Doing It Right” program. Biome that were deforested after July 2006. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 16 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Respect for Human Rights Implementation • ADM facility leaders reviewed the Respect for Human Rights Manager Training. Our Human Resources, Law, and Procurement teams In 2014, ADM published Our Commitment to Respect Human Rights. were engaged, passionate and showed a strong commitment to the We believe that although governments have the primary duty to protect process. and ensure fulfillment of human rights, we have a role in protecting human rights and can act as a force for change in the communities in • ADM deals with hundreds of government regulations with respect to which we operate. While with few exceptions we do not grow crops, business practices, zoning, insurance, health, safety, labor, salary and ADM’s scale, reach and vast supplier network give us the opportunity to insurance. To facilitate the number of administrative requirements help improve conditions under which crops are grown, transported and related to the policy implementation, ADM is addressing all areas marketed around the world, as well as the lives of those who grow them of law and legislation with a strong, robust, intelligent, ethical and and of other workers and communities along the supply chain. transparent approach to compliance. In 2015, we completed the first phase of our policy-implementation • At the ADM facilities visited to date, there were no fees charged to plan, which identified potential human rights risks along ADM’s supply job-seekers in exchange for employment and no collateral was taken chains and prioritized them by geography and commodity. In 2016, in the form of money, identification or other personal belongings— following a supply chain analysis and the determination of appropriate without workers’ consent—as a condition of employment by the metrics to help us assess progress and effectiveness, we began contracted companies. No human trafficking was observed. implementation and training at select ADM facilities in India, Paraguay, • ADM participates in Sedex and hosts Responsible Sourcing audits and South Africa. Here are a few highlights on our progress: conducted by 3rd party auditors which focus on workers’ rights, including fair pay, health and safety, ethical treatment, and collective • ADM is taking a risk-based approach to address the issue of bargaining rights. human rights in a positive way. Using the United Nations Human Development Index (HDI), ADM has identified high-risk countries • ADM is committed to continuous improvement. We value training within its global reach. Our intention is to train our colleagues and emphasize health, safety, respect and maintenance as topics to recognize human rights abuses in our supply chain within the in employee education, awareness and performance. Key business communities where we conduct our business. metrics—including health and safety—are publicly displayed and accessible, and yearly training is required, as it is with ADM’s Code of • As training is completed in high-risk countries where ADM has a Conduct and other policies. commercial presence, we collect metrics related to the observations of potential human rights abuses. If it is determined that a supplier has For more information about ADM’s progress related to human rights, engaged in human rights abuses in violation of ADM’s commitment, click here. we will work with the supplier toward transformation and improvement. Suppliers who fail to improve or are unwilling to make ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 17 changes will be removed from our supply chain. OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Supply Chain Partnerships and Certifications • Brazil: ADM Responsible Soybean Standard – A certification program In addition to its work on no-deforestation and human rights, ADM with the main objective of promoting environmentally and socially partners with farmers, key accounts and other stakeholders to offer a responsible soy production that meets the benchmark set by the wide range of sustainable sourcing solutions. European Feed Manufacturers’ Federation (FEFAC). The standard is also present on the standards map of the International Trade Centre • Europe: ISCC PLUS – A certification system focusing on tracking a subsidiary organization of the World Trade Organization (WTO) and greenhouse gas emissions along the value chain and ensuring good the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD). and sustainable agricultural practices. ISCC PLUS is a multi-feedstock system and can serve food, feed, and fuel markets. • United Kingdom: Linking Environment & Farming (LEAF Marque) – A global organization that promotes sustainable agricultural practices at the farm level to produce sustainable rapeseed oil. Focus areas include soil management & fertility, landscape & nature conservation, community engagement, and crop health & protection. Through the use of integrated farm management tools, LEAF farmers continuously ensure considerable improvement in their environmental and business performance. • Danube Region, Europe: ProTerra – A certification program that assures both Non-GMO quality and sustainable agricultural production. The standard is soy-oriented and based on the Basel Criteria for Responsible Soy Production. • United States: Field to Market – ADM works with growers to document acres and track inputs such as water and fertilizer and resulting crop yields, enabling farmers to benchmark sustainability performance and improve over time. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 18 OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Improving Farming Practices in South America – Paraguay Paraguay is the primary area of focus for our Sustentagro project, which we launched in 2015 in association with the Sustainable Trade Initiative (IDH) and global civil society group Solidaridad. The project strives to build links between producers, local governments and communities living in important soy-producing regions of Paraguay, and helps producers adopt sustainable production practices in an effort to reduce impacts on the environment and promote safer conditions for workers and communities. Phase 1 consisted of developing tools to carry out a diagnosis of soy production practices in the region and guidelines for sustainability practices, while working with municipalities to raise awareness about sustainable landscapes and appropriate areas for soy production. The project requires farmers to make several key commitments related to the sustainability of production including transparency and working with integrity; economic viability; the environment and protecting our future; and improving the lives of farmers. Overall, the project’s ability to help advance sustainable soy production through valued partnerships with key local governments and communities is instrumental to ensuring future, sustainable landscapes. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 19 OUR OPERATIONS 9 ADM’s Proven Core Model ADM’s Proven Core Model Source Transport Process Transform Distribute Market Corn & Sell Food Oilseeds Feed Wheat Fuel Financial strength and industry acumen underpin the chain and drive value Industrial Setting the competitive standard Capture value across the chain Setting the competitive standard Capture value across the chain About ADM For more than a century, the people of Archer Daniels Midland conducting business in accordance with our core values of operating Company (ADM) have transformed crops into products that serve the with integrity, treating others with respect, achieving excellence, being vital needs of a growing world. We connect the harvest to the home, resourceful, displaying teamwork, and being responsible. making products for food, animal feed, industrial and energy uses. Headquartered in Chicago, Illinois, ADM connects crops to markets on Our vision is to be the most admired global agribusiness while creating six continents. Net sales for the fiscal year 2016 were $62.3 billion. To value, growing responsibly and serving vital needs. We are committed to learn more about our company, please visit www.adm.com. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 20 OUR OPERATIONS Most Diversified Assets  Oilseeds Processing  Corn Processing  WILD Flavors & Specialty Ingredients  Agricultural Services Where We Operate ADM is one of the world’s largest agricultural processors and food transporting large quantities of raw materials and finished products, ingredient providers, with more than 32,000 employees serving we own approximately 1,900 barges, 13,100 rail cars, 250 trucks, 1,200 customers in more than 160 countries. Our global value chain includes trailers, and 10 oceangoing vessels; and lease, under operating leases, approximately 500 crop procurement locations, 270 ingredientapproximately 560 barges, 15,500 rail cars, 340 trucks, 120 trailers and manufacturing facilities, 38 innovation centers and the world’s 21 oceangoing vessels. premier crop transportation network. To enhance the efficiency of ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 21 OUR OPERATIONS Sustainability Governance ADM’s sustainability efforts are led by our Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). The CSO is supported by a Sustainability Council made up of senior management and company officers representing our strategy, law, human resources, technology, and operations teams. Regular reports on implementation efforts and progress are given to the Board of Directors. In addition to our corporate group, we have regional teams in North America, South America and EMEA supporting sustainability initiatives and implementation on the ground. Technology and Innovation Innovating to Serve Customer Needs, Improve Operational Efficiency and Further our Competitive Advantage With more than 700 scientists and engineers around the world engaged in efforts ranging from process research to chemistry and biotechnology, animal nutrition, and food and beverage applications, ADM has averaged approximately 200 patents and published patent applications each year since 2009. At 38 R&D facilities worldwide, our teams innovate to improve the efficiency and environmental profile of our operations and develop new products that meet customers’ evolving needs. ADM regularly enters into strategic relationships with partners throughout the value chain, including technology providers, customers and institutions of higher learning. By combining our expertise and the breadth of our operations with strengths of our partners, we are able to efficiently turn market needs into realities. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 22 OUR OPERATIONS Research and Development Internally & In Collaboration with External Partners Development of Sustainable Mint Varieties Researchers in ADM’s WILD Flavors and Specialty Ingredients business have developed and tested three new varieties of peppermint plant which show improved sustainability. We define sustainability of a mint agro-ecosystem to mean that the crop can be grown indefinitely within a sensible rotation without the need for increasing inputs, providing an improved yield while lowering the environmental footprint. These varieties (MP2, MP11, and MP13) show improved resistance to Verticillium wilt, a soil disease that reduces yield. This resistance has allowed mint farmers growing these varieties to return to infected fields This innovative approach to producing DHA takes on greater that are closer to mint stills. Resistance to Peppermint Rust, insects, and significance when taking into account the fact that 25 percent of the improved tolerance of weeds has enabled farmers to reduce the usage world’s fish stocks are either overexploited or depleted, and 52 percent of fungicides, pesticides, and herbicides, which in turn reduces fuel of the stocks are fully exploited. With demand for food supplemented usage and GHG emissions. All of these benefits come in a non-GMO with Omega-3 continuing to increase, this essential nutrient is mint plant that has an improved oil yield, enabling farmers to produce becoming scarce and much more expensive, while increasing pressure more oil with fewer inputs and environmental footprint. on wild fish populations. Commercialization of DHA from Algae ADM partnered with Synthetic Genomics (SGI) to develop, manufacture ADM’s research divisions and other groups continually work toward and commercialize DHA-rich food and feed products. The collaboration healthful innovations. Our efforts to commercialize Omega-3 reduced the time to market from approximately five years to only Docosahexaenoic Acid (DHA) from algae are a prime example. DHA is two years. Leveraging SGI’s algae-related technology and our R & D a long-chain Omega-3 fatty acid that has been studied for its role in and manufacturing capabilities at our facility in Clinton, Iowa, ADM brain, heart and eye health. While it is typically found in fish and seafood uses a renewable feedstock made onsite to facilitate the growth of products, extracting DHA directly from algae grown in fermentation heterotrophic algae that doesn’t need sunlight to grow. The result is tanks yields a highly purified form of DHA, which can then be used as a the efficient, cost-effective and sustainable production of a non-GMO, dietary supplement for humans and in animal feed. vegetarian source of DHA. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 23 OUR OPERATIONS Developing a New Biomaterial with Better Performance Efficiency Improvements From time to time, ADM partners with its customers to find innovative ADM’s strategic approach to operational excellence emphasizes solutions to shared challenges. Recently, we worked with DuPont to enhancing the efficiency of our production plants, standardizing best develop furan dicarboxylic acid dimethyl ester (FDME), practices throughout our global operations and promoting effective a new biomaterial that potentially could replace some collaboration across business units and functions. of the consumer plastics that draw upon the world’s oil supply for production. Polymers from FDME are 100 percent renewable and recyclable. When used to make bottles and other $350 MILLION Target savings to be achieved by 2019 through identifying and packaging, FDME can substantially improve gas-barrier implementing operational excellence and process improvements. properties compared to other polyesters. The new material may lead to the production of packaging that could improve the shelf life of perishable food and beverages, allowing transportation to more remote areas. $314 MILLION Run-rate savings achieved in 2016 by completing more than Partnering with Nalco to Improve Water Recycling 300 energy and efficiency projects. and Reduce Usage Through the use of the Nalco 3DTRASAR technology, ADM and Nalco have optimized many of ADM’s water processes through enhanced automation, control, and remote sensing. Cooling towers, reverse osmosis systems, and boiler cycles have been improved, enabling the sites to reduce water and chemical usage while maintaining functionality. Since 2012, projects have been identified and implemented resulting in an annual water savings of: 1.8 BILLION GALLONS ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 24 OUR OPERATIONS GMOs Supporting Varied Customer Needs ADM supports a wide variety of technologies that can help farmers do more with less. This issue is a critical goal for agriculture; new technologies and products are key in the effort to feed a growing global population while limiting increased use of farmland and water. We also recognize and respect our customers’ desire for options. We work to meet our customers’ need for identity-preserved crops and products. Because of our vertical integration, we have developed – for certain product lines – systems that track and preserve crop identity from seed to factory to finished product to make such options available for our customers. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 25 OUR OPERATIONS Environmental Tracking/Management Progress Toward 15x20 Targets Continues Environmental Management System, Information System Being a good steward of the environment is part of ADM’s value of Rollout Moves Ahead respect. ADM uses natural resources in manufacturing, storage and ADM’s efforts to implement the Environmental Management System distribution, including electricity, water, fuel and raw materials. We (EMS) globally across all of its operations continued in 2016. ADM has also generate waste and have chemical storage onsite at many of our implemented the EMS across most of its North American facilities. facilities, which have the potential to impact land, water and air. As a We’ve also launched the EMS at most of our Oilseeds processing company, we are committed to meeting our environmental obligations, facilities in South America, with additional efforts underway to bring while pursuing ways to continually improve our efforts in both the remaining processing, silo and port facilities in the region online. protecting the environment and enhancing environmental sustainability. EMS implementation and planning continues across our businesses A key component of ADM’s business strategy is to drive operational in Europe, India, Asia, and Africa. As ADM continues to pursue growth efficiencies, largely through improvements in energy-consumption, globally, the EMS will be an essential part of our overall approach to process technology, maintenance and other areas. operations management. 15% by 2020 = Targeted reductions in energy and emissions GEMINI, ADM’s Environmental Management Information System, ADM seeks to achieve from 2010 baseline levels. has become an integral tool for helping to ensure environmental compliance at all ADM operating locations, through mature use of 15% by 2018 = Targeted reduction in water intensity the Compliance and Task modules. On-time task completion is a ADM seeks to achieve from its 2008 baseline level. key leading metric used by our Environmental Leadership Team. The 15% by 2020 = Targeted waste to landfill rate next stage of GEMINI implementation focusing on the media phase ADM seeks to achieve. (standardized data tracking, calculation and streamlining of air, water, waste and chemical inventory data) is currently underway. As of January 2017, 148 facilities are using the media module. These advances will enable ADM locations to integrate environmental reporting into their operations, and meet company and regulatory requirements more efficiently. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 26 OUR OPERATIONS Energy Reducing Usage on a Per-Unit-of-Production Basis Targeted reductions ADM seeks to achieve by 2020 from 2010 baseline levels. TARGET 15% ACHIEVED 25% $39 MILLION ENERGY-RELATED SAVINGS ACHIEVED IN 2016. ENERGY INTENSIT Y REDUCTION Since 2011, we have implemented hundreds of energy-saving projects 35% at our facilities ranging from pump and fan operations to exhaust 30% heat recovery, process controls optimization and improved data25% management. These projects, resulting in reduced electricity purchases, 20% coupled with changes in the fuel we use at several large ADM facilities, have enabled us to achieve significant improvement in energy-intensity 15% — the ratio of energy consumption to production volumes in our 10% facilities — since 2010. 5% As we are currently ahead of our goal of a 15 percent reduction in 0% energy per unit of production by 2020, our focus going forward will be 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 on sustaining and building upon the progress we already have achieved. % reduction target ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 27 OUR OPERATIONS Emissions Reducing Output on a Per-Unit-of-Production Basis Targeted reductions ADM seeks to achieve by 2020. TARGET 15% ACHIEVED 11% GHG INTENSIT Y REDUCTION 15% From 2010 to 2016, thanks to a companywide focus on energy efficiency, ADM succeeded in reducing CO2 emissions intensity — 12% the ratio of emissions to production volumes in our facilities — by 9% 11 percent. Emissions from ADM processing operations are primarily a function of energy use and the type of fuel we use to power our 6% operations. As we continue implementing energy efficiency projects in our pipeline, we expect intensity to continue to decline at a rate that 3% will enable us to surpass our goal of 15 percent improvement by 2020. 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 % reduction target ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 28 OUR OPERATIONS Water Reducing Usage on a Per-Unit-of-Production Basis In 2016, ADM’s teams once again demonstrated our commitment to innovation and efficiency by making progress on a variety of effective Targeted reductions ADM seeks to achieve by 2018 from 2008 baseline levels. water conservation initiatives, including: TARGET 15% ACHIEVED 24% • The introduction of a cutting edge “closed circuit” reverse osmosis system at our Cogeneration facility in Decatur, Illinois. A similar WATERY INTENSIT Y REDUCTION system is under construction at the East Plant in Decatur. 30% • Optimization of cooling tower cycles, boiler cycles, and reverse osmosis systems using software and analysis. 25% These efforts demonstrate how ADM was able to surpass its water 20% intensity improvement target ahead of our 2018 goal. Going forward, 15% we will continue implementing efficiency projects worldwide with a 10% goal of achieving further improvements. 5% 0% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 % reduction target ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 29 Waste Reducing Waste to Landfills As a first step toward our 15% or less waste-to-landfill rate, ADM has leveraged its GEMINI system to collect global waste data from its facilities. Training for all locations on proper data collection and entry into GEMINI was completed in 2016, and data collection and analysis will be the focus for 2017. Through lessons learned during pilot waste reduction projects, facilities are working to find methods to reduce waste and find alternative disposal methods. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 30 OUR OPERATIONS Food Safety and Quality Each day, ADM sources oilseeds, corn and wheat from the world’s major growing regions and transforms them into hundreds of ingredients from flour, shortenings and proteins to cooking oils and sweeteners. Over the course of more than a century in business, we have become a trusted supplier to many of the world’s most recognized and respected food brands, largely due to our emphasis on quality, consistency and safety. Here is an overview of the systems, expertise and experience we leverage to ensure we provide wholesome, high-quality products: • We continually review and improve our food safety systems and procedures, including manufacturing practices for human and animal food. These efforts include the development of risk-based preventive controls or critical control points for human food based on hazard analysis, both through corporate policies and procedures, and business unit implementation and execution. • We work to ensure food safety and quality by regularly auditing our own operations, and by carefully monitoring our raw materials streams. We evaluate our facilities, processes and procedures to assess the risk of contamination, and we employ a variety of safeguards and security concepts to reduce that risk. • Approximately 90 percent of our human food manufacturing locations in developed and developing countries have earned thirdparty food-safety certifications. Our vertically integrated business model ensures a high degree of visibility, control and quality assurance throughout the value chain. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 31 OUR OPERATIONS • Major ADM processing plants from Nebraska to the Netherlands to China have earned various food-safety certifications, including through the Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI). • We maintain rigorous Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) systems at our food and feed processing plants, and our U.S.based locations have implemented Hazard Analysis and Risk-based Preventive Controls (HARPC) as legislated through the the Food Safety Modernization Act (FSMA). These systems have been designed to identify, and safeguard against, potential risks at every stage of the facility’s operations. • In 2016, ADM had zero incidents resulting in fines or penalties from non-compliance with food regulations or from voluntary codes related to the health and safety impacts of products or services. • Each of our facilities is monitored by experienced GMP, Quality • ADM recalled a small number of products last year; in each case our System and HACCP audit teams. Our internal systems enable us to recall procedures worked as planned and material was recovered, receive, document, share and track plant performance and specific destroyed or used in an appropriate manner according to regulatory customer expectations. And our technical experts and rapid response expectations. teams are capable of handling customer concerns quickly and thoroughly. The safety and security of our world’s food and feed supply chain is of utmost importance to responsible participants in that chain. ADM aims to serve vital needs for food and energy, which necessitates attending to the safety and security of our supply chain. ADM has a commitment to the safety and security of its processes and products and to compliance with regulatory requirements designed to protect the world’s food supply. ADM facilities are in compliance with federal, state, local, county, tribal, or other applicable non-federal food safety laws, including relevant laws and regulations of foreign countries. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 32 OUR PEOPLE At ADM, the commitment, hard work and creativity of our colleagues help make us a strong, successful and sustainable organization. We strive to provide our employees with challenging and rewarding careers, and support them with ongoing training, global opportunities, and a comprehensive benefits package. High standards and core values drive our company and our employees. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 33 OUR PEOPLE We hold ourselves accountable to a high set of standards, as outlined Health & Safety in the core values that drive the decisions of our company and our ADM is committed to providing a safe working environment for all of employees. our employees and contractors. Protecting people and the environment • Integrity – We are honest, fair and ethical. We live our values is part of everything we do and every decision we make. For the last consistently and courageously. We speak up. And we walk the talk. several years, we have been on a journey to zero injuries – building a • Respect – We feel a deep and genuine regard for the safety and wellsafety culture so everyone will go home safely to their families and the being of all people, communities and resources, and we treat them things that are most important to them. with care and consideration. We demonstrate trust and openness. We are good stewards of the environment. COLLEAGUE INCIDENT RATES • Excellence – We expect and achieve superior results. We give and receive feedback to help us continually learn new ways to improve. 1 0.924 0.9 • Resourcefulness – We use our intelligence, talent and experience to 0.8 0.789 0.723 0.720 make the most of all we touch. We are efficient and flexible; we take 0.7 initiative, and we seek out effective, creative solutions. 0.6 0.5 • Teamwork – We believe the best results are achieved when we work 0.4 together. We are good colleagues; we work hard, support each other, 0.3 0.224 0.189 0.166 value our differences and strive for our mutual success. 0.2 0.153 0.1 • Responsibility – You can count on us. We take action, are results0 oriented and hold ourselves accountable. We fulfill our commitments. 2013 2014 2015 2016 We don’t give up. Total Recordable Incident Rate Lost Workday Incident Rate ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 34 OUR PEOPLE In 2016, we continued to make progress in achieving our goal of zero incidents, zero injuries. More ADM colleagues went home safely than ever before as we achieved a 17 percent reduction in our total recordable incident rate compared to 2015. Unfortunately, we also saw an increase of approximately 9 percent in our lost workday incident rate compared to 2015. However, since 2013, those incident rates have improved by 22 percent and 26 percent, respectively. Additionally, nearly 80 percent of our locations successfully completed the year with no recordable injuries, an improvement of nearly 4 percent from 2015. Since 2013, ADM has incorporated leading indicators as part of our regular safety metrics in order to improve safety management, including a focus on serious and potentially serious events. Our Behavioral Safety process encourages safe behavior in the workplace through positive feedback and improving colleagues’ communication, involvement in the safety process, and hazard recognition abilities. In 2016, colleagues and contractors conducted an average of 25,000 safety observations per month on members of their teams and provided positive feedback where safe practices were demonstrated. Each year, ADM celebrates Global Safety and Health Week to reinforce our commitment to achieve safety excellence by encouraging employees to become engaged and take responsibility for their own safety and the safety of their colleagues. Throughout the week, colleagues and contractors in ADM locations around the globe focus on health and safety improvement strategies, celebrate successes, and renew their commitment to zero incidents, zero injuries. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 35 OUR COMMUNITIES ADM Cares – Strong Roots, Strong Communities, Strong Bonds $11.0 MILLION = Total contributions provided by ADM in 2016 through ADM Cares, a social investment program that strives to make a positive difference in the communities where our nearly 32,000 colleagues live and work. At ADM, we believe a strong community is made up of a combination of factors: great schools, effective social services, clean air and water, vibrant parks and recreation areas, active citizen involvement, and a spirit of local pride. That’s why we created ADM Cares. Through targeted grants to causes and organizations that help advance the social, economic, educational, environmental and agricultural interests of cities and towns across the U.S. and around the world, ADM Cares is serving vital needs in our communities, every day, in a variety of ways. The ADM Cares team evaluates projects submitted for funding to ensure they meet eligibility criteria, such as initiatives that support safe, responsible and environmentally sound agricultural practices in critical growing regions around the world. ADM Cares is serving vital needs ADM Cares comprises three distinct focus areas: Strong Roots, in our communities, every day, which supports the responsible development of agriculture; Strong Communities, which emphasizes improving the quality in a variety of ways. of life in ADM communities; and Strong Bonds, which promotes employee giving and volunteer activities. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 36 OUR COMMUNITIES Strong Roots: Promoting Sustainable Agriculture $1.3 MILLION = Total contributions made in 2016 through ADM Cares Taking the STEM Challenge – Decatur, Illinois to support Strong Roots. In 2016, ADM contributed $51,500 to the Decatur Public School Foundation (DPS) to Through Strong Roots, ADM funds initiatives that support safe, provide Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) grants to teachers responsible and environmentally sound agricultural practices in critical and support the Foundation’s annual fundraising event, The Legacy of Learning. In addition, ADM contributed $25,000 to the Illinois Science and Technology Institute growing regions in South America, North America and Southeast Asia. to sponsor a STEM Challenge with DPS that would give high school chemistry Strong Roots focuses primarily on farm and plantation health and safety students exposure to how science is applied in business. ADM employees volunteered to mentor area students as they participated in the challenge, which tasked each team programs for children and workers; responsible use of agricultural of students with redesigning popular snack foods to make them healthier. In addition chemicals; sustainable farming practices; rehabilitation and preservation to providing technical guidance, the mentors worked with the students to finalize product development and prepare their final presentations for the challenge. Other of environmentally sensitive lands; and agriculture educational ADM employees volunteered to visit area schools to showcase various food science programming for children and young adults. applications and help them understand how chemistry and food are connected The students’ response to the challenge and their interaction with ADM employees has been inspiring, and our colleagues are proud to share their time and talents to help Strong Communities: Promoting a Better Quality make a positive impact in the local community. of Life in Our Cities and Towns $5.5 MILLION = Total contributions made in 2016 through ADM Cares to support Strong Communities. ADM provides our locations throughout the world with the tools to contribute to organizations and programs that help make a positive difference in the communities where we live and work. Our facility managers work with small teams to create giving plans that deliver maximum local impact. Strong Communities focuses on education, environmental stewardship, and maintaining vibrant communities through grants to local schools and universities, hunger-relief organizations, local fire departments, local FFA chapters, Boys & Girls Clubs, and Habitat for Humanity, among many others. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 37 OUR COMMUNITIES Strong Bonds: Supporting Colleagues and Causes Worldwide $2.2 MILLION = Total contributions made in 2016 through ADM Cares to support Strong Bonds. Strong Bonds highlights our colleagues’ contributions and efforts related to employee giving and volunteer engagement opportunities. ADM colleagues are dedicated to improving the lives of their coworkers and neighbors by volunteering their time and providing philanthropic donations to support their communities and each other. Strong Bonds programs include matching gifts for colleagues’ personal charitable donations; support for organizations where our colleagues volunteer through our Dollars for Doers program; emergency funds for disaster relief and colleagues facing unusual financial strain; and in-kind donations of ADM products, land and used equipment. Additional Support $2.0 million = Total contributions made in 2016 through ADM Cares for activities such as fundraisers; payments to industry associations and groups; purchases of animals at livestock sales; scholarships; and global sponsorships. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 38 Archer Daniels Midland Company Page 2 April 25, 2017  Review of Archer Daniels Midland Company data and information systems and methodology for collection, VERIFICATION STATEMENT aggregation, analysis and review of information used to determine GHG emissions at Archer Daniels GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Midland Company Headquarters in Decatur, Illinois and during site visits to the Cedar Rapids, Iowa Corn Complex; and the ADM Des Moines, Iowa, Oilseeds facility. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged to conduct an independent verification of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reported by Archer Daniels Midland Company for the period stated below. This Verification  Audit of sample of data used by Archer Daniels Midland Company to determine GHG emissions. Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. Assurance Opinion: The determination of the GHG emissions is the sole responsibility of Archer Daniels Midland Company. BVNA’s sole responsibility was to provide independent verification on the accuracy of the GHG emissions reported, and on the Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the GHG emissions assertion shown underlying systems and processes used to collect, analyze and review the information. above: Boundaries of the reporting company GHG emissions covered by the verification:  is not a fair representation of the GHG emissions data and information; and  Operational Control  has not been prepared in accordance with the WRI/WBCSD GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard  Global Operations It is our opinion that Archer Daniels Midland Company has established appropriate systems for the collection,  Exclusions include a small number (<10) of leased office spaces. aggregation and analysis of quantitative data for determination of these GHG emissions for the stated period and Emissions data verified: boundaries.  Scope 1: 14,276,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent Statement of independence, impartiality and competence  Scope 2 (location based) : 3,425,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalent The Bureau Veritas Group is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, Health,  Biogenic Emissions: 5,943,000 metric tons CO2 equivalent Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing independent assurance services. Data and information supporting the Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions assertion were historical in nature. No member of the verification team has a business relationship with Archer Daniels Midland Company, its Directors Period covered by GHG emissions verification: or Managers beyond that required of this assignment. We conducted this verification independently and to our  January 1, 2016 to December 31, 2016 knowledge there has been no conflict of interest. GHG Reporting Protocols against which verification was conducted: The Bureau Veritas Group has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities.  World Resources Institute (WRI)/World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas Protocol The verification team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined experience in this field and an GHG Verification Protocols used to conduct the verification: excellent understanding of The Bureau Veritas Group standard methodology for the verification of greenhouse gas  ISO 14064-3: Greenhouse gases -Part 3: Specification with guidance for the validation and verification of emissions data. greenhouse gas assertions Attestation: Level of Assurance and Qualifications:  Limited Assurance  This verification used a materiality threshold of 5% for aggregate errors in sampled data for each of the above indicators GHG Verification Methodology: John A. Rohde, Lead Verifier Lisa S. Barnes, Technical Reviewer Senior Project Manager Practice Line Leader  Interviews with relevant personnel of Archer Daniels Midland Company; Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Lakewood Colorado Lakewood, Colorado  Review of documentary evidence produced by Archer Daniels Midland Company; April 25, 2017 This verification statement, including the opinion expressed herein, is provided to Archer Daniels Midland Company and is Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. solely for the benefit of Archer Daniels Midland Company in accordance with the terms of our agreement. We consent to the release of this statement by you to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in order to satisfy the terms of CDP disclosure requirements but Health, Safety and Environmental Services Main : (303) 988.2585 without accepting or assuming any responsibility or liability on our part to CDP or to any other party who may have access to this statement. 165 South Union Boulevard, Suite 310 Fax : (303) 988.2583 Lakewood, Colorado 80228 www.BureauVeritasHSE.com ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 39 BUREAU VERITAS NORTH AMERICA INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT Archer Daniels Midland Company. Page 2 It is our opinion that ADM has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and Introduction and objectives of work analysis of quantitative data for determination of these metrics for the stated period and boundaries. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. (BVNA) was engaged by Archer Daniel Midland Company (ADM) to conduct an independent assurance of select environmental data reported in its 2016 environmental Statement of independence, impartiality and competence report (the Report). This Assurance Statement applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. The intended users of the assurance statement are the stakeholders Bureau Veritas Group is an independent professional services company that specializes in Quality, of ADM. The overall aim of this process is to provide assurance to ADM’s stakeholders on the Health, Safety, Social and Environmental management with over 180 years history in providing accuracy, reliability and objectivity of select information included in the Report. independent assurance services, and an annual 2015 revenue of $4.6 billion Euros. The reported information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with ADM, its Directors or Managers management of ADM. BVNA was not involved in the collection of the information or the drafting of the beyond that of verification and assurance of sustainability data and reporting. We have conducted this Report. verification independently and we believe there to have been no conflict of interest. Bureau Veritas has implemented a Code of Ethics across the business to maintain high ethical Scope of Work standards among staff in their day-to-day business activities. ADM requested BVNA to include in its independent review the following: The assurance team has extensive experience in conducting assurance over environmental, social, ethical and health and safety information, systems and processes, has over 20 years combined  Assurance of select environmental data and information including energy use, water use and experience in this field and an excellent understanding of Bureau Veritas standard methodology for safety metrics as summarized the Assurance of Sustainability Reports. Methodology Attestation: BVNA undertook the following activities: 1. Site visits to ADM facilities in Cedar Rapids, Iowa and Des Moines, Iowa; 2. Visit to ADM corporate offices in Decatur, Illinois; John A. Rohde, Technical Reviewer Lisa S. Barnes 3. Interviews with relevant personnel of ADM including employees at the facility and corporate level; Senior Project Manager Practice Line Leader Sustainability and Climate Change Services Sustainability and Climate Change Services 4. Review of internal and external documentary evidence produced by ADM; Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. Bureau Veritas North America, Inc. 5. Audit of environmental performance data presented in the Report, including a detailed review of a sample of data against source data; and April 25, 2017 6. Review of ADM information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and internal verification and review of environmental data. Our work was conducted against Bureau Veritas’ standard procedures and guidelines for external Verification of Sustainability Reports, based on current best practice in independent assurance. Bureau Veritas procedures are based on principles and methods described in the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. A materiality threshold of ±5-percent was set for the assurance process. The work was planned and carried out to provide verification at a limited assurance level and we believe it provides an appropriate basis for our conclusions. Our Findings Nothing came to our attention that the indicators shown in the attached table for ADM’s Calendar Year 2016 reporting period (January 1, 2016 through December 31, 2016) are not accurate. Our Conclusion Based on the process and procedures conducted, there is no evidence that the data shown above:  is not a fair representation of the energy, water and safety data and information; and  has not been prepared in accordance with the ADM procedures. ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 40 Archer Daniels Midland Company. Page 3 Archer Daniel Midland Company Reporting Metrics Calendar Year 2016 Energy Source Quantity Units Source Quantity Units Electricity 5,291,000 MWh Gasoline 20,610 MWh Steam 510,000 MWh Jet Fuel 16,100 MWh Biodiesel 990 MWh Kerosene 560 MWh Biogas 425,100 MWh Liquified Petroleum Gas 59,500 MWh Biomass (Agricultural) 353,000 MWh Lubricants 16 MWh Biomass (Solid Products) 21,500 MWh Natural Gas 20,023,000 MWh Biomass (Wood) 3,194,000 MWh Subbituminous Coal 17,034,000 MWh Bituminous Coal 10,950,000 MWh Tires 147,900 MWh Diesel Fuel 2,308,000 MWh Residual Fuel Oil 526,200 MWh 3 Water Usage (Locations >100,000 m /year) Source Quantity Units Safety Metrics Groundwater 38,582,000 cubic meters Total Recordable Incident Rate 0.7 Municipal 39,252,000 cubic meters Lost Days Incident Rate 0.17 Rain 750,000 cubic meters Surface 37,687,000 cubic meters ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 41 GRI INDEX Omission Part and GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Reason General Disclosures Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organization Archer-Daniels-Midland Company and its subsidiaries 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10-K, page 4 102-3 Location of headquarters Chicago, Illinois, USA 102-4 Location of operations 10-K, pages 15-20 102-5 Ownership and legal form Publicly traded company, incorporated 102-6 Markets served 10-K, page 4 102-7 Scale of the organization Our Operations, page 21; 10K, pages 24 & 28 Gender breakdowns Full time employees: 31,760 are not 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Seasonal employees: 784 available Part time employees: 903 outside the US. 102-9 Supply chain Our Supply Chain, pages 11-19 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain None GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environmental Policy, page 6 102-12 External initiatives Our Commitments, page 10 102-13 Membership of associations Our Commitments, page 10 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO, page 1 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Our Commitments, pages 5-9 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Proxy Statement, pages 13-14; Our Operations, page 22 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Our Report, page 2 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 31% 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Our Report, page 2 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Our Report, pages 2-3 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Our Report, page 3 ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 42 GRI INDEX Omission Part and GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Reason Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10-K, Exhibit 21 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Our Report, pages 2-3 102-47 List of material topics Our Report, page 3 102-48 Restatements of information None 102-49 Changes in reporting None GRI 102: General 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2016 Disclosures 2016 102-51 Date of most recent report July 6, 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@adm.com This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards option 102-55 GRI content index Page 42 102-56 External assurance Pages 39-41 Material Topics Energy 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Operations, pages 26-27 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Operations, pages 26-27 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Operations, page 27; 3rd party verification, pages 40-41 a) Total non-renewable fuel consumption: 56,857,000 MWh b) Total renewable fuel consumption: 4,024,000 MWh c) Total: i) Electricity consumption: 5,291,000 MWh ii) Heating consumption: 0 MWh iii) Cooling consumption: 0 MWh iv) Steam consumption: 510,000 MWh d) Total: GRI 302: Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization i) Electricity sold: 155,000 MWh ii) Heating sold: 0 MWh iii) Cooling sold: 0 MWh iv) Steam sold: 0 MWh e) Total energy consumption: 60,881,000 MWh f) Methodology/Calculation tools: Energy data is gathered using a combination of utility bills, operations data tracking systems, and fuel purchase records. g) Conversion factors: www.onlineconversion.com ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 43 GRI INDEX Omission Part and GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Reason a) Energy intensity: 0.96 MWh/MT processed b) Denominator: metric tons processed 302-3 Energy intensity c) Types of energy included: all d) Consumption boundary: energy consumed within the organization a) Reductions in energy: 25% reduction in intensity over baseline GRI 302: Energy b) Types of energy included: all c) Base Year: 2010 This was the first year that global emissions data was 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption quantified. d) Methodology/Calculation tools: Energy data is gathered using a combination of utility bills, operations data tracking systems, and fuel purchase records. Water Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Operations, pages 26, 29 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Operations, pages 26, 29 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Operations, page 29; 3rd party verification, pages 40-41 a) Total volume of water withdrawn i) Surface water: 37,687,000 m3 ii) Ground water: 38,582,000 m3 iii) Rainwater: 750,000 m3 iv) Wastewater from other organizations: 0 303-1 Water withdrawal by source v) Municipal water: 39,252,000 m3 b) Standards/methodologies used: Data is collected using a combination of GRI 303: Water flow meters and utility billing data. Once-through cooling water that is withdrawn and returned to the same body of water with only a change in temperature is excluded. a) Total volume of water recycled and reused: 2,143,000 m3 b) Volume of water recycled as % of total: 2% 303-3 Water recycled and reused c) Standards/methodologies used: For this category, only water collected and treated onsite in onsite wastewater treatment operations is included. Land Use and Biodiversity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Supply Chain, pages 12-16 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Supply Chain, pages 12-16 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Supply Chain, pages 12-16 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on GRI 304: Biodiversity Our Supply Chain, pages 12-16 biodiversity ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 44 GRI INDEX Omission Part and GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Reason GHG Emissions 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Operations, pages 26, 28 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Operations, pages 26, 28 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Operations, page 28; 3rd party verification, page 39 a) Scope 1 emissions: 14,276,000 MT CO2e b) Gases included: All Kyoto protocol gases, plus additional refrigerants c) Biogenic CO2 emissions: 5,943,000 MT CO2 d) Base Year: 2010 i) Rationale: This was the first year that global emissions data was quantified. ii) Base year emissions: Scope 1 14,244,000 MT CO2e; Biogenic – 5,314,000 MT CO2 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions iii) Recalculation of base year: N/A e) Source of emission factors: Depending on region, emission factors are from IEA, US EPA, and/or The Climate Registry; GWPs used are from IPCC 4th edition report f) Consolidation approach: operational control g) Standards/methodologies used: The Climate Registry protocol is used except where otherwise required by law, such as US EPA Part 98 Mandatory Reporting. a) Location-based Scope 2 emissions: 3,425,000 MT CO2e GRI 305: Emissions b) Market-based Scope 2 emissions: N/A c) Gases included: All Kyoto protocol gases d) Base Year: 2010 i) Rationale: This was the first year that global emissions data was quantified. ii) Base year emissions: Scope 1 14,244,000 MT CO2e; Biogenic – 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 5,314,000 MT CO2 iii) Recalculation of base year: N/A e) Source of emission factors: Depending on region, emission factors are from IEA, US EPA, and/or The Climate Registry; GWPs used are from IPCC 4th edition report f) Consolidation approach: operational control g) Standards/methodologies used: The Climate Registry protocol. a) GHG emissions intensity: .279 MT CO2e/MT processed b) Denominator: metric tons processed 305-4 GHG emissions intensity c) Types of GHG emissions included: Scopes 1 and 2 d) Gases included: All Kyoto protocol gases, plus additional refrigerants ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 45 GRI INDEX Omission Part and GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Reason a) GHG reduction: intensity reduced 11% over baseline b) Gases included: All Kyoto protocol gases c) Base Year: 2010 This was the first year that global emissions data was GRI 305: Emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions quantified. d) Scopes: Scopes 1 & 2 e) Standards/methodologies used: The Climate Registry protocol Supply Chain Management 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Supply Chain, pages 11-17 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Supply Chain, pages 11-17 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Supply Chain, pages 11-17 GRI 308: Supplier 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and Environmental Our Supply Chain, pages 11-17 actions taken Assessment GRI 413: Local 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Our Supply Chain, pages 11-17 communities impacts on local communities GRI 414: Supplier 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Our Supply Chain, pages 11-17 Social Assessment Human Rights 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Supply Chain, page 17 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Supply Chain, page 17 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Supply Chain, page 17 GRI 407: Freedom 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of of Association and Our Supply Chain, page 17 association and collective bargaining may be at risk Collective Bargaining 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of GRI 408: Child Labor Our Supply Chain, page 17 child labor GRI 409: Forced or 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Our Supply Chain, page 17 compulsory labor forced of compulsory labor GRI 411: Rights of 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Our Supply Chain, page 17 indigenous peoples 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or GRI 412: Human Our Supply Chain, page 17 impact assessments Rights Assessments 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Our Supply Chain, page 17 GRI 414: Supplier 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Our Supply Chain, pages 12,17 Social Assessment ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 46 GRI INDEX Omission Part and GRI Standard Disclosure Page number(s) and/or URL(s) Reason Community Relations 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Communities, pages 36-38 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Communities, pages 36-38 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Communities, pages 36-38 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and Our Operations, pages 31-32 service categories 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and GRI 416: Customer Our Operations, pages 31-32 safety impacts of products and services Health and Safety FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally Our Operations, pages 31-32 recognized food safety management system standards Technology & Innovation 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Our Operations, pages 22-24 GRI 103: Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Operations, pages 22-24 Approach 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Our Operations, pages 22-24 Not applicable Significant innovations or strategic partnerships Our Operations, pages 23-24 ARCHER DANIELS MIDLAND COMPANY / 2016 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT / 47
