CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 ATHENS INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT ELEFTHERIOS VENIZELOS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Contents 1. Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO 06 2. Corporate Identity 10 3. Our Business 22 4. Our Environment 44 5. Our People 54 6. Our Citizenship 62 7. Sustainability Framework and Assurance 70 4 5 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 JOINT ADDRESS T he Corporate Responsibility (CR) Report Corporate Responsibility is implemented as a structured 2016 presents the sustainability objectives, governance system, embedding international best management practices and attained practices with respect to planning, implementing, performance of Athens International Airport. measuring and transparently reporting its non-financial The Airport Company responds to the growing performance. Related Corporate Responsibility policies BY THE CHAIRMAN sustainability challenges by practicing effective are continuously updated in line with emerging corporate governance and implementing adaptable and requirements and global standards. innovative entrepreneurial solutions. In 2016, AIA further progressed its Materiality Analysis Our sustainable success at Athens International for identifying and prioritising material issues (i.e. AND THE CEO Airport is about running a good business. Our those of significant impact for the company and its strategic objectives extend beyond our sound stakeholders). The Materiality Analysis is an essential financial performance and effectively balance our corporate practice that identifies sustainability approach for business, social and environmental aims priorities, structures the related action plan, determines as the outcome of consistently acknowledging and the content of this CR Report and constitutes the responding to diverse stakeholder interests. As part of focus of the independent corporate responsibility our perpetual drive for attaining sustainability through assurance process. For the first time, the 2016 exercise prudent effectiveness, the monitoring and transparent incorporated the input from airport community disclosure of our undertakings becomes a crucial part stakeholders with respect to their perceived influence of of understanding the internal and external impact of material issues. airport business. In line with the Company’s sustaining commitment For Athens International Airport, 2016 proved to be yet to the United Nations Global Compact, AIA adopts another milestone year, since passenger traffic recorded and upholds the related sustainability principles for an all-time high performance, surpassing the 20 million Human Rights, Labour Relations, Environmental Impact mark with a significant increase of 10.7% versus the and Anti-Corruption. Furthermore, the Company previous year. These traffic developments were realised acknowledges the United Nations’ Sustainability in a year of extraordinary macroeconomic conditions in Development Goals (SDGs) and the United Nations the country, with continuing capital control restrictions. Agenda 2030 for contributing to the collective effort for Despite the uncertainty and the exceptional market addressing the world’s most pressing social, economic, conditions, passenger traffic dynamics remained strong and environmental challenges. within the year and the robust growth momentum was maintained. At Athens International Airport we are fully aware that the Sustainable Development Goals agenda cannot 2016 was a record year in terms of both traffic and be realized without meaningful engagement by the financial performance. Growth in operating performance business sector. We acknowledge and diligently serve managed to offset changes in the cost structure the critical role of our company and our sector as a deriving from the Airport Development Agreement driver of innovation and technological development (i.e. increase in Grant of Rights Fee and indirect taxes) and as a key engine of economic growth and and extraordinary losses (impairment loss of financial employment. assets). Overall, in 2016 the Company recorded Profit before Tax (PBT) of € 189.1 million and distributes € We are also mindful of our core responsibilities against 125.7 million as dividend to its shareholders. the SDGs and ensure that our operations do not hinder this agenda by addressing our social and environmental Our achievement to handle substantial traffic increase impacts in a coordinated and effective manner. while sustaining costs at low levels and maintaining high quality of services confirms that AIA is sustainably Neither business nor government actions alone will efficient without compromising its value-for-money be enough to deliver the transformation towards strategy. Furthermore, consistent to our commitment a sustainable future. We can only realise our joint of balancing sound financial performance with a goals of long-term growth and shared prosperity by sustainable approach to business, the Airport Company collaborating across society. For that matter, AIA was recorded a valuation of our Corporate Responsibility particularly active in 2016 for pursuing the critical activities that was at 2.78% of the total operating 17th Goal – Partnership for the Goals, by exerting expense, while the total valuation of AIA’s Sustainability its networking leverage in order to revitalise the Value yield was significantly increased vs 2015, reaching cooperation for sustainable development. €147.4 million. Our Operational Responsibility Our Sustainability Framework Operational responsibility is the cornerstone of AIA’s ΑΙΑ follows a balanced stakeholder-focused approach commitments. The Company ensures safe, secure, as far as its sustainability objectives are concerned. efficient and value-adding services for the benefit of a 6 7 1 Joint Address by the Chairman and the CEO aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 well-coordinated airport community and for delivering its carbon footprint by 41% between 2005 and 2016. people, aged 19 to 29, the opportunity for on-theexhibitions. Examples of this year’s events included an exceptional experience to the travelling public. AIA has offset its remaining emissions to become the job training through a paid working experience at the “Drops of Breath” exhibition on the 1st worldwide 1st carbon neutral airport in Greece, the 25th in Europe the airport for a period of up to 6 months. At the underwater dance performance that took place at Cape In order to enhance passenger satisfaction and better and the 28th airport in the world, leading to an Airport completion of the programme, outplacement services Sounio, the photo exhibition “Olympic Games 1896” accommodate the traffic increase, a new large-scale Carbon Accreditation Level 3+ (Neutrality). are scheduled for the trainees through an external in collaboration with the Benaki Museum and Costa project was launched in 2016 affecting the entirety advisor. Navarino and the “People on the Move” exhibition by of the Intra-Schengen area and a large part of the AIA’s environmental profile is further bolstered by the Pulitzer Prize-winning photographer Yannis Behrakis Departures All Users area of the Main Terminal Building 8.05 MWp Photovoltaic (PV) Park compensating for Our Corporate Citizenship with the aim to raise public awareness on the refugee (MTB) in terms of both aesthetics and functionality. emissions of nearly 12,000 tonnes of CO2 per year with Promoting the city of Athens as a tourist destination crisis. At the same time, AIA’s concern with the The new project follows the successful upgrade of an expected lifecycle of more than 20 years. is at the core of both AIA’s business strategy and its challenges faced by Greek society is converted into the Extra-Schengen area in mid-2015 which made a meaningful contribution to society. Within this context, programmes of great value, such as the contribution to beneficial impact on passenger experience. Works on AIA’s “Polluter Pays” concept to waste management AIA in a strategic cooperation with Aegean Airlines, the Prolepsis Institute for ensuring proper nutrition for the centralisation of the passenger and hand-baggage continued in 2016 to produce remarkable results: a Marketing Greece and the Municipality of Athens the children of neighbouring schools. screening operation and related operational upgrades Recycling Rate of 58% for Solid Non-Hazardous Waste introduced the unique Athens Tourism Partnership were completed before the December 2016 traffic (7,761 tons out of total 13,461 tons) was recycled. In Project. The outcome of this institutional cooperation Our 14th consecutive Corporate peak. The remaining works mainly associated with addition, 334 tonnes of Hazardous Waste and 197 kg of generated a unique online/digital campaign for Responsibility Report the upgrade of the commercial area are estimated to medical/clinical waste were collected and transferred to Athens, which was launched to the public during The 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report is a factsbe completed by May 2017, leading to the thorough licensed facilities. Also, airport employees recycled 8.9 a press conference at the Athens town hall during based presentation of our sustainability performance, remodelling of the greatest part of the Departures Level tonnes of non-hazardous and hazardous waste at our December 2016. validating our corporate commitments as they are area, introducing new quality brands and presenting an dedicated Recycling Centre. materialised in a consistent and controlled manner. enriched product portfolio fully aligned with the latest Athens International Airport once more hosted the The CR Report is prepared in accordance to the GRI market trends. AIA’s environmental performance was recognised at 4th Airport Chief Executive’s’ Symposium (ACESSustainability Reporting Standards (newly introduced the 2016 Greek Environmental Awards with two Gold Athens) in December 2016. This initiative of the Airport in 2016) and the provisions of the Sustainable Innovation has consistently been a major driving force awards in the categories of “Water Efficiency” and Company takes place in Athens on an annual basis Development Goals of the United Nations. The Report for AIA’s operational responsibility. Our airport is the “Water Consumption Reduction”. Furthermore, AIA and aims to highlight the interdependence between was submitted for limited assurance by an independent first in the world to implement a “bot” application received an important distinction in the context of the airports and the development of the destinations third party and contains our Communication on through Facebook messenger. The ground-breaking 2016 “ECOPOLIS Environmental Awareness Awards” they serve, while introducing initiatives for the Progress report in line with our sustaining commitment application received numerous distinctions such as the for its work in monitoring ecosystems in the area of strengthening of Athens as a tourism destination. to the United Nations Global Compact. Our CR gold award in the 2016 e-volution awards. Moreover, the airport, the protection of biodiversity and wildlife This year’s event, attended by more than 100 top reporting process supports our commitment for the innovation challenge “Digital Gate” opened up new management. executives, focused on evaluating the current cruise transparency and facilitates alignment with globally opportunities for young entrepreneurs and helped AIA market out of Athens and setting out necessary acknowledged best practices. introduce a fresh approach to airport technology. Our Responsibility as Employer synergies amongst stakeholders involved in order to We have a long-standing commitment to maintaining accelerate the development of this particular segment We believe that there is a strong argument for corporate In 2016, the Company progressed preparations for a workplace culture that encourages development and in the foreseeable future. responsibility and accountability, for respecting complying with the new EASA Aerodrome Rules and for makes the best use of the knowledge and skills of our globally recognised principles as part of our dayadvancing aviation safety practices. Ensuring the health people. We value our human capital by attracting a In 2016, AIA continued its sustaining commitment to to-day operation. This belief is strengthened further & safety of the travelling public, all public and technical committed workforce and offering a safe and modern supporting the prosperity of local society through when considering how our activities and impacts map areas are regularly inspected in order to ensure that work environment. the Corporate Community Engagement Plan. The across the global sustainability agenda. Our operations airport facilities personnel comply with legal provisions Plan includes activities and projects pertinent to are measured and monitored for their effect and and AIA’s corporate rules and procedures. At the end of 2016, our headcount was 604 people education, culture, athletics, transportation, society contribution towards addressing global challenges. Our under open-ended contracts and 80 people were on a and the environment and it is the yield of continuous continuous improvement philosophy for implementing Operational readiness and availability performance of fixed-term contract. The average age of our employees cooperation and constructive dialogue of AIA with new ideas is not confined to showcase projects but critical systems was maintained at exceptional levels. is 43 years old with a high level educational background. local stakeholders. Related initiatives for 2016 included is embedded in a formulated corporate strategy that At the same time, satisfaction rating of our passengers 29.3% of our personnel reside at the local communities, financial rewards to local schools for their participation prioritises the impact on global goals alongside our remained high and even improved slightly (4.26 on a reflecting our close relationship with the Mesogeia in AIA’s Recycling Programme and to top students business objectives. 5-point scale), a very positive performance considering community. from local high schools admitted to Greek Universities, the significant traffic increase and the extensive works water conservation awareness sessions for 1,728 Our sustainability commitments are aligned with the in the terminal. Passengers satisfaction is at the focus Our business strategy is closely linked with the students from 13 local elementary schools, significant “big picture”, even more so in the midst of a turbulent of every AIA employee, as more than 800 “virtual development of our people skills and capabilities. Thus, financial assistance to individuals and families in need social and business environment, maintaining intact passenger” walkthroughs were carried out in 2016 as the continuing professional and personal training of our as well as to several social institutions that have been our corporate reputation of a prudent, respectful and part of the innovative i-mind programme, corresponding employees is of vital importance, therefore significant most affected by the on-going economic recession responsible operator that nurtures employee loyalty, to over 50,000 inspections. resources are allocated towards these activities. The and the continuing conservation and promotion of the secures our dependability towards business partners 2016 Training Plan resulted in a total of 18,383 training Vravrona Wetland, a site of major archaeological and and drives public confidence in us. All of us at Athens Our Environmental Responsibility hours, with 100% of the employees attending at least environmental interest. International Airport are proud of our systematic and In 2016 AIA’s commitment for protecting the natural one training session and receiving the equivalent of 26.5 consistent running of a good business. environment and contributing to the global effort hours per FTE. AIA consistently promotes the country’s cultural against climate change was verified anew. By heritage and contemporary art while connecting social implementing best practices to operate its facilities and In 2016, AIA made a substantial contribution to youth contribution with business objectives. In regard to its Dr. Dimitrios Dimitriou Dr. Ioannis N. Paraschis equipment more efficiently and also investing heavily employability in Greece, by implementing the second cultural impact, AIA, in 2016, launched numerous art Chairman of the Board CEO in energy-saving technology, AIA managed to reduce round of the “Praxis” programme, offering 100 young collaborations in addition to the ongoing permanent of Directors 8 9 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 CORPORATE Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA” or the “Company”) was established in 1996 as a public-private partnership with a 30-year concession agreement. Ratified by Greek Law 2338/95, the concession IDENTITY agreement grants the Company the exclusive right and privilege of the ‘design, financing, construction, completion, commissioning, maintenance, operation, management and development of the new Athens International Airport’. Shareholder Structure The shareholder structure of Athens International Airport, according to the relevant Books of Shares and Shareholders, is: Shareholder Number of Shares % Hellenic Republic Asset Development Fund (HRADF) 9,000,000 30% AviAlliance GmbH 8,000,004 26.667% Greek State 7,500,000 25% AviAlliance Capital GmbH & Co. KGaA 4,000,002 13.333% Copelouzos Dimitrios 599,997 2% Copelouzou Kiriaki 299,999 1% Copelouzos Christos 299,999 1% Copelouzou Eleni-Asimina 299,999 1% Total 30,000,000 100% The Company’s registered office is situated in the stakeholders an operating and working environment Municipality of Spata, in the regional unit of East that meets the increasing demands on safety and Attica, Greece. AIA is a privately managed company security. with the Greek State holding 55% of shares (25% Greek State and 30% Hellenic Republic Asset About the Airport Development Fund-HRADF), while the private Athens International Airport “Eleftherios Venizelos” shareholders collectively hold 45%. extends in an area of approximately 16,000km2 and has two runways in compliance with ICAO With a corporate goal to create sustainable value to Aerodrome Reference Code “4E”, (03L/21R: all stakeholders by offering value-for-money services, 3,800x60m and 03R/21L: 4,000x60m incl. AIA has implemented a successful development shoulders on both sides with a width of 7.5m). strategy in both its aeronautical and nonaeronautical sectors. Offering advanced incentives The Airport features a 168,000m2 Main Terminal and marketing support schemes AIA ensures Building and a 34,000m2 Satellite Terminal Building the sustainability and development of domestic, with a total of 24 Contact Bridges and 75 active remote regional and international traffic, working closely aircraft parking positions. The Airport is certified for all with home carriers and international carriers, legacy known types of currently operating aircraft, including airlines and low-cost-carriers (LCCs). In the nonthe Boeing 747-8 and the Airbus A380. aeronautical sector AIA undertakes advanced and extensive development initiatives ranging from IT & AIA’s Stakeholders Telecommunications systems and business activities, AIA is engaging stakeholders in a balanced to high-quality consumer-related products offered and respectful manner, comprehending their at its commercial terminals and business activities requirements and expectations and integrating this related to its real estate assets. input in its strategy development and deployment. The Company has established mechanisms to The Company operates in a socially and elicit stakeholder feedback which the Management environmentally responsible way providing evaluates and actively responds to. 10 11 2 Corporate Identity aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 AIA’s operational success heavily relies on our local society include a telephone hotline. Corporate Governance cooperation with our stakeholders. Cooperation with our customers and business partners is facilitated On a wider society level, AIA engages passengers through a structure of engagement practices and other consumers through various feedback Governance Structure State advises the Company for the appointment (committees, exercises, workshops, joint activities mechanisms (satisfaction surveys, complaint The corporate governance framework established at of four members (also indicating the Chairman), etc.) further to the day-to-day interface. management, etc.) aiming to compile evaluation data Athens International Airport abides by the provisions while shareholders who represent the majority of used for planning actions for improvement. of the Company’s constitutional documents, i.e. the the ordinary shares other than those held by the On a community engagement level, continuous Articles of Association (as per the provisions of the Greek State, appoint four directors, also indicating interaction with authorities and their representatives The stakeholder map reflects on the diversity of Airport Development Agreement and Law 2338/1995 the Vice Chairman. The ninth director is appointed facilitates identification of relevant sustainability the Airport Company’s stakeholders based on the Government Gazette A’ 202/14.9.1995) and includes either following an agreement between the Greek issues and prioritisation of challenges and effect of our operational and business activities both a number of specific processes and procedures State and the shareholdings holding the majority of opportunities through a perspective of mutual trust within and outside the boundaries of the airport which aim at forging a robust governance structure the ordinary shares or in case of non-achievement of and understanding. Feedback mechanisms from community. and approach in line with the principles set forth in such an agreement, by the Chairman of the European the Law 2190/1920, article 41 of the 8th European Investment Bank. The CEO is responsible for the day Company Law Directive as well as the OECD to day management and operation of the Company’s AIA Stakeholder Map Principles of Corporate Governance. activities, is proposed by the private shareholders and participates in all Board of Directors meetings AIA Employees: The nine-member Board of Directors elected by with no voting right. Board Meetings are held on a with open-end the General Meeting of Shareholders with a twomonthly basis and are supported by a competent, contracts 604 year term of office, bears the responsibility for the qualified and experienced Company Secretary who management and administration of all corporate advises Board members with an opinion to ensure seasonally employed matters and affairs and has in this respect delegated that statutory and regulatory requirements are met 80 specific authorities to the Chief Executive Officer and as well as provides guidance on Board matters to Labour relations Employee Surveys the members of Management respectively. The Greek senior management. Bilateral Meetings No of Bilateral Meetings User Commitees Employees User Commitees Customer Surveys Customer Surveys 2,120 AIA Organisational Structure Greek State Terminal CommuEmployees Concessionaires* 25% Bilateral Meetings nications & Marketing Users & Commercial Park* Airlines Joint Business HRADF Handlers Board Meetings Activities Other Entities* 30% Governance Structure Customer Surveys No of Employees Commu Prvate ort nit 6,100 Board Investors A irp Concessionof Directors Shareholders y Legal 45% naires Affairs Internal Audit HCAA / Ministry No of State Committees Passenger Surveys Passengers Employees* Chief No of Authorities Executive Passenger Comment Crisis Management Corporate passengers Management 1,570 Officer (CEO) Planning ut Regulatory Audits 20,017,530 O rt Dr I.Ν. Paraschis I-mind s id po e t he Ai r Local Suppliers No of Community suppliers Int’l 751 Greater Aviation Corporate Control Society Community Domestic Meetings with No of Chief Bilateral Meetings representatives Municipalities Chief Finance & 85% Contract Terms Chief Operations Development Administration Joint Activities 6 Officer (COO) Officer (CDO) Officer (CFO) Foreign A. Aravanis G. Eleftherakos P. Michalarogiannis 15% Corporate Publications Security Outsourced Services Providers* Business networking ACI Committees Social contribution Routes Conferences Security Technical No of Information Operations Services Employees Aviation Technology & Consumers Property Corporate Business TelecommunicaBusiness Business Finance 2,300 Unit tions Business Unit Unit Unit Unit Human EnvironBusiness Resources Total No of Companies mental Control Management /Entities at the Airport* Services 385 * AIA Records of Airport ID Cards Dec 2016 Total No of Business Corporate Employees*: Control Quality 14,674 12 13 2 Corporate Identity aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Management system is established for ensuring responsible Company within the markets it operates The schedule of matters reserved for the decision • The role of operational managers who design, effective interfaces, proper authorisation and version and to influence others in their effort to follow of the Board and its Committees include without implement and supervise the execution of control of procedural documentation. a path of sustainability. Our corporate values limitation: (a) the approval of the overall long-term procedures that serve controls. (Accountability, Team Spirit, Respect, Effectiveness, strategy, corporate goals and formal Business • The role of the Corporate Control function, The Company invests in management systems that Customer Focus) are embedded in all aspects of our Plan, (b) approval of annual operating and capital assigned with Risk Management responsibilities, enhance controls and serve its commitment for operation and development. budgets, (c) ensuring the integrity of the Company’s providing assistance to Management in developing providing high-quality, state-of-the-art services. accounts and financial reporting systems, (d) processes and controls to manage risks and Where necessary, these systems are certified in AIA applies a Code of Business Conduct, developed approval of major Pricing Policies, (e) approval monitoring the timely remediation of potential accordance with prevailing standards. in line with global best practices, which urges of major contract awards, and (f) delegation of deficiencies. Its scope also includes operational employees to conduct business activities in powers related to administration, management business continuity planning, as described in Ch.3 In this respect, AIA maintains certification accordance with corporate values, thus aiming to and representation of the Company. In order to of this Report. against the ISO9001:2008 standard for Quality preserve the Company’s good reputation, maintain allow an effective discharge of its duties, the Board • The Management’s integrated and coordinated Management and the ISO20000-1:2011 standard for public trust and bolster stakeholders’ confidence. has established appropriate Board Committees approach to risk is also accomplished through the IT Service Management for its IT&T Business Unit. The Code is a management tool that safeguards which have an advisory capacity. These are the activities of the Finance function that monitors Furthermore, AIA holds a certification against the an all-embracing work environment where no Audit Committee, Personnel Committee, Finance financial risks and financial reporting issues, the ISO 14001 standard (release 2004+Cor1:2009) for discrimination, victimisation and harassment may Committee and Investment Committee. Board Security/Safety departments which monitor the its Environmental Services department. In 2016, occur. The Code provides a framework that allows committees possess specialised knowledge, respective risks and hazards and the Regulatory preparations commenced for certification against employees to express their concerns on possible discuss issues in their remit in depth and make and Legal Compliance Coordination function the ISO50001:2011 for Energy Management across violations in good faith, while protecting them from recommendations to the Board. which in turn monitors specific risks such as nonAIA operations and are scheduled to be concluded any retaliation. The Code promotes Management compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in 2017. Responsibility with respect to corporate standards of The Annual Ordinary General Meeting of the This systematic and disciplined approach enhances conduct through an annual reconfirmation process. Shareholders approves actions and decisions of the and optimises the company’s strategic decisionInformation Integral to the Code of Business Conduct, the Code Board of Directors during the previous corporate making capability. On an annual basis, AIA issues and publicly of Relations with Business Partners ensures that fiscal year and releases the Board of Directors • The Internal Audit Function provides shareholders discloses a number of reports that cover all aspects all business partners are treated with fairness and from any liability from that year in accordance with with assurance on the adequacy of the Company’s of activities and performance. Furthermore, AIA integrity and that employees interfacing with them the Law 2190/1920 and the Company’s Articles overall risk management processes. The Statutory has developed a reporting system which not only abide by a strict framework of principles and rules. of Association. Further information about AIA’s Auditor provides assurance on adequacy of supports Management in its strategic decisionShareholder Structure and the Board of Directors controls impacting accuracy of the financial making but also fosters effective communication A Code Acceptance & Reconfirmation process is included in the 2016 Annual Report, available statements. It is important to note that this within the Company as well as with external parties. is integrated in the relevant online awareness through the corporate website (www.aia.gr). function is accountable to the Audit Committee, programme and is being completed on an annual thus securing its independence. Publicly available information regarding AIA basis by all AIA employees. The Company is structured around four Business including corporate publications is available in the Units serving the relevant activity sectors (Aviation, It is noteworthy that Risk Management and relevant section of the Company’s website (www.aia. Anti-Fraud Consumers, Property and IT & Telecommunications), Internal Audit activities are complementary and gr/company-and-business/the-company). Prevention of fraud is a crucial element of AIA’s which hold a combined responsibility for operational supplementary in nature. There exists a very close Policies and strict compliance to the relevant excellence and business development. Business Units collaboration between the respective functions, Monitoring rules must be secured by involved employees, are supported by various corporate functions. operating within a common risk definition and AIA is practicing continuous monitoring in order to Management members and members of the Board framework. provide assurance that controls and other planned of Directors. System of Internal Controls and Risk actions are carried out properly and to identify key Management Legal and Regulatory Compliance exceptions requiring quick and effective review Management and employees are expected to behave Both the Board and the Management are committed Through its Audit Committee, the Board is and management action. Scheduled periodic in an honest and fair way, in line with the provisions to maintain a sound system of internal controls committed to enforcing a stringent policy of audits performed both by external auditors and the of AIA’s Code of Business Conduct for compliance, to safeguard the Company’s assets and ensure compliance with all applicable Laws and Regulators. Company’s Internal Audit department aim to further integrity and avoidance of conflict of interest, thus that significant risks are identified and adequately For this purpose, the Company’s Legal Director assure adequacy of the internal control environment. promoting fraud avoidance. managed. For this purpose, AIA has adopted the has assumed increased responsibility through Furthermore, enhanced IT solutions that AIA has most contemporary risk management practice, its role as Legal and Regulatory Compliance developed, such as data measurement techniques AIA aims to protect its employees, financial interests, often referred to as enterprise risk management Coordinator, aiming to coordinate required activities applied to the compilation of indicators for corporate clients, providers and the people who live and act (ERM), and aims to deal with risks from a broader of all departments, specifically in the areas: use, facilitate the continuous monitoring process. at the airport community by carrying out a fair and scope, depth and perspective, including strategic, Aerodrome Operations, Ground Handling Services, balanced policy that develops and maintains an operational and financial risks; such approach Environment, Security, Information Technology, Steadily reinforcing the Business Units’ role, AIA’s anti-fraud culture. AIA is committed to deter, prevent undoubtedly constitutes an advancement as Accounting & Tax, Procurement, Labour, Fire Safety Value Based Management (VBM) methodology and investigate fraud and corruption and to apply compared to the “traditional” risk transfer approach and Design & Construction and Airport Charges measures performance against predefined targets appropriate corrective and/or disciplinary measures of managing the insurance portfolio and resolving Policy. on both financial and non-financial metrics and as required working in a collaborative way to seek claims to protect the company’s value. parameters (e.g. systems’ efficiency, quality of remedy wherever possible. Process Management services, safety of operations, environmental In addition to the requirements of the ERM, AIA The Company maintains and continuously updates responsibility, personnel safety, training, etc.). AIA has established an Anti-Fraud Policy, that is, has implemented the organisational arrangements a system of policies and procedures, ensuring that a system of internal controls securing adequate recommended by the Institute of Internal Auditors Management directives are cascaded and corporate Business Conduct containment of fraud risk; an internal framework (IIA). Such arrangements include: objectives are achieved. A corporate Process AIA aims at being acknowledged as an exemplary is provided for all employees to report suspected 14 15 2 Corporate Identity aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 acts of fraud or other similar irregularities; and independence of the Internal Audit department Standard (2008) specifically the principles of The Materiality Analysis was revised in 2016 a mechanism is in place for undertaking formal as well as the selection, performance, objectivity Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness. containing a total of 23 sustainability issues, of which investigation of such irregularities and designing and independence of the Statutory Auditor. It has 13 are evaluated as Material. The correlation of the specific actions to rectify identified control gaps. oversight responsibilities on the enhancement of CR Strategy material issues with GRI aspects and the external the business ethics and anti-fraud controls. The The CR Strategy is developed in line with the assurance provided is described in a relevant table in Regular Review of Controls by the Board Audit Committee also monitors the adequacy of the corporate mission, objectives and targets and Ch.7 of this Report. The Board regularly reviews the main risks to the Company’s compliance with Legal and Regulatory following the assessment of current conditions business and the effectiveness of the System of requirements. (market trends, economic status, social needs, In line with the provisions of the GRI Standards and Internal Controls in managing these risks including environmental challenges, etc.) best practices and the related Airport Operators Sector Disclosures financial, operational and compliance controls as well With respect to Corporate Responsibility prevailing standards, findings and recommendations (GRI-G4 AOSD) evaluation of materiality is based as the Risk Management Process. For this purpose, governance, related issues (namely environmental, arising from the CR assurance process and/or any on two parameters: “Impact” (Significance of the Board, through the Audit Committee, receives safety, human resources issues) are regularly other input from benchmarking exercises. Impact) and “Influence” (Influence on Stakeholders’ regular reports from the Company’s Internal Auditor brought to the attention of the Board of Directors Assessment). For the first time, the 2016 exercise and Statutory Auditor in respect of the adequacy of by the Management. In the same context, the Audit CR Strategy is reflected upon the annual Materiality incorporated the input from airport community the internal control system. Committee, in its capacity to monitor the adequacy Analysis and the resulting CR Action Plan, which stakeholders with respect to their perceived of internal and external controls, reviews the is approved by AIA Senior Management and “Influence” of material issues. The elaborated The said committee is also responsible for independence and quality of the parties engaged by communicated through the annual CR Report. description of these two parameters is included in supervising and monitoring the performance and the Management to provide CR Assurance services. the “Materiality Evaluation Model” in Ch.7 of this The CR Committee, formed by designated Report. Management representatives, is primarily responsible Corporate Responsibility Governance for the development and review of the CR Policy and CR Strategy as an output of the annual Materiality Identification of aspect boundaries took the unique characteristics of an airport environment into Analysis and CR Action Plan. consideration. The impact boundaries of material Policy its operation and development. AIA acknowledges its issues (i.e. who might cause or contribute to the Athens International Airport S.A. (AIA) approaches role as a responsible Company for creating sustainable Materiality Analysis impact of each material issue) are presented in Ch.7. Corporate Responsibility (CR) in an integrated way value for its stakeholders and for balancing its Development and update of AIA’s CR Strategy is The outcome of the analysis depicting material aiming at promoting the sustainability of all aspects of objectives across the following perspectives: based on annual redefinition and prioritisation of issues is shown in the map below. The significance the material issues, i.e. those of significant impact of impacts to sustainable development, as presented on the Company and Sustainable Development in the X axis of the materiality map found below, has and of significant influence to its stakeholders. The been assessed based on specific scale of analysis Running the airport efficiently, in compliance with applicable legal and identification of these issues is essential as it sets (Global, National Airport Community) for each regulatory framework and in line with international best practice and acting Airport Operator’s priority areas for the CR Action Plan and defines the material issue, as appropriate. on public interest with respect to safety and service quality. Fostering an Responsibility content for this CR Report. airport community culture through cooperation and by acting fairly and with integrity towards third parties. Undertaking initiatives and commitments to minimise environmental AIA Materiality Map Environmental impact from airport operation, implementing efficient energy management Responsibility practices, as well as communicating and raising awareness on environmental issues. Engaging communities based on mutual respect, advancing social Corporate partnership and prosperity in the region, promoting Athens as a travel Customer Safety (Aviation) Citizenship destination, promoting the culture and heritage of Greece, supporting Market Presence humanitarian causes for society at large and respecting human rights. Influence (Influence on stakeholders’ assessment) Economic Performance Service Quality Business Continuity & Developing, compensating and engaging our human capital while Emergency Preparedness Employer’s maintaining a committed workforce in a safe, productive and fair work Noise Responsibility Corporate Governance environment. Community Engagement Services & Facilities for Persons with Special Needs Responsible Procurement Indirect Economic Impacts Aligning with the provisions of contemporary sustainability standards and Effluents & Waste Occupational Health & Safety Corporate guidelines, performing Materiality Analysis of the issues which are significant Emissions & Climate Change Responsibility for AIA’s Stakeholders in terms of economic, social and/or environmental Energy Customer Privacy Governance impact, planning actions for material issues, reporting performance Water Employment Practices transparently and promoting sustainability principles across our markets. Human Rights in Operations Labour Human Rights AIA’s approach for Corporate Responsibility is standards and reporting, CR Implementation for Training & Education Biodiversity reflected in the related CR Policy, which was revised embedding across AIA Units & Departments. Intermodality in 2016, and deployed as a cross-departmental effort through a contemporary 3-level CR governance AIA’s Corporate Responsibility approach abides by structure: CR Strategy for Materiality Analysis and the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (2016) and CR Action Plan, CR Integration for alignment with aligns with the AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Impact (significance of impact) 16 17 2 Corporate Identity aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Emphasis is placed on the aspects identified as Other SDGs are also contributed to by AIA Bridges, Airfield Lighting and IT&T systems) “material” and consequently the CR Assurance operations to a lesser extent. The table in Ch.7 • Efficiency of critical systems (expressed as Engagement process focuses on those issues. of this report shows the connection of all AIA’s maximum duration of single-event-failures for: Material issues through the chapters of this Report sustainability issues with the Goals. Baggage Handling, Medium Voltage, Airfield are marked with this symbol: Lighting and IT&T systems) The Corporate Responsibility Report • Aviation safety (expressed as occurring incidents / The CR Report 2016 covers information from a events) broad spectrum of activities, structured across • Airport Service Quality (expressed as the “overall Material Regardless of size and sector, all companies can four chapters (Ch. 3 Our Business, Ch.4 Our satisfaction” from AIA’s Passenger Survey) Issue contribute to the attainment of the SDGs, by Environment, Ch.6 Our Citizenship and Ch.5 • Climate Change Action Plan (expressed as actions carrying out business in a responsible manner Our People). complete) while pursuing opportunities to address societal • Community Engagement Action plan (expressed challenges through innovation and collaboration. Through the CR Report, AIA enhances the as actions complete) Linking AIA’s Business Objectives with Global challenges – ranging from climate, water transparency and disclosure practices related to • Human Resources development (expressed as the Sustainable Development Goals and food crises, to poverty, conflict and inequality governance, environmental, social and employee training hours per FTE) In line with the Company’s sustaining commitment – drive the transformation of business models and related initiatives. AIA’s CR Report conforms to to the United Nations Global Compact, AIA adopts the embedding of globally acknowledged values in contemporary international sustainability reporting Charts and tables with performance specifics for and upholds the related sustainability principles for everyday business. guidelines, such as the Global Reporting Initiative all above are found in the following chapters of this Human Rights, Labour Relations, Environmental Standards (2016) including the GRI G4 ‘Airport report, along with specific mentions regarding the Impact and Anti-Corruption. Furthermore, the Hence, the 17 Sustainable Development Goals can be Operators Sector Disclosures’ (AOSD) for which attainment of corporate targets. Company acknowledges the United Nations’ directly correlated with business activities. This is also AIA was a major contributor through a 2-year Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) and the case for AIA, as the company’s sustainability issues international project. Furthermore, the CR Report AIA and Sustainability-related the Agenda 2030, contributing to the global have a direct impact on most of the Goals. Specifically, fulfils ongoing commitments made towards the Associations sustainability effort. for the Material Issues, the correlation is as following: United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for Our active membership in business associations and Communication on Progress (CoP). our presence in various sustainability networking events enable us to demonstrate our practices and The 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report is the share expertise. Athens International Airport is a AIA’s fourteenth consecutive annual edition. member of the Board of CSR Hellas and the local In order to maximise the added value of the UN Global Compact Network; AIA also chairs the AIA’s Material Issues and Correlation with the Global Sustainable Development Goals CR reporting process, AIA engages in external CSR Committee of the Hellenic-American Chamber assurance of its disclosures for accuracy, of Commerce which, in 2016, organised its 14th GLOBAL NATIONAL LOCAL AREA AIRPORT COMMUNITY completeness and adhesion to applicable Annual CSR Conference sponsored by AIA. guidelines and standards through the engagement of an independent audit firm. The outcome of AIA, aiming to pursue the critical Sustainable this process is included as a separate Assurance Development Goal 17 “Partnerships for the Corporate Responsible Statement at the end of this Report. Goals”, was particularly active in 2016, exerting Service Quality Market Presence Governance Procurement its networking leverage in order to revitalise The CR report is distributed to a large audience the cooperation for sustainable development. consisting of AIA employees, members of the airport Additionally, AIA contributed to the discussion of Business Continuity & Economic community, business partners and various other aligning the public and private sector for a common Emergency Preparedness Performance stakeholders while it is also available to all interested approach on SDGs by hosting a relevant round parties on the corporate website. table discussion as part of the Athens Democracy Forum (organized by the NY Times in Athens, Managing Sustainability Performance September 2016) and also joined the Forum for Energy The Airport Company develops and implements addressing SDGs in the public sector (organized by appropriate responses to sustainability challenges the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Athens, May 2016). considering stakeholder views. In 2016 our annual Emissions & corporate scorecard included sustainabilityFurthermore, AIA is a member of the Greek Climate Change Indirect Economoic related objectives for measuring the company’s Business Council for Sustainable Development Impact performance. The attainment of these objectives is (under the auspices of SEV Hellenic Federation Community linked to the evaluation of AIA Management’s and of Enterprises) and is also represented in the ACI Engagement employees’ performance. In particular, the areas in EUROPE Environmental Strategy Committee, as Customer Safety Occupational (Aviation) Health & Safety which non-financial performance objectives were well as in the Airport Carbon Accreditation Task set on a corporate level, as part of the Operational Force. Scorecard were: Noise In 2017, AIA will sponsor a major conference • Efficiency of critical systems (expressed as system on SDGs, jointly organised by CSR Hellas and availability for critical systems, namely: Baggage the Greek Business Council for Sustainable Handling, Medium Voltage, Passenger Boarding Development (SEV-BCSD). 18 19 2 Corporate Identity aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Planning Ahead out by AIA in 2016 and planned to be undertaken in Connected with the Materiality Analysis, the CR 2017, in relation to each of the non-financial Material Action Plan gives an indication of activities carried Issues. Material Issue Actual Activities 2016 Planned Activities 2017 • Aviation Safety Management System update (multiple • Aviation Safety target of the Corporate Scorecard 2016 was actions incl. those leading to attained certification according to the Customer Safety • Preparations progressed for complying with the new EASA EASA Aerodrome Rules) (Aviation) Aerodrome Rules and for advancing aviation safety practices • Safety promotion initiatives, • Regular inspections for all public and technical areas. In 2016, 253 Hazard Identification and Risk audits were carried out to various airport community stakeholders. Assessments, Health & Safety inspections in public areas • Overall flights in 2016: +7.4% vs. 2015, direct connections with 125 destinations in 48 countries, operated by a total of 60 carriers. • Incentives Plan • 13 different incentives (3 new introduced) for development and (Developmental & Targeted Market Presence sustainability in 2016. 3 new airlines and 10 new routes were added Incentives) to the airport’s network. • Route Development / • AIA awarded best airport in the 4-20 million passengers’ category Marketing Support Policies (2016 “Routes Marketing Awards Europe” and “Routes World”) • Critical Systems Efficiency targets of the Corporate Scorecard • Emergency Crisis Planning Business Continuity 2016 were attained. training / workshops / & Emergency • Full-Scale Emergency Exercise titled “Aircraft Accident on Airport” exercises plan Preparedness successfully carried out and attended by more than 250 airport • Action to attain availability community members. targets for Critical Systems • Updated Corporate Responsibility Policy, further progressing • Risk Management & Business Corporate Materiality Analysis in line with the new GRI Sustainability Continuity activities Governance Reporting Standards and the SDGs of the United Nations. • Code of Conduct e-training • Completion of Intra-Schengen Project • Intra-Schengen Project (operation, aesthetic & commercial • Airport Service Quality improvement / Passenger Satisfaction • Airport Service Quality target of the Corporate Scorecard 2016 Surveys/ Quality Monitor was attained. Satisfaction rating of our passengers at 4.26 / 5 Service Quality Surveys • 800 “i-mind” walkthroughs by AIA employees (corresponding to • Passenger Comments over 50,000 inspections) Management/ i-mind • ISO9001 and ISO20000 certifications (IT&T Business Unit) programme/ service retained measurements • Air Smiles programme • Athens Tourism Partnership Project in cooperation with Aegean • Destination Marketing Airlines, Marketing Greece & the Municipality of Athens activities • AIA first airport in the world to implement a “bot” application • Art & Culture programme through Facebook messenger • Digital Gate Innovation Indirect Economic • Digital Gate programme for innovation (implementation of 2015 programme 2017 Impact proof-of-concepts) • Completion of Praxis II • Youth Employment Programme (Airport Praxis II), for 100 people programme aged 19 to 29 • Internal Innovation workshops • Internal Innovation Programme launch (Thinkathlons) • Implementation of new Responsible • Preparation of new Procurement Policy and related procedures, in Procurement Policy & Procurement line with international best practice Procedure as of Feb 2017 • Activities leading to ISO • Energy management system targeting conservation and 50000 certification, including Energy exploitation of renewable energy new Energy Policy, Energy • Preparations for ISO50000 certification (Energy Management) Management Team and related procedures and audits • Climate Change Corporate Action Plan target of the Corporate • Climate Change Corporate Scorecard 2016 was attained. 42% carbon emissions reduction Action Plan 2017 Emissions & since 2005 • Retain Level 3+ Airport Climate Change • Level 3+ Airport Carbon Accreditation upgrade (“neutrality”) in Carbon Accreditation December 2016 • ISO 50001 certification (Energy Management) • Noise Abatement Procedures in collaboration with HCAA, the • Noise Abatement Procedures Ministry of Environment and the airlines in collaboration with involved Noise • Complaint management: 22 noise complaints received and parties handled in 2016 • Complaint management • Health & Safety training / • Significant improvement of Occupational Health & Safety Occupational awareness sessions and Risk indicators (vs. 2015) for Total Accidents (excluding to/from work Health & safety Assessments accidents) and Accident Frequency Rate • Fire Life Safety e-training • Community Engagement target of the Corporate Scorecard 2016 Community was attained. • Multidimensional Community Engagement • Contribution to Prolepsis Institute (nutrition programme for Engagement Action Plan 2017 neighbouring schools. 20 21 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 OUR Economic Performance Material Issue Economic performance is one of the major pillars Given the importance of financial performance not for the achievement of our corporate mission, to only from a legal and compliance perspective, but BUSINESS create sustainable value for our stakeholders. It is a also from a business point of view, the Company’s prerequisite for the creation of financial value but aim is to continuously enhance financial performance also enhances and in many cases enables the mechanisms. creation of non-financial value. Year 2016 marked a new record year both in traffic Ever since it began its operations, AIA has and financial performance. Athens International dedicated people, tools, methodologies, processes Airport reached the milestone of 20 million and resources to the management of financial passengers, experiencing significant traffic growth performance. These financial performance for a third year in a row, while continuing its management tools have proliferated over the profitable path. Growth in operating performance years and have reached a level of maturity. More managed to offset structural changes in the cost specifically, in addition to the legal requirements structure such as the contractual increase in grant for financial recording and monitoring, AIA has of rights fee paid to the Greek State and the increase put in place numerous levels of controls through in indirect taxes – and other extraordinary items. systems (e.g. the Corporate Business Information System with its numerous modules), central and deAeronautical revenues, inclusive of AIA’s share from central financial monitoring functions (Accounting, the Airport Development Fund (ADF), contribute Procurement, Corporate Finance, Treasury, Business the most to business, with around 64% of total and Corporate Controllers, Internal Audit), effective income. Revenues from airport charges increased procedural controls (corporate policies, procedures, by 13.7% compared to prior year. AIA maintained etc.), business performance tools (e.g. Value Based all charges unchanged without any increase for the Management), and more. Finally, a corporate eighth consecutive year. This freezing of charges was financial performance cycle which includes financial complemented by the continuation of the Company’s planning (business plan, budget) and financial incentive policy aiming to encourage traffic growth in reporting (monthly, quarterly and annual results), a targeted yet fully transparent and non-discriminatory ensures proper monitoring and adjustment (e.g. manner and to assist airlines to enhance their through quarterly latest estimates) of our financial operations to the extent possible. AIA’s share from the performance. ADF showed an increase of 9.5% compared to prior year, aligned with passenger traffic mix. Economic Figures 2016 2015 Total Revenues & ADF Stated in €mio. 432.2 403.4 Total Operating Expenses Stated in €mio. 134.8 110.6 EBITDA including ADF Stated in €mio. 297.5 292.8 EBITDA margin % Stated in €mio. EBITDA plus ADF / Total revenues & ADF. 68.8% 72.6% Total Assets Stated in €mio. 1,182.3 1,215.7 Added Value on Assets.Stated in €mio. AVA: Added Value on Assets = Net Operating Profit after Tax Cost of Capital x Net Asset Value. 111.9 99,7 Dividends Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. 114.6 87.3 Increase in Retained Earnings Stated in €mio. 11.2 27.3 Income & Other Taxes Stated in €mio. Amounts relating to previous Financial Year with the outflow occuring in the current year. 55.1 32.7 Sustainability Value Stated in €mio. Social Product is the total valuation of amounts paid for AIA payroll, contracted services payroll, social security contribution, income/municipality/other tax, 147.4 *108.0 corporate responsibility opex, environmental and safety-related capex. Includes provisions. Corporate Responsibility % OpEx Corporate Responsibility as % of total OpEx. Corporate Responsibility is the total valuation of activities relating to environmental, local community, art&culture, other social contribution, employee benefits & engagement, safety and CR 2.78% 2.92% management. * Restated 2015 figure. 22 23 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Revenues from non-aeronautical segments performed Hotel and the Exhibition Centre performance. IT&T Indirect Economic Impacts Material Issue higher than the previous year by 4.5%, excluding a revenues increased by 4.9%, mainly driven by traffic positive once-off item recorded last year relating to a performance. favourable Tribunal award. In specific, revenues from Airports are increasingly considered as an important the Material Issue “Indirect Economic Impacts” is a ground handling and airside concessions increased Operating expenses for 2016 increased by 21.9%. This driver of socioeconomic growth for both the national broad compilation of activities that contribute to by 8.9%, following traffic development trends. variance is driven by: (i) the increase in impairment economy and the local communities in which they indirect socio-economic value creation as defined in Revenues from commercial activities increased by losses in relation to the fair value measurement of operate. Their contribution is not limited to the direct the GRI Standards and in relation to corresponding 1.7% with terminal retail revenues performing better Airport Company’s available for sale financial assets, impacts generated by their operation but instead Sustainable Development Goals. than last year, despite the impact of the extensive (ii) the significant increase (contractual) as of mid spans to include much bigger benefits created These activities include: construction works performed in the Main Terminal 2016 of the fee that the Airport Company pays to for local companies, state entities and the wider Building (MTB) during the last four months of the the Greek State for the rights and privileges granted community, which all have access to the generally • Infrastructure investments at the Airport (described year for the upgrade of the Intra-Schengen area; (Grant of Rights Fee), the variable element of which high level of services and products developed at in Ch.3) and car parking revenues, although increasing, is recorded in other operating expenses and (iii) the international airports. • Infrastructure investments for local society still presented a gap with traffic performance due increase in indirect taxes paid by the Company also (described in Ch.6) to unfavourable market conditions. Furthermore, recorded in other operating expenses. Other than the Athens International Airport has a considerable • Destination Marketing activities for promoting despite the ongoing macroeconomic crisis, property extraordinary and additional contractual cost items, impact that goes beyond the financial value it creates tourism in Athens (described in Ch.6) business managed to stabilise its performance vs. operating expenses were kept at low levels, despite for shareholders and the Greek State in particular. The • Innovation for promoting greater productivity prior year in most activities, while improving some of significant business growth, demonstrating the airport community contributes to a significant extent through adoption of new technologies and support its business areas, such as the Airport Retail Park, the Company’s commitment to cost efficiency. to job creation and economic development both at a of youth entrepreneurship (described in Ch.3) regional and at a national level. On a recurring basis • Art & Culture programme for promoting local AIA commissions socio-economic impact studies for heritage (described in Ch.6) Revenues Structure 2016 identifying the total economic impact (at national • Nutrition programme for local schools for % TOTAL MIO € and local level), the effect on jobs creation and total addressing nutrition insecurity at local level added value expressed as % of the national GDP. (described in Ch.6) • Youth internship programme for addressing youth For the purposes of Corporate Responsibility Report, unemployment (described in Ch.5). 44.5% 19.3% 12.2% 15.0% 7.1% 1.8% 0.3% Aeronautical Business AERONAUTICAL ADF GROUNDHANDLING CONSUMERS PROPERTY IT&T OTHER CHARGES & AIRSIDE CONCESSIONS Market Presence Material Issue In 2016, AIA maintained all charges unchanged without any increase for the eighth consecutive 192.2 83.3 52.6 64.7 30.5 7.8 1.1 The importance of air traffic for an airport is self-eviyear. This freezing of charges was complemented by dent, since the main role of an airport as an infrastructhe continuous development and fine-tuning of our ture provider is to safely and efficiently accommodate incentives’ scheme and comprised growth incentives aircraft landings and take-offs. Beyond that, successful and several targeted incentives for airlines. In particular, evolution and positive development of air traffic AIA extended three significant targeted incentives Operating Expenses Structure 2016 is material for Athens International Airport since it during the winter ’15-’16 season and two during the constitutes the main revenue stream for the Airport summer ’16 season, fine-tuning, at the same time, % TOTAL MIO € Company. eligibility terms which were widened to respond to the market developments. The Sustainability Incentive PERSONNEL RELATED EXPENSES For this purpose, AIA works closely with home aiming at sustaining and stimulating the airline 31.0% 41.8 and international carriers, legacy airlines and low offer by encouraging airlines to at least maintain cost carriers, in order to ensure sustainability and the same level of operated flights vs. the previous OUTSOURCING SERVICES & OTHER PROFESSIONAL EXPENSES development of domestic, regional and international corresponding period was available during the winter 36.7% 49.5 traffic, by offering one of the most advanced incentive ’15-’16 season only. The Transfer Incentive focusing and marketing support schemes in the framework of on the development of transfer traffic and the Load P.R. & MARKETING ACTIVITIES its aeronautical strategy. Factor Incentive, targeted to encourage airlines to increase the amount of passengers per flight, were 3.5% 4.7 During 2016, AIA continued its dynamic marketing available throughout the year. The developmental UTILITIES strategy and incentives policy. Its aeronautical schemes were enriched as from last year already marketing strategy encompasses comprehensive with the Niche Routes Incentive, aiming at attracting 6.3% 8.6 developmental and targeted programmes for airlines new services from niche markets that are currently including incentives and marketing support packages not operated from Athens. Lastly, the special Low OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES and constitutes a cornerstone of AIA’s aeronautical Fares Incentive was available during winter offering a 22.5% 30.3 strategy for healthy financial growth. return amount per each low fare ticket issued, albeit 0 10 20 30 40 24 25 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 reduced by 25% approximately versus the previous Athens’ attractiveness as a tourism destination have Aircraft Movements corresponding season. In total, thirteen different significantly contributed to the recovery of the city’s 2016 2015 VAR % incentives, both for development and for sustainability, image and the increase in foreign tourists’ arrivals were in effect during 2016. These incentives are applied to our city. In particular, AIA has implemented a Aircraft Movements (thousands, take-offs and landings) in a fully transparent and non-discriminatory manner. series of destination marketing targeted actions and Domestic 79.5 74.7 6.5% Approximately 60% of the operating carriers made initiatives by forging strong relations and strategic coInternational 109.6 101.4 8.1% use of one or more targeted incentives. Furthermore, operations and synergies with tourism organisations more than 30 of AIA’s airline partners enjoyed benefits and associations (Association of Tourism Enterprises, Total 189.1 176.2 7.3% deriving from traditional developmental incentives and Greek National Tourism Organisation, Ministry of Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to thousands. marketing support to a significant degree. Tourism, Marketing Greece, etc.). AIA’s customised approach towards airlines was also Within this context and as a part of the Destination SCHEDULED CHARTER MILITARY TOTAL PASSENGER PASSENGER GENERAL & STATE MOVEMENTS the main element in the 2016 campaign under the Marketing initiatives undertaken for the promotion of (incl. combi) (incl. combi) CARGO AVIATION AVIATION OTHER* (incl. Helicopters) slogan “Aviation Marketing delivered in a novel way”, Athens, AIA, in a strategic cooperation with Aegean Aircraft Movements 2016 (Flight categories, incl. helicopters) reflecting AIA’s willingness and efforts to proactively Airlines, Marketing Greece and the Municipality of and in an innovative way look into the actual needs Athens introduced a unique project, namely Athens Domestic 70,689 82 2,533 3,575 417 2,232 79,528 of each of the airline partners and consequently Tourism Partnership Project (ATP). The outcome of International 93,225 772 3,138 9,229 1,776 1,469 109,609 design and implement its novel marketing strategy this institutional cooperation generated a unique 189,137 accordingly. digital campaign for Athens, launched to the public during a press conference at the Athens City Hall in The day/night segregation is not applicable in our airport, because the airport operates 24/7 and there is no night curfew Airlines’ contribution to the airport performance December 2016. (night flight restrictions). *Other: Ambulance, Training, Technical Test, Technical Stop, Positioning/Ferry. in 2016 was acknowledged by AIA for the 17th consecutive year by rewarding them for the most All the aforementioned initiatives largely determined successful passenger traffic development during 2016. the 2016 traffic development for Athens International The awards ceremony, the major airline networking Airport. Year 2016 proved to be another milestone Quarterly Passenger can be noticed. During the peak summer period event for Greece, was hosted by AIA in March 2017 year, since the airport recorded an all-time high Traffic Development 2016 growth retuned to high levels, while in the last during AIA’s 17th Airline Marketing Workshop. traffic performance surpassing previous year’s record Considering the passenger traffic evolution quarter of the year the international market showed traffic by 1.9 million (10.7%) while also exceeding the throughout 2016, a dynamic start of the year an accelerating trend, whereas the domestic sector Furthermore, during the last five years, not only 20 million mark, reaching 20.02 million passengers. with double-digit growth in both domestic and witnessed a slow down and returned to single-digit has AIA devoted innovative marketing efforts Both domestic and international passengers achieved international sectors in the first quarter that was increase, reflecting the emerging trends of the to its airline & business partners and consumers record levels reaching 7.1 million and 12.9 million, followed by a modest rise in the second quarter, winter season. but has also extended its endeavours to actively demonstrating similarly strong growth by 11.2% and support Athens as a destination. Actions to reinforce 10.4%, respectively. Quarterly Passenger Traffic Development 2016 Passenger Traffic % GROWTH 2016/2015 DOMESTIC INTERNATIONAL TOTAL 2016 2015 VAR % 25 23.1 Total number of passengers (mio) (including transit passengers) Domestic 7.1 6.4 11.2% 20 International 12.9 11.7 10.4% 15.8 15.7 Total 20.0 18.1 10.7% 15 12.0 11.8 12.4 11.3 11.5 Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. 10 6.6 6.8 3.8 4.8 5 ARRIVING DEPARTING TOTAL 0 2016 Total number of arriving and departing passengers (mio) (not including transit passengers) 1ST QUARTER 2ND QUARTER 3RD QUARTER 4TH QUARTER Domestic 3.6 3.5 7.1 International 6.4 6.4 12.8 Total 10.0 9.9 19.9 Variation calculated on the primary figures prior to conversion to mios. Airline Community Culture 125 destinations (92 of which international) in 48 During 2016, three new airlines and ten new routes countries, operated by a total of 60 carriers. ORIGIN & DESTINATION TRANSFER TRANSIT TOTAL were added to the Airport’s network, while 18 low cost PASSENGERS (O&D) PASSENGERS carriers offered services to 59 cities worldwide. Overall This successful outcome is attributed to a dynamic 2016 Total number of passengers by airport use (mio) in 2016 flights amounted to 189.1 thousand rising by expansion of the international route network of the 2016 Total number of passengers by airport use 15.3 4.7 0,04 20.0 7.4% compared to prior year levels. Both domestic Airport’s home base carriers and the successful and international flights demonstrated growth at performance of Greek and foreign visiting carriers, Note: The breakdown in O&D and transfer passenger is an estimation based on the results of 2016 AIA’s Passenger Survey. The breakdown of terminal passenger is an estimation of O&D passenger and transfer passengers (19.97 mio) 6.4% and 8.1%, respectively. Lastly, in 2016 Athens combined with strong passenger demand dynamics. was directly connected with scheduled services with More specifically, despite the generally volatile market 26 27 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 environment and the initial unfavourable indications Passengers” category in the 2016 Routes Marketing Cargo Traffic 2016 (in/out) for incoming tourism, traffic dynamics of the second Awards, at both events. At the highly significant THOUSAND TONNES CARGO AIRCRAFT PASSENGER AIRCRAFT TOTAL half of the year were strong for both international Routes forums, airlines evaluate the airports’ and domestic tourism, in line with the global industry marketing plans and programmes rewarding the INBOUND CARGO trends. In the case of Athens and Greece, this positive ones that most efficiently address airlines’ efforts 20.11 outcome could partly be attributed to holiday makers to develop new routes or sustain existing ones. It lately shifting from previously popular destinations is noteworthy that in the context of the prestigious OUTBOUND CARGO 32.10 facing turmoil to safer ones. Overall, foreign residents Routes events, Athens International Airport is the 12.00 demonstrated a rise of 8% during 2016 while Greek most awarded airport with 16 distinctions in 12 years residents grew even more impressively (15%), largely period. INBOUND CARGO supported by competitive air ticket prices. Transfer 21.10 passengers also grew strong by 12% demonstrating Air Cargo Development 2016 the significant enhancement of Athens’s connectivity. Air cargo transport contributes with an ever 56.38 OUTBOUND CARGO increasing role in trade growth and it is a basic 35.28 The fact that foreign visitors having Athens as their performance indicator of the world trade volume final destination significantly increased during last year development. It refers to an important airport activity 0 10 20 30 40 denotes the effectiveness of our strategic synergies since all airports strive to provide safe, reliable and towards the promotion of Athens as a destination and efficient transportation of goods. Customers all over highlights the necessity for all stakeholders industry the world rely on the swift and effective air cargo Cargo Community Culture for temperature-sensitive pharmaceutical cargo. organisations to continue their cooperation with the supply chain to support them on the continuous AIA oversees all freight and mail handling activities at The new project was agreed to be launched as of long-term strategic aim to establish Athens as one of provision of their goods and services. In this respect, the Airport, develops necessary cargo facilities, acts 2017, six companies being the leaders of this effort. the most appealing tourist destinations worldwide. AIA together with its cargo partners work on further as the coordinator and facilitator of the airport’s cargo Lastly, in December, promoting the education facilitating the Greek commerce and providing added community and introduces the development and and support to local exporters to expand to new With respect to the effectiveness of the incentives value services through even more efficient flows. marketing activities of any new cargo relevant project. markets and generate new business, AIA organised policy, a study was commissioned to an expert a cargo workshop that was attended by 30 international firm that among others measured the In 2016, market recovery continued for a third Over the last years, AIA has established a living supply Greek export companies interested in exploring impact of incentives on traffic at AIA, their financial consecutive year and the cargo volumes exhibited a chain comprised of all Airport cargo stakeholders, i.e. advantages of air transportation and airfreight impact and their overall strategic importance. strong 9.9% increase over last year reaching a total freight and mail handlers, airlines, international courier possibilities through Athens Airport. The study concluded that implementation of the of 88,477 tonnes. The international sector takes the companies, international forwarders and customs incentives has stimulated passenger growth and has credit for this robust achievement posting a 10.7% brokers and, together with the state authorities, Since the establishment of the ACCC in 2002, the resulted in a positive financial impact for AIA. Also, growth. In particular, July and August witnessed an aiming at further developing the local market. coherence and unity of the Athens Cargo Community based on the assessment of charges and considering exceptional rise of almost 27% and 30% respectively, becomes stronger year after year through the industry best practices and legislation in EU, the mainly attributed to the tourism growth. Moreover, During 2016, the Airport cargo community has synergies achieved encouraging all stakeholders to incentives are transparent and non-discriminatory and it is worth mentioning that, except for a slight 0.4% been engaged in both enhancing the cargo overcome any difficulty encountered. they are considered by airlines as an important tool improvement noticed in 2013, it was the first time the handling quality as well as seeking new business for cost reduction. domestic sector saw a volume increase of 3.2% since opportunities. To this respect, monthly meetings Provision of Ground Handling Services the beginning of the financial downturn in 2008. of the Airport Cargo Community Committee AIA is committed to ensure the reliable supply of Furthermore, in this year’s forums “Routes Europe” (ACCC) provided a platform where all projects were quality ground handling services. Bearing the role of at Krakow, Poland and “Routes World” at Chengdu, Finally, freighter operators increased their uplift by a discussed and the next steps agreed upon. The the Airport Operator, AIA sets the quality standards China, the largest airline and airport networking considerable 7.6% but at the same time lost market success of this collaborative approach is manifested and monitors the operational performance regarding route development forums in Europe and globally share of the total market (36.3% share compared to through joint actions and common decisions : the provision of the ground handling services, while respectively, AIA was voted by the airlines and 37.1% in 2015) indicating a stronger performance of treating both aircraft operators and ground handlers was awarded as the winner in the “4-20 million the passenger carriers. • AIA has upgraded the online monitoring as partners towards the common objective of safe applications of both inbound flights and cargo operations and ultimately customer satisfaction. terminals’ walkthroughs (tablet use) that enable faster and more accurate data capture. In order to achieve this, AIA conducts the tendering, Cargo Traffic 2016 (domestic/international) • All cargo handlers acquired the status of Customs selection and appointment processes required for Authorised Consignee thus further simplifying the award of Airport Ground Handling Rights, as THOUSAND TONNES 2016 2015 VAR % inbound customs formalities. defined in the existing legal framework, resulting in DOMESTIC • A delegation of the ACCC visited various trade agreements with the respective companies; AIA also 8.39 fairs organised in Athens to promote the airfreight closely monitors ground handling services provision 8.14 3.2% possibilities of the Airport. through contract management activities and in INTERNATIONAL • DHL Express Hellas invested heavily in its Airport collaboration with all involved entities. 80.09 Distribution Centre by both renovating and 72.34 10.7% significantly expanding the terminal’s operational In this light, AIA’s interaction with AIA’s Users TOTAL and office areas. Committee (AIAUC) and cooperation with State 88.48 • AIA and its cargo partners focused on a new Authorities and Airline Operators Committee 80.48 9.9% initiative of IATA to improve handling and quality (AOC) safeguards the efficient and smooth in the air cargo industry by raising the local ground handling services provision at the Airport. 0 20 40 60 80 100 community’s handling standards and capability This is attained through the daily operated ramp 28 29 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 monitoring system, frequent audits and recurrent end-customer, the passenger. Location Based Services (LBS), refer to: 2015, had an impressive impact on retail sales and and evolving training of all participants. • Passenger flow optimisation the overall image of the Airport. AIA is responsible for the provision of assistance • Queue management Furthermore, daily interaction with the operating services to disabled persons and persons with • Indoor location and wayfinding Adopting a similar passenger-oriented approach ground handling companies since the beginning reduced mobility (PRM) at Athens International • Dynamic advertising and signage for the Intra-Schengen area, AIA commenced the of the airport’s operation, has materialised in an Airport. Within this regulatory framework, AIA is • Asset & Staff Management implementation of the Intra Schengen Project Airport Ground Handling Action Group where committed to ensure the safe and high-quality • Retail Analytics (ISP) in late 2016 that will also lead to a remarkable operational issues, concerns and developments PRM assistance services provision through related commercial space increase. The ISP includes the are coordinated with relevant AIA departments. concession agreements with three operating Moreover, NGN offers new business opportunities creation of a Duty-Free walkthrough concept and In specific, there has been voluntary development ground handling companies and in constant to mobile operators by providing Wi-Fi services as a complete redevelopment of the Intra-Schengen of Service Level Agreements in co-operation with cooperation with the National Confederation of virtual operators in the airport. commercial area. the operating ground handling companies as to Disabled Persons, the PRM Contractors and Airport continuously monitor and adjust the performance stakeholders. Installation of “Automated Boarding Pass Control The core project is supplemented by targeted of all main ground handling activities, systematically Gates” which enhances the boarding pass scanning interventions in the infrastructure of the central part reviewed through monthly reports. Total number of PRM passengers provided with the at the Intra-Schengen departures area is another of the all users area, including amongst others the assistance services in 2016 amounted to 145.564, step ahead in travel experience. demolition of a cluster of commercial outlets and All aforementioned mechanisms have increased the resulting in a 14.4% increase vs. the number of the subsequent development and refurbishment level of communication between the operational PRM passengers in 2015. Furthermore, only 39.3% Utilising social media to their full potential, Athens of numerous retail units at key locations within teams on duty by sharing operational knowledge of those passengers had pre-notified the involved airport offers a virtual tour of its premises on MTB, accompanied by the aesthetic upgrade and and have created innovative ideas for further airlines for the need and type of the requested Google Street View and Indoor Google Maps. This expansion of the seating area of a popular catering improvement. This strengthens the partnership assistance services. Percentage 75% of the total application provides travellers with comprehensive unit centrally located therein. between AIA and the operating ground handling were aged over 65 years old with the respective information and benefits through virtual navigation companies towards the satisfaction of the mutual percentage in 2015 being 80%. of the airport premises. The ISP is scheduled to be completed by May 2017, fully transforming all affected areas both in terms of Innovation Awards aesthetics and functionality. PRM Assistance Services In 2016, AIA’s pioneering solutions, based on 2016 2015 platforms that are at the forefront of technology, Within the frame of redesigning the Intra-Schengen received the applause of the Airport Community area, AIA successfully completed a major commercial Total PRM Passengers 145,564 127,276 as well as the technology industry and the public space tender for the award of 21 tenders, involving in general. In particular, the following events the development and operation of 29 commercial Pre-notified PRM Passengers 39.3% 40.2% highlighted and rewarded innovation: units of a total of approximately 2,500 m2 of Non Pre-notified PRM Passengers 60.7% 59.8% • Startup Greece Awards: AIA was awarded for «The commercial space, receiving very competitive offers Digital Gate» initiative in the category “Partnership in terms of both financial proposals and commercial of private and public organisations for supporting concepts. The tendered units concerned new Non-Aeronautical Business Start-Ups”. • Business IT Excellence Awards: AIA won the Gold commercial space created within the context of ISP, as well as expiring standing contracts. prize in the “Business Intelligence and Analytics” Innovation launched in world-first the “smart” bot application area for its MIS. Additionally, AIA received a silver Upon completion of the aforementioned Nowadays, expectations of airport users, passengers tool, which offers around the clock personalised award in the Transportation category for the developments, a major part of the Airport’s shopping and visitors rise to new heights. Willing to serve update for the requested flight, special store offers, development of an integrated Automatic Vehicle centre will have been entirely remodelled, featuring such expectations, AIA aims at implementing new transportation timetables, airport parking services Locationing System. quality brands and an enriched product offer, entirely ideas and concepts, therefore promotes pioneering etc. • Mobile Excellence Awards: AIA was awarded in aligned with the latest market trends and demands, knowledge. the innovative applications category for the “ATH with the aspiration to constitute an unforgettable In alignment with the emerging trend for Airport” mobile application. experience for all departing passengers who will be During 2016, AIA launched more digitalised, customisation and provision of personalised • Digital Travel Europe-Middle East-Africa Digital visiting the brand-new retail facilities or spending automated and personalised services for the Airport information to passengers, the new e-flight Conference & Expo: AIA was awarded with one of time at the catering units of the new shopping users, passengers and visitors in order to provide: information service was launched in order to the three distinctions of the day for its innovative environment. • high level of passenger satisfaction simplify and enhance the travelling experience. With service “ATH Messenger”. The award was given • improved airport efficiency this service, airlines may access the desired detailed as a recognition to AIA as a company that has Further to the above and aiming at minimising • unique travel – passenger experience flight information and use it to disseminate detailed adopted technological innovation at a very early any potential revenue loss deriving from the and accurate information, such as i.e. delay on a stage and furthermore for the impact of its development of the ISP during the construction Such new services embrace new technologies departing or arriving flight, departure gate opening, Facebook bot application on the tourism and the phase, while equally importantly compensating (e.g. Virtual Navigation, Automated Boarding Pass assigned baggage belt per arriving flight etc., to travel industry. passengers for any inconvenience caused by the Control Gates) while incorporating social media tools passengers’ mobile devices. • Lighthouse e-volution Awards: AIA won the gold construction works, AIA introduced an innovative (e.g. Facebook, Twitter) and applications (e.g. ATH prize for the “ATH Messenger application. co-promotion plan and launched separate targeted Messenger). Within the context of new innovative digital marketing and sales activities which among experience for everyone in the airport, the Airport Shopping Centre others include a special discount programme for In specific: New Generation Wireless Network (NGN) was The successful upgrade of the Extra-Schengen the popular Perfumes & Cosmetics sector and a ATH Messenger provides real time flight information introduced, thus ensuring the use of demanding departure commercial area at the Main Terminal successful Fashion Bazaar, achieving impressive sales through social media. Furthermore, AIA has Internet applications. As part of the NGN, the Building (MTB), which was fully completed in midperformance. 30 31 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Additionally, continuation of the successful “Vote for Baggage trolleys are available at all parking lots current legislation of the national energy market, as stakeholders (such as consumers or electricity a Smile” reward scheme involving all personnel at the and in case of a vehicle breakdown courtesy road to ensure that all airport users enjoy fair and equal suppliers, etc.), including own needs. Airport’s catering outlets ensured delivery of high assistance is available around the clock to assist with access to electricity supply. Individual e-access level services to all airport customers throughout the minor repairs. is available for all medium voltage consumers by In recognition of the Airport’s outstanding year. providing them with the ability to monitor and performance in “Water Management”, AIA ended E-parking service is strategically placed at the centre improve their electricity consumption profiles through up as one of the two “Grand Winners” in the Greek Airport Retail Park of parking communication, promoting additional reports and graphs, created by each individual user “Environmental Awards 2016”, while also received In 2016, the Airport Retail Park welcomed over 2.98 benefits and discounts during the multiple seasonal at the level of consumption detail required each time the “Gold Awards” for its “Telemetering System million visitors recording a marginal improvement offers and promotions throughout the year. (i.e. 15min, hourly, daily, monthly etc.). at Potable Water Grid” in the categories “Efficient versus 2015 by 1.1%, well affirming its reputation as Water Management” and “Water Consumption one of the top regional shopping destinations in Lastly, the “P3 Holiday” product is offered exclusively AIA is also responsible for the distribution of Reduction”. Athens even under the persistent adverse economic through the “e-parking” services at very competitive natural gas and water to consumers connected conditions. prices addressing long-stay usage. to the Airport grids, as well as assuring the grids’ Electricity Producer development, maintenance, upgrade and safe As a licensed producer of renewable energy, AIA Airport Hotel Ground Transport and Intermodality operation. continues to contribute to the enhancement of the In 2016, Sofitel Athens Airport achieved the Silver Athens Airport intermodal passenger transport national energy mix, i.e. the achievement of the level in Accor’s New CSR program “Planet 21 in product largely depends on the development and Finally, AIA is responsible for all consumption European and National target for energy production Action”. Furthermore, the hotel was honoured with expansion of the metro and suburban rail network measurements and overall reporting of the from renewable sources, via the 8,05MWp the following distinctions by the industry and related and at some extent on the road links served though above-said commodities addressed to pertinent Photovoltaic Park (PVP). organisations addressing its excellent operation regional and city buses. In 2016, a total of 21% of during 2016: total passengers used metro/suburban train to • Tripadvisor’s “2016 Certificate of Excellence” access the Airport while 15% came by public bus awarded for 6th consecutive year • Guest Review Awards 2016 from Booking.com transportation, similarly to 2015. In this respect, there is still great potential to improve modal shares and Responsible Procurement Material Issue with 8.7/10 score modal choices for interconnectivity, resulting not • “Excellent” Guest Review Score from Hotels.com only in a more environmental-friendly operation but Sphere of Influence their operation in line with airport rules and with 4.5/ 5 score also to an expansion of the Airport’s catchment area. AIA’s supply chain is part of its “sphere of influence” regulations. Related agreements bear all necessary • “Recommended on Holiday Check 2016” in the sense of promoting its corporate values provisions as to ensure that the required service certificate with 5.2/ 6 score. All these years AIA has worked closely with through its suppliers of materials, services and level is adequately defined, quantified and in line the Transportation Authority of Athens as to works. AIA’s corporate procurement values are with required performance thresholds. AIA applies Airport Exhibition Centre facilitate their operational needs. In this context, transmitted to partnering third parties through contract management best practices that include Since its opening in January 2009, Athens the dissemination of public transport information agreements and cooperation with the common performance monitoring mechanisms that are in Metropolitan Expo, the airport’s exhibition and through dedicated monitors and customised maps goal of service excellence. We award contracts place to ensure the attainment of high service level conference centre, has been established as the located at the Main Terminal Building (MTB) and which integrate green procurement guidelines and for the benefit of the airport community and end leading venue for many notable exhibitions and the curbside is a successful initiative that has been implement energy efficient supplies and projects customers. Through a corporate-wide methodology conferences organised in Greece. In 2016, 27 welcomed by passengers since 2004, enhanced combating climate change and improving AIA’s CO2 and in-house developed monitoring tools, AIA exhibitions and events took place, significantly more recently with ferry routes details. Along these lines emissions footprint. monitors contractor performance with respect to than the 18 hosted in 2015, with a total number of 2016 was marked by the implementation of a realpredetermined critical service parameters. This visitors approaching 335,000 considerably higher time information system (telematics) for the Airport Our suppliers are required to comply with all methodology promotes win-win partnerships with than the previous year. bus routes, initiated by the Transportation Authority applicable laws and regulations, conform to the the awarded service contractors and is applied for and completed with AIA’s support. highest standards of ethical conduct, respect and a significant number of contractual agreements HORECA remains the exhibition attracting by far support human rights, operate in an environmentally related to Airport critical infrastructure, technical, the highest number of visitors, while the biennial The rising number of air-traffic passenger responsible and effective manner and abide by all facility and environmental management systems. In occurrence of “Posidonia” is internationally observed last year, coupled with a substantial health and safety rules. parallel, an annual evaluation process of all suppliers recognised as the most prestigious maritime event. growth potential expected for the years to come, ensures the best possible performance. highlight the necessity of our continuous support Committed to acting fairly and with integrity Airport Car Parking Services of the intramodal concept as a key product to our towards its stakeholders AIA pursues mutually AIA aims to develop long-term relationships with Airport car parking areas provides 7,160 parking customers, with operational and environmental beneficial relations with third parties who share our suppliers, providing added benefits associated spaces available for short, long-term or executive benefits. dedication to sustainable practices. thereto. In 2016, AIA cooperated with 751 different valet parking services. Parking service at the suppliers (85% domestic and 15% foreign) ensuring short-term parking areas (P1 & P2) is free of charge Utilities Management Procurement and Efficiency beneficial partnerships in all purchasing areas for up to 20 minutes, while frequent shuttle bus Since January 2011, AIA is a licensed Electricity Procurement is an integral part of AIA’s professional concerning airport technical works, services and transportation to and from long term parking area Grid Manager, owner and operator of the Airport efficiency. Material, service and work suppliers are supplies. The percentage of products and services (P3) from and to the MTB is offered for free. electricity grid / network, supplying the Airport part of AIA’s service chain leading to its delivery of purchased locally in 2016 amounts to 95.77% of the Community with medium and low voltage electricity. services to the end customer. total cost. Dedicated parking spaces are provided for persons As such, AIA bears overall responsibility over the with reduced mobility at both short and long-term electricity grid/ network including consumption data As a company that heavily relies on outsourcing Procurement Ethics parking lots, offered at the same cost at all parking reporting, development, maintenance, upgrade and for services relating to facility and systems We promote competition and principles of lots (i.e. P1, P2 and P3) to further facilitate access to most importantly the grid/network’s safe operation, management and maintenance, AIA places strong transparency, equal treatment, non-discrimination and from the MTB. employing a transparent method in line with the focus on the selection of business partners and and proportionality which apply to all procurement 32 33 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 phases in compliance with our corporate as AIA’s internal needs and goals, according to all Critical Systems Availability Procurement Procedure and our Code of Relations principles of European and national procurement CALCULATED BASED ON THE FAILURES DOWN TIME OF THESE SYSTEMS. 2016 2015 with Business Partners by adopting the best law. Through this Policy that was developed practices applicable by respective companies at during 2016, AIA ensures adequate publicity 99.80% BAGGAGE HANDLING SYSTEM international level. and objective selection and award criteria for 99.87% its tender procedures, in line with the prevailing Athens International Airport applies a Procurement framework. AIA also applies electronic procurement 100.00% MEDIUM VOLTAGE Policy and Framework on its contracts by adopting practices (e-auction) as to ensure the best 100.00% the best practices applicable by respective possible purchasing terms and the highest level of 100.00% companies at international level, satisfying as well compliance. AIRFILED LIGHTING 100.00% 99.97% PASSENGER BOARDING BRIDGES 99.96% Assurance Comment from EY on Procurement Practices AVERAGE OF UFIS/FIDS, CUTE, 99.99% Following dedicated interviews with AIA’s Procurement Department and management representatives, we VOICE & DATA NETWORKS 99.92% discussed AIA’s management approach to responsible procurement against the GRI 103 Management Approach 0 20 40 60 80 100 Standard requirements. More specifically, we observed evidence of specific tender documents, as well as the Procurement Policy, in order to substantiate the principle based approach followed by AIA, and we also observed evidence of social and environmental assessment criteria. Finally, we reviewed the figures related to spending to local suppliers, and observed evidence of AIA’s commitment to request local support from global suppliers, in order to maintain business continuity for critical systems. promoting the airport community stakeholder actual mobilisation and deployment of personnel engagement. and resources involved in the complex system of Emergency Response and Hazmat handling, Aiming at enhancing effective responsiveness who successfully demonstrated their emergency Business Continuity and Emergency Preparedness Material Issue during adverse operational incidents, AIA donated operation capabilities. Τhe Airport Hellenic Fire to the National Centre for Emergency Care (ΕΚΑV) Corps (AHFC) safely handled the incident with two ambulances, one of which equipped with a speed and accuracy. As part of the corporate risk management process, a direct or indirect impact on AIA’s ability to special stretcher for overweight patients, as well operational risks which may be encountered at the sustain its high level-of-services committed by as a mobile medical unit, all to be utilised mainly February 2016 – Structural fire exercise at Sofitel: airport and which may adversely impact business AIA’s strategy. for developing a new Emergency Care Sector at The scenario involved fire in the Hotel basement. operations are identified under the umbrella of a (ii) to ensure that the associated resources the Mesogheia area but also to serve citizens from Apart from AIA, AHFC and Sofitel staff, ASEMC and corporate Business Continuity System (referred to as (processes, people, infrastructure/systems and surrounding municipalities. Ηandover ceremony Hellenic Police also participated. BCS). The objective of this system is to identify these outsourcing contracts) and hence arising cost took place in November 2016, at the Airport Services airport systems and services which are considered are reasonable and optimised to the maximum of Emergency Medical Care (ASEMC) premises, March 2016 Disabled aircraft removal: the important for the company and establish a framework possible extent, and lastly in the presence of both AIA’s and ΕΚΑV’s Senior exercise referred to the provision of the Aerodrome of actions aimed at adequately mitigating the risk (iii) to secure a competitive edge for the Airport: a Management. Operations Manual for airport preparedness of those services/systems being interrupted. In this well-prepared Airport Company demonstrates associated with emergency events. The two-day respect, the following principal actions are undertaken: to all stakeholders that it is adequately AIA developed a new training programme course included classroom training as well as hands(a) contingency plans are developed which secure the prepared to successfully address any disruptive for Regional Airports’ fire-fighters focusing on exercise on the retired B732 training aircraft. The continuity of those systems/services in accordance event, thereby strengthening its brand and on developing required skills, knowledge and newly acquired set of pneumatic lifting bags was with some agreed operational target(s) in the form marketplace credibility. understanding of the new tasks in relation with their also tested. of pre-defined timeframes, (b) recovery plans are operational roles. Training, carried out by qualified prepared aiming at bringing these services back to The entire process is driven by Corporate Control rescue fire-fighting instructors of the Hellenic Fire March 2016 Fire at OFC Aviation Fuel Services normal operations, (c) the resources engaged to Management, runs throughout the year and includes Corps and AIA personnel in key airport-related premises: the scenario involved explosion and deliver the aforementioned goals (either provided by a close cooperation with responsible individuals in all subjects, is scheduled to conclude by mid of 2017. subsequent ignition of fuel tank no.3 during fuelling in-house resources or outsourced to some third party) AIA departments. from the pipeline and simultaneous injury of a are equally arranged, (d) the required procedures are Emergency Crisis Management person. The Airport Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC) developed summarising the established actions in Emergency Planning Training and workshops dedicated to emergency achieved improved response time approaching OFC relation to each specific operational risk, and finally AIA maintains a safe and resilient operating crisis management are regularly organised by premises via the new connection of east perimeter (e) design and implementation of exercises aimed at environment through the implementation of all AIA. During 2016, a mixture of classroom refresher road and apron. The exercise rehearsed not only assuring that all aforementioned arrangements will required preventive and corrective measures sessions and practical exercises and assessments OFC and AHFC processes but also coordination and work as anticipated when required and will be capable that mitigate and control all impacting factors of were successfully organised for AIA and third parties’ communication skills of all involved parties. of providing response and recovery within the agreed operational adversities. This is accomplished with personnel. timeframes. the active participation of all Airport operational March 2016 Informative meeting with American stakeholders. The Airport Emergency Plan was extensively tested Airlines on crisis planning issues: AIA received The importance of this system is threefold: through various emergency exercises: the airline’s Communication Officer to whom it (i) to secure that efforts exerted by all AIA Regular updates, exercises and tailored-made demonstrated operational readiness and presented operational functions are directed to the events contribute to the good understanding of February, 2016 HAZMAT spill in Goldair Handling crisis and communication procedures in case of continuity of those services which could have the emergency components by all involved while (GH) Cargo Terminal: the exercise required the a crisis event at its premises. Sharing common 34 35 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 experience resulted in a fruitful collaboration which with ICAO and EASA regulatory provisions, AIA At a Senior Management level, AIA has established • Several workshops streamlining safety issues. helps build a strong relationship between the two proceeded with the regular testing scenario of an safety related bodies (i.e. Safety Review Committee, • Distribution of aviation safety bulletins, aviation entities. aircraft accident and the subsequent verification of Safety Action Group and Airside Safety Team) where safety leaflets and baseball hats with logo “SAFETY all involved stakeholders’ operational readiness. latest developments and recommendations are FIRST” as awareness initiatives for all personnel April 2016 Workshop with Gain Jet: the emergency discussed. operating on airside. response preparedness of the aircraft operator was More than 14 airport emergency response the workshop subject. stakeholders featuring more than 200 operational Furthermore, AIA engages its airside operations It is worth mentioning that on December 7, the members of staff participated in the exercise. stakeholders with the following activities: celebration day of ICAO’s International Civil Aviation May 2016 Airport emergency training to Aegean Simulation involved an Airbus A320 aircraft, • Aviation Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment Day, AIA organised the first “Aviation Safety Day at Airlines: the course referred to familiarisation of appointed as passenger flight “Aegean 2016”, (HIRA) sessions to identify areas for improving Athens International Airport”, with the participation trainees with the operation of Airport Emergency transmitting a distress signal to the Air Traffic airside operations. of Airport stakeholders and Universities. During Centres in case of a crisis. Control during landing at Athens Airport (LGAV), • Intensive hazard reporting and safety the event, front-line personnel with laudable safety followed by an evacuation of the aircraft adjacent to communications practices. performance on airside were awarded. May 2016 Evacuation of MTB due to Security the runway due to an uncontrollable engine fire and • Airside Safety Committees and Runway Safety Team Threat: the exercise scenario required the actual landing gear collapse. meetings with the participation of all stakeholders Following the trend of the previous years, performance mobilisation and deployment of personnel and related with airside operations as per area of of safety records at Athens Airport improved. resources of the Airport Hellenic Police (AHP) The exercise Site (taxiway “A”) included a static concern. along with Police Special Forces and AIA personnel A320 aircraft, 64 volunteers who played the role • Scheduled safety audits and ad-hoc inspections and In 2016, there were no cases of AIA non-compliance (Security, Terminal and Landside Services). of passengers, six volunteers from Aegean Airlines walkthroughs. with regulatory and/or voluntary codes with regards acting as the flight crew and 13 dummies simulating • SMS initial and refresher training sessions. to Aviation Safety. November 2016 Emergency Exercise ETIHAD: casualties. emergency response teams from ETIHAD and Goldair Handling (cooperative ground handling This year’s greatest challenge was to keep testing Aviation Safety (Key Performance Indicator) company) were involved in a scenario related to an AIA’s response mechanism beyond the usual duration 2016 2015 event of an aircraft accident. Simulation was assisted of approximately two hours with specific targets in by administrative employees from Goldair Handling, three areas of activities: Serious incidents / 100,000 aircraft/ helicopter movements 33.83 34.06 who assumed the roles of passengers, friends and • Accident Site This performance fulfills the related corporate target for 2016, at the “outstanding” level. relatives, and was followed by a ‘hot debrief” with • Operation of call centres (that of AIA and the involvement of all participants. subsequently of Aegean Airlines) • Operation of Passenger and Friends and Relatives Assurance Comment from EY on Aviation Safety December 2016 Table Top exercise of Air France, Reception Areas KLM and DELTA Airlines: airlines and their associated During dedicated interviews with AIA’s COO and other management representatives, we discussed the airport’s ground handling companies presented the main Moreover, the “incident” notification marking both focus on aviation safety, including infrastructure and people parameters, which is considered as the most critical components of their emergency plan by reviewing the commencement and the end of the exercise was of all airport functions. During these meetings, we addressed AIA’s management approach, against the GRI 103 various emergency scenarios. Moreover, in December given to all involved parties using AIA’s brand new Management Approach Standard requirements, including the issue boundaries on landside and airside. We also the same group met to discuss issues on crisis electronic call-out notification system (“e-con”). substantiated AIA’s commitment towards not only adhering to international, national and corporate regulatory planning. requirements, but also taking into consideration international leading practices on aviation safety. We finally More than 250 people from the airport community, reviewed evidence of the Full Scale Emergency Exercise “Aircraft Accident on Airport”, to substantiate AIA’s role December 2016 Full Scale Emergency Exercise third party entities and state authorities observed in terms of stakeholder engagement and cooperation with multiple agencies and third parties. “Aircraft Accident on Airport”: in compliance the exercise. Continuous reduction of the number of incidents was incident groups, “High” & “Lower” related with: recorded against increase of aircraft movements. damages to moving/stationary aircraft, equipment This was attained due to the continuous effort of all to equipment, equipment to property damages, parties operating on airside. damages by jet blast, fatal accidents, serious injuries Customer Safety (Aviation) Material Issue of staff or passengers, unsecured ground support Airside incidents are categorised as per the ICAO equipment, loss of separation between vehicles and Doc. 9859/ Safety Management Manual in two major taxiing aircraft. Aviation Safety AIA’s Aviation Safety Management System (SMS) Seldom is the importance of aviation safety with four components knowingly recognised to the average air traveller; • Safety Policy & Objectives Emergency Response System 2016 (Breakdown of incidents) safety aspects are usually considered only when • Safety Risk Management accidents occur. Safety regulations and practices • Safety Assurance AIA’S EMERGENCY RESPONSE SYSTEM RESPONDED TO 122 INCIDENTS ensure safety of countless passengers on literally • Safety Promotion Bomb Threat Security Event 15 thousands of passenger and cargo flights every day. The SMS refers to a series of activities taken to Full Emergency 16 To this end, AIA engages all operational stakeholders continuously improve safety conditions on airside by Local Standby 30 in the implementation of every preventive measure developing new and updating current operational Medical Emergencies 20 that minimise the risk of an aviation accident. procedures, according to the national and international Incidents on-Airport involving airraft 7 regulatory framework of aviation industry. Incidents not involving airraft 34 36 37 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 2016 Mobilisation of Airport Hellenic Fire Corps (AHFC) health. During 2016, a Potable Water Safety Plan has been developed and set in force, based on World 320 cases: Hygiene Organisation’s “Guide to Hygiene and Sanitation in Aviation”. 77% 17% 3% 2% 1% Potable water is continuously monitored for FIRE ALARMS A/C EMERGENCIES OTHER FUEL/GAS LEAKS TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS its quality by accredited laboratories against microbiological, chemical and pesticides contamination. • daily free chlorine tests from 10 different sampling points Airport Fire Life Safety 2016 Mobilisation of Airport Services Emergency Medical Care Fire life safety is a critical part for Airport operation. • 83 microbiological tests (ASEMC) (per 100,000 aircraft movements) from 27 sampling points Potable • 5 chemical measurements AIA is committed to protect human life, business 4,734 cases: water testing continuity, the environment and all Airport assets. To in 2016 included: from 2 sampling points and that effect, AIA has classified fire life safety as one 933 1,570 813 1,689 2,375 127 Fire Corps • 190 checks at water of the principal areas of compliance and implements (AHFC) fountains for cadmium, a thorough Fire Safety Programme. The Programme copper and iron. not only enforces compliance of all Airport PASSENGERS PERSONNEL, ARRIVED WITH ARRIVED TREATED TRANSPORTED VISITORS, GUESTS AMBULANCE ALONE IN HOUSE TO HOSPITALS infrastructures with up-to-date technical codes and standards but also carries out fire drills and fire safety training sessions to the Airport Community. maintenance, ground handling, cargo and retail Furthermore, AIA conducts scheduled and surprise companies whose outcome confirmed compliance audits as to ensure compliance and to enhance Customer and Public Health Safety & frequent floor and pavement checks are carried out level. awareness. Hygiene as to eliminate slip, trip and fall hazards. AIA and its stakeholders identify customer and public In particular, AIA’s renovation project of MTB/ Intra Potable water is also a major element of public AIA’s Fire Life Safety Programme is audited internally health as a top material issue, due to moral, social, Schengen departing area was considered one of the safety due to its direct and broad impact on public and externally by the Airport’s insurers. legal, and economic reasons but also for the crucial most demanding and complex projects, in terms of impact it exerts on corporate responsibility and the health and safety. Due to the fact that the project Airport’s public profile. With employees being part involved a variety of contractors and works were of AIA’s stakeholders it is needless to say that public carried out in public areas, all required documentation Airport Security safety is of utmost concern for each and every person was intensively reviewed while continuous monitoring occupied at the Airport premises. of construction activated ensured compliance with regulatory and corporate health and safety rules. Airport Security Programme (ASP) New Centralized Passenger Screening AIA’s target is to ensure the public’s health, safety AIA monitors the effectiveness of controls and Process and welfare as far as it is reasonably practicable. All public and working areas are daily inspected by processes established in the ASP and regularly The main challenge of implementing an increasingly AIA ensures compliance with all applicable health AIA’s Corporate Health & Safety function as to ensure updates them as needed, setting this task as one complex set of security rules to protect human life and safety regulations as those are implemented that not only the Company’s but also all stakeholders’ of the top priorities. During 2016, the new edition while maintaining smooth operation safety and effectively within the areas of its responsibility and contractors’ personnel operate in accordance of ASP prepared by AIA’s Security Services was minimum disruption to flight schedules, has driven and undertakes all necessary measures to identify, with AIA’s standards. During 2016 those inspections submitted to the Hellenic Civil Aviation Authority AIA to establish a centralised checkpoint at Intra evaluate and reduce every public safety or healthresulted to the issuance of 211 health and safety (HCAA) and approved by their Security Division. Schengen departing area of MTB. related hazard. improvement notices, subsequent recommendations for corrective actions were communicated to pertinent Evacuation Procedure due to Security The new screening setup aims to upgrade services Airport public areas are well maintained both departments and then monitored for implementation. Threat offered to the travelling public by integrating proactively and correctively, precautionary signage Overall, preventive or corrective actions have been The effective handling of emergency situations passenger and cabin bags screening into regular is installed and related equipment is kept in sound taken or initiated for every issued notice. as well as the efficient crowd control in cases passenger flow while providing functional solutions condition while certifications are obtained for of security threat is the ultimate target for the as the most flexible layout arrangement within the hazardous equipment. All technical and construction Moreover, AIA carries the responsibility to coprotection of human life and airport’s facilities. Terminal. activities are thoroughly monitored and permits are ordinate all health and safety issues among During 2016, the evacuation procedure of the Main required for several serious works while hazardous stakeholders in the common areas. Committed to Terminal Building (MTB) due to security threat As of December 20th, 2016, the new Centralised activities are only executed by licensed and highly ensure that associated regulations are properly was updated and related scenario was successfully Passenger Screening Checkpoint commenced trained professionals as to avoid public exposure to implemented, AIA incorporates pertinent clauses in tested. To evacuate the MTB is a complicated and operation with 17 passenger flows and new any related hazard. all contract agreements with third parties, which are challenging task and involves a high volume of technologies such as the automated boarding card besides required to submit their health and safety available resources under the coordination of the readers. The new process has already been awarded Especially for construction works, AIA ensures that management plans for review and audit by AIA. Airport Hellenic Police. In parallel, AIA provides for with very positive comments both from the Airport all preventative measures and precautions are in the training of the involved security personnel who Community and the travelling public. place before commencement of works in order to In 2016, 274 health and safety plans and six safety have the mission to assist the Police during crowd avoid public exposure to hazards and to prevent management systems of third parties were reviewed. control and building evacuation. unauthorised entry to construction sites while Furthermore, 25 audits took place in security, 38 39 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Security Audits compiled and annually presented to the Management For more in-depth analysis AIA also undertakes a The EU Aviation Security Audit Body, as well as During 2016, the State Regulatory Authority (HCAA who leads the continuous improvement process. Quality Monitor Survey that monitors performance the National Security Audit Programme, are the Security Division) carried out two inspections, one of A daily monitor survey called Passenger Survey satisfaction trends for specific service categories. cornerstones of the security quality control policy the operations of passenger and hand/hold baggage is carried out by AIA to appreciate passenger Similar analysis is carried out on passenger comments at European airports. Teams of very experienced screening and the other of the Airport’s employee perception. The survey includes evaluation by more registered on the corporate brochure “Your Opinion security inspectors conduct continuous tests, screening procedures. Additionally, cargo / air mail than 40,000 passengers annually who express their Counts”, available both at Terminal premises and inspections and audits every year to verify the security operations were inspected by the official expectations and needs for airport performance. The through the corporate website and incorporating the effectiveness of the security services provided to the EU Security Auditing body. All above inspections 2016 Passenger Survey results were slightly improved comments received through social media (Facebook travelling public. produced positive results for AIA’s Security System, compared to 2015 (4.26 on a 5-point scale), a very and twitter). During 2016 there were 4,950 comments further validating AIA’s compliance with the National positive performance considering the significant traffic from 2,290 passengers (a significant increase versus AIA ensures that continuous alertness and strict and European legislative requirements in the field of increase. Particularly in the Extra-Schengen area of the 1,611 passengers commenting in 2015, mainly observance of the security measures are in place. aviation security. the Main Terminal where works have been completed, attributed to the increased traffic). Despite increased improved evaluation and significant appreciation by traffic the average response time improved at 4.6 passengers was documented. days on average, with 1,427 reply letters being dispatched of which 90% were customised caseService Quality Material Issue Furthermore, the ASQ Survey shows a favourable specific letters. positioning for AIA among European Airports of same size (15-25 million passengers per year), bringing Service quality and passenger experience is also AIA is committed in delivering a high standard of Info” addressed over 4,300 electronic inquiries while Athens Airport to the 3rd position with a score of evaluated through regular monitoring of passenger passenger experience and an optimum level of over 2.3 million airport users interacted with the 4.06 and in a continuous improvement trend versus queues in critical operational airport services, such service provision. This is priority issue embedded Terminal Services staff. previous years. as check-in (measured at 3.3 minutes average vs. in the company’s setting of corporate objectives. 4.3 minutes in 2015), ticketing (measured at 4.1 As the level of service quality is based on the Following 15 years of Airport operation, the As of 2016, AIA applies a direct rating mechanism minutes average, stable compared to 2015), passport performance of interfacing third parties, AIA ensures analogue Public Address System used for public (“PrivateReview” metrics) applied through more than control (measures at 1.4 minutes average for arrivals that its service quality objectives are met through announcements within the Terminal buildings was 50 units installed in the Main Terminal and allowing versus 2.8 minutes in 2015) and security screening day-to-day cooperation and contractual terms. successfully upgraded to a new state-of-the-art several thousand responses to be analysed versus (measured at 1.1 minutes average, a significant system by utilising digital generation audio and the time of the day for multiple locations. Indicatively, improvement versus 1.6 minutes average in 2015). Committed to providing excellent services, AIA’s control equipment, put in operation in mid-May. 182,000 ratings were collected for washrooms in 2016, Data analysis enables AIA departments and business Terminal Services are available on a 24/7 basis. The new system now features an enhanced zoning with an average score of 4.04/5 for arrivals and 3.99/5 partners to assess and further enhance the level of Passengers, visitors and airport users may request capacity and is flexible enough to adapt to special for departures. offered service. and obtain information through the Airport Call operations and emergencies, while in addition Centre and “Airport Info” email service. Furthermore, allows for significantly improved sound quality and there are Information Counters located centrally at audibility of public announcements to the benefit of Passenger Complaints Analysis 2016 the Departures and Arrivals Concourses of the Main passengers, airline operators and visitors. Terminal Building, while mobile agents are available SCORE ON A 5-POINT SCALE 2016 2015 to provide information and personal assistance. In recognition of the excellent customer service provided to the public, AIA’s Call Centre was Customization rate of Responses (custom / total responses) 90.1% 91.0% During the year, almost 500,000 calls were handled honoured in 2016 for a third consecutive year with Distribution Of Complaints by the Airport Call Centre with nearly 93% of the Silver Award in the category of “Large Call People With Reduced Mobility (PRM) 1.46% 0.73% passengers being served within 20 seconds where Centres” in Greece, during the “CRM Grand Prix Way Finding / Signage 1.66% 1.91% the industry standard is set at 80%. The “AirportCustomer Service Annual Awards”. Security Services 8.64% 7.93% Seating / Rest Facilities 2.27% 2.64% Passenger Service Parameters Retail & Services 3.62% 3.85% 2016 2015 Parking Services 5.86% 3.71% IT Public Systems 5.65% 6.79% Call Center Service Level (% calls answered in under 60 sec) 96.71% 98.59% Information Services 3.90% 3.56% Call Center Efficiency (% calls answered / total calls received) 98.92% 99.50% Information Screens 1.44% 0.92% Avg Waiting Time for Check-in (min) 3.3 4.3 Food & Beverage 4.74% 6.02% Avg Waiting Time for Security Screening (min) 1.1 1.8 Facility Maintenance 1.55% 1.28% Avg Response Time to Passenger Comments (days) 4.6 6.4 Cleaning Services 3.33% *2.27% Baggage Handling Shortshipped Bags (per mio bags handled) 12 10 Baggage Trolleys 0.80% 0.51% Baggage Handling Average time for First Bag reclaim (min:sec) 14:16 13:00 Aviation Services 27.84% 39.83% * Restated 2015 figure. Note: the above table covers categories of complaints that are being monitored on a continuous basis for comparison reasons. Measuring Passenger Satisfaction surveys to unsolicited feedback communication. The There are also other categories related to facility-related complaints that are excluded from this table. AIA continuously monitors passenger satisfaction results are forwarded to the involved departments through a number of channels ranging from structured through the monthly notification process and 40 41 3 Our Business aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Assurance Comment from EY on Service Quality During our meetings with AIA’s management on the issue of service quality, we discussed the issue’s relation with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and the emphasis AIA is placing on stakeholder engagement to improve its approach. The airport is utilizing engagement methods for receiving customer feedback such as passenger surveys, mechanisms for receiving customer complaints and other initiatives such as the “i-mind” program. More specifically, we obtained evidence from the passenger survey’s results regarding the 2016 overall passenger satisfaction rating, in order to substantiate the topic specific disclosures under the scope of our engagement. Moreover, we obtained evidence related to the ASQ survey results and the “i-mind” program in order to substantiate the respective claims made in the report and we reviewed the process for receiving and managing customer complaints as part of our review of the disclosures on management approach for Service Quality. We also discussed with management how AIA identifies areas for improvement through these channels and how it adjusts its approach accordingly. Service quality and passenger experience is also ensure service level, evaluated through regular monitoring of passenger • improve follow-up actions for the rectification of queues in critical operational airport services, such faults / poor conditions by ameliorating crossas check-in, ticketing, passport control and security company communication, and screening. Data analysis enables AIA departments • enhance ownership of AIA employees with respect and business partners to assess and further enhance to core business activities. the level of offered service. An important function of the i-mind application The “i-mind” Programme is the ability for users to raise alerts for situations AIA’s innovative and awarded i-mind programme that require immediate action by sending direct engages all employees, regardless of level or messages to shift supervisors. operational expertise, as “virtual passengers” for carrying out walkthroughs of the Terminal Buildings During 2016, 833 walkthroughs (equivalent to and surrounding areas in order to evaluate passenger 52,735 checks) took place and 91 alerts were experience. The programme was designed to: raised for supporting the rapid resolution of terminal infrastructure faults. AIA employees rated • complement existing monitoring mechanisms and infrastructure with an improved grade of 96.83% provide departments with additional feedback to versus 96.39% in 2015. Respecting Customer Privacy AIA endeavours to create an environment where the closed-circuit monitoring security system. individuals may have access to trustworthy sources Furthermore, whenever the necessity to collect of technological means and a policy environment and process personal data arises, AIA ensures the that fosters innovation and empowers individuals to properly controlled implementation and officially be able to protect their personal and business data. informs the authorities. AIA complies with the applicable national In conclusion, all corporate policies and procedures legislation and international regulations with regarding airport customer data collection through reference to human rights. In this context, the telephone or the internet are subject to regular Hellenic Data Protection Authority (HDPA) audits by the Hellenic Authority for Communication is officially and regularly kept informed of Security and Privacy (ADAE) evidencing AIA’s customers’ messages in the Airport Call Centre’s commitment to abiding by the law, human rights and voice recording system, as well as of the use of all ethical standards. 42 43 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 OUR ENVIRONMENT Environmental Management & Compliance Environmental protection is a top priority for the implementation of all our action plans. Furthermore, Airport Company. We aim to responsibly and sharing information at all levels with employees, effectively monitor all environmental aspects related business partners, state authorities and the public in to our operations and to minimise or prevent, where general is strongly encouraged. possible, the airport’s environmental impact through initiatives that exceed regulatory requirements. We regularly review and update our environmental Our corporate Environmental Policy focuses on our objectives and targets while our performance and commitment to the continuous improvement of our achievements are regularly disclosed to the public. environmental performance and initiatives to reduce emissions from airport operations, while maximising During 2016 no legal action was taken against AIA energy efficiency in our infrastructure. Principles of nor was any fine or monetary sanction imposed sustainable development are incorporated in our related to environmental aspects. corporate procedures. Our efforts to effectively address all significant In accordance with our corporate Compliance Policy environmental challenges take place within the we are committed to ensuring that all aspects of context of our Environmental Management System our activities are in full compliance with the current (EMS) which has been certified according to the environmental legal and regulatory framework international standard ISO 14001 since 2000. In 2016 [International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) the first annual assessment of AIA’s Environmental Annex 16, relevant European and national legislation, Management System (EMS) was successfully our Airport Development Agreement (ADA) and conducted by an independent certification body. Our Article 8 of the Ratifying Law 2338/1995]. All relevant certification is valid till September 2018. compliance risks under the applicable legal and regulatory framework are identified and efficiently All contractual agreements with third parties addressed while corrective actions are performed in operating at the airport entail environmental a prompt and effective manner when necessary. We requirements. For example, all major third parties provide regular and accurate information on our level must establish an EMS and certify it in accordance of compliance and our efforts for excellence to the with ISO 14001 and/or the Eco-Management and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Audit Scheme (EMAS) regulation. To date, forty-six (46) companies of the airport community have been The Environmental Services Department reports certified. Furthermore, environmental audits of third to AIA’s Chief Operations Officer who has the parties operating at the airport are conducted on responsibility to ensure that the Company adapts a regular basis in order to assess compliance with to all current legal and regulatory requirements, the applicable national and European environmental proactively responds to possible corporate legislation, Airport guidelines and regulations as well environmental risks and implements remedial actions as their approved Environmental Management Plans. whenever required. The 7th Environmental Workshop for third parties Embedding environmental awareness amongst was successfully held in December 2016 with employees, members of the airport community and the participation of 53 representatives from 34 local municipalities is a key driver for the successful companies operating at the Airport. 44 45 4 Our Environment aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Energy Material Issue Climate Change Corporate Action Plan Furthermore, for the 8th consecutive year, we Every year, a Climate Change Corporate Action Plan continued to actively participate in the global initiative (CCCAP) is developed following an internal process “Earth Hour” by shutting down one of the airport’s The environmental protection has always been increase mainly attributed to the significant growth of involving all AIA’s departments in developing two runways and reducing lighting in all buildings, staff a priority for the Airport Company. Within this in the Passenger and Aircraft Traffic, paired with the measures to reduce carbon emissions and maximise parking areas and other airport areas for one hour frame, the efficient energy (electricity & natural weather conditions. Yet, the improved “Consumption energy efficiency. The CCCAP is approved by Senior (on March 19, 2016). These symbolic actions were also gas) management is critical for both aeronautical to Pax” KPI is solid evidence of the Airport’s highManagement and included in our Operational accompanied by informative public announcements. and non-aeronautical activities performed within performance efficiency. Scorecard under the Stakeholder Perspective. In 2016, the Airport community. Over the years, AIA has its 9th year of implementation, our CCCAP had the Airport Carbon Accreditation implemented a series of intensive energy-saving By year-end 2016, AIA’s Photovoltaic Park produced following results: AIA participates in Airport Carbon Accreditation a actions and projects without compromising the more than 13,280 MWh of clean energy, marginally voluntary initiative launched by the European region airport operations, promoting such efforts within lower than the previous year (-1.1%) attributed • Conclusion of a tender for the upgrade of AIA’s of Airports Council International (ACI Europe), aimed the airport community and lessening impacts for all to the weather conditions. The energy produced aircraft docking infrastructure with an Advanced at helping airports map and manage greenhouse stakeholders, such as the local communities. during 2016 is equivalent to 12.8% of the airport’s Visual Docking Guidance Systems (A-VDGS). gas emissions under their control which eventually total electricity consumption or 25.3% of AIA’s own • Completion of conversion to Virtual Desktop evolved into a global programme following the However, following many years of continuous electricity needs, compared to 13.4% and 26.5% in Infrastructure for 150 AIA employees. induction of all other ACI regions. drop, the total energy figure for 2016 presented an 2015, respectively. • 50% reduction in the number of physical fax machines and their replacement with an e-fax In the framework of its participation in Airport Carbon application. Accreditation, in 2010 AIA set a long-term goal to • Upgrade of backoffice / CUTE hardware for airline reduce CO2 emissions under its direct control by 25% Emissions & Climate Change Material Issue customers. by 2020 using 2005 as a baseline year. To date, we • Centralised control of heating and cooling demand have achieved a 41% reduction in our carbon footprint across the airport site. between 2005 and 2016, which corresponds to a Addressing our contribution to environmental emissions occur during flight, airports still have a • Research into other airports’ initiatives for reduction of approximately 27,300 tonnes of CO2. protection is a central element of our sustainability role to play in addressing climate change. As a result, stakeholder engagement with selected In 2016, AIA zeroed out its carbon emissions and strategy, allowing us to maintain our license to grow. increasing demands have been placed on airlines but implementation at AIA in 2016 and beyond. thus became the 1st carbon neutral airport in Greece, Air travel has a significant impact on the local and also on airports to report on these issues. • Replacement of 14 vehicles from AIA’s fleet, based the 25th in Europe and the 28th in the world. This was the global environment as well as to the quality of on operational, financial and environmental criteria. accomplished by purchasing Guarantees of Origin in life of local citizens. In addition to measuring and managing greenhouse • Upgrade of telephone and data networks as part the European market that ensure that all electricity gas emissions under our direct control, a of the airport-wide Next Generation Network consumed by AIA was produced by renewable energy As part of a new sustainable development agenda, commitment clearly stated in our Environmental (NGN) project. sources and by purchasing verified carbon offsets for the United Nations has established Climate Action Policy, we also aim to influence our partners within • Achievement of a recycling rate of 58% (AIA’s AIA’s other remaining emissions (e.g. its vehicle fleet) as one of its 17 goals. Although the majority of the airport community to do the same. target for 2016: 60%). that ensure that these emissions were neutralised by • 15% reduction in the number of physical servers in clean energy produced in other parts of the world. As AIA’s Data Center with virtual ones. a result, AIA was accredited in the last – and final – Electricity Consumption • Continued conversion of corporate paper-based level of the programme, Neutrality. 2016 2015 VAR % forms to electronic format. Total Airport (MWh) (Refers to the entire airport community) 104,058.6 100,396.7 3.6% AIA’s 2016 Carbon Footprint AIA only (MWh) (Refers to the Company only) 52,582.7 50,665.1 3.8% Total Airport consumption per passenger (KWh/PAX) 5.20 5.55 -6.3% 2016 CO2 EMISSIONS (TONNES) *based on pax numbers Natural Gas 1,096,133 Nm3 2,310 93,996.9 lt of petrol 214 Natural Gas Consumption Vehicle Fleet 399,056.4 lt of diesel 1,068 Scope 1 4,285.7 lt of LPG 7 2016 2015 VAR % 12,365 lt of diesel 33 Stationary Sources Total Airport (Nm3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 2,143.5 2,199.0 -2.6% 23,899 lt of heating oil 60 AIA only (Nm3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 1,096.1 1,147.0 -4.6% Scope 1 Total 3,692 Grid Electricity 52,582,743.8 kWh 36,019 Total Airport consumption per passenger (Nm3/PAX) 0.11 0.12 -9.1% Scope 2 Scope 2 Total (Location-based) 36,019 Scope 2 Total (Market-based) 0.0 PV Plant Operation Total (Scope 1 and 2) (*) equiv. to 59,919.59 MWh 39,711 Emission Factors used: 2016 2015 VAR % 1. For all fuels except for heating oil: EFs from GHG protocol i.e. • Motor Gasoline: 2.2717926 kg CO2/lt • Gas/Diesel oil: 2.676492 kg CO2/lt • LPG: 1.6117002 kg CO2/lt 2. For heating oil: emission factor of 2.51973 kg CO2/lt issued by the United Kingdom’s Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) found in Total Energy Production (MWh) 13,281.0 13,427.2 -1.1% documentation of the ClimateNeutral Company (http://www.ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/) since there is no EF for heating oil in the GHG Total PVP CO2 emissions savings equivalent (tonnes) 9,097.5 9,197.6 -1.1% 3. For natural gas: emission factor (55.67 tonnes CO2/tJoule) for natural gas provided in the National Inventory for Greece (2016), p.110 (http://unfccc.int/ national_reports/annex_i_ghg_inventories/national_inventories_submissions/items/8812.php) Methodology suggested by external verifier 4. For electricity: emission factor (0.6850 kg CO2/kWh) for grid electricity (GHG protocol, 2015) for the location-based method (*) Source for conversion to Mwh: Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland (SEAI) 46 47 4 Our Environment aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Air Quality AIA’s monitoring equipment includes an Air the airport and underneath flight paths. revised in 2012 in accordance with the requirements In addition to CO2, aircraft engines, ground Quality Monitoring Network (AQMN), a Differential stipulated by the relevant national and European handling equipment and other aviation sources Optical Absorption Spectroscopy system (DOAS), The International Civil Aviation Organisation legislation, the results of which indicated that no emit pollutants that can negatively impact local a SOnic Detection and Ranging system (SODAR), (ICAO) is also responsible for adopting increasingly revision of the relevant action plan was required air quality at and around the airport. National and a Radio Acoustic Sounding System (RASS) and a stringent noise standards for aircrafts. since the extent of the airport’s noise footprint had international legal and regulatory provisions are Meteorological Station. decreased considerably. The next revision of the SNM in place, requiring compliance of all organisations, The Strategic Noise Map (SNM) for our airport was is scheduled to be completed by the end of 2017. among them those in the aviation industry. For The AQMN, which consists of five permanent example, ICAO sets international standards for monitoring stations installed in the neighbouring aircraft engine emissions. areas of Glyka Nera, Koropi, Markopoulo, Pallini and Spata and one mobile station, has been in operation Map of Flights Paths and NMTs AIA continuously monitors air quality and since 1998, well before the airport commenced meteorological conditions both within the airport operations in 2001. Ground-level concentrations perimeter and in the adjacent communities. In of the major pollutants (NOx, O3, PM10, PM2.5, SO2, Rafina addition, emissions of air pollutants from all relevant CO and HCs), as well as basic meteorological airport sources are assessed while measures are parameters (wind speed and direction, temperature, Gerakas Pallini 7 Pikermi taken to reduce these emissions where possible. relative humidity, precipitation, total solar radiation and atmospheric pressure), are measured. 4 6 Glyka Nera Mean Concentrations of Monitored Pollutants at the AQMN Stations 10 5 Spata 3 Artemis NO2 (μg/m3) O3 (μg/m3) PM10 (μg/m3) PM2.5 (μg/m3) SO2 (μg/m3) CO (mg/m3) HCs (ppm) 2 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 1 Glyka Nera 15.2 17.3 83.1 87.0 28.1 27.2 N/M N/M 7.1 6.7 0.3 0.3 N/M N/M Koropi 11.4 13.4 79.8 79.2 N/M N/M 22.0 22.0 N/M N/M N/M N/M 2.3 1.9 Koropi Markopoulo 15.6 14.0 78.5 79.9 35.2 39.8 N/M N/M N/M N/M 0.3 0.3 N/M N/M 9 8 Pallini 10.4 11.6 87.6 85.5 N/M N/M 13.1 14.3 5.7 5.4 0.2 0.3 N/M N/M Markopoulo Spata 16.1 17.2 75.1 79.3 30.9 28.7 N/M N/M 4.6 4.3 0.3 0.3 2.4 2.2 Indicative landing flight path Indicative take-off flight path AQMN: Air Quality Monitoring Netwok Noise Monitoring Terminal Mean concentrations are calculated through MIS Kalivia Thorikou Assurance Comment from EY on Airport Carbon Accreditation Following dedicated interviews with senior members of the Environmental Department, pertaining to AIA’s decision to become a Carbon Neutral Airport, the first in Greece, we reviewed relevant evidence in order to understand the rationale, and substantiate the strategic nature behind this voluntary initiative. More specifically, we reviewed the suggested alternatives for offsetting AIA’s remaining carbon footprint and substantiated Average Noise Level per Noise Monitoring Terminal (NMT) that the decision was based on strategic criteria, aligned to AIA’s Environmental Policy, made on the highest 2016 2015 level within the organization. In addition, even though carbon neutrality is the final level of achievement, in the context of the Airport Carbon Accreditation programme, we observed evidence regarding AIA’s obligation and NMT Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) Lden dB(A) Lnight dB(A) commitment to continue investing in carbon footprint reduction initiatives throughout the following years. 2 39.9 26.6 38.4 18.5 3 60.4 44.5 59.6 43.1 4 60.1 51.5 60.9 52.3 Noise Material Issue 5 54.3 38.2 53.8 36.7 6 51.2 37.5 51.4 39.7 Aircraft noise is one of the main environmental they are the primary recipients of complaints from 7 53.3 45.7 52.5 45.0 challenges associated with airport operations. AIA local citizens. The Airport Company addresses 8 47.8 37.1 50.4 37.2 recognises Noise as a material issue given that it noise issues responsibly by taking measures aiming 9 54.9 41.3 55.3 41.6 has an effect on the quality of life of neighbouring at reducing annoyance to our neighbors. As such, communities. Noise Abatement Procedures have been in place 10 33.1 19.7 32.3 15.7 since the airport opened and are implemented Noise arises from different sources, primarily the in collaboration with the Hellenic Civil Aviation Legend: Lden and Lnight are calculated as defined in Government Decision 13586/724 (GGG 384Β, 28/3/2006). Noise levels are measured in dB(A), a unit that denote the human ear’s response to sound. As of 2015, the data presented refers to noise aircraft’s engines but also airflow around aircraft and Authority (HCAA) and airlines in order to reduce levels generated from a/c flights only, as required by the relavant new JMD (JMD 210474/2012), whereas in former years the total noise since airports are the face of aviation on the ground, noise levels in the residential areas in the vicinity of level was presented. 48 49 4 Our Environment aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Preferential Runway Use System Results Water RUNWAY 2016 2015 We systematically monitor water consumption Water Monitoring System (OWMS) installed prior to Take-offs (potable and irrigation), as well as the quality of the airport’s main off-site discharging point. Possible Percentage of take-offs to the north from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 03R 6% 5% surface and groundwater. The water supply network hydrocarbon spillages are immediately managed Percentage of take-offs to the north from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 03R 3% 2% is closely monitored so that possible leaks may be using bioremediating substances and appropriate Landings detected and promptly addressed. In addition, we sweeping vehicles. An approved Spillage Response apply a number of water-saving measures, such as Plan is in place and is implemented each time a Percentage of landings to the south from 23:00 to 07:00 hrs. 21L 7% 10% the use of treated wastewater from our own Sewage spillage occurs. Due to the local climate, aircraft/ Percentage of landings to the south from 15:00 to 18:00 hrs. 21L 1% 5% Treatment Plant (STP) for irrigation of non-public helicopter and runway anti/de-icing operations green areas at the airport. An Industrial Wastewater are limited. Nevertheless, relevant procedures Treatment Facility (IWTF) operating on site receives have been established for the ground handling We have installed a NOise MOnitoring System in the vicinity of the airport, there is frequent wastewater primarily from the aircraft maintenance companies which have the responsibility for the (NOMOS) consisting of 1 mobile and 10 permanent communication with representatives from local activities but also from other sources (wastewater provision of de-icing services in accordance with Noise Monitoring Terminals (NMTs) which provide authorities and citizen groups. Furthermore, we have from runway derubberisation, oil/water separators, ICAO and IATA standards and based on our Local a detailed profile of aircraft noise in the residential established and operate – on a 24-hour basis – a etc). In order to raise awareness, AIA encourages all Ground Handling Regulation and the respective areas near flight paths. This system is connected dedicated telephone line (“We Listen”) and have airport users to limit their water consumption when concession agreements with airlines and ground with HCAA’s radar so that correlations can be made created a form on our corporate website where using restrooms and kitchen facilities. handling companies. The total amount of aircraft and based on actual flight track information. concerned citizens may register their complaints or pavement de/anti-icing material used in 2016 did not request clarifications on noise related issues. In 2016 The quality of surface water is monitored regularly exceed 124.156 m3. During 2016, no water treatment Since noise exposure is one of the primary a total of twenty-two complaints were handled. through ad hoc sampling and analyses following rain actions were required as per the criteria defined in environmental aspects impacting residents events as well as on a continuous basis by an Online our Corporate Procedures. Water Consumption 2016 2015 VAR % Noise Complaints 2016 2015 Total Airport (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the entire airport community) 602 604 -0.3% AIA only (m3 x 1000) (Refers to the Company only) 398 408 -100.0% Number of citizen complaints received broken down by origin (Neighboring communities) Total Airport consumption per passenger (m3/PAX) 0.030 0.033 -9.1% Artemis 13 33 *based on pax numbers Koropi 0 1 Ag. Kiriaki 1 1 Wastewater Treatment (Refers to the entire airport community) Other areas 8 6 2016 2015 VAR % Total 22 41 Processed through Sewage Treatment Plant (m3 x 1000) 352 341 3.2% Processed through Industrial Water Treatment Facility (m3 x 1000) 1.7 2.3 -26.1% Refers to AIA & Airport community. The treated effluent from the Airport’s STP, which treats all sewage generated onsite, is used Comparative Noise Levels exclusively to irrigate non-public green areas at the Airport. dB (A) Note: All industrial wastewater produced at the airport is treated on site at the Industrial Wastewater Treatment Facility (IWTF) Pain Limit 130 Night Club 115 Effluents & Waste Car horn 110 Bus 82.5 In accordance with our commitment to comply the remaining 75% was transferred to other licensed Boeing 737-400 in NMT 3 80 with environmental regulations, standards and best management facilities. Our commitment to recycling practices, we have developed a comprehensive waste is complemented by our use of recycled materials Normal conversation 75 management system based on “The Polluter Pays” for daily administrative tasks (e.g. recycled paper Car in residential area 75 principle that promotes separation at source and for stationery use and corporate correspondence). Boeing 737-400 in NMT 5 74 recycling. Solid Non-Hazardous Waste, Hazardous In parallel, various corporate tasks (contract review, Boeing 737-400 in NMT 2 73 Waste and Medical/Clinical Waste are the major types expense claims, annual leave forms, etc.) are of waste generated at the airport. In 2016 the amount administered electronically. Our efforts to encourage Propeller Aircraft in NMT 2 & 3 72.5 of food waste from international flights was 1,589 airport employees to recycle resulted to the collection Propeller Aircraft in NMT 5 70 tonnes. Since 2005 we have established cooperation of approximately 10.7 tonnes of recyclable materials Quiet residential area 50 with Alternative Management Systems for the final at our Recycling Centre in 2016. Furthermore, Whisper 30 disposal of hazardous waste, which received 25% of we encourage our partners to develop similar the hazardous waste produced onsite in 2016, while environmentally-friendly business practices. 50 51 4 Our Environment aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Recycling Breakdown of Non-Hazardous Waste in 2016 Hazardous Waste Processing 2016 TONNES 2016 2015 2016 2015 Managed by Alternative Management Practices 25% 32% Transferred to Licensed Management Facilities 75% 68% PAPER 17% METAL 70% GLASS 55% Breakdown of Solid Non-Hazardous Waste 2016 TONNES 2016 2015 2,427 384 265 Municipal Waste 5,691 5,344 Recyclables 7,761 5,737 Special Waste 9 0 2,083 226 172 Total 13,461 11,081 PLASTIC 7% WOOD -5% TETRA PAK 84% Biodiversity We implement a comprehensive bio-monitoring areas, identified as a Site of Community Importance programme in the vicinity of the airport aimed at (SCI). In 2015, the project was extended to include 1,071 286 68 protecting the region’s biodiversity by applying initiatives at the Alyki Wetland in Artemis, where international best practices. The number of bird more than 140 bird species have been recorded. species spotted at the airport has risen in recent 999 301 37 years and serves as an indicator of the overall health According to data collected so far, the biodiversity of of the local ecosystem. Our Airport received an the Vravrona Wetland includes 100 plant taxa, 210 bird important distinction in the context of the 2016 taxa, 27 taxa of other terrestrial vertebrates, 1 very rare ECOPOLIS Environmental Awareness Awards, species of freshwater fish, as well as 15 habitat types ALUMINIUM -20% TYRES -66% EDIBLE OILS -9% specifically an award for its work in monitoring as defined within the relevant EU legislation. ecosystems in the area of the airport, the protection of biodiversity and wildlife management. The following actions were implemented in 2016 for the conservation and promotion of the site: 29 3 42 In addition, a team of specialists monitors and • Clean-up of the wetland, especially the coastal records wildlife at the airport and takes measures zone. to control and reduce wildlife hazards for aircraft • Maintenance of existing footpaths, signage, 36 8 46 where necessary. The programme of trapping and vegetation and fencing. relocating raptors launched in 2009 continues to • Monitoring of bird populations in the wetland. bear positive results. • Publication of a Bird Guide for the Vravrona CONSTRUCTION & Wetland. BIO-WASTE 16% SLUDGE STP 39% DEMOLITION WASTE 111% We continue our successful partnership with the • Publication of a Wildlife Guide for the Artemis Hellenic Ornithological Society to protect and Wetland (Alyki). promote the Vravrona Wetland, a local site of • Environmental presentations and guided tours for unique ecological and archaeological value included schools, conservation groups and 411 685 2,072 in Natura 2000 European network of protected other organisations visiting the wetland. 353 493 983 Vravona Wetland OTHER RECYCLABLES 7678% TOTAL 35% VERY RARE 7,761 5,737 SPECIES OF FRESH 18 WATER FISH PLANT TAXA BIRD TAXA TAXA HABITAT OF OTHER TYPES TERRESTRIAL VERTEBRATES 0.23 Legend: Legend: AIA began recycling sludge from the STP to create compost in mid-2011, while recycling of construction and demolition waste started in 2012. 52 53 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 OUR AIA aims to be an employer of choice, developing, engaging and rewarding human capital and to maintain a committed workforce in a safe, productive and fair work environment. Our goal is to offer a healthy PEOPLE work environment for all, one that promotes diversity and complies with work-related, legal and quality standards. We have a long-standing commitment creating a culture that encourages the development and the best use of our people knowledge and skills. For this reason, we have incorporated a number of human resources systems, such as workforce planning, equal opportunity policies, an enhanced Employee Performance Management System, with emphasis given to improving target setting at individual level, and employee competency measurement. Furthermore, the annual Training Plan is designed to equip our people with the knowledge, skills and competencies required to succeed in their jobs and further improve. Presenting our Team At the end of 2016 our headcount was 604 people employer, thus attracting talented employees. It is under open-ended contracts and 80 under fixedfor this reason that AIA favours equal treatment and term contracts. All AIA employees are employed on equal opportunities, therefore supports and offers a full-time basis. The average age of our employees job prospects without discrimination. However, due is 44.1 years old with significant educational to the nature of such a specialised business and background. The high percentage of 29.3% of our particularly the nature of most technical jobs the personnel residing at local communities reflects our ratio of women to men is relatively low. Thus, in 2016 close relationship with the Mesogeia community. The 34% of all employees were female while women entire Management team resides in the Attica region. made up 12.5 of AIA’s Management. Turnover ratio, excluding seasonal staff, was at 4.2% for 2016. Having a diverse workforce means that the Considerable importance is given to the educational Company offers a wide range of ideas, skills, sources level of our workforce and our aim is to attract, and potentially holds an important competitive develop and retain capable and competent employees. edge. Diversified workplaces are proven to improve Our workforce is highly educated and a significant productivity and constitute an element of a desirable proportion of them hold post-graduate degrees. Employment by Gender Female Managers MEN WOMEN 2016 2015 2015 2016 DIVERSITY IN MANAGEMENT AS % OF TOTAL 66% 34% 66% 34% MANAGEMENT MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN 672 684 AIA EMPLOYEES AIA EMPLOYEES 12.5% 14.3% 54 55 5 Our People aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Employment by Type of Contract Occupational Accidents MEN WOMEN TOTAL 2016 2015 OPEN-END CONTRACTS Total Accidents (excluding to/from work accidents) 9 13 406 Accident Frequency Rate 0.14 0.59 604 198 Frequency Rate: Number of lost work day cases x 200,000 / total workhours SEASONALLY EMPLOYED 46 34 80 Breakdown of Accidents 2016 2015 TOTAL 452 684 Lost workday cases 1 4 232 First Aid Cases 8 9 0 100 200 300 400 500 Accidents to / from work 7 5 Fatal accidents 0 0 Educational Status (open-end contract employees) MEN WOMEN TOTAL The Airport Company has established good and the nature of its activities and occupational standards, not only as a legal • provide without any cost to the worker adequate compliance aspect but also due to its strategic personnel protective clothing and equipment impact on the company’s responsibility towards which are reasonably necessary when workplace employees, visitors and contractors. Consistent hazards cannot otherwise be prevented or with its public profile, the need for a safe and controlled. 406 604 198 efficient work environment, as well as its continuing MEN IN TOTAL WOMEN commitment to ethics, AIA follows all required AIA’s occupational health and safety is practiced standards and best practices that contribute to through a system of procedures, inspections and economic development while improving the quality measurements, in line with legal requirements, of life of employees and their families and, further, international best practices, and methods developed the local community and society at large. within AIA. 200 170 The Airport Company takes the necessary The improvement and development of employees’ preventive measures and precautions to ensure a professional knowledge and skills is a top priority, 150 136 121 120 safe place of work (including access and egress), resulting from the constantly growing needs for safe plant and equipment and safe systems related knowledge in our work environment and the society 100 93 83 to work. Similarly, it places great importance in in general. Employees occupied in hazardous tasks 72 70 62 64 providing required competency to all employees for or hazardous areas are given special attention. 54 49 50 31 37 supervision, information, instruction and training. 16 10 10 Due to the nature of airport operations, AIA has 4 1 5 0 0 Key element of this system is the Corporate Safety undertaken collective safety measures in order PHD MASTER’S UNIVERSITY TEI COLLEGE LYCEUM BASIC Policy which reflects all national and international to eliminate hazards in the airport facilities and regulatory provisions. Additionally, monitoring reduce the risk of workers’ accidents. Furthermore, of best practices and the Corporate Health & following a regular workplace assessment process, in Safety Manual determine the relevant strategy cases where potential hazards have been identified, and framework. The Airport Company takes the the use of personal protective equipment (PPEs) Occupational Health & Safety Material Issue necessary actions in order to: • provide and maintain workplaces, machinery and is required to be used by involved supervisors/ employees. Eligible persons receive adequate equipment and use work methods which are as training regarding their safe use, while inspections At AIA, we recognise the importance of employees’ ourselves. We encourage employees to report all safe and without risk to health as is reasonably and audits are carried out in order to verify that the overall wellness, thus particular care is taken to incidents regardless of their severity (including practicable process is efficiently implemented. provide a contemporary, healthy and safe working first-aid incidents, near misses and property • give necessary instruction and training considering environment that maximises employee productivity damages) and we have developed procedures and functions and capabilities of different types of Training sessions for all employees are organised in while mitigating related risks to a minimum. At e-tools to improve the efficiency and effectiveness workers order to inform and increase awareness level. the same time, we comply with the national and of the processes. Especially, first-aid and near• provide adequate supervision of work practices international regulations and standards about misses records are considered important for ensuring that proper use is made of relevant In 2016, e-learning courses have been developed workplace health and safety. Within the framework assessing the effectiveness of existing controls to occupational health and safety measures on our corporate e-learning platform “i-learn” of our accident prevention programme we assess identify whether new trends are developing and to • institute suitable occupational health and safety that should service to in order to raise employees’ our workplace and provide safe systems of work implement new measures in order to avoid future management arrangements appropriate to the awareness about the hazardous risks effect in as neither to place others at risk nor to injure serious incidents. working environment, the size of the undertaking their day to day working activities and moreover 56 57 5 Our People aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 the safe use of chemicals in workplace. Being As per relevant legal requirements, AIA cooperates AIA’s I-learn platform is to be further enriched with a period of two weeks. responsible for occupational health and safety, AIA’s with the Occupational Doctor who keeps all more e-learning courses. • We have prepared and submitted a formal Management together with the joint managementemployees’ medical records in order to ensure that application for founding a Training School at AIA. employees Health and Safety Committee (elected AIA staff is in good health to perform their job. This Other Training Activities All required building and construction works have by and representing all employees) holds meetings process is periodical and bound by confidentiality. In addition to the above-mentioned activities, in 2016: been completed, while a European tender for the on a regular basis. During those meetings working • We have organised an employee exchange Learning Management System (LMS) that will conditions are evaluated and suggestions for An infirmary staffed with an Occupational Doctor, a programme in cooperation with Munich support the operation of our Training School has improvement are raised. Health Visitor and a Medical Doctor from the Social International Airport, and received four trainees for also been prepared. Security Institution (IKA) facilitating fast and easy Protecting Employees’ Health employees access is available for all on a daily basis. The Airport Company does not limit itself to In 2016, AIA employees were submitted to preventive AIA’s Training Plan in 2016: protecting its people from occupational hazards medical examinations (hearing acuteness control, but over and above fosters the adoption of healthcardiogrammes, visual acuteness control) visited defending conduct by means of information the Occupational Doctor to have their medical files, programmes through the Intranet and information which are bound by the medical confidentiality, provided directly to groups of employees. updated. Those found eligible received an anti-flu vaccination. TRAINING HOURS IN TOTAL OF EMPLOYEES ATTENDING TRAINING HOURS / AT LEAST ONE TRAINING PER FTE SESSION Investing in Employees’ Training and Development Training for Third Parties in 2016: In a highly-specialised sector such as aviation, directly contact the public. The workshop «Basic ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY SECURITY AIRSIDE AIRSIDE BASIC GROUND IATA DRINKING WATER AWARENESS AWARENESS AWARENESS DRIVING SAFETY HANDLING QUALITY CONTROL implementing our business strategy is closely Life Support & Automated External Defibrillation” TRAINING: TRAINING: TRAINING: PERMIT: TRAINING: REGULATION: POOL (IDQP): linked with the development of our people’s skills was organised in-house with the participation of and capabilities. Since continuous professional 108 employees. The workshop provided successful and personal training of our employees is of vital participants a 4-year certification to offer life support. TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING TRAINING MAN-HOURS MAN-HOURS MAN-HOURS MAN-HOURS MAN-HOURS MAN-HOURS MAN-HOURS importance, we allocate significant resources towards these activities. Initial training courses: 418.5 Refresh training During implementation of AIA’s Training Plan and to courses: 363 design the most effective training solutions, we use a variety of interactive training methods as to develop AIA is an Accredited Training Institute (ATI) by Training Categories employees’ abilities, such as in-class training, on-theAirports Council International (ACI), since 2007, IN HOURS 2016 2015 job training, workshops, job assignments as well as offering up-to-date courses accredited by ACI that e-learning. meet international standards for quality in workplace learning. In this framework, four workshops were Our 2016 Training Plan involved a total of 18,383 hours organised in our premises, with the participation of of training, while 100% of the employees attended at 23 AIA employees, and 32 aviation professionals from least one training session. The number of hours being the international airport community, as follows: provided to employees on training is the equivalent of • February 2016: EASA Implementing Rules for 2% 43% 19% 34% 1% 26.5 training hours per FTE. Aerodromes CORPORATE TRAINING COMPLIANCE TRAINING DEVELOPMENTAL JOB-RELATED TRAINING CONFERENCES • May 2016: Emergency Management & Crisis TRAINING Employee Development Planning In 2016 AIA’s Leadership Academy was enriched with • June 2016: Passengers with Reduced Mobility CORPORATE TRAINING two additional leadership development programmes • October 2016: Airport Collaborative Decision 339 5,600 addressed to our Management team. “Executive Making (ACDM) COMPLIANCE TRAINING Leadership” was addressed to AIA’s Managers, 7,856 while “Strategic Leadership” was addressed to AIA’s Developing e-learning content: I-Learn 1,634.5 Directors. Both developmental programmes were During 2016, we further enriched training methods DEVELOPMENTAL TRAINING 3,440 designed to reinforce leadership skills of these teams applied in our organisation by developing e-learning 2,305 which are called upon to achieve corporate goals courses. This training approach offers our employees JOB-RELATED TRAINING through people. The programme is delivered through the possibility to complete the assigned courses at 6,424 10,096.5 a combination of e-learning and classroom training their own pace, since it is accessible at all times. Three CONFERENCES and upon successful completion participants acquire courses were developed and made available though 325 the “Harvard Business Publishing Certification”. I-learn: n/a • Code of Business Conduct 0 2.000 4.000 6.000 8.000 10.000 12.000 Moreover, during 2016, a major training activity was • Fire Prevention Note: Training figures relate to all AIA employees prticipate in training courses (including separations and fixed-term employees). concluded, mainly addressed to employees who • Airside Safety Training Outlines the distribution of training categories vs. related training hours. 58 59 5 Our People aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Business Automation tools functionalities for self-service data analysis, they provide the opportunity for the expression of for enhancing productivity reporting, mobile dashboards and analytics, sharing During their employment, selected trainees were solidarity and team spirit since participants strive AIA’s Airport’s Management Information System this valuable information with its stakeholders. MIS assigned to specific departments and received for a common goal while living a truly memorable (MIS) has been successfully upgraded to the latest was also enhanced through the integration of retail on-the-job and other training, as necessary. At experience. version of the SAP Business Intelligence suite, which data and noise monitoring analytics. the completion of the programme, outplacement allows AIA employees to make use of advanced services are scheduled through an external advisor. Family Events In December 2016 AIA held its customary event for Aviation and Flight Academy employees and their families in a central hotel where Constantly willing to offer opportunities to Christmas-themed festivities and fun activities for Employee Benefits young people especially those eager to acquire theoretical or practical knowledge of the aviation children were organised. All children from the age of 0 to 14 years old were offered presents –a total sector, in collaboration with the Hellenic American of 671 gifts were offered this year. Children from One of the most important components of a bus, Attiki Odos e-pass, OASA multi-trip card or fuel University, AIA organised the 1st Aviation and Flight the Non-Profitable Organisation “Kivotos” were also successful and responsible employer is keeping its subsidy. Among all eligible employees, 44% have Academy. The intention was to give young people invited at the event participating in the activities and employees content with the provision of incentives selected the e-pass, 32% the OASA card, 16% fuel the chance to attend a short summer school which receiving christmas presents as well. that help maximise their productivity. Over and allowance and 8% staff buses. included theoretical knowledge but also practical above of what is legally required, AIA offers tangible implementation at the Athens International Airport Blood Donation benefits to support employees and their dependents: Nursery Allowance and at the airport of Megara, as well as experiencing Blood donation is an act of humanity, an action Aware of the financial difficulties that most people a virtual flight through a sophisticated stimulator. of social solidarity, compassion and kindness. In Group Insurance Programme encounter these days, in 2016 the Company 2016, AIA continued its cooperation with the Blood AIA provides a group insurance programme with continued to financially support employees with The Academy was open to employees’ offspring Transfusion Centre of Aglaia Kyriakou Children medical coverage for employees and their dependent children. Specifically, 120 employees, eligible due to aged 14 to 16; eighteen children enrolled in the Hospital which hosts AIA’s blood bank for the needs members (1,955 persons in total including eligible income and family circumstances, received a lump Academy in a class of a total of 30 students. For of children, the blood donors, their families or close dependents). Furthermore, the programme provides sum amount to partially subsidy pre-school child almost a month starting in the end of June 2016, relatives. Employees voluntarily participated in the life and disability insurance for all employees. care. participants were introduced to the principles of blood donation activity and 92 units of blood were aviation by experienced executives and scholars of donated. Pension Plan Programme Reward of Distinguished Students the aviation industry, which gave them the chance Established in 2003, the pension plan programme is AIA recognises every effort for excellence especially not only to experience something totally new but Work Life Balance based on the philosophy of matching contribution when this derives from young people. For this reason, also to have a first glimpse of the highly exciting and Work life balance is about creating and maintaining (a shared responsibility approach) with the aim to each year the Company rewards dedication and promising business aviation industry. a supportive and healthy work environment. AIA reduce the gap between the state pension and the determination demonstrated at school of employees’ recognises this by offering its employees the salary before retirement. All open-ended employees offspring. Upper school students with a distinctive The courses of the 1st Aviation and Flight Academy opportunity to work in a consistent balanced timeof whom 96.3% have selected to participate with own performance are awarded at a ceremony held at our were completed on July 15th, 2016 and during a small frame thus supporting equilibrium between work and contribution, are offered a pension programme. premises with the prize of €300 for freshman years ceremony all students were awarded certifications personal life. students and €400 for sophomore years students. for participating. This pioneer initiative aims to Company Transportation Service become an annual educational activity in the AIA encourages athletic activities. For the 11th Every year AIA employees are given the choice to Other Benefits industry and in our country as well. consecutive year AIA’s basketball team participated use one of the available methods that facilitate their In 2016, AIA also introduced food vouchers to its in the “Nikos Galis” championship for companies, transportation to/from the Airport, namely staff employees among a range of other benefits. Corporate Events the oldest and largest corporate athletic league at a A truly remarkable event for the airport community European level with the participation of more than was held in May 2016 when AIA hosted the 1st 110 corporate teams and 1,100 athletes. In 2016, AIA’s Plane Pull in Greece for “The Smile of the Child” basketball team excelled and got promoted in the organisation, with the support of DHL Express. The next league. Caring for the Employees and the Society 1st Plane Pull in Greece was realised in a properly formed area within the airfield with the participation AIA’s football team added another great of 13 groups of 25 people, who each one aimed to achievement milestone this year by participating Addressing Youth Unemployment involved 50 university students or graduates, aged pull 10 meters of the AIRBUS 300-600 (weight 100 in an even more competitive league in 2016 and With the aim to improve employability of young 19 to 29, for a three-month employment period. tons) that DHL Express lent for this occasion. recording the third championship in a row. With this people the second round of the “Airport Praxis 2” 3,606 candidates expressing their interest to work and the 13 aviation championships already recorded, employment programme was launched in 2016. in various functions/areas of the Company applied. The common goal of all participants was to the team counts one cup in three corporate games, Initially implemented in 2014, this year the To ensure the integrity of selection, objective criteria financially support “The Smile of the Child” which in the business league and 15 medals in 18 entries, of programme involved 100 young persons hired at AIA such as age, duration of unemployment, family 2015 helped 30,533 children facing health challenges which 5 are gold, 4 are silver, and 3 bronze. as trainees. status, degree, English literacy and locality, were set. and supported their families nationwide. Approximately, 500 candidates who scored highly We are very proud of both of our sports teams and The programme referred to two groups: the first were assessed by an external advisor on technical, Actions like Plane Pull are not only important for eagerly support any employee wishing to engage in involved 50 trainees, aged 19 to 29, with a high verbal, numerical, and English language skills. their significant contribution but also because these or any relative activities. school diploma or technical background, to be Finalists were interviewed by both the advisor and employed for a six-month period; the second AIA representatives. 60 61 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 OUR Community Engagement Material Issue The Airport Company recognises that it is part of In order to achieve this strategic goal, we have a community that extends beyond the Airport site developed a corporate Community Engagement CITIZENSHIP margined by the airport fence. As airport operations Plan (CEP) which is incorporated in our Operational may have a negative impact for its neighbours, Scorecard under Stakeholder Perspective. The such as annoyance due to aircraft noise, our key elements contributing to its successful goal is to limit, if not eliminate, this impact to the implementation are the following: extent possible. On the other hand, the airport is a a) continuous cooperation and constructive dialogue significant driver of economic development in the with all local stakeholders, in order to understand region. We aim to further contribute to growth in their needs and expectations, the region through targeted social investment in b) prioritisation of the numerous requests received educational, cultural, athletic, environmental and from local entities taking into account the onother causes that goes well beyond the scope of any going economic recession in Greece with a focus legal obligations and helps establish us as a good on emerging social needs, and neighbour. c) incorporation of AIA’s own initiatives which aim to improve the quality of life through time. Stakeholder Engagement In 2016, a total of 216 meetings were held with representatives from local authorities, associations, schools and individuals. Engaging Local Entities 2016 2015 (breakdown of meetings) Municipalities 90 116 Associations 58 59 Schools 58 38 Individuals 10 16 Total 216 229 Local Community Investment 2016 2015 (breakdown of projects/activities in thousands €) Education 270.9 121.8 Culture & Athletics 32.4 24.6 Society 155.6 83.5 Environment 33.2 30.9 Transportation 40.0 25.5 Other Community Activities 30.0 209.2 Total (*) 562.1 495.5 (*) Community Projects valued at €316,540 will be implemented in 2017. 62 63 6 Our Citizenship aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Community Investment maintenance and repair of several critical systems Additional actions towards Public Organizations • In addition, financial aid to firefighting stations of The major actions and projects implemented in 2016 as well as for the purchase of materials and • Members of the Airport Community were local communities in order to support operational are described below: equipment necessary for the smooth operation and supported in their efforts to maintain a smooth readiness in case of fire; security of the Museum. operational environment and enhance their Donation in kind to the Athens International Education supporting services. Such actions included: Airport’s Police Station in recognition of our long• All 27 public schools in the Municipality of SpataSociety donation of three new and fully equipped standing partnership, comprising of four patrol Artemis were rewarded for their participation in our • Financial support was provided to the Palliative ambulances to the National Centre for Emergency jeeps, 100 bullet proof vests and infrastructure for recycling programme, which has been running since Care Unit “Galilaia”, founded and operated by the Care (EKAV) operating Airport’s medical clinic their Airport surveillance system, all to be used 2005. Holy Metropolis of Mesogaia & Lavreotiki, for the and which shall cover additional needs from the solely for the enhancement of security within the • For the sixth consecutive year, financial rewards construction of a fully equipped double unit for surrounding area of Mesogeia; site of the Athens International Airport. were offered to 36 high school students in Spatacancer patients. Artemis, Koropi, Markopoulo & Rafina-Pikermi, who • Financial support was also, provided to the Holy excelled academically and were admitted to higher Church Panagia Vlachernon Pallinis in order to educational institutions. In 2016, AIA doubled the complete the construction of a separate facility for Promoting the City of Athens number of awards compared to 2015. the preparation of meals for people in need. • Two scholarships were awarded to postgraduate • Supermarket vouchers were distributed to 854 students of environmental science at the University individuals and families in need during Easter and A number of initiatives were undertaken by AIA Greece coordinates the venture. A dynamic of the Aegean. These scholarships have been Christmas in collaboration with the Social Services of in order to help Athens dynamically re-emerge as digital campaign titled «One City. Never Ending consistently awarded by AIA since 2003. Spata-Artemis Municipality. Moreover, supermarket a tourist destination. AIA’s destination promotion Stories», specifically designed to showcase the • For the second consecutive year, we implemented vouchers were provided to a local charity for the campaign “Speak Aθenian. Be an Aθenian” was Athenian experience, marked the beginning of an environmental education programme in preparation of meals for those in need. launched in the city and the airport. Aiming to the cooperation. Showcasing Athens as a city of cooperation with the NGO Mediterranean SOS • Upon beginning of the new school year 2016-2017, promote Athens as a city break destination in boundless possibilities and captivating stories, the Network at local elementary schools, in order to we offered the Spata-Artemis “social supermarket” an original way, this digital and below-the-line campaign’s main video uniquely illustrates all facets increase student awareness on water management institution school supplies, as the last several years. campaign showcased the unique combination of of Athens in a modern and exuberant way. issues. Overall, 1,728 students from 13 primary • Physiotherapy equipment and medicine were the city’s history and contemporary profile through schools in Koropi, Markopoulo & Rafina-Pikermi offered to the Municipality of Spata-Artemis to the synthesis of Greek and foreign terms and was 4th Airport Chief Executive’s Symposium participated and were educated on the principles support Social Services Programmes. In addition, launched with a series of events in various areas at (ACES-Athens) of sustainable management of this precious natural medicine for the treatment of stray animals was the airport premises and in the capital. Furthermore, The 4th Airport Chief Executives’ Symposium resource. Additionally, an informative leaflet supplied to Spata-Artemis Municipality, while terms invented in the context of the campaign, (ACESAthens), an AIA initiative hosted yearly in was distributed to the students following the financial support was provided to local animal namely “Lunchphoria”, “Theatricult”, “Ouzology”, Athens, was successfully held in December, with the presentations. welfare associations. “Ecstasea”, “Atheniants”, “Hipstorical”, “Aphrawdite”, participation of more than 140 top executives from • Furthermore, in the context of our continuous • Financial support was provided for the clean-up of “Coolouri’ and “Marathrone” were supported with the financial, tourism, maritime and cruise sectors, efforts to raise environmental awareness and the Artemis coastal area by volunteer associations offers and discounts of several concessionaires to and focused on subjects such as: maximise environmental benefits in the Mesogaia and local school students within the context of the the airport customers. In addition, “Lunchphoria” • the prospects of airports and ports synergies and area, we made six (6) Environmental Awareness “Let’s Do It Greece” initiative. also included an event with renowned food writer their impact on destinations presentations to 253 high school students from the • Furthermore, financial support was provided to the and culinary teacher Diane Kochilas who prepared • the cruise industry perspectives and challenges. Municipality of Spata-Artemis followed by airport local association of the area Prasinos Lofos in order for the occasion her own Greek gourmet dips. site tours. to repair and certify its playground as per National The ACES Symposium aimed, on the one hand, • In addition, we offered 89 books in support of the Legislation and European standards. This action is “Speak Aθenian. Be an Aθenian.” received two at highlighting interdependence between the air 2016 Summer Reading and Creativity Campaign of expected to be completed within 2017. significant awards: the Gold award at the Tourism transport industry, airports and the development Spata-Artemis Municipality. • Firefighting equipment and tools were provided to Awards 2016 in the category Branding – Integrated of the destinations they serve, and, on the other, at • Lastly, electronic equipment and household the Association of Municipalities for the Protection Marketing Campaign and the Ermis Bronze award, undertaking initiatives strengthening Athens as a appliances were provided to schools in the and Rehabilitation of Mount Pentelicus (SPAP). in the category Digital, Web Campaigns, Travel, tourist destination. During the works of this year’s neighbouring communities as well as the Artemis Tourism, Entertainment & Leisure. ACES, keynote speakers included, Mrs Angela Kindergarten along with 117 Christmas presents to Environment Gittens, Director General ACI World, Dr Raphael the kindergartners. • For the ninth consecutive year, the Vravrona Furthermore, the City of Athens, Aegean Airlines and von Heereman, Secretary General, Cruise Lines Wetland Protection and Promotion Programme Athens International Airport jointly founded Athens International Association (CLIA) Europe and Mr Culture and Athletics was implemented in collaboration with the Hellenic Tourism Partnership (ATP) for the promotion of Thanos Pallis, Secretary General, MedCruise and • Financial support was offered to major local cultural Ornithological Society (HOS) and the Municipality Athens publicly presented in December 2016. It was Assistant Professor at University of the Aegean. associations for their annual cultural events and to of Markopoulo, including the Alyki Wetland in the first time the three entities joined forces with the This year’s ACES-Athens focused on the relation major athletic associations for their athletic events. Artemis as of 2015. common goal to promote Athens as a contemporary between air transport and the cruise industry In this context, for the second year in a row AIA • The Prasinos Lofos area in Artemis was cleaned up cultural centre and an attractive, year-round tourist and synergies and the strategic goal of creating sponsored in kind (airline tickets) 14 athletes and for the ninth consecutive year as a fire prevention destination. The campaign is being financed by the synergies between airports and ports for the coaches of the Hellenic National Pangration Team, measure. members of the partnership, with the contribution development and strengthening of home-porting, in support of their participation in the 7th World • Financial support was provided to the Association of the City of Athens secured through an exclusive by further exploring the potential of Athens and the Pangration Championship held in Italy, where their for the Protection and Welfare of Wildlife (ANIMA) donation by The Hellenic Initiative and Marketing Port of Piraeus. metal harvest amounted to two gold, seven silver for the treatment of injured wildlife and its and eight bronze. subsequent release back to the wild. In addition, • For the ninth consecutive year, support was a used vehicle withdrawn from AIA’s fleet was provided to the Vravrona Museum for the donated to ANIMA. 64 65 6 Our Citizenship aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Art & Culture / MSF”, in cooperation with Médecins Sans terminal. A big chessboard of 64 black-and-white Frontieres, with the aim to raise public awareness squares, as well as “The Snakes and Ladders” floor on the refugee crisis, the biggest challenge in recent game were set and invited passengers and visitors to During the 15 years of its operation, apart from the historic photos from the album of photographer years. Pulitzer Prize winner, Reuters’ photographer, a unique experience. its operational excellence and successful business Albert Mayer which are kept at the Benaki Museum Yannis Behrakis, presented the journey of refugees model, Athens International Airport has also become Historical Archives. fleeing from war in their countries in search of In 2016, we hosted live performances of the a cultural hub for travellers and visitors and an active a better life. For the specific exhibition AIA was Music Village, the accordionist Zoe Tiganouria, member of Athens’ cultural life. Approximately In cooperation with the Polyeco Contemporary awarded with a special distinction at the Tourism the international acclaimed saxophonist Dimitri 250,000 visitors per year visit the permanent airport Art Initiative, the exhibition titled: Awards 2017. Vassilakis, Kostis Maraveyas, the famous composer exhibitions, namely the exhibition of Archaeological “EverythingHappensAsItShould.com” followed. Evanthia Reboutsika, the Tangart group of Findings the Museum -, the “Acropolis Museum – A This digital installation by artist Angelo Plessas Athens International Airport, a crossroads of people Tanqueros, as well as the Greek National Opera. classic destination” exhibition and the interactive aimed to raise public awareness on the issue of and cultures, became the hosting platform for this exhibition dedicated to Eleftherios Venizelos, environmental degradation, the biggest challenge unique pathway inviting all of us to follow along. AIA also provided support to major Greek cultural which has been refurbished with the support of of the 21st century. Artwork specifically created entities such as the Greek National Theatre, the National Research Foundation “Eleftherios K. by Angelo Plessas to be presented at the Athens The “Fly me to the Moon” initiative was launched in the National Research Foundation “Eleftherios Venizelos” and the Region of Crete. International Airport, was commissioned by Polyeco May 2013 in a joint collaboration with «ελculture» K. Venizelos”, Elliniki Etairia-Society for the Contemporary Art Initiative. The messages that platform of contemporary art. This year’s successful Environment and Cultural Heritage, the Athens In 2016, apart from the permanent exhibitions, AIA appeared in the installation were actual posts by multidimensional entertainment programme Concert Hall, the Greek National Opera, the launched numerous art collaborations in its two users of social media which included the word included concerts, happenings and other art projects Museum of Cycladic Art, the Goulandris Natural temporary Art exhibition areas. Specifically: the “nature”. In this way, the artist created a link between that inspired popular artists to showcase their work History Museum, the Piraeus Municipal Theatre, photo and video exhibition titled “Drops of Breath” the physical and the digital world, within which at the airport premises contributing to passengers’ the Greek Festival, the Onassis Cultural Centre, at the “Art & Environment” area (MTB-Departures we live and exchange information and opinions and visitors’ airport experience. Furthermore, in the Herakleidon Museum, the Athens Democracy level), in cooperation with the Underwater Heart of on a daily basis. At the same time, artwork invited 2016 this initiative became even more interactive by Forum, Art Athina, Multitrab Productions and the Mediterranean project, which, through photos travellers and visitors of the Airport to ponder upon inviting everyone to play floor games in the airport Hellenic Cosmos. and video, presented the first underwater dance the most ecological way of exchanging information, performance worldwide that took place at the even when it comes to sheer discussion about the underwater amphitheatre below the ancient Temple environment. Art & Cultural Investment of Poseidon at Cape Sounion in September 2015. in thousands of € 2016 2015 Designed by the set designer Yiorgos Georgiou, At the “Art & Culture” exhibition area (MTB – 15 performers (amongst them three dancers with Arrivals level), AIA presented a Greek jewelry Cultural sponsorships 27.7 31.2 disabilities & three children) from France, Greece and designers’ exhibition in collaboration with the Cyprus, performed the underwater choreography platform A JEWEL MADE IN GREECE under the Art Exhibitions / Events 78.8 85.0 “Drops of Breath” envisioned by French title: “The Sheltering Sky”. The exhibition presented choreographer, Sophie Bulbulyan, and Apostolia an impressive mosaic of Hellenic civilisation and Papadamaki. modern art through the creations of 33 Greek Sponsorship Program 2016 jewelry designers and known brands. Moreover, on in thousands of € 2016 2015 The photos of the Drops of Breath exhibition the occasion of the anniversary of 150 years from the constituted a part of the photographers’ creative foundation of the national Archaeological Museum, a Sports 2.5 5.1 perception of this underwater dance performance. short film guided the exhibition’s visitors to the halls Drops of Breath is part of “The Underwater Heart of of the National Archaeological Museum, revealing Business General 51.3 115.2 the Mediterranean” project. the panorama of the ancient Greek art of jewelry and Business Aviation Sector 19.1 7.2 the treasures of the historic, monumental Athenian Social Various Humanitarian 8.9 18.3 On the occasion of 2016 Olympics and 120 years building. At the same time, passengers and visitors Social Children / Youth 15.4 21.0 since the revival of the ancient Games, the Benaki of the Airport had the opportunity to vote for their Museum, Athens International Airport and Costa favourite jewel through a special voting placed in the Science 28.8 19.6 Navarino presented an intriguing photographic exhibition area. Note: A 2015 provision of 50k for Xamogelo and Prolepsis is reflected in 2016. exhibition under the title “Olympic Games 1896: The historical photographs of Albert Meyer from the As part of the 2016 Athens Photo Festival, one of Benaki Museum Collections, through the eyes of Eva the photography festivals in the world, and having Nathena”. the Benaki Museum as its focal point, the photo exhibition titled: “1%: Privilege in a Time of Global A welcoming Airport for Children Into the twenty–five photos of the exhibition, the Inequality” also took place. This particular project history of the Games was reflected, starting from the has been a response to the exploding gap between Airport Visitors Service fire station where the impressive PANTHER fire International Committee and the Greek donor and poverty and wealth in the world. The growing We host field trips at the airport premises to trucks are kept. In 2016 we welcomed in total 1,700 national benefactor, Georgios Averof, who at his own inequality between contradictory life conditions was help pupils and students broaden their horizons visitors from kindergartens, elementary schools, expense, took care of the restoration of the ancient visualised in contemporary documentary shots by through visiting airport facilities and learning about high schools, state and private vocational schools, Stadium of the city, up to the runner, water carrier, famous photographers. operational procedures. These visits last 2½ hours the University of Athens, the University of Piraeus, Spyros Louis. The exhibition “travelled” visitors live and include a presentation of the Main Terminal the State University of NY, the Brown University, back to the 1896 first modern Olympic Games in Lastly, AIA hosted the exhibition titled: “People on Building, the Airport’s Museum, cultural exhibitions, the Airlines Services Training (AST), the Wirral Athens by “giving life” through digital technology to the Move: Yannis Behrakis/ Médecins Sans Frontieres the baggage reclaim area and a visit to the airport Metropolitan College and specialised educational 66 67 6 Our Citizenship aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 institutions. We also hosted visits of Vocational specialised personnel of the organisation “The Smile With self-processing of passengers being the new through the airport premises and way-finding for key Training Institutes and of non-profitable associations of the Child” has received more than 71,000 young emerging trend, AIA IT&T department installed travelling check-points. Street View offers travellers for children with special needs. visitors and their families from all over the world twelve new common-use self-service kiosks (S4 the opportunity to explore and enjoy a 360-degrees since it first opened 14 years ago. The organisation’s CUSS kiosks) which are enabled with self-bag tag tour of the airport at high resolution and aesthetics. Airport Children’s Play Area specialized staff makes sure that the time spent at printing functionalities rendering the baggage Standing still at the airport’s check–in desks and the airport will be spent in moments of creative play, check-in quicker and more convenient. Furthermore, The official mobile application “ATH Airport” of waiting to get on board is not always easy for a laughter and relaxation for the entire family. In an new e-flight information services were launched Athens International Airport is now fully redesigned young traveller. Since 2002 a colourful Children’s accommodating space, with a great variety of toys with airlines now able to access and disseminate to offer new functionalities such as social media Play Area provides a feast of fun and “VIP treatment” and interactive activities, time goes by full of joy and detailed flight information such as the flight baggage login, flight monitoring and spot-your-parking-space during their stay. The facility which is operated by creativity. belt, opening of the Departure Gate (Gate Open), service. a delay on a departing or arriving flight and others, to their passengers’ mobile devices. Lastly, hand Moreover, during 2016 AIA held the competition “The Enhancing Social Commitment baggage classifiers were installed and tested for a short period at specific gates. Passengers had the Digital Gate” – Airport Innovation Challenge. One of the award-winning mobile tour guide application opportunity to easily assess whether their carry-on was implemented at the airport premises. “Clio An important pillar of our corporate responsibility’s public on child abduction or missing persons’ cases. baggage met the airline’s requirements avoiding Muse” shares multiple digital themed tours for strategy is to support children and social groups in inconvenience inside the airplane cabin. Athens through four kiosks in the Main Terminal need. In 2016 we continued our multi-dimensional On the education front we supported the University Building. Passengers can discover tours for social programme which entails contributions of Piraeus for their postgraduate programme of the AIA became the first airport in Greece to offer a architecture, archaeology, urban life, food, literature, to national and international non-governmental department of Banking & Financial Management, the virtual tour of its premises on Google Street View contemporary art and museums. humanitarian endeavours such as the promotion of the 4th Hellenic Forum of LSE, the Law School of Athens and the Indoor Google Maps enabling navigation “Travelling Greece in comfort and Safety” campaign of for the competition of Willem C. Vis International I.O.AS. (Panos Mylonas Institute for Road and Safety), Commercial Arbitration Moot, the American University the Greek branch of Transparency International Aviation Academy in order to reinforce their Aviation in support of transparency in the country, the programme, the New Wrinkle Association for their Environmental Association of Attica “Time for Action” educational programme “Playing with Protons” in for the promotion of the campaign for volunteers cooperation with CERN, the American College of “Let’s do it Greece”, the CSR Hellas, the Special Greece to support their scholarship fund and the Olympics-Hellas for their participation in the Athens Society for the Promotion of Education and Learning Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, the “Break the Arsakeia-Tositseia Schools for their International Chain” Festival and its campaign against human Fellowships programme of the MBA. trafficking, the “Agalia” organisation for the support to children in need, “Make-A-Wish” organisation, “The Furthermore, for the 8th consecutive year we Smile of the Child” organisation, the “Agoni-Grammiparticipated in the MBA International Programme Gonimi” association by supporting their actions for of the Athens University of Economics and Business pupils of elementary schools of the PSO (Public by offering a scholarship to a candidate from the Service Obligation) routes of the Greek Islands, the Balkans. We continued to support initiatives related association “Kardia tou Paidiou” and UNICEF for the to the education of unemployed young people. Under children in need worldwide. this pillar of our corporate citizenship commitment, for the fourth consecutive year we supported We also actively participate in the “Amber Alert”, the “Entrepreneurship & Career Panorama 2016” “Silver Alert” and “Omnibus” programmes, a organised by the Research Centre of Strategic volunteer partnership between law enforcement Business Management of the Athens University of agencies, broadcasters, transportation related Economics and Business, focusing on business start– parties and the wireless industry which notifies the up seminars for unemployed young people. AIA’s Digital Engagement AIA’s digital footprint has further evolved during information using hashtags (#) and special key 2016 through new services and initiatives within the words. context of social media, enhanced airport services and innovation challenges. During 2016, the official Instagram account, ATHairport, was added to Athens Airport social Following the successful launch of Facebook ATH media channels. The look-and-feel and the content Messenger, a world-first, AIA introduced flight of the account are mainly based on airport/aviation information over Twitter during 2016 as well. Βy pictures and videos, as snapshots of every day following @ATHMessenger through any device moments and ‘behind the scene’ highlights with the users can receive via direct message, real time flight hashtag #athensairport. 68 69 aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 SUSTAINABILITY AIA has adopted a structured reporting framework in order to reinforce credibility in disclosing sustainability information. FRAMEWORK About this Report This is the 14th edition of the annual Corporate disclosed, previous Corporate Responsibility Reports AND ASSURANCE Responsibility Report of Athens International Airport are available on the company’s website (www.aia.gr), S.A. (AIA) which aims to provide all stakeholders with the GRI portal (www. globalreporting.org) as well as consistent and thorough information on sustainability in the UNGC CoP Directory (www. unglobalcompact. issues. In order to cover comparability of information org/participants). Purpose & Scope This Report focuses on AIA’s management constant covers the full spectrum of AIA’s programmes and commitment on the sustainable and socially activities under the direct control of AIA operating responsible operation and development of Athens within the Athens International Airport “Eleftherios International Airport. Through this edition AIA aims Venizelos” in the Spata region of Athens, Greece. to increase stakeholders’ interest through accurate The Report further discloses information within the and validated information. The Report refers to wider sphere of influence – related to companies the period of January 1st through December 31st operating in our airport business community – 2016 through certain data repeated from previous in the context of AIA’s role as the community editions, necessary for comprehending the text. It “orchestrator”. Methodology The Report elaborates on corporate targets, United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. management practices and key performance indicators for 2016 in a simple, comprehensive This is AIA’s 1st Report in accordance to the GRI way, with a flowing content. Report content has Sustainability Reporting Standards (GRI Standards). been set as defined by AA1000 Accountability Principles Standards, the Global Reporting The responsibility for preparing, submitting and Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards distributing the Report lies under AIA’s Corporate (GRI Standards) ‘in accordance’ core requirements, Quality Department, which coordinates the input including the GRI Airport Operators Sector from the CR Report Team members and other Disclosures, as appropriate, depending on AIA’s colleagues representing the majority of Company reported material issues. Additionally, the Report departments. The CR Report Team is supervised by content is based on the ten principles of the United the cross-company CR Committee, which in turn Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and aligns with reports to the CEO and the Chief Officers. UN Global Compact / Communication on Progress (CoP) Since June 2008, AIA committed activities that promote the initiative’s character and through its CEO, Dr. Ioannis N. the company’s support to deepen its commitment Paraschis, to embed the UN Global and actions. In order to enhance credibility towards Compact ten ethical principles and its commitment to the UNGC principles, AIA reports accountability within its sphere its continuous improvement per principle area, on of influence. AIA is a companyan annual basis. UNGC COP is a communication member of the Global Compact Network Hellas tool towards the UNGC Headquarters and AIA’s and participates in multi-stakeholder engagement stakeholder groups. 70 71 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Reference of AIA’s practices related to the UNGC principles The correlation among AIA’s list of 23 identified Development Goals is tabulated below: sustainability issues, linking with the Sustainable AREA UNGC PRINCIPLES PAGE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international proclaimed human rights 15, 33-34, Human Rights 36-39, 42, 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses 56-58, 68 Contribution To Sustainable Development 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining No. Issue Link to UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Scale of Impact Labour 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 15, 33-34, 55-61 5: Businesses should uphold effective abolition of child labour 1 Economic Performance SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth National 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 2 Market Presence SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth Global 14-16, Environment 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 33-34, 45-53 SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies 3 Indirect Economic Impacts SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure National Anti14-15, SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery corruption 33-34, 42 SDG-12 Responsible Consumption & Production 4 Corporate Governance National SDG-16 Peace, Justice and strong institutions 5 Responsible Procurement SDG-12 Responsible Consumption & Production National Integrating the UN Sustainable Development Goals in AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy 6 Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community 7 Service Quality SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community AIA has advanced its materiality analysis by development conditions and goals. Services and Facilities for Persons correlating it with the Sustainable Development 8 with Special Needs SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community Goals (SDGs), building on our steady commitment The 2016 Materiality Exercise was performed in line SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure towards the UN Global Compact. SDGs are with the GRI recommended practice for evaluating the 9 Intermodality National SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities integrated in AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Strategy significance of economic, social and/or environmental SDG-7 Affordable & Clean Energy in line with the UN-recommended five-step approach impacts of identified issues versus the influence 10 Energy SDG-12 Responsible Consumption & Production a/p community (understanding the SDGs, defining priorities, setting of identified sustainability issues on Stakeholders’ SDG-13 Climate Action goals, integrating, reporting & communicating) and assesments and decisions. In 2016, the evaluation of 11 Water SDG-6 Clean Water & Sanitation a/p community as foreseen in AIA Corporate Responsibility Policy these material issues by AIA’s Corporate Responsibility that was revised in 2016. AIA uses both the GRI Committee was – for the first time – complemented 12 Biodiversity SDG-15 Life on land Local area Standards and the SDGs structure for describing with input from Airport Community stakeholders. the sustainability context and for referencing the 13 Emissions & Climate Change SDG-13 Climate Action Global company’s material issues to broader sustainable The evaluation model used was as following: 14 Effluents & Waste SDG-12 Responsible Consumption & Production a/p community Materiality Evaluation Model 15 Noise SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities Local area IMPACT INFLUENCE SDG-5 Gender Equality 16 Employment Practices National SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth Evaluation of the issue’s significance of Impact, Evaluation of the issue’s Influence on Stakeholders’ SDG-3 Good Health and Well Being considering economic, environmental & social 17 Occupational Health & Safety SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth a/p community assessment of AIA in regards to airport operation aspects of each issue, both internally and externally SDG-4 Quality Education 18 Training & Education a/p community SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth Internal Impact (relates to External Impact (AIA’s AIA’s Financial and Nonlevel of contribution Influence evaluation SDG-8 Decent Work & Economic Growth Influence evaluation SDG-5 Gender Equality Financial Performance to Sustainable (by the CR Committee) 19 Labour Human Rights a/p community (by members of airport SDG-10 Reduced Inequalities with significant impact Development and the in regards to the community) in regards to SGD-16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions on its business model, UN SDGs) considering influence to AIA internal the influence to Airport its ability to achieve the related scale of stakeholders and general SDG-10 Reduced Inequalities Community stakeholders 20 Human Rights in Operations a/p community objectives and/or its impact (a/p community, society SGD-16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions reputation) national, global) SDG-11 Sustainable Cities & Communities 21 Community Engagement Local area SDG-4 Quality Education 4. High impact (current) / Critical issue 4. High influence SDG-3 Good Health and Well Being 22 Customer Safety (Aviation) SDG-9 Industry, innovation and infrastructure a/p community 3. Medium impact (current) or potentially high 3. Medium influence SGD-16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 2. Low impact (current) or potentially medium 2. Low influence 23 Customer Privacy SGD-16: Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Global 1. Marginal impact 1. Marginal influence Leading to the prioritization of identified sustainability issues and the formation of the Materiality Map, as it appears in Chapter 2. 72 73 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 GRI Content Index for “In accordance” Core GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) OMISSION EXTERNAL AND/OR URL(S) ASSURANCE GRI 101: Foundation 2016 Reporting Practice General Disclosures 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE PAGE NUMBER(S) OMISSION EXTERNAL financial statements p. 11 √ AND/OR URL(S) ASSURANCE Organizational Profile GRI 102: 102-46 Defining report content and topic General Boundaries p. 17-19 √ 102-1 Name of the organization p. 11, √ Disclosures 2016 102-47 List of material topics p. 78 √ 102-2 Activities brands, products, and services p. 11, 25-33 √ 102-3 Location of headquarters p. 11 √ 102-48 Restatements of information p. 23, 41 √ Reporting Practice 102-4 Location of operations p. 11 √ 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 17, 71-72 √ 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 11 √ 102-50 Reporting period p. 71 √ 102-6 Markets served p. 11 √ GRI 102: p. 11, 23, 55 / 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 71 √ General 102-7 Scale of the organization Annual Report 2016 √ Disclosures GRI 102: 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 71 √ 2016 General 102-8 Information on employees and other workers p. 55-56 √ 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the Disclosures report p. 79 √ 102-9 Supply chain p. 33-34 √ 2016 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and GRI Standards p. 71 √ its supply chain p. 6-9 √ 102-55 GRI content index p. 74-77 √ 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach p. 14, 15, 45 √ 102-56 External assurance p. 80-83 √ 102-12 External initiatives p. 47, 71 √ * This Report has been subject to external assurance. Please refer to indipedent assurance statement page 80. 102-13 Membership of associations p. 19 √ Strategy Material Topics GRI 102: General PAGE NUMBER(S) EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION Disclosures 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 6-9 √ AND/OR URL(S) ASSURANCE 2016 Economic Performance Ethics and integrity 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 23, 78 GRI 103: Boundary GRI 102: General 102-16 Values, principles, standards, Management 103-2 The management approach and its Disclosures and norms of behavior p. 16 √ Approach components p. 23 2016 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 23 Governance GRI 102: GRI 201: General Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and p. 23 / Annual Disclosures 102-18 Governance structure p. 13, 14 √ Performance distributed Report 2016 2016 2016 Stakeholdaer Engagement Market Presence 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 12 √ Boundary p. 11, 25, 78 √ GRI 103: All AIA employManagement 103-2 The management approach and its ees are covered Approach components p. 25-32 √ by the minimum 2016 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements requirements √ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 25-32 √ GRI 102: of the National General Collective Labor GRI 202: Disclosures 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired Agreement. Market p. 55 2016 from the local community Presence 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 12 √ AO1 Total number of passengers annually, broken 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 12 √ down by passengers on international and domestic p. 26 √ flights and broken down by origin anddestination p. 15, 35-36, 40, and transfer passengers, including transit passengers 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 41, 58, 63-64 √ AO2 Total annual number of aircraft movements by day and by night, broken down by commercial passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation and p. 27 √ state aviation flights AO3 Total amount of cargo tonnage p. 28-29 √ 74 75 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 PAGE NUMBER(S) EXTERNAL PAGE NUMBER(S) EXTERNAL GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE OMISSION AND/OR URL(S) ASSURANCE AND/OR URL(S) ASSURANCE Indirect Economic Impacts Occupational Health & Safety 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 25, 78 GRI 103: Boundary p. 56, 78 √ GRI 103: Management Management 103-2 The management approach and its Approach 103-2 The management approach and its p. 25 Approach components p. 56-58 √ components 2016 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 25 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 56-58 √ GRI 403: GRI 203: Occupational 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint Indirect 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services p. 63-65 Health and management–worker health and safety committees p. 58 √ Economic supported Safety 2016 Impacts Community Engagement Responsible Procurement 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its p. 63, 78 Boundary p. 33, 78 √ GRI 103: Boundary GRI 103: Management Management 103-2 The management approach and its 103-2 The management approach and its Approach p. 63-65 Approach components p. 33-34 √ 2016 components 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 63-65 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 33-34 √ 413-1 Operations with local community GRI 204: GRI 413: Local engagement, impact assessments, and p. 63-64 Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers p. 33 √ Communities development programs Practices 2016 No persons from Energy local area or AO8 Number of persons physically or 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its any other origin Boundary p. 46, 78 √ economically displaced, either voluntarily or were physically GRI 103: involuntarily, by the airport operator or on its or economically Management 103-2 The management approach and its behalf by a governmental or other entity, and displaced Approach components p. 46 √ compensation provided. due to airport 2016 development. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 46 √ Customer Safety (Aviation) 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 46-47 √ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 302: 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the Boundary p. 36, 78 √ Energy p. 46-47 GRI 103: organization 103-2 The management approach and its 2016 Management Approach 2016 components p. 36-40 √ 302-3 Energy intensity p. 46 √ Emissions & Climate Change 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 36-40 √ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 416: Boundary p. 46, 78 √ Customer 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the GRI 103: Health and health and safety impacts of products and services. p. 37 √ Management 103-2 The management approach and its Approach components p. 46-48 √ Safety 2016 Business Continuity & Emergency Preparedness 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 46-48 √ 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 34, 78 √ GRI 103: GRI 305: 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions p. 47 √ Management 103-2 The management approach and its Emissions 2016 Approach components p. 34-36 √ 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions p. 47 √ 2016 AO5 Ambient air quality levels according to 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 34-36 √ pollutant concentrations in microgram per m3 or p. 48 √ Critical Systems Availability p. 35 √ parts per million (ppm) by regulatory regime Noise Service Quality 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary p. 48, 78 √ Boundary p. 40, 78 √ GRI 103: GRI 103: Management Management 103-2 The management approach and its 103-2 The management approach and its Approach components p. 48-50 √ Approach components p. 40-42 √ 2016 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 49-50 √ 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 40-42 √ According to Airport Service Quality Satisfaction Score p. 41 √ the results of the Airport Strategic Noise Map, AO7 Number and percentage change of people inhabited areas residing in areas affected by noise included are not √ exposed to noise levels above the limits set by Authorities. 76 77 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Boundaries of Material Issues Committees In the context of the GRI Standards (101/2.4), the following is a tabulation of the boundaries for each material The following committees are responsible for their corresponding aspect of Corporate Responsibility, in line issue, identifying where the primary impact occurs. This is a general overview while the detailed involvement with AIA CR Governance Structure: of AIA and its stakeholders is described in the related chapters of this Report. WHERE THE IMPACT OCCURS AIA’s Corporate Responsibility Committee AIA’s CR Report Team (AIA and/or other entities which have caused or contribute to the impacts or are directly linked to them through their business relationships) DESCRIPTION I. Papadopoulou P. Papademetriou MATERIAL STAKEOF AIA’S INDirector Communications & Marketing (chair) Manager Corporate Quality (Chair) ISSUE HOLDERS VOLVEMENT STATE USERS & CONCESOUTSIDE AIA AIRLINES AUTHORISUPPLIERS HANDLERS SIONAIRES THE AIRTIES G. Kalimassias Ei. Kapetaniou PORT COMMUNITY Director Corporate Planning Supervisor Quality Systems & CSR Economic G. Tzavaras A. Orfanou Performance Ch.3 X Director Aviation Services Administrator Quality Systems & CSR Customer G. Stergiopoulou C. Mitsotakis Safety Ch.3 X X X X X Director Human Resources Head Public Relations (Aviation) Market M. O’Connor K. Zalavra Presence (Traffic Ch.3 X X Manager Environmental Services Head, Corporate Information & Market Intelligence development) Business P. Papademetriou A. Anagnostopoulou Continuity & Ch.3 X X X X X X Manager Corporate Quality Coordinator, Consumers Unit Affairs Emergency Preparedness A. Kostiani Corporate Environmental Affairs Specialist Governance Ch.2 X Text and indicators contained herein was compiled with the contribution of numerous colleagues, representing all AIA Units. Service Quality Ch.3 X X X X X X Indirect Economic Ch.3 X Contact Details Impacts Responsible Readers’ comments regarding our corporate responsibility performance enable us to improve the structure Procurement Ch.3 X X X X and quality of information disclosed. We would highly appreciate any suggestions or requests for clarification on any related issue. Energy Ch.4 X About this Report and AIA’s corporate For noise-related issues, kindly contact: responsibility matters, kindly contact Emissions “We Listen” hotline & Climate Ch.4 X X X X X Change Aimilia Orfanou tel: (+30) 210-3530003 tel: (+30) 210 -3537242 e-mail: OrfanouA@aia.gr Noise Ch.4 X X For any other contact within Athens International For Local Communities issues, kindly contact: Airport, kindly contact: Occupational Health & Safety Ch.5 X Anna Kostiani AIA / Administration Building Call Centre tel: (+30) 210-3536493 tel: (+30) 210-3531000 Community e-mail: KostianiA@aia.gr Engagement Ch.6 X X AIA Call Center (24 hours) tel: (+30) 210-3530000 78 79 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Tel: +30 210 2886 000 8B Chimarras street, Maroussi Fax:+30 210 2886 905 151 25 Athens, Greece ey.com ► Reviewed the Report for the appropriate transposition and presentation of the sustainability data linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 74-77), including limitations and INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT assumptions relating to how these data are presented within the Report. ► Reviewed information or explanations to substantiate key data, statements and assertions regarding the sustainability disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement. To the management of Athens International Airport S.A. ► Reviewed the AIA UNGC CoP against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. The Athens International Airport 2016 Corporate Responsibility Report (“the Report”) has been prepared by the management of Athens International Airport S.A. (“AIA”), which is responsible for the collection and Level of assurance presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility, in accordance with AIA management’s instructions, is to carry out a “limited level” assurance engagement on the English pdf version of the Report, The evidence gathering procedures were designed to obtain a limited level of assurance, as set out in ISAE and to include assurance comments from our work in relevant sections of the Report. 3000 (revised) on which we formed our conclusions. The extent of these evidence gathering procedures is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of AIA and is provided. This is also expressed by the ‘moderate’ level of assurance, under AA1000AS, according to in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any which “the assurance provider achieves moderate assurance where sufficient evidence has been obtained to responsibility and for any other purpose, to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party support their statement, such as the risk of their conclusion being in error is reduced but not reduced to very may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk and responsibility. low or zero”. Work scope and criteria Limitations of our review Our assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with ISAE3000 (revised) and ► Our review was limited to the English version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement, as defined by AA1000AS, in order to provide a limited between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the English version of the level assurance opinion on: Report prevails. 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the ► The scope of our work did not include any review of third party activities or performance, nor attending relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. any stakeholder engagement activities. In addition, it did not include any review of the accuracy of research results assigned to third parties, nor Information Technology systems used by third parties. 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a ► Our review did not include financial data and the corresponding narrative text and testing of the checkmark, pp. 74-77), against the GRI Standards “In accordance – Core” requirements. Information Technology systems used or those upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by AIA. 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. ► We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability. What we did to form our conclusions Our conclusions In order to form our conclusions in relation to the scope and criteria mentioned above, we undertook (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: Based on the scope of our review our conclusions are outlined below: ► Interviewed a selection of AIA Executives, Directors and Managers to understand the current status of 1. Adherence to the AccountAbility Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, against the corporate responsibility activities and progress made during the reporting period. relevant criteria found in the AA1000APS. ► Reviewed AIA’s approach to stakeholder engagement through interviews with managers responsible for Inclusivity: Has AIA been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to engagement activities at corporate level and reviews of associated documentation. sustainability? ► Reviewed AIA’s processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report, as well as the ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any key stakeholder groups have been coverage of material issues within the Report, against aspects found in the “GRI G4 Airport Operators excluded from stakeholder engagement activities, or to conclude that AIA has not applied the Inclusivity Sector Disclosures”, material issues and areas of performance covered in external media reports, and principle in developing its approach to sustainability. sustainability reports of selected European peers. Materiality: Has AIA provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability ► Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing sustainability data reported performance? for internal and public reporting purposes, linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our assurance engagement (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a checkmark, pp. 74-77). 80 81 7 Sustainability Framework and Assurance aia.gr aia.gr Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s materiality determination approach Our assurance team does not provide a balanced representation of material issues concerning its sustainability performance. The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Responsiveness: Has AIA responded to stakeholder concerns? Climate Change and Sustainability Services global network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a Global level. ► We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AIA has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering the matters to be reported. 2. Accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures (indicated in the assurance column of the GRI Content Index with a Athens, 16 June 2017 checkmark, pp. 74-77), against the “In accordance – Core” requirements of the GRI Standards. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report linked to qualitative information on GRI For and on behalf of General and Specific Disclosures under scope? ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) ► We have reviewed information or explanations on selected statements on AIA’s sustainability activities Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. presented in the Report and we are not aware of any misstatements in the assertions made. Vassilios Kaminaris How complete and accurate are the quantitative data linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures Partner under scope? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that quantitative data linked to the GRI General and Specific Disclosures under scope has not been collated properly at corporate level. ► We are not aware of any errors that would materially affect the data as presented in the Report. Does the Report meet the GRI Standards requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option? ► Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option, as presented in the GRI Content Index, found on pages 74-77. 3. Adherence to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (CoP) requirements, against the guidelines found in the Basic Guide to the UNGC CoP. Does AIA’s UNGC CoP adhere to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AIA’s UNGC CoP is not fairly stated, according to the guidelines found in the Practical Guide to the UNGC CoP. Independence We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with International Assurance Standards, particularly ISAE 3000 (revised), which requires that we comply with ethical standards and plan and perform our assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about the scope described above. We apply International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC 1), and accordingly, we maintain a robust system of quality control, including policies and procedures documenting compliance with relevant ethical and professional standards and requirements in law or regulation. We comply with the independence and other ethical requirements of the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which establishes the fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behavior. 82 83 Sociétés Anonymes Registration Number: 35925/04/B/96/60 General Commercial (G.E.MI) Registration Number : 2229601000 This document has been printed on environmentally friendly, high quality paper with the following composition: 40% recycled paper, 55% FSC certified paper pulp (certificate of sustainable forest management) and 5% cotton fibres to improve paper texture and appearance. It is eco label compliant, adhering to all environmental management ISO standards as well as the relevant ISO standard for reduced carbon dioxide (CO2) generation and emissions during manufacturing. It features neutral ph; it is free of heavy metals and is non-chlorinated to avoid contamination of water, the ground water table and the sea. It is durable but also fully self degradable and recyclable. 84 85 86
