SUSTAINABILITY REPORT YEAR: 2016/2017 Message from our CEO To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd continues to support the implementation and adherence of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This year marks our third year as members of the UN Global Compact initiative. We remain committed to entrenching the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in all that we do as a company and ensure we operate in an inclusive and sustainable manner. As we submit our third annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Prasanta Das Sarma CEO, Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd 2 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Company name: Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Sector: Telecommunication sector Number of employees: 381 UN Global Compact signatory since: 7th August 2014 Contact person: Joy Nyaga Address: Parkside Towers, Mombasa Road, P.O. Box 73146-00200, Nairobi Kenya Email: Joy.Nyaga@ke.airtel.com Phone: +254 733 750 177 3 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Who we are We are part of Bharti Airtel Limited, a leading global telecommunications company with operations in 17 countries across Asia and Africa. Headquartered in New Delhi, India, the company ranks amongst the top 3 mobile service providers globally in terms of subscribers. In India, the company’s product oﬀerings include 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services, mobile commerce, fixed line services, high speed DSL broadband, DTH, enterprise services including national & international long distance services to carriers. In the rest of the geographies, it oﬀers 2G, 3G and 4G wireless services and mobile commerce. Bharti Airtel had over 364 million customers across its operations at the end of December 2016. What we do Airtel has been operating in Kenya since 2010, maintaining and evolving its strong customer values and competitive services. In Kenya, we are the second largest telecommunication operator oﬀering mobile services on 2G and 3G wireless service, telemedia service, mobile commerce and Airtel business for our enterprise consumers. We are currently in the process of introducing our 4G Network to the market. Our Mission as Airtel Kenya At Airtel, we provide globally admired technologies and services to give Africa an easy and dependable way to connect to the world. We bring everything Internet to everyone. Our Vision as Airtel Kenya Connected people are inspired people. We connect Africa’s people to each other, empowering them to create opportunities, dream big, and live well. 4 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Extended Vision • People: be the preferred employer providing a workplace that inspires excellence and personal achievement. • Regulator: inspire an open and respectful partnership with Government and partners. • Customers: inculcate a customer centric culture that delivers insightful products and services to fulfill consumer needs. • Shareholder: maximize long-term profitability in a responsible manner. • Community: be a responsible citizen that supports sustainable goals of the people. Our Values • Alive We act with passion, energy, and a can-do attitude. Innovation and an entrepreneurial spirit drive us. • Inclusive We champion diversity. We anticipate, adapt, and deliver solutions that enrich the lives of communities we serve • Respectful We share the joy and pain of our customers. We act with humility and are always open and honest. Our six priority areas • Win with people • Win with customers • Win with data • Win with Airtel money • Win in the market • Win with operational excellence 5 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Some of our products and things we do include • Tubonge: In the wake of new technologies making life simpler and much easier, we launched an exciting voice product that is set to simplify the lives of consumers by offering more for less. The new product dubbed ‘Tubonge’ targets Kenyans from all walks of life that rely on making calls as their preferred mode of communication. The launch of Tubonge continues to stamp Airtel’s commitment to offer innovative and value for money products and services to its customers. • Amazing Data Bundles: This is a new data product that allows consumers to enjoy super-fast speeds at affordable rates. The new product offers a wide array of choices such as 8MB data for Kshs.5 with validity of 24hrs and up to Kshs. 9,000 for 70GB data with 90 days validity. The data bundle offerings are set to cater for the needs of various users from low data users to heavy data users. This is yet another amazing product that is founded on our promise to extend the benefit of innovation and affordability to our customers. It makes communication more consistent, flexible, interactive and exciting. GET MONTHLY DATA KWA BEI RAHISI NA THE GET A ROUTER SMARTIKA NA 1GB NEW AMAZING BUNDLES (NAB) AND 24GB FOR ONLY* Dial *544# to subscribe 1 FOR KES. 5,499 99 BOB FO GB Dial *544*1# to subscribe BREAK FREE WITH 3 R ON 00 LY SMART POSTPAID PLANS MO BOB Sign up at any Airtel shop or email “airtelbusiness@ke.airtel.com NTH LY MAKE THE SMART CHOICE 6 GB B FOR ON NLYLY 1,000 BO B MONT HLY 350 M 35 KSH 1,499 FOR ONLY B Airtel calls 1,500 Min 100 BO Other networks 500 Min WEEK B 3 GB | 3,000 SMS | Validity 30 Days LY 10 GB 30 GB 48 GB MB FOR ONLY FOR ONLY FOR ONLY 1,500 BOB 2,000 BOB 3,000 BOB 20FO0R OBNOLYB 50 DAILY 30 DAYS 30 DAYS 30 DAYS KSH 2,999 Airtel calls 1,500 Min 120 GB 200 GB Other networks 1,500 Min FOR ONLY FOR ONLY 6,000 BOB 9,000 BOB 6 GB | 4,500 SMS | Validity 30 Days 90 DAYS 90 DAYS Features of the router • Plug and Play connectes to multiple devices KSH 4,499 Phone, Laptop, TV, Tablet Airtel calls 1,500 Min • Connect Multiple devices 32 devices Other networks 3,000 Min • 3G up to 21Mbps Data valid for 30 days. 9 GB | 6,000 SMS | Validity 30 Days • Password protected WiFi connection #SmartikaNaAirtel Get personalised 24 hour online support on Get personalised 24 hour online support on Get personalised 24 hour online support on Get personalised 24 hour online support on airtel kenya @airtel_ke Customer Care 100 airtel kenya @airtel_ke Customer Care 100 or 0733 100 100 airtel kenya @airtel_ke Customer Care 100 or 0733 100 100 airtel kenya @airtel_ke Customer Care 100 or 0733 100 100 *Validity: 1 day T & Cs Apply • Unliminet: This is a unique and exciting product that continues to offer our customers the peace of mind and freedom to talk and remain connected to their world through the internet. The product is destined to offer customers the convenience and freedom to make unlimited connections to their professional, family and social networks wherever they are. • Airtel Money: With Airtel Money, the company provides e-commerce solutions including online payments, online banking, utility bill payments for electricity, DSTV, and water. In 2016, Airtel Money doubled its Active Agent base in Kenya to 22,000 from 10,000 in a bid to enhance customer reach and satisfaction while in 2017 the Airtel Money platform has been going upgrading. The system is being upgraded to enable customers to access real time payments processing services across multiple access channels. Airtel Money has partnered with Maisha bank a micro financing institution to provide easily accessible loans with lower interest rate bridging the gap in accessing credits to the unbanked population offering flexible repayment plans. Currently International Mobile Telecommunications (IMT) and User Acceptance testing (UAT) is under testing to enable interoperability between Kenyan mobile operators which would enable subscribers to send money across platforms • M-Fanisi: M-Fanisi is a mobile based bank account that is available to Airtel Money registered customers. The product bundles Loans, Savings and Fixed deposit options in the initial offer. ‘M-Fanisi’, targets Kenyans from all walks of life who would like to have quick easy access to loans. This product is set to offer customers the ability to access funds from the convenience of their phones as well as nurture a savings culture that will give them good returns. 6 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd • Airtel Money VISA Card: This is a card that has changed how customers shop allowing them to pay for goods and services at all VISA accepted merchants. The card has also allowed customers to withdraw money from their Airtel Money accounts from VISA ATMs instead of joining a queue at the agent’s counter to withdraw their money. • Mobile Virtual Network Operators (MVNO): Airtel continues to host some of the country’s Mobile Virtual Network Operators, (MVNOs) on our network. This includes’: • Equity Bank, through its subsidiary Finserve Africa Limited (Equitel) Equity bank continues to operate on our network infrastructure to provide mobile phone services to their customers. • Investments in Kenya: Airtel Kenya remains committed to the Kenya market as we continue to deliver quality and affordable products and services, enhancing our network to ensure effective communication is achieved by our customers across the country. Over the past year, Airtel’s investment plan has seen the upgrade of our network and plans being underway for the launch of 4G. We have also introduced new and exciting voice and data services, expanded our shops distribution across the country, and enhanced our brand equity. We continue to invest greatly in customer service quality improvement, staff training programs and community development programs across the country. Airtel Kenya has rolled out 400 customer touch points, enabled seamless services and enhanced customer experience. Our shops are exclusively branded providing customers with excellent and proactive customer service and in addition we have approximately 3,000 brand ambassadors and 25,000 multi branded shops selling Airtel products. Scope of this COP This COP report covers our operational internal processes in relation to our customers, our staﬀ, our suppliers and our community in adhering to the four main areas of the UN Global Compact: Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption for the financial period 2016-2017. 7 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Our Commitment Airtel as a company is committed to family-friendly policies that provide employees with a safe and conducive working environment in line with the international human rights as well as adequate resources to perform optimally in their roles. These policies are aligned to the employment act to ensure full compliance with the law. A brief description of our Processes or System • The company has an able HR team which ensures that the rights of its employees and stakeholders are adhered to and none is violated. These policies are made clear to the employees through the company’s handbook. • We have 26 annual leave days per year to all employees to enable them to have ample rest as required and are approved by respective line manager, 5 days compassionate leave for employees who are bereaved in their immediate family and those who are planning their wedding. Maternity/paternity leave: We also offer female employees (3) three months maternity leave with full pay in addition to their annual leave entitlement while male employees are entitled to two (2) weeks paternity leave. Compassionate leave: Our staffs are granted off days when there is a death in the immediate family (5 working days). • We have the role of Head of security, who is in charge of overall security, critical updates to staff, health and safety training and also a security policy that is updated annually and published in public for all staff to see and be informed. • We also have an in house fire marshals and first aiders on each floor and a mandatory floor audit every day by our contracted security vendor. These fire marshals are trained every year in case there are changes, show all new staff the emergency exits and explains the fire alarm procedures and how it will be an offence to obstruct an emergency exit for whatever reason. • The company also advocates for clean desk policy where all employees are expected to keep their working areas clean at all times to reduce risk of fire or other safety hazards and also for aesthetic value at the work place • We provide a lunch space per floor for the employees to enjoy their lunch break which is equipped with a fridge and a microwave for their use. • The employees have access to coffee, tea and safe drinking water. 8 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Employee health and safety initiatives in place include • Clean desk policy to all staff to ensure that they maintain a clean and environment friendly desk. • CCTV in our Headquarters as well as all our Retail shops to enhance security • Repackaged our SIM cards to remove plastic bags in compliance to the new regulation • The fire equipment and emergency exit are inspected every morning by the contracted security vendor. • Published our Security policy on each floor as well as the evacuation plan for employees and public awareness. • We have in place an up to date business continuity plan seeing that this is an election year, this includes a short code (SMS) that enables constant updates to employees on safety awareness. • Installation of intrusion alarm systems in all our Base Transmission Station (BTS) in the fields • Deployment of armed Police officers for employees safety including armed escort into markets or areas where their safety is of concern • Quarterly online survey that enables measurement of employees’ expressions and concerns. • Compliance and Renewal of work place licenses both internal and external Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • The Head of Security must submit audited safety reports to the Ministry of labour every two years. • At least one fire drill must be executed in a year to inculcate a culture of safety awareness to all employees. • Occupational Safety and Health performance: number of fatalities, Lost Time Injuries (LTI), Fatal Injury Frequency Rate (FIFR) and Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) has not been reported in the last year. • Tracking of leave accrual per staff member by HR and ensuring approved annual leave plans are in place so that employees commit to going on leave. • People survey results in terms of response rate, engagement index, manager index and employee net promoter score been at an average of 70% Activities planned for next year • Wellness week at least once a year to create awareness on pertinent health issues • A good medical cover for all staff to ensure they are well catered for • Fire drill to inculcate the evacuation policy • Fire marshals wearing the reflective gear every Tuesday for easy identification and also awareness purpose • Create a fun environment through teambuilding and bonding activities • Training to enhance employee self-development and career growth 9 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Labour Rights Our Commitment The company is committed to employee policies that are in adherence to o the labour laws of Kenya, International Labour Organization (ILO) Conventions ns and other International Standards, eliminating all forms of labour malpractices s and also enforcing a culture of Airtel being an equal opportunity employer in support to a zero tolerance attitude in respect to employment and occupation. Airtel as a company states clearly that no staﬀ shall be discriminated against due to sex, race, color, political opinion, HIV status and beliefs. The company states clearly that each role will have a job description that outlines the scope and mandate of the role holder. A brief description of our Processes or Systems ms • Our core values are Alive, Inclusive and Respectful (AIR).This is an environment that allows each person to utilise their strengths, in an atmosphere of non-discrimination and where each individual is respected and recognised for their contribution. • We advocate the standard working hours for Airtel employees to be 40 hours a week and lunch break of 1 hour except those working on shift programs. • We have transparent disciplinary process that gives either party freedom edom to air their grievance before a final decision is taken be it a gross misconduct nduct or a general misconduct. • The recruitment process is structured and has a documented policy which strives to maintain diversity through gender, skills, race, values, s, attributes, and characteristics while offering equal opportunity to all potential candidates. We extend the same quality of selection to our vendors and partners. • ion We don’t recruit persons under the age of 18 years since it’s a violation of children rights and we extend it to our vendors and partners and at the same time we strongly advocate for the abolition of child labour. • We have zero tolerance on fraud and this is clearly articulated to staff ff through annual Code of Conduct refresher training. • We also have compensation and benefits policy where employees are re ances. entitled to some benefits that are additional to their salary and allowances. • We have a learning and development policy where Airtel recognizes that employees are its most valued asset and commit itself to the best off its ional ability to provide an opportunity for continuous learning and professional growth towards organizational effectiveness. 10 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Activities implemen implemented in the last year • Employee Communicatio Communication Forum – where all employees gathered to reaffirm commitment to tthe company strategy and set targets • Functional teambuilding to build team spirit and engagement • Our commitment of at lea least 2 trainings per year per staff which falls under our Learning and D Development Policy for the employee which supports growth of high p potential employees with the aim of preparing them for senior managem management jobs in the future. • Fire Drill to build a culture that is conscious of Health and Safety at the workplace • Morning hurdles to provi provide a platform where staff can give feedback and express their concer concerns, compliments and ideas • Monthly staff town halls tto keep employees informed on our progress against set targets Measurement of ou outcomes and value added for our com company • Our Senior Management commitment demonstrated in: w The re-launch of our o organizational culture and values through the relaunch of our co core values i.e. Alive, Inclusive and Respectful among the other valuvalues w Rewarding performan performance and desired behaviour in line with re-launched Company values – Launch of the Kudos card which is designed as a tool for giving feedback on employees’ performance as a way of embodyin embodying the company’s core values. • Improved engagement sc score, our last engagement survey registered the highest score yet of 4 4.32. • Continued review of our p processes and systems to ensure a solid control environment Activities planned ffor next year • Enforcement of rigour an and discipline our workways. • Refresher training in Telc Telco 101 for all staff. • Enforcement on leave ma management to ensure work life balance. 11 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Environment Our Commitment As a company, we are committed in ensuring that we operate and take initiatives that will promote our company as environmentally responsible and a company that embraces environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. Activities implemented in the last year • We phased out traditional physical tender box and we are now on e-sourcing for all our sourcing activities. The e-sourcing technology has immensely facilitated the sourcing process. • Commitment by our suppliers to annually sign the Bharti Code of conduct • Promoted a greener, sustainable environment in the workplace through an E waste management partnership with Computers for Schools Kenya (CFSK) who have helped us manage our electronic waste by ensuring proper recycling, recovery and disposal is conducted in an environmentally manner. • Compliance of statutory requirement Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • The advanced shipping module in our e-sourcing system has created visibility of the logistics process where clearing documents are processed online, including the amount of duty to be paid. Cost reduction on paying excess demurrage cost due to clearance delays and improve on our clearing turnaround. • Operationalizing our supply chain system has promoted efficiency, speed, control and transparency of the process. • Employees’ positive feedback on the safe environment at the working place. Activities planned for next year • Continued partnership with Computers for Schools Kenya (CFSK) to help us manage our electronic waste in the office. 12 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Anti-corruption Our Commitment Airtel Networks Management is committed to ensuring a corruption free environment. Corruption is fought at three levels through: • Nurturing a culture of compliance Through Compliance awareness/training, compliance checks, reporting and corrective action for breaches. • Ethics Management setting the tone at the top by driving the ethics message; and • Integrity As embedded in our Code of Conduct and other policies. More importantly for the company is the leadership commitment and zero tolerance to the vice. Policy and Practices Integrity The Code of Conduct summarizes the key ethics principle that guides our dealings with each other as employees, with vendors and other key stakeholders. Each and every employee is required to read, understand and sign the Bharti Code of conduct which is mandatory to all Airtel Kenya employees during the onboarding process. As an example , Our Code of Conduct provide specific guidance on corruption related concerns such as fair competition, conflict of interest, acceptance and giving of gifts, improper payments, working with government and regulators and ethical advertising. As per the Code of Conduct, employees are strictly forbidden to accept any bribe, improper payment or Inappropriate favour of any other kind. Besides cash payments, such inappropriate payments would include: • Kickbacks or kickback schemes, especially in form of cash • Unexplained rebates • Payments for advertising or disguised allowances or expenses • Personal favours such as club memberships, entertainment and preferential treatment Compliance Reporting of Acceptable Gifts and Entertainment • All sponsored trips and gifts along with their estimated value must be reported on quarterly basis, in writing, to HR department • A consolidated report of all such trips and gifts (including those below the limit of USD 50 should be submitted on a quarterly basis to the Corporate Director Human Resources at the corporate office • The Group Internal Assurance function will review these reports and conduct any audit procedures considered appropriate and issue a monthly report to the CEO & AIMB The process the Disciplinary Committee follows regarding employee misconduct: • The Reporting Managerpresents the case • A Human Resource Representativeensures that due process is followed and that all parties are protected and given a fair hearing 13 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd • A chairperson (Member of staff from another department unrelated to the incident) – moderates and makes the final decision in consultation with all the panel members • A representative from Legal – takes all the minutesand ensures these are signed by everyone as true copy of the conversation held • An independent investigator’s report if it is a fraud case or whistle blower case • The accused staff member is given the opportunity to be accompanied to the hearing by a fellow staff member of their choice to ensure that they get a fair and transparent hearing Communication from Senior Management Airtel senior management set the tone at the top through verbal and non-verbal communication to all staﬀ. This is through recognizing employees embodying correct ethical culture. Where there have been instances of deviation, communication of strong messages of zero tolerance to non-compliance coming from Senior Management. We have embedded an ethics culture by cascading Key Performance Indicator around Compliance for all Managers. This ensures a direct linkage between compliance and compensation and encourages compliance. A brief description of our Processes or System In line with the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Framework, our key processes revolve around Prevention, Detection and Response. The tenets of this framework include the below. Governance Through Internal Audit Committee/ Governance oversight, reporting on initiatives and eﬀorts for adequate fraud/ corruption risk management. Risk Assessments Having resources and skilled risk assessment champions such as the Compliance Managers to undertake regular assessments to uncover any control gaps. Policies and procedures Developing and communicating policies that address AntiBribery and Corruption as well as fraud and misconduct. For example Gift and Donation Policies, Conflict of Interest Policy, Duty to Report Policy, Disciplinary Procedures and Consequence Management Policy. Communication and Training Ensuring all staﬀ including key vendors and outsourced staﬀ are trained on Code of Conduct and Ethics. Undertaking induction training on all new staﬀ on the key ethics policies and procedures. Due diligence Includes vetting agents who have access to confidential areas, background checks on new employees, physical visits and verifications where necessary for some of the agents. Response strategy response and investigative procedures Reporting any incidents to Fraud and Investigation teams and instituting relevant procedures for disciplinary in instances where necessary. 14 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Activities implemented in the last year • Online Ethics training and employee annual code of conduct certification • Update of the Gift Registry during festive seasons during the year • Implementation of various Governance WorkWays including the HR Committee whose agenda includes among other things compliance governance • Revamp of numerous processes and policies • Introduction of Compliance KRA’s (Key Result Areas) to be appraised as part of performance, in order to embedded compliance in day to day operations • Training of our sales agents and field staff on the various compliance measures instituted • Review of Contracts with Key Vendors to facilitate transparency and accountability in our dealings • Vendors annual signoff of compliance to code of business • Undertook our first governance meeting with Vendors which enabled us to align Vendors on new processes around governance and ethics • Internal Audit undertaken in various functions and specifically covering Procurement, Finance and Sales Functions which are generally prone to fraud or irregularities • Inclusion of Ethics and Compliance processes in on boarding of all new employees Measurement of outcomes and value added for our company • Increased transparency for example due to use of i-procurement With the procurement system, information on changes to bids or negotiations are broadcast to all bidders, closure of bids is automated and grievance resolution is monitored with system escalations to relevant staff • Reduced fraud impact and revenue leakages • Reduction in Customer Resolution timelines • Ethics and values measures; the company issued warning letters to employees found in contravention of code of conduct • Increased awareness of compliance as a result of tying Compliance Key Result Areas to Performance appraisals and subsequent compensation benefits • Improved relations with Vendors due to the various governance meetings and initiatives • Improved Internal audit scores in the Key functions mentioned above 15 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Activities planned for next year • Annual Employee Signing of Code of Conduct • Annual Vendor Code of Business Ethics signoff • Continued Governance meetings and Workshops with Vendors • In order to improve communication of processes and compliance programmes finalization of an organization wide process and policy repository • Full Implementation of a fully automated Fraud Management System (FMS) for Airtel Money How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? • We intend to communicate to all our stakeholders through: • Upload the COP report on our official Airtel website • Communicate to our customers and media stakeholders through email Donations, awards As Airtel Kenya we want to be known and recognized as a socially responsible company a good corporate citizen amongst our stakeholders. We want our employees to be energized and motivated through opportunities to be involved in CSR projects in the community around us. 16 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd The company through The Airtel Spirit tries as much as possible to impact the community through the following: EDUCATION Airtel, Computers for Schools Kenya partner to connect schools to the Internet. In its continued show of commitment to enhancing the lives of its customers through technological solutions, Airtel Kenya, a leading telecommunications services provider launched it’s Free Internet for Schools Program in partnership with the Computers for School Kenya (CFSK) at the Aquinas Boys High School in Nairobi. The partnership saw 30 Schools in Nairobi, Nakuru, Kiambu, Garissa, Kisumu and Uasin Gishu counties receive free internet connectivity from Airtel. The host school also received donation of computers from CFSK. Oﬃcially launched in 2014, the Airtel Free Internet for Schools, which is a flagship CSR program, seeks to provide internet access to students therefore allowing them to gather meaningful information that will aid in their learning. The program has so far impacted the lives of over 250,000 students in over 300 schools across 33 counties in Kenya. The launch follows a series of other high profile launches held last year in counties including Machakos and Kiambu. With an intended target of reaching 1 million students across the country, the 30 schools in the diﬀerent counties added to the list of students and youth that have been positively influenced by the program. Airtel also continues to work with British Council, Computer for Schools Kenya and The Global Peace Foundation (GPF) to provide free internet connection to over 60 hubs located in schools around the country. The high speed broadband access for the hubs guarantees teachers and students limitless new educational opportunities. The hubs are dedicated spaces within secondary schools where students are incubated and nurtured to be creative, innovative and able to launch sustainable business ventures and social enterprises. Some of the JoyWo trainers have a look at one of the tablets provided in the BRCK KIO Kits that will traverse various counties to oﬀer digital literacy skills to women and high school students 17 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Airtel stamps its support for digital literacy in the region through Intel® She Will Connect program in partnership with JoyWo (Joyful Women Organization). Airtel Kenya extended its support for digital literacy in peri-urban and urban communities across Kenya by oﬀering more Airtel routers and 3G connectivity to ensure free internet connection services to the Intel Mobile Caravan under the She Will Connect program. Following the oﬃcial launch of the Intel Mobile Caravan in September 2016, between Airtel, Intel and other partners, a three day training for trainers was organized to equip the trainers on the new content, platform and schedules that will be adopted in the next phase campaign for the caravan and the BRCK KIO kits. The pilot phase report on the caravan and BRCK kits which was in September 2016 was shared highlighting the successes and challenges of the initial roll out project. It was reported that the pilot phase program had impacted the lives of 3200 beneficiaries in the four counties namely, Narok, Nairobi, Muranga and Machakos where the caravan toured. The Intel Mobile Caravan targets women, teachers as well as students and provides free ICT training. Airtel Kenya being the oﬃcial connectivity partner provides high speed 3G connectivity to an additional 10 BRCK KIO kits that will be taken round various counties in the next phase of the campaign. The next phase campaign will target eight counties including Uasin Gishu, Trans Nzoia, Kakamega, Narok, Embu, Nyandarua, Homabay and Tharaka Nithi. Intel Corporation has been impacting the lives of women and girls through the Intel® She Will Connect program that empowers women and girls with digital literacy thus enabling them to receive better education, enhance their political participation, have a stronger voice in their communities, and increase their income by connecting to new economic opportunities. The program has so far impacted over 150, 000 women in Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa through face to face training. Other key partners in the initiative include the Kenya Institute of Curriculum development (KICD) charged with ensuring coordination with schools and providing digital educational content, JoyWo (Joyful Women Organization) run by Mrs. Ruto in the mobilization of women in the respective communities to attend the training sessions to be held at community centres and Global Peace Foundation which is involved in developing and executing training modules for the target audiences. (L) JoyWo CEO, Abraham Samoei receives a router from Marion Wambua from Airtel Kenya during a breakfast meeting held at Corat Africa, Karen. Looking on is Dr. Mark Matunga, from Intel. 18 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Airtel hosts Riara Springs Girls High School for Junior Achievement Job Shadow Program Airtel Kenya in partnership with Junior Achievement (JA) Kenya hosted a team of young students from Riara Springs Girls High School for the JA Job shadow program. Junior Achievement Kenya is the country’s largest and fastest growing non-profit organization with a mission of inspiring and preparing young people to succeed in a global economy. They do this by providing key hands on experiential programs that equip the youth with these skills to succeed in work and life. Through Junior Achievement students across the country are taught on entrepreneurship, financial literacy and work readiness. Through the Job Shadow program, students have an opportunity to have a hands-on experience of their future careers. The students experience a ‘working day’ where they shadow an employee within the firm for the whole day. Job shadow creates a critical link between education and the workplace and inspires the students to want to be successful in work and life. The overall goal is to inspire the students to work hard so as to fulfill their dreams. The students have a real experience of the importance of education so as to get them to their future careers as the shadow partners they have for the day. Prasanta Das Sarma, Airtel MD welcomes the students of Riara Springs to Airtel oﬃces. 19 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Employee Volunteerism The Airtel Spirit encourages a selfless giving of time on both an individual and at a corporate level. Airtel employees have taken time oﬀ their busy schedules to attend CSR activities such as Free Internet connection in various schools across the country as well as mentorship programs in some of the schools. Their involvement revolves around identifying schools to be connected to Airtel Free Internet for Schools Program, Network team confirming the availability of network and regional team being involved in the launch as well as follow ups with the schools already connected. 80% of the employees have been involved in various CSR initiatives across the country for the past one year. (From left) Michael Okwiri, VP-Corporate Communications and CSR, Airtel Africa; Joy Nyaga, Director Legal and Regulatory Aﬀairs, Airtel Kenya and Dia Ezzaoudi, DirectorBrand and Media, Airtel Africa, giving a donation to Hannah Wairimu, the founder of Mogra Rescue Centre. Airtel staﬀ, Ann Mwivaki and Brenda Gitonga, enjoy their time with Airtel’s Eastern Region staﬀ, led by TSE Harrison Mwange, share early the little ones at the ages of 2weeks to 1year old section. Christmas with Tumaini International Trust Home Machakos masii. 20 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Mentorship In the true Airtel spirit that encourages selfless giving in community development initiatives at both individual and corporate level, Airtel Kenya staﬀ continues to show their commitment by oﬀering mentorship to students at the Mukuru Promotion Centre. Airtel staﬀ dedicated their time yet again to engage with students at the St. Michael’s Secondary school to discuss on issues aﬀecting their education and social life. Now in its third year, The Airtel Mentorship Program was launched as an avenue for the employees to be able to share their experiences and achievements with students especially from marginalized and underserved areas. Through these encounters, the students are motivated and encouraged to beat the odds that face them by striving for success, embracing the importance of having an education as well as identifying careers that they love and develop skills that they can use in their future. With an estimated population of over 700,000 people, Mukuru is one of the biggest slums in Nairobi that is riddled with poverty, crime, drug abuse, prostitution and other vices that are characteristic of slums all over the world. However, despite these challenges the Mukuru Promotion Centre has over the years served as an oasis that seeks to establish and operate a holistic and sustainable health, educational and social development program which addresses the basic needs of the most vulnerable in the community. Community Development This is part of the company’s longstanding commitment to continue strengthening its ties with the local community as it is in line with the Airtel Spirit, a code which the brand and staﬀ engage in sustainable community development initiatives to create lasting value beyond monetary value. Some of the initiatives done include: Airtel celebrates Iftar with Muslim faithful at Jamia Mosque. As a show of its longstanding commitment to strengthen its ties with the local community, as it continues with its business operations in the country; Airtel Kenya, hosted a special Iftar dinner for the Muslim community at the Jamia Mosque in Nairobi Central Business District. The Iftar dinner was graced by Airtel staﬀ including Ag. Customer Service Director, Maburuka Ramadhan, Hamani Maiga, Head Governance-IT, Airtel Africa, Ahmed SaadHead Network Deployment, Airtel Kenya and Shafi AbdulmajjidCustomer Experience Executive. The Jamia Mosque team included Imams, members of the Jamia Mosque Committee together with other senior Muslim leaders and scholars. Iftar is one of the religious observances of Ramadhan and is often done as a community, with people gathering to break their fast with an evening meal at the end of the daily Ramadhan fast. During the Ramadhan period, Muslims on the Airtel network were given access to the Islamic Religious Portal where they can subscribe and access Qur’an recitations, receive prayer alerts and listen to Khutbah and prayers live from Makkah among others. From left Said Abdalla Jamia Mosque Maburuka Ramadhan Customer Service Director Aboobakar Nazir Jamia Mosque and Muslim faithfuls at Jamia Mosque during the iftar dinner Shafi Abdulmajjid Customer Service Executive Airtel 21 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd Environment Airtel Kenya is committed in ensuring that it operates and takes initiatives that will promote the company as environmentally responsible and that embrace environmentally friendly technologies in its businesses. These initiatives include: Tree planting Airtel partners with the Embassy of the State of Israel in tree planting initiative The Embassy of the State of Israel collaborated with the Kenya Forestry Service (KFS) and the Ministry of Environment and Natural Joy Nyaga, Director, Legal & Regulatory Aﬀairs, planting a tree at the Israeli Forest. resources in support of tree planting and re-aﬀorestation in Kenya, a culture that Israel greatly values and implements successfully; and is delighted to share the experience. Further, The Embassy adopted a forest in Kenya, committed to planting trees in the Mau and round Kenya as well as establish a modern tree nursery that will supply tree seedlings for enhancing environmental conservation in Kenya. As part of marking the 69th Anniversary of Israel’s independence this year which was on 2nd May, 2017, the Embassy conducted an inaugural tree planting day at the Uplands Forest Station in Lari Block. Airtel was part of the invited guests and sponsoring partners of this Picture 3Ambassador of the State of Israel, H.E Yahel Vilan plants a tree with Airtel’s Legal and Regulatory Director, Joy Nyaga initiative as part of its CSR initiative geared towards environmental conservation. Airtel took part in the tree planting process that will see over 10,000 trees planted in the various blocks adopted by the Embassy of Israel. Ambassador of the State of Israel, H.E Yahel Vilan and CS, Prof. Judi Wakhungu oﬃcially launch the Israel Forest. 22 Airtel Networks Kenya Ltd 23
