CSR report 2016/17 welcome 5 Danish Crown business model 7 Our CSR Purpose 8 Welcome to our CSR report about danish crown 9 Our value chain and business model 11 How we contribute to society new sustainability strategy 13 Letter from the Chairman 14 Letter from the CEO 15 Our materiality issues sustainable feeding 16 How we build the CSR platform farming p. 27 the world p. 21 17 Our new sustainability strategy 20 New CSR policy 38 good jobs for everyone p. 39 together with customers & consumers p. 47 21 feeding the world 27 sustainable farming 33 sustainable food production 39 good jobs for everyone 47 together with customers and consumers 53 un global compact index table of content table of content 3 4 danish crown business model 62 billion Revenue in DKK 7,166 Cooperative members 6% Ingredients Danish Crown is a global food company originating from The prices paid to our farmers reflect the market price Denmark. The company is a cooperative society with limof meat at all times. ited liability, 100 per cent owned by the Danish farmers who supply pigs and cattle to the company. The business units process the raw materials into products such as bacon, cold cuts, salami, pizza toppings, 40 % 21 million 54 % Danish Crown slaughters the animals supplied by its snacks, sausages, soups, ready meals and canned products Foods Fresh Meat cooperative members, and sells the meat to customers in and sell them in local markets or in the global market. Denmark and in more than 130 other countries worldwide. A large proportion of the meat is used as raw materials by Following the closing of the accounts at the end of the Danish Crown's own processing companies: Tulip Food year, the profit from the sale of meat and processed prodDelivery: Pigs and sows Share of revenue Company, DAT-Schaub, Tulip Ltd and Sokołów. ucts is paid out to the suppliers in Denmark who are cooperative members and thereby owners of Danish Crown. 21 % Ingredients farmer Member 14 % 0.7 million Foods 65 % Price paid for Fresh Meat pigs/cattle Marketprice customer Delivery: Cattle Share of EBIT 940,000 Meat pigs/cattle Supplementary payment Meat Processed products in tonnes 25,307 Employees business units Marketprice Tulip Food Company Tulip Ltd DAT-Schaub Sokołów our brands consumer danish crown business model about danish crown 5 6 welcome our csr purpose to our csr report Danish Crown is among the largest meat processing Danish Crown's Corporate Social Responsibility Report explains companies in the world, and thus holds an important corporate social responsibility. We strive to live up to and illustrates our commitment to respecting the people and this responsibility throughout the Group by managing our business in a profitable and sustainable way and by protecting the environment in the communities in which we operate, integrating social, environmental and ethical considerainternally and in our relations with our business partners. tions in our production and processes. We are committed to lead a sustainable development of our business and ensure high food safety, high quality products, limited resource consumption, and continuous sustainable development throughout the value chain and in dialogue with our stakeholders. t his report desciribes our contribution to the realisathe report are a continuation of last year in the areas where Danish Crown is a signatory to UN Global Compact and tion of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact we consider the measures relevant also going forward. Our fully support the UN Guiding Principles on Business and and shows the progress in 2016/17 of our efforts to intention is to build a new intention is to build a new govHuman Rights. integrate our responsibilities within human rights, labour, ernance and KPI structure in the years to come in order to the environment and anti-corruption into our business ensure solid documentation and monitoring of our efforts strategy, policies and processes. and progress. Our obligation under section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act to report on our social responisibility effort is Reporting period fulfilled with this report. It represents our new sustainability strategy and CSR policy and our activities for the past year. The Danish Crown CSR report is published in November on an annual basis. This report covers the financial year 2016/17 from 1 October 2016 to 30 September 2017. The Reporting Scope previous report was published in November 2016. This year's report marks a new strategic take-off and paradigm for Danish Crown's focus on CSR and sustainability. Welcome to our dialogue We have evaluated the expectations to our business from our stakeholders and find the time right to develop a new We invite you to get a first impression and glance at our sustainability strategy and CSR policy to better support new sustainability strategy in the CSR report, which marks our business strategy and meet the expectation from our a new beginning for us. stakeholder and the world around us. Therefore, the report marks our first initiatives in this direction. The figures in Please add any feedback to sustainability@danishcrown.com our csr purpose welcome 7 8 raw materials animal ingredients customers & animal feed transportation our value chain consumers our value chain Danish Crown is part of a complex value chain comprising the growing of feed for the rearing of pigs and cattle as well as slaughtering and processing before the meat is shipped to customers and consumers all over the world. This process entails livestock & farming abattoir food production a CSR footprint, which we wish to address and seek to mitigate as much as possible. With the group's new sustainability strategy, we will in future assume active and joint responsibility for all parts of the value chain from farm to fork. OUR VALUE CHAIN OUR VALUE CHAIN 9 10 how we contribute to society A COOPERATIVE BASED ON DEMOCRACY Danish Crown is a cooperative society with limited liability, and we are We want to help feed a growing world population owned by just over 7200 farmers. Based on the principle of 'one man, one vote', the cooperative is a democratic with sustainable meat and protein solutions. While doing so, institution in Danish society. This is a tradition we uphold. we contribute actively to supporting and developing And it means that it is ultimately the owners who decide on the strategic development of Danish Crown. the communities that we are part of. BILLIONS FOR WELFARE Danish Crown is part of a comOUR FOOTPRINT In the process of contributing to efficient plex value chain which employs many people in the whole food production based on pork and beef meat products, we process, and which contributes significantly to the welfare borrow and use the planet's resources. Our activities imply of the countries in which we are active. In Denmark, Danish a social and environmental footprint on our surroundings, Crown alone accounts for 4 pct. of the country's export which we strive to minimise and take responsibility for. earnings, equating to a total of 24 billion DKK a year and a significant contribution to the public welfare in Denmark. BILLIONS OF MEALS Every day we produce almost 8 SOCIAL INTEGRATION Our workplaces are often situated million kilos of meat corresponding to 9 billions meals in rural areas near small towns where we contribute annually. Thus, we are responsible for delivering vital proboth to their survival and creating growth. 48 pct. of our tein, nutrients and great-tasting food to people all over employees are unskilled workers, we employ more than 79 the world, from fresh meat to sausages, evening meals, different nationalities, and we are committed to creating cold cuts, bacon, fastfood, long-life canned products and jobs for people on the edge of the labour market. meal solutions for restaurants and the foodservice sector. THOUSANDS OF JOBS Every day, almost 25,000 people go to work at Danish Crown. In addition in Denmark, a further WE WANT TO DO BETTER Through partnerships and 10,000 people are indirectly employed in agriculture and a investments in R&D, we strive to make our products large number of support industries such as mechanical enand processes more sustainable. We are, for example, gineering, construction, feedstuffs production, technology, working to reduce the use of antibiotics by pig producers, raw material production and consultancy. mitigate the climate impact of our production and improve animal welfare. how we contribute to society how we contribute to society 11 12 letter from the chairman it's all about food and being responsible a s a company owned by farmers, we are As a cooperative, our company is a strong democracy, and obliged to manage our part of the food chain all our well over 7,200 cooperative members are involved in responsibly. Doing things properly is a deeply setting the course for the future. This means that we alrooted tradition in Danish farming, and today Danish ways need to balance the interests of individual farmers Crown operates one of the most efficient and valueand our business with those of society and consumers. adding food value chains in the world. The resulting dynamism constantly driving us to new solutions and answers to global challenges. In order to further secure our place in the world, we must continue to develop and deliver the products which cusThe production of pigs without the use of antibiotics is one tomers and consumers demand. In addition to tasty and example of our continual development work, a new animal healthy foods, both customers and society are increaswelfare label for pigs is another, and on the farms, highly letter from the ceo ingly demanding new answers from us on issues such energy-efficient housing units are now being built to limit as sustainability from farm to fork. carbon emissions. At the same time, we are working closely with researchers to develop new knowledge and new techSustainability has been our focus area for many years, but with our new sustainability strategy we launch a structured development plan to ensure that we develop further in this nologies which in the long term can pave the way for sustainable solutions for the benefit of consumers. feeding the world direction, so that together we can meet customer wishes I do know this: Being a major player in the food business calls and maintain their confidence. for non-stop development in all parts of our value chain. Our 'licence to operate' is granted to us by consumers, and this t is something which we must never forget as farmers and he global food supply is under pressure. Demoproducts. We know that there are still many dilemmas to as a company. graphic developments, which are already leadbe solved. And we know that we cannot do it alone. Thereing to changes in consumption patterns, and fore, we are inviting our owners, employees and other Best regards, significant climate changes that we have probably only seen stakeholders to work with us to tackle the challenges and the beginning of, are creating an unprecedented pressure realise the potentials. on the Earth's natural resources. We are ready to discuss and explore new paths in our coopErik Bredholt As a food producer and supplier of meat to the global mareration to ensure quality food products for consumers based Chairman, ket, we are naturally fully aware of this development. We on sustainable processes, which at the same time create Danish Crown want to play an active role in addressing some of the major value for the farmers that own Danish Crown, and for the challenges associated with food and meat production. thousands of families whose livelihoods are closely associated with our business. While the demand for meat products is stagnating in the West, it is growing rapidly in Asia and Africa. We have a I am looking forward to unfolding our new sustainability huge responsibility to supply consumers all over the world strategy in the coming years. with healthy, tasty and responsibly produced foods. And we are keenly aware that we are borrowing and using society's Best regards, common resources to do this. I am therefore pleased to present Danish Crown's new sustainability strategy, which we call 'Feeding the world'. Jais Valeur With our new strategy, we accelerate our commitment to Group CEO, integrating sustainability into our business and into our Danish Crown letter from the chairman ceo letter from the ceo 13 14 our how we build materiality issues the csr platform The Danish Crown sustainability strategy defines our In the past year, we have carefully mapped our challenges The process has included dialogues with NGO's in fields CSR focus and our commitment to run a profitable and within the field of CSR. We have analysed all our business such as climate change, animal welfare, working condisustainable business. areas and involved external stakeholders in pinpointing tions, ethical trade and organic farming, and we have inwhat they see as our most important CSR challenges. terviewed a number of customers in Denmark and in the o Based on this analysis, we have identified the most imUK about their expectations and wishes regarding our ur new strategy is guided by the materiality are aligned with the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding portant CSR issues and the ones which are most critical CSR focus. Their input has been a pivotal element in anaassessment of our impact and risks in relation Principles on Business and Human Rights. to both Danish Crown and our stakeholders. lysing what is important to our company, and their signals to human rights, social and employee matters, have resulted in a change of course in Danish Crown – the environment and climate, anti-corruption and bribery. We know that transforming our CSR targets into sustainaThe most important issues have been grouped into five from focusing on our responsibilities in the slaughteringIn this process, we have engaged our business partners and ble results and positive impacts for our customers and emmain tracks which are set out in the group's new sustainato-consumer process to assuming responsibility for the stakeholders to learn from their experience with sustainable ployees as well as integrating CSR in our daily operations bility strategy. 'Feeding the world' describes the main chalentire value chain from farm to fork. farming and production, and to test how our strategy may require a proactive approach. At the same time, we are lenges for which we need new answers to the long-term be aligned with their needs and interest in sustainable deconvinced that focusing on our customers and consumers development of our business. 'Sustainable farming' is about velopments within meat processing. and helping them embark on a sustainable journey with us the risks and opportunities which are particularly important is vital for our endeavours. To achieve this, we are planning in our cooperation with our owners and other suppliers of A core element of the sustainability strategy is our support several actions in the coming years to promote sustainable animals for slaughter. 'Sustainable food production', 'Good for the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG's). We have meat processing in safe and healthy surroundings, and to jobs for everyone' and 'Together with customers and confocused our support on specific SDG's which are of particular strengthen our CSR dialogue internally, but also in our relasumers' concern the most significant risks and opportunirelevance to our business activities, give us an opportunity tions with our suppliers and external stakeholders impacted ties in Danish Crown's core business. to contribute to safe and healthy workingconditions, and by our business operations and products. engaging with customers and consumers. We are especially feeding proud of our contribution to achieving food safety and The implementation of our new strategy will be guided the world improving nutrition through our products. by internationally acknowledged targets and indicators. We thus apply and are inspired by indicators from the feeding the world To integrate the sustainability strategy goals in our daily Global Reporting Initiative Standards 2016 (GRI), the GRI operations, we have adopted a new CSR policy, creating the G4 Food Processing Sector Disclosures (2010), and the • Meat and climate • Future farming organisational framework for realising our strategy. The SDG targets and indicators from the SDG Compass Inven• Meat in future diet • Sustainable feed policy sets out our CSR efforts and targets and helps us tory of Business Indicators as a framework for monitor• Alternative proteins • Bio security manage our materiality issues and risks in relation to huing and measuring the results and impacts of our susman rights, social and employee matters, the environment tainability strategy and CSR efforts. and climate, anti-corruption and bribery. From 2017/18, measuring of our CSR results will form part of Our CSR efforts thus ensure compliance with section 99 a our daily tasks throughout the group. A baseline is built and b of the Danish Financial Statement Act. All our efforts through 2018-2021 that will allow us to measure our progress over time and respond to changes with effective actions. sustainable sustainable good jobs together with our csr platform farming food production for everyone customers and consumers strategy csr policy • Farmer's finances • Supply chain ethics • Working conditions • Healthy products goal and purpose and effort documentation reporting • Animal welfare • Food waste • Social integration • Sustainable assortment UN Sustainable Feeding UN Global Will be inspired Annual report • Veterinary safety • Packaging • Employee attraction • Innovation and co-creation Development the world Compact by Global Reporting CSR report • Antibiotics • Food miles • Employer relation • Appetite for meat Goals Initiative • Weaner supply and • Circular economy UN Guiding Prinquality • Green ambition ciples on Business and Human Rights our materiality issues how we build the csr platform 15 16 our new sustainability strategy In 2016/17, Danish Crown prepared a new sustainability strategy, which was approved by the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board. The sustainability strategy defines the overall focus areas, goals and actions for the coming years. together with customers and consumers f or many years, we have worked systematically with corporate social responsibility. As a cooperative owned by farmers, our values and heritage are deeply ingrained in good agricultural and food production practices with a special focus on areas such as food safety, the environment, animal welfare and the working environment. PURPOSE: We will PURPOSE: We will earn customers' build a strong future and consumers' confidence and However, given the significant global population growth, for our farmers. preference with healthy, safe and resustainable climate change and the increasing pressure on the Earth's farming feeding sponsible products, and via dialogue. resources, we are acutely aware that the fundamental conditions for our operations are changing in a number of ways. good jobs for everyone the world At group level, we have therefore decided that our focus on sustainability must embrace the entire value chain from farm to fork under the heading 'Feeding the world'. The strategy is divided into five main tracks, which support the UN Sustainable Development Goals and enable us to take action on the issues identified in the materiality analysis. The structure ensures that sustainability is high on the PURPOSE: We will attract and agenda throughout our value chain and encourages collaboretain people with good jobs and ration across the organisation to achieve the strategic goals. opportunities for everyone. sustainable food production As an important element of the corporate strategy, all business units have concurrently developed their own sub-strategies, setting out their particular contribution to the overall vision of 'Feeding the world'. In this way, we ensure that our commitments are coordinated, and that the initiatives we will launch over the next few years will contribute value both to our business and society in the business areas and markets in which we operate. Progress will be based on the challenges and market conditions PURPOSE: We will find PURPOSE: We will operate specific to the various business units. a way to feed the world a sustainable, efficient with sustainable meat and and high-performing food protein solutions. production. our new sustainability strategy our new sustainability strategy 17 18 CSR governance Commitment to UN Sustainable new A new CSR governance structure has been developed to secure the progress and implementation of the strategy on Development Goals Our CSR ambition is to contribute to the fulfillment and csr policy group level and in all business units. To lead the work a promotion of the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Director Group Sustainability has been recruited. Goals (SDG's). We believe that Danish Crown is in a position to positively influence the realisation of the SDG's We have developed a new CSR policy, which will contribute A CSR Board has been established by the Group Executive and are guided by this framework in determining our CSR to translating our five strategic focus areas into practice Board to own the Danish Crown's sustainability strategy goals. We have carefully analysed the 17 goals and selectand activities throughout the group and in our supply and ensure that the CSR efforts form an integral part of ed the ones where we can make the biggest difference. chain. The policy ties the UN Sustainable Development how the business operates. The CSR Board supports the To achieve our goals, we will work actively with the SDG's, Goals to our CSR commitments, and helps to integrate the development and strategic implementation of the sustaintargets and indicators identified in the SDG Compass ten UN Global Compact principles into our daily practice. ability strategy. The CSR Board consists of the Group CFO, Inventory of Business Indicators. CEO's from two business units, SVP HR, VP Group CommuThe planning of our CSR commitments and the associated nications and Director, Group Sustainability. KPI's, risk assessments, due diligence processes and comply with the provisions of section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. With the new policy, we also create the foundation for meeting the requirements of the UK Bribery Act and the governance structure UK Modern Slavery Act. The policy will provide a framework and set targets for future activities, and will be rolled out DANISH CROWN AMBA in the organisation from the 2017/18 financial year. BOARD DANISH CROWN A/S BOARD EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT SENIOR MANAGEMENT The CSR policy is an overall policy including GROUP (SMG) our coming focus on the following: BOARD OF DANISH • Human Rights CSR BOARD CROWN AMBA & DANISH • Labour Rights CROWN A/S • Climate and environment • Anti-corruption •  Partnerships and dialogue with Alfred Staberg stakeholders • Grievance Mechanisms feeding the world •  Governance structure and CSR organisation •  Documentation, CSR reporting FEEDING SUSTAINABLE SUSTAINABLE GOOD JOBS TOGETHER WITH and communication THE WORLD FARMING FOOD PRODUCTION FOR EVERYONE CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMERS Tulip Food KLS Pork Beef Tulip Ltd DAT-Schaub Sokołów ESS-FOOD Company Ugglarps our new sustainability strategy supported NEW CSR sdgPOLICY goals 19 20 In a world at 10 billion people to feed in 2050 we see a big responsibility and opportunity for Danish Crown to deliver sustainable meat as part of a healthy diet. Therefore, our sustainability strategy is centered around our role in Feeding The World. Li Yong Shan & Liang Kai Lin feeding the world feeding the world feeding the world 21 22 purpose We will find a way to feed the world with sustainable meat and protein solutions. feeding the world un sustainable development goals and targets Goal 2: Zero hunger End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promotefeeding Wu Cun Wen, Deng Xiang Fu, Wang sustainable agriculture. Han Yu, Bian Wan Qing, Tong Gui Guo the world Commitment: Target 2.4 By 2030, Danish Crown contributes to ensure sustainable food production systems and to implementing resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, help maintain ecosysIn 2050, our planet will have to feed tems, strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and almost 10 billion people. The massive urbanisation other disasters and progressively improve land activities 2016/17 and soil quality. and a growing middle class place new demands on food production. • New CSR policy and sustainability Goal 17: Partnerships strategy developed and approved by for the goals Danish Crown Supervisory Board and Revitalise the global partnership for sustainable development. Executive Board. • New Director, Group Sustainability appointed. Commitment: Target 17.17 Danish Crown seeks to encourage and promote • New CSR governance structure approved. effective public, public-private and civil society • Dialogue with a number of NGO's, cusa partnerships, building on experience and resourcing nalyses from the Food and Agriculture Need for entirely new solutions tomers and other external stakeholders strategies of partnerships. Organisation of the United Nations (FAO) as part of materiality analysis and new estimate that we will see a twofold increase Under the heading 'Feeding the world', we have made the sustainability strategy. in the demand for protein by 2050 due to population global challenges facing the agricultural sector and meat• Research projects with external partners growth and changed dietary habits. based foods one of the primary focus areas in Danish Crown's new sustainability strategy. With this strategy to develop sustainable solutions. extract from our csr policy At the same time, climate change is going to change the track, we want to: We are committed to leading a sustainable develconditions for agricultural production in many countries. • Take a long-term approach to working with opment of our business and ensure a high level of food safety, high-quality products, limited reIn some places, the climate is getting warmer, allowing challenges and opportunities source consumption and continuous sustainable more and new crops to be grown. In other parts of the • Seek partnerships and cooperation with external development throughout our value chain and in world, climate change will make it difficult to farm the researchers, scientists and stakeholder organisaour dialogue with our stakeholders. land at all. tions to contribute to creating new knowledge and planned initiatives We respect the human rights to health, well-being solutions and access to adequate food for all in our own As a food company, these challenges are all around • Find systemic solutions that can help us make • Further strategic programme to operations and in our relations with our business us, and we accept our shared responsibility for finding significant developmental advances. be developed, including indicators partners. new solutions that can feed more people in a sustainable • Support our owners and suppliers with new knowland KPI's. manner and with less of an impact on the world's edge, know-how and technology to enable them • Implement new CSR policy and strategy resources. to take more of the many small steps which are throughout the organisation. already driving us in a more sustainable direction • Continue investing in R&D that contribute every day. to innovative, sustainable solutions. • Increase cooperation with stakeholders on sustainable development and know-how. feeding the world feeding the world 23 24 • Jan Bohn, operations manager at Stovgaard • • case case new research project on heading for overview of all the environmental data, and can offer • antibiotic-free rearing of eco-friendly pork consumers an insight into the environmental and climate animals (abf) impacts from the meat they eat. Pork 4.0 is an ambitious research project initiated by case There is a general need to develop a solid knowledge base Danish Crown to collect and document the environmental There are a lot of myths and stories about the environmenabout rearing animals without antibiotics. Danish Crown is impact of pork from farm to supermarket. tal and climate change impacts of eating meat, says water savings: progress on therefore heading a new research project, which was Charlotte Thy. The project will provide us with more drip project to reach goal launched in summer 2017 with the aim of increasing the We want to be able to offer consumers even more well-founded answers and evidence for discussing future of saving 15–30% production of slaughter pigs reared without the use of eco-friendly and climate-friendly pork, says Charlotte Thy, production methods and the composition of our diet based antibiotics. The project will, among other things: who is heading the project at Danish Crown. With the on documented facts. In the long term, we may even have Danish Crown is involved in a public-private multi-stakeproject, we are giving farmers a tool for controlling the an eco-labelling scheme for pork, but that is not going to holder project called DRIP (Danish partnership for Resource • Gather information and encourage the use of complete spectrum of environmental impacts. The tool happen soon. Right now, we must first and foremost get a and water efficient Industrial food Production). The longABF methods by means of an ABF manual for gathers all environmental data in one place, making it grip on the data. term ambition of DRIP is to reduce water consumption in pig producers easy for farmers to keep an eye on and mitigate the industrial food production by 15-30 pct. through the gradu• Develop a concept for early diagnosis and prevenenvironmental impacts of their activities. At the same For the farmers, the environmental data include, for al implementation of water-saving measures. tion of diseases requiring antibiotic treatment time, we can ensure that consumers are properly informed example, fertiliser and feed production, water and energy • Map and reduce the risk of cross-contamination about the environmental impact of producing one consumption in cattle houses and pig buildings as well as The project is still in the initial phase of creating baseline between treated/non-treated animals kilogram of pork. emissions and discharges to the surroundings. For Danish and insights that can deliver the year-on-year savings. As • Handle special-risk pigs in need of antibiotic treatCrown, the project also comprises environmental data part of this, the past year has seen a detailed mapping of ment from birth Environmental data are already being collected and from its slaughtering and processing activities, chilling and the water consumption at our Danish facilities in Horsens, documented, both by farmers and Danish Crown. The cold storage as well as distribution to customers. Aalborg, Esbjerg and Vejle. The project, which was launched in July 2017, is financed by project creates a single database for all the relevant data. the Green Development and Demonstration Programme Individual farmers can extract data about their own The project is financed through the pool for the Green At the same time, we have prepared a risk and HACCP (GUDP) and runs until 2021. The project is carried out in production with a view to documenting and improving Development and Demonstration Programme (GUDP), assessment concept to be used on up-cycled water to cooperation with researchers from DTU, Technical their environmental efforts. They can also compare their and is carried out in cooperation with researchers and ensure food safety throughout the production. University of Denmark, the University of Copenhagen, own data with data from other farmers, and be inspired to consultants from Aarhus University, SEGES and Statens SEGES and Statens Serum Institut, Denmark. do things differently. The company obtains a complete Serum Institut, Denmark. case-studies: feeding the world case-studies: feeding the world 25 26 Danish Crown is owned by the Danish farmers. For Henrik Kjær,Farmer more than 125 years we have worked closely together Nordvestgaard, Denmark to develop a high quality livestock production built on modern technology, science, tradition and deep understanding of the animals. Now we take the next step together and dedicate a strategic focus on sustainable farming. sustainable farming sustainable farming sustainable farming 27 28 purpose We will build a strong future for our farmers. un sustainable development goals and targets Goal 2: Zero hunger End hunger, achieve food security and sustainable improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. farming Commitment: Target 2.4 By 2030, Danish Crown contributes to ensure sustainable food production systems and to implementing resilient agricultural practices that Animal feed, breeding and rearing of animals and veterinary increase productivity and production, help maintain ecosystems, strengthen capacity for adaptation to health are some of the main issues expressed by our stakeholders climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and progressively improve land in the materiality analysis. Søren Christensen, farmer and soil quality. from Kibæk, Denmark Goal 13: Climate Action w ith a strategic track dedicated to sustainDilemmas, challenges and unanswered questions Take urgent action to combat climate able farming in the new sustainability change and its impacts. strategy, we take an important step forAs we operate in a value chain with an impact on the ward together with our owners and suppliers in the agrienvironment and society, we are faced with many Commitment: Target 13.1 cultural sector. We will use the strengths of our cooperarelevant questions. Over the years, we have found activities 2016/17 Danish Crown will contribute to strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and tive to facilitate and promote cooperation in the value answers to quite a few of the big questions, while natural disasters in all countries. chain and create a sustainable future for our industry others are still unanswered, and new ones turn up • Establishment of international proand our business. all the time. The list of classic dilemmas relating curement network for live animals. Goal 15: Life on Land to agricultural production includes: • Evaluation of existing Farmer Code Protect, restore and promote sustainaof Practice. ble use of terrestrial ecosystems, susWin-win for farmers and business • Ensure the supply of pigs and cattle for slaughter to • Development of mobile technology for tainably manage forests, combat deDanish Crown through high payments to farmers. farmers to increase data quality and sertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. Our cooperative owners expect Danish Crown to ensure Including balancing investments in the developlivestock management. that the price they receive for the animals they supply is ment of strongly competitive and sustainable solu• Dialogue with farmer on sustainable as high as possible, while at the same time delivering a tions with the objective of paying the highest prices farming. Commitment: Target 15.6 • Focus on social responsibility in farmDanish Crown seeks to promote fair and equitable return on the capital which has been invested in the for the slaughter animals supplied by farmers. sharing of the benefits arising from the utilisation company through generations. This is a focus of all our • Communicate market expectations to individual ing through owner communication. of genetic resources and promote appropriate access business units. suppliers and thus ensuring joint development. to such resources, as internationally agreed. • Maximise use of the whole carcass. Including the The value created by Danish Crown's activities in its busibalancing of significant global differences in cusness units worldwide is paid out to our farmer owners as tomer needs and demands. supplementary payments in connection with the closing of • Ensure a future for quality meat in a world characextract from our csr policy the annual accounts. Danish Crown's strategic objective is terised by growing pressure on available resources. planned initiatives We create a new platform for setting targets for a to increase the price paid to our farmer owners for their ani• Ensure that the world around us is sufficiently insubstantial reduction of waste and efficient use of mals by 0.60 DKK per kilogramme compared to our comformed to be able to understand the mechanisms • Develop updated Farmer Code natural resources from farm to fork. We will adpetitors in Germany, France, the Netherlands and Spain. of food production. Including how we produce of Practice. dress the need to ensure sustainable consumption enough to feed as many people as possible in the and for sustainable farming through protecting, • Further strategic programme to be restoring and promoting sustainable use of terresIn this context, our sustainability strategy sets out a comworld with meat. developed, including indicators and trial ecosystems. mon direction for the development of products, technolo• Develop sustainable solutions for responsible food KPI's. gies and processes that supports our business strategy production, while at the same time ensuring that • Further increase dialogue with farmers demanded by customers and the world around us. production is profitable for our owners. on sustainable farming. sustainable farming sustainable farming 29 30 case animal welfare: european award for friland This year's European Corporate4Animals Award went to Animal welfare is high on the agenda both for our Friland Friland in recognition of the company's efforts over the farmers and for everybody else working for and with Fripast 25 years to ensure better animal welfare in the proland. The award is a pat on the back for the special efforts duction of FRILANDSGRIS® and FRILAND organic pigs. which we put into animal welfare on a daily basis, and we The award is presented by Eurogroup for Animals, the are very proud to receive it, says Friland CEO Henrik European association of animal welfare organisations. Biilmann. Each year, the Corporate4Animals Award showcases a company that has made a special effort to improve animal welfare in Europe. • Peder Rasmussen • case case energy savings: health reduced use smarter sties of antibiotics For Peder Rasmussen, who farms north of Aarhus, DenDanish and Swedish pig producers use far fewer antibiotics mark, a focus on reducing energy use in a new pig building than producers in the rest of Europe. In Denmark, the use helps to reduce costs and improve animal welfare. He is of critically important antibiotics has almost stopped confident it will improve profitability in the long run, too. completely, and farmers have even found ways of Through the use of features like natural ventilation, autocompletely avoiding the use of antibiotics in the producmatic feeders, mechanical manure removal systems and tion of pigs for slaughter. At the same time, consumers LED lighting, he expects to reduce energy consumption by are increasingly demanding meat from pigs which have 60 pct. compared to his old buildings. been reared completely without antibiotics. By treating just 10 pct. of the air, we can remove 60 pct. of the ammonia. That in itself equates to enormous energy savings and cost reductions, says Peder Rasmussen, who Today, Danish Crown slaughters completed construction of the new building for 5,000 finapprox. 7,000 antibiotics-free pigs ishers in July. A hybrid ventilation system has been ina week, which are sold mainly in stalled in the new sties that combines floor suction with natural ventilation through open windows in the rooftop. Denmark, Italy, Germany, the US and Australia. The aim is to double If I had gone for a building with more traditional systems, this number in the coming years. I might have saved 15 pct. in upfront costs, he says. But my reduced energy bills will make up for that in no time. At the same time, the high ceilings and natural light combined with the other solutions help create a better Producers can and are keen to produce these special pigs. and cleaner indoor climate for the pigs. Our job is now to optimise sales, says Søren Tinggaard, VP, Pork Export Strategy & Marketing. case-studies: sustainable farming 32 Magnus Larsson and his daughter Kim Larsson are the fourth and fifth generation of butchers from the same family in our abattoir in Dalsjöfors, Sweden. Magnus heads the abattoir as our plant manager. Kim started working in weekends, and after completing high school she worked full time as a butcher to learn the profession from scratch. Today she works as our expedition & shipping manager in the plant. sustainable food production sustainable food production sustainable food production 33 34 activities 2016/17 purpose We will operate a sustainable, efficient and high • Global procurement function with performing food production. focus on responsible supplier management established. • New Supplier Code of Conduct prepared. • Local initiatives on sustainable un sustainable development packaging. goals and targets • Implementation of new ISO 14001 standard in Denmark prepared. Goal 12: Reponsible Consumption and Production • Continuous development of improved Ensure sustainable consumption sustainable environmental solutions in the production. and production patterns. food production Commitment: Target 12.2 By 2030, Danish Crown will achieve sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources. CSR has been part of the daily work of all planned initiatives business units for decades, especially when it comes • Further strategic programme to be deextract from our csr policy veloped, including indicators and KPI's. to food safety as well as environmental issues and • Special program for waste, packaging Climate and environment Danish Crown supports a sustained and systematic reducing our resource consumption. and energy to be defined. approach to environmental challenges and is committed to take action to combat climate change. Human rights In all Danish Crown operations and activities, we respect human rights and avoid infringing w ith our new group sustainability strategy, Through a newly amended Supplier Code of Conduct we total energy energy consumption / the human rights of involved individuals. this year we have created a common basis will require suppliers in all parts of the supply chain to consumption produced volume for making coordinated progress in our adopt policies and procedures to respect human rights 1000 mwh mwh per produced ton Anti-corruption CSR activities across countries, markets and functions. and labor rights and set up a system for assessing, hanAs a responsible company, Danish Crown works dling and reporting on the risks for infringing such 1,500 0.6 against corruption in all its forms. This includes rights. Suppliers are also required to align with local 1,400 compliance with legislation and collective agree0.4 ments on fair wages, rest and leisure, equal  Environment and climate legislation related to climate and environmental stand1,300 remuneration for men and women, anti-discrimiards, and to refrain from corruption and bribery. 1,200 nation and equal opportunities in access to 0.2 We have continued our local focus on environmental and 1,100 employment and career. climate improving activities in each business unit throughThe new Danish Crown standards on responsible 1,000 0.0 out the year. Some of our main activities have been: sourcing will be implemented stepwise until 2021. 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 •  Responsible procurement and supplier management •  Sustainable packaging solutions During the financial year, we have established a global All business units with consumer-oriented products have procurement function in Danish Crown. We have thus worked with the development of sustainable packaging, created the basis for a more structured approach to rewhich is a strong driver for the retail trade. Danish Crown total water water consumption / sponsible procurement and supplier management. We Beef is already heavily involved in cooperating on tomorconsumption produced volume have carried out materiality and stakeholder analyses of row's packaging solutions, and similar initiatives are be1000 m3 m3 per produced ton our procurement activities, and based on these analying launched by Tulip Ltd and KLS Ugglarps. ses, we prepare to further involve them in our efforts to 16,000 4.80 respect human rights and labor rights. We apply a sys•  Preparing for new ISO 14001 standard 4.60 11,000 tematic approach designed to identify and handle risks Danish Crown Pork has been certified according to the 4.40 locally, and to document the steps taken to eliminate ISO 14001 standard since 2005. In 2016/17, we have 6,000 and reduce the risks. By this we especially seek to conprepared for an upgrade to the revised version of the 4.20 tribute to the abolition of child labor, forced labor and standard, which, among other things, includes stricter 1,000 4.00 slavery, and to combat discrimination. requirements for life-cycle assessments, stakeholder involvement and risk analysis. 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 sustainable food production sustainable food production 35 36 total toc in waste toc in waste water / total non-organic non-organic water produced volume waste waste case tons tons/tons produced tons tons/ton produced circular economy: maximised A Danish dairy cow is a utility animal throughout its 12,000 0.0045 40,000 0.024 use of raw materials life. It supplies approx. 35 litres of milk a day and pro10,000 duces an average of one calf a year during its lifetime. 0.0025 30,000 0.014 Deriving the full value from all parts of the slaughter aniAfter slaughtering, the whole animal is used to produce 8,000 mals is of decisive importance to our competitiveness and valuable foods, lifestyle products and medicines. Even the thus to the finance of our cooperative members. rare gallstones are gathered at our abattoirs and sold to 6,000 0.0005 20,000 0.004 the Far East, where they are much sought-after ingrediThrough a complex optimisation system, all parts of cattle ents for the pharmaceutical industry, and therefore sold 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 and pig are sold at the highest price, and all parts of the at prices comparable to prices for precious metals. animals are used, so that nothing goes to waste. 33 kg 73 kg Hide Stomach, intenstines and contents 89 kg 10 kg Bone, tallow Head and fat • case climate: new gas boiler saves co2 in poland The production of meat is energy-intensive, especially due to the need for cooling during processing. Therefore, the 25 kg 219 kg Blood Meat Danish Crown facilities are in the process of a green transition towards environmentally friendly energy sources and improved energy efficiency. At the Sokołów plant in Poland, the old coal boiler has been replaced by a new gas 15 kg 30 kg Plucks Udder boiler. And that is not all. The new gas boiler cogenerates power and heat. The new boiler has resulted in a number of improvements. We save on CO2, we emit less flue gas to the surrounding environment, and we save money by being able to generate power as well as heat at our own premises, says Stanisław Wierzbicki, Vice President of Production and Development in Sokołów S.A. A pig is normally cut up into 30-150 pieces and sold all The gas boiler was installed in 2016 and has already over the world. In the past year, Pork alone has had returned substantial savings. In the first year, CO2 exports to 74 countries. Ensuring that all parts of the emissions from the plant was reduced by 69 pct. The animals are sold every single day of the year – and even next energy renovation steps will include heat recovery, at the best possible price – is therefore an extremely thermos-modernisation of buildings and energy installacomplex process. tions as well as the implementation of ISO 50001 Energy Management at the factory. case-studies: sustainable food production case-studies: sustainable food production 37 38 With 26.000 employees all over the world we offer good jobs for everyone, and we will increase our focus on different career opportunities for all. Here Yin Kong and Fang Wu are working in our casing factory Yanchengi, China. good jobs for everyone good jobs for everyone good jobs for everyone 39 40 purpose activities 2016/17 We will attract and retain people with good jobs and opportunities for everyone. • Good jobs for everyone has been designated as one of five core areas in our sustainability strategy. • Establishment of new group HR un sustainable development function and SVP Global HR member goals and targets of the management. Goal 8: Decent Work and • Professionalised HR organisation Economic Growth good jobs Promote sustained, inclusive and with HR partners in all business units. sustainable economic growth, full • Initiated implementation of the EU and productive employment and for everyone General Data Protection Regulation decent work for all. with full compliance on employee data. • Mapping of physical ailments associated Commitment: Target 8.8 with working in production in Denmark. Danish Crown will protect labour rights and promote • Targeted efforts to integrate people safe and secure working environments for all workers, including migrant workers, in particular women on the edge of the labour market, migrants, and those in precarious employment. including job creation for refugees. o ur employees are our most important reGreater focus on occupational health and safety • Assessement for labour rights source, and one of the five main tracks in the in new factory in China sustainability strategy is all about providing Even though we are increasingly using robot technology • Development of group-wide leadergood jobs for all our employees. We create jobs in rural disand investing in high-tech auxiliary equipment, the ship principles. extract from our csr policy tricts, and job opportunities for both skilled and unskilled slaughtering, cutting and deboning of pigs and cattle is • New recruitment policy to support Labour rights workers. Through a number of targeted programmes, we a physically demanding job. As shown by the materiality Danish Crown is committed to ensure healthy and diversity at all management defined. have also helped people outside the workforce return to analysis, there is scope for further improvements when it safe workplaces for our employees and thus respect • Improved physical working environment, their right to just and favourable conditions of work. the labour market after a period on public benefits. comes to our working environment and to accidents at project 'Slagter kend din krop' (Body work. The number of accidents at work has decreased in • knowledge for abattoir workers), initially We ensure fair wages, rest and leisure, equal It is our ambition to: provide good jobs for everyone, the past three years, but is still too high. remuneration, anti-discrimination and equal in Denmark, then internationally. ensure healthy and safe workplaces and respect the right opportunities. of workers to just and favourable work condictions. We still need to invest in technology which can reduce the • We work to prevent corruption in all its forms. Ensure diversity and social inclusion in our workforce. strain on employees and increase our focus on the importance of using safety equipment and complying with safety instructions in our daily work. We are now seeing the effects Major strategic focus on employees of an increased focus among both employees and managers. planned initiatives During the year, the group's HR function has initiated a • Further strategic programme to number of cross-organisational initiatives as well as internal Increased workforce with social integration be developed, including indicators knowledge sharing as a way of establishing a uniform apand KPI's proach to the Danish Crown way of working. For example, an In recent years, we have developed our knowledge and • Continue to work for diversity HR Partner structure has been implemented, which means skills in working with social integration of refugees, peoin management. that all business units now have access to knowledge and ple on social benefits and others at the edge of the labour • Implement group-wide leadership expertise about both strategic and operational HR issues. market. It is a development track which we expect to deprinciples. velop further and implement in other parts of the group, • Strengthen relations and dialogue Another big change in the year has been the introduction in close cooperation with local authorities, job centres and between management and union of a new title structure for the group. The purpose of the local educational institutions. representatives. new title structure was to clearly define levels of responsi• Increase social integration initiatives bility, while at the same time clarifying career opportunities across the group and paths for employees. It is important to establish uniform Human rigts structures which can ensure that all managers have the skills and resources needed to make a personal success of When acquiring and establishing activities in new countries, their job and help the group realise its strategic targets. we conduct a risk assessment of human rights, anti-corruption and the environment as an integral part of the general good jobs for everyone corporate good social jobsresponsibility for everyone 41 42 business risk analysis associated with such a project. Danish The company is currently transforming the Danish part of frequency of accidents at work absence due to accidents at work Crown is in the process of implementing the provisions of the organisation with a view to making it more global. the EU General Data Protection Regulation in the company Among other things, we are offering to assess our emnumber of accidents per 1,000 employees days of absence per accident for the purpose of ensuring the protection of employee data. ployees' English language skills, followed by an offer of 40 20 English lessons, if required. The purpose of this is to better be able to ensure cooperation between employees from 38 15 Diversity our various business units – but also to build and have ac36 cess to a more diverse international pool of talents who 34 10 As a company, Danish Crown is one of the most diverse can help develop our business in our 4WD strategy. 32 and socially inclusive companies in the Danish and European 5 labour markets when it comes to production workers. In the coming years, the group is increasing its focus on 30 human resource development with the aim of attracting 28 0 Our diversity agenda is a strategic priority, which is about and retaining as diverse a talent base as possible – 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 ensuring that as an organisation we benefit from the through targeted competency development. positive effects of having a diverse workforce in terms of educational background, gender and nationality as well A clear recruitment policy has also been defined requiring as cultural affiliation. that both genders must be represented among the top three candidates for a job. total number of employees share of blue and white collar employees Danish Crown's results as a diverse and inclusive company have, among other things, been achieved through a The graph on the left handside shows that the share of 28,000 22% number of targeted processes and initiatives which have women in management positions in the company has White collar 27,000 successfully helped people who have been outside the labeen slightly increasing in recent years. (5,609 persons) bour market for an extended period to return to the labour 26,000 market as valued Danish Crown employees. Similarly, as a The group has strengthened its HR organisation in the company we have succeeded in helping refugees find work, past year. This will help to ensure that the necessary initi25,000 and we have won considerable political recognition for our atives are implemented in the local business units and focused efforts. This has been done in close cooperation across the group. 24,000 with the relevant local authorities and job centres. As a 23,000 result, a total of more than 79 different nationalities are The ratio of men and women on the supervisory boards of represented in our workforce, while we are working to furLeverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA, Danish Crown 22,000 ther improve gender diversity across our employee groups. A/S, Tulip Food Company A/S, DAT-Schaub A/S, ESSFOOD A/S, Scan-Hide A.m.b.a. and SPF-Danmark A/S, 21,000 Our focus on strengthening diversity in the company will which are covered by section 99b of the Danish Financial 20,000 continue. In the next few years, Danish Crown will focus Statements Act, shows that these efforts are necessary even more on ensuring that the diversity that exists at as only three out of the seven companies meet the locally 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 78% employee level is also reflected in our entire governance defined targets. There are no women on the Supervisory Blue collar (Total number of employees – Full Time Equivalent (FTE) average) (19,698 persons) structure – up to and including senior management level. Board of Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA, which A number of initiatives have therefore already been does not live up to the target of 10 pct. female representalaunched to support this work. tion. For several of the companies, the real challenge is the gender balance among Danish Crown's owners. The targets for 2021 have not been met in the past year either employees per business unit because no board members have been replaced, or because it has unfortunately not been possible to attract Ess-Food & trading share of women in management positions candidates with the right skills. companies (110 persons) Head quarter (320 persons) percent During the year, Danish Crown has decided to participate in the new 'Gender Diversity Roundtable Denmark' initiative. Pork (6,558 persons) 50 The purpose is to identify actionable steps to advance Sokołów (6,876 persons) gender diversity in management teams in Denmark. We 25 are one of 15 members of the roundtable, established on Beef (972 persons) the initiative of UN Women Nordic Office and the Boston Plumrose (sold in 1017) (715 persons) KLS Ugglarps (830 persons) Consulting Group. The members of the roundtable come 0 from the private sector, the Danish universities as well as Tulip Food Company (5,805 persons) Dat Schaub (1,731 persons) 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 a wide range of societal member organisations. Tulip Ltd (5,805 persons) good jobs for everyone good jobs for everyone 43 44 case integration: refugees get permanent jobs after training at danish crown • For several years, Danish Crown has helped a number of refugees get a job in Denmark in close cooperation with municipalities and local job centers. The refugees are typically employed as part of so-called language-training programs that run for three to six months. After the training program has ended at Danish Crown, two out of three of the trainees have secured a permanent position compared to only 15 percent in the country as a whole. During 2016/17, more than 30 refugees have exchanged the training program with permanent positions at the abattoirs in Blans, Ringsted and Sæby. Mohamed Farag (left) and Fareed Hasan “The refugees show great motivation, maybe due to the (right) on the abattoir in Blans, Denmark. fact that we have job openings for them at the end of the training. We normally say that if people are fit and Employees doing exercises at our abattoir • motivated, we can teach them the rest”, says Ole Carlsen, in Bonnetable, France. factory manager at the Blans abattoir, which employs 32 different nationalities. case At Group level, Danish Crown employs almost 79 different case nationalities, and the effort to support diversity and help Based on the results, the occupational health and safety creation of local jobs: more refugees into the Danish labour market continues. improved working organisations at the facilities have now started to prepare 47 unskilled workers employed environment: less discomfort local action plans. In the first half of 2017, the employees at the sæby abattoir and improved quality of life at the individual facilities have been given a free rein to try different initiatives. In 2016/17, Danish Crown received 600,000 more pigs than Working at an abattoir is hard work. It involves heavy the year before. This has increased the number of jobs at case lifting and monotonous repetitive work. At Danish Crown, We have decided to invite the employees locally to come up the Danish abattoirs by almost 250. At the Sæby Abattoir we want to take the lead when it comes to developing the with solutions that can improve the physical working alone, 47 new colleagues had their first day of work in gender equality: first female physical working environment and prevent injuries and environment. We are going to pool all the good ideas and August, most of them unskilled. Recruitment of the new abattoir manager in sweden reduced quality of life. identify the best, which we will then be sending out for colleagues took place in close cooperation with the local mutual inspiration, so that we can learn from each other. Job Center, specialized in helping unemployed people find With the appointment of Marlies Gumpert, Sweden has its We have therefore launched the development project For example, a very inspiring idea has come from our their next job. 37 of the newly employed people came from first female plant manager. Marlies took over as manager 'Slagter kend din krop' (Body knowledge for abattoir factory in France, where the lines stop every other hour, and different kinds of social security, while ten immigrants of the abattoir in Hörby in December 2016. She is responsiworkers) in close cooperation with the employees in everybody does stretching exercises to prevent injuries. The became self-supporting, full-time workers. ble for 145 employees and the slaughtering of almost Danish Crown Pork, the Danish Food and Allied Workers' result is that the employees feel less tired and are in less 2,000 cattle and lambs a week. Union NNF and the Confederation of Danish Industry. pain, explains Director Global Health & Safety Morten “We are continuously on the look-out for new people, and Pedersen, Danish Crown. as a company we want to help open new doors to unskilled At KLS Ugglarps, we work actively with gender equality In 2016/17, we mapped the problems relating to the people, who get a chance to enter the labour market and diversity. We want to fully exploit the potential of all physical working environment through a questionnaireIn the coming years, working positions etc. will be a new through training programs at our different production our employees. It is important for us that the labour market based survey among the employees at our Danish focus area, and the occupational health and safety lines”, says Leif Brøndum Nielsen, Factory Manager at the offers equal opportunities for all irrespective of their abattoirs. The employees were very keen to participate, organisation will perform a total of 12 'safety walks' a year, Danish Crown facilities in Sæby. background, gender or nationality, says Jonas Tunestål, and 35 pct. completed the survey. The survey showed that focusing on muscular-skeletal problems in order to raise CEO at KLS Ugglarps, which owns the abattoir in Hörby. just over 50 pct. suffer from pain in their shoulders, while awareness of the physical working environment and There is a need to recruit more workers for the Sæby 30 pct. have experienced lower back pain. Furthermore, prevent injuries. The survey will be repeated in two years' abattoir, and the local Job Center is right now recruiting the Besides Sweden Danish Crown has female plant managers the survey shows that 25 pct. sometimes or often have to time so as to be able to measure any improvements. next 30 people, scheduled to start at the end of 2017. in Poland and UK. take painkillers in order to be able to go to work. case-studies: good jobs for everyone case-studies: good jobs for everyone 45 46 Artur Chmielewski, Katarzyme Czarmecka, Young people learn how to cook healthy food on Facebook Monika Rosloniec It is easy and quick to choose fastfood or ready meals. Not at least when you are young and without a lot experience in cooking food. Danish Crown Beef started an initiative to teach young people how to cook easily. On Facebook Danish Crown Beef and users share everything from recipes to practical instructions in for form of eg. the grill timer to a perfectly cooked steak and a number of other short videos making it easy and fun to cook. We wish to make the young people smarter when it comes to cooking a nice an healthy meal at home. And at the same time we would like to enter into a dialogue with our surroundings about beef and alle the activities we continue to work on to offer consumers responsibly produced high quality meat, says Finn Klostermann, CEO of Danish Crown Beef. together with customers and consumers together with customers and consumers together with customers and consumers 47 48 purpose We will earn customer's and consumer's confidence and preference with healthy, safe and responsible products via a dialogue. un sustainable development goals and targets Goal 3: Good Health and Well-being Ryan Miller, Matthew Thomson, Ensure healthy lives and promote together with Richard McCollom well-being for all at all ages. customers and consumers Commitment: Target 3.D By 2030, Danish Crown contributes to strengthening the capacity of all countries, in particular developing countries, for early warning, risk reduction and activities 2016/17 management of national and global health risks. The group's 4WD business strategy has defined the overall objective of strengthening our position in the consumer market, • Increased production of special pigs Goal 12: Responsible Consumption based on consumer wishes and Production among other things by focusing on special products such as • Launch of animal welfare label in Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns. antibiotics-free pigs, welfare pigs and organic pigs and cattle. Denmark • Increased cooperation with customers on speciality products based on susCommitment: Target 12.5 By 2030, Danish Crown will substantially reduce tainable parameters waste generation through prevention, reduction, • New packaging solutions to reduce recycling and reuse. food waste and resource consumption launched in several business units. t hese are products with special, sustainable Consumers in the domestic market may have preferences Commitment: Target 12.8 properties which are in demand among confor organic, free-range pigs or animal welfare labelled By 2030, ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustaisumers and in society. We are therefore pigs, but it may be difficult to recover the additional cost nable development and lifestyles in harmony working to strengthen our position in this market. In acof producing those pigs when many parts of the animal with nature. cordance with the group strategy, we must also constantare sold in more distant markets. ly seek to create added value for our customers. planned initiatives However, this should not stop us from driving developments As part of this strategy, we are focusing on high-value in a more sustainable direction. We have therefore dedi• Further strategic programme to be extract from our csr policy segments, high-value customers and high-value pork and cated a separate track for this in the sustainability stratedeveloped, including indicators and We respect the human rights to health, well-being beef products. This strategic focus supports our objective gy, in which we want to involve customers and consumers KPI's and access to adequate food for all. of offering sustainable products developed in close coopin the development of future meals that focus on healthy eration with our customers. living, sustainability and great taste experiences. We actively participate, through membership of various organisations, in developing ways of reducing the inevitable environmental and social impacts of our production activities. As part of these efDilemmas in sales Privacy and data protection forts, we engage in and promote effective public, public-private and civil society partnerships. Many farmers are keen to supply special pigs which meet The trust of customers and consumers is of vital imporThis encompasses: We ensure compliance with human rights related consumer wishes with regard to animal welfare, healthy tance for our business. We aim at building trust through • Completion of a comprehensive dataflow legislation and have particular focus on privacy and living, the environment, climate etc. our products and dialogues, and see effective protection mapping in all our business units. data protection throughout the group. of our customers' personal data as an integrated part of • Preparation of a group policy on data protection The production of special pigs entails increased costs, and this effort. of internal and external personal data including the market must therefore contribute to covering these processes and action plans. costs. Sales are complicated by the fact that we must sell all In 2017, we have initiated a process to implement the • Preparation of internal training of key persons and parts of the pig, and that the different parts are usually sold new requirements in the EU General Data Protection functions related to ensure fulfillment of the policy. in different markets with different requirements. Regulation in our organisation. together with customers and consumers together with customers and consumers 49 50 case promoting ethical trading Together with a number of retailers and food suppliers, Tulip UK has formed the Food Industry Network for Ethical Trading. The network seeks to create aligned processes in response to Supplier Code of Conduct requirements. Today, we are faced with many different requirements and Ten retailers and 15 suppliers take an active part in the Food • Industry Network for Ethical case Trading which addresses aspects ranging from labour rights and new consumer label to promote animal welfare human rights to issues around land displacement and impacts At the end of May 2017, a new Danish animal welfare label was launched with Danish Crown as the primary on communities. supplier. With one, two or three hearts for animal welfare on the packaging, consumers are free to choose the price and animal welfare levels they want. The label has been processes from our customers who are deeply concerned extremely well received, and during the first three about responsible sourcing issues. This means that we conmonths accounted for 25 pct. of Tulip's fresh pork sales stantly find ourselves responding to requirements rather in Denmark. than putting forward a proactive approach that can benefit everybody. In the first phase of the network collaboration, Seven out of ten consumers in Denmark think about we work to create common risk assessment tools and to animal welfare when shopping for food. The welfare pig establish processes to implement the tools in all types of has therefore got off to a good start. We have for some companies from single farmers to bigger companies like time seen growth in sales of both FRILANDSGRIS® and Tulip, says Andy York, Responsible Sourcing Manager our organic meat products which meet the strictest aniStock photo • at Tulip Ltd. mal welfare standards (three hearts). With one and two hearts, we now offer animal welfare in more affordable prices ranges. Our sales of pork with one and two hearts already account for 15 pct. of total retail sales. No tail case docking is allowed on pigs which carry the label, and the animals must be given straw for rummaging and stimusustainable manufacturing lation. Finally, sows must be allowed to move around platform, manufacture 2030 freely in the farrowing pen for a number of days after farrowing. In the UK, one of our retail customers, The Co-op, has best practice and questions. The Manufacture 2030 Co-op launched an online platform to help suppliers make a Advisory Board is the go-to sounding board for ideas and The welfare label was developed in close cooperation bedifference on energy, water and waste and to work development of the Co-op Channel M2030, and members tween the Ministry of Environment and Food of Denmark, collaboratively to gather data. Tulip Ltd has been involved are the voice of suppliers. The channel is proving invaluable animal welfare organisations, retailers, stakeholder from the start and chairs the Manufacture 2030 Co-op for sharing best practice across the industry. organisations and Danish Crown. The animal welfare label Advisory Board. was initially introduced for fresh pork. It will subsequently In another cooperation project with The Co-op, Tulip is also be rolled out for processed products, other types of meat, The channel is an online platform where suppliers can have sharing an undergraduate resource this year to work on eggs and dairy products. a conversation about what is on their minds as regards 'food policy' projects of mutual benefit. sustainability and environmental management, including together with customers and consumers together with customers and consumers 51 52 un global Leverandørselskabet Danish Crown AmbA compact index Marsvej 43 DK-8960 Randers Tel. +45 8919 1919 sustainability@danishcrown.com www.danishcrown.com CVR no. 21643939 BUSINESSES SHOULD DANISH CROWN EXAMPLE PAGE Human 1. support and respect the protection of • Our CSR platform 16 rights internationally proclaimed human rights • Our sustainability strategy 17 2. make sure that they are not complicit in • Our CSR policy 20 human rights abuses • Feeding the world 24 • Sustainable food production 35-36 •  Together with customers 49-52 and consumers Labour 3. uphold the freedom of association and the • Our CSR platform 16 effective recognition of the right to collective • Our sustainability strategy 17 bargaigning • Our CSR policy 20 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and • Good jobs for everyone 41-46 compulsory labour 5. the effective abolition of child labour 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment 7. support a precautionary approach • Our value chain 9 to environmental challenges • Our materiality issues 15 • Our CSR platform 16 • Our sustainability strategy 17 • Our CSR policy 20 •  Feeding the world research cases 23 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater • Sustainable farming 29-32 environmental responsibility • Sustainable food production 35-38 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti10. work against corruption in all its forms, • Our CSR platform 16 corruption including extortion and bribery • Our sustainability strategy 17 • Our CSR policy 20 • Sustainable food production 35-36 5041 0008 un global compact index corporate social responsibility 53 54
