Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 1 Content guide 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4 1.1. Executive Chairman’s Statement 4 1.2. Key achievements 6 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 10 2.1. Brand values 11 2.2. Air transport activity 14 2.3. Airport services activity 20 2.4. Aircraft maintenance activity 26 2.5. Iberia Express 30 2.6. IAG 31 2.7. Corporate Responsibility Policy 34 2.8. Commitment to quality 39 2.9. Awards 40 2.10. Memberships of associations 44 3. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 46 4. MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES 50 5. CR REPORT PROFILE 56 6. GOVERNANCE 60 6.1. IAG–Iberia governance structure 62 6.2. Risk management 66 6.3. Internal and external audit 66 6.4. Ethics and integrity 66 6.5. Grievance mechanisms 67 7. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 68 7.1. Economic figures 70 7.2. Innovation management 73 8. ENVIRONMENTAL 74 8.1. Energy consumption 76 8.2. Biodiversity: protection of endangered species 78 8.3. Climate change: emissions 79 8.4. Local air quality and noise 80 8.5. Effluents and waste 81 8.6. Environmental management 82 8.7. Environmental projects 83 2 9. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 86 9.1. Employment 88 9.2. Labour/management relations 91 9.3. Occupational health and safety 95 9.4. Training and education 97 9.5. Diversity and equal opportunity 103 9.6. Supplier assessment for labour practices 107 10. HUMAN RIGHTS 108 10.1. United Nations Global Compact 110 10.2. Human rights training 111 10.3. Responsible procurement 112 11. SOCIETY 114 11.1. Key social development actions 117 11.2. Achievement of the millennium development goals 122 11.3. Iberia anti-corruption policy 128 11.4. Public policies of the organisation 130 11.5. Compliance with rules on anti-competitive behaviour 131 11.6. Commitment to passenger rights 131 11.7. Commitment to price transparency 132 12. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY 134 12.1. Commitment to continuous improvement 136 12.2. Operating safety 142 12.3. Quality of service (punctuality and NPS) 143 12.4. Quality of service (claims) 146 12.5. Quality of service (airports and aircraft maintenance) 146 12.6. Customer privacy 148 12.7. Communication channels 148 12.8. Advertising ethics 149 APPENDIX 150 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators 150 3 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Executive chairman’s statement It is pleasure to present our Corporate Responsibility report for the year 2015, an important year for the Future Plan 2014-2017. We have reached the halfway point of the implementation of the plan and we can say that we are meeting our goals; both economic and operational, as well as in relation to the cultural transformation of the company. One of the key achievements of the year was the recovery of all the routes suspended as a result of the company’s Transformation Plan, the purpose of which was to return to profitability. In 2014 we recovered the majority of them and in 2015 we returned to Havana and Johannesburg; the only two left to reopen. Furthermore, in our commitment to extending the offering to our customers with profitability and sustainability criteria, in 2015 we also started new longhaul routes to Cali and Medellin, and short-haul routes to Florence, Hamburg, Budapest, Edinburgh, Naples, Budapest, in collaboration with Iberia Express. Another goal of ours is to constantly renew the fleet in order to increase efficiency and quality. So, in 2015 a new order for a long-haul fleet for Iberia was confirmed, consisting of eight A350-900 and five A330-200 aircraft, adding to the eight aircraft of each model ordered a year earlier. In this process, at the end of the year we received the first of the A330-200 aircraft. These new aircraft, which will substitute the current aircraft to address the projected growth and combine economic efficiency and the possibility of offering a better service to the customer, due to their design and to the incorporation of new long-haul cabins. 4 Luis Gallego Chairman The positive progress of the company as a result of the Promotor Score (NPS) is increasing and reaching levels we Future Plan and the agreements with all staff in order to have never reached before. None of this would have been improve productivity not only resulted in new routes and possible without the commitment and hard work of our new aircraft. In 2015, for the first time in 11 years, we hired employees, whom I thank for their dedication. new pilots, 80 of whom joined the company in 2015 and we The end of 2015 left us with positive results and in line with expect to reach 200 in 2016. the budget, halfway towards what the results of the Iberia The Handling and Maintenance business areas continue of the future must be. In line with our trend for recovery, our to advance in their transformation process to increase operating profits increased from 50 million euros in 2014 competitiveness and sustainability. In 2015, Handling to 222 million in 2015. Thanks to the hard work of everyone saw its first results after winning 17 of the 20 licences involved, we have achieved figures that give us the strength for supplying handling services to third-parties at Spanish and confidence to take on the challenges ahead. airports for which it bid. In this context of change and transformation, Iberia Maintenance is also gradually taking the steps necessary to continues to maintain its social commitment and we become more competitive. In the coming months and years actively collaborate on social projects with organisations we will continue working on transforming this activity in like Envera, Mano a Mano, Make a Wish and Sepla Ayuda. In order to provide the best service to Iberia, to the group and particular we should mention the international agreement to customers at market costs and with excellent quality. that Iberia has signed with Amadeus and Unicef, through which Iberia customers donated over 200,000 euros, which There are two key components for the new Iberia: the people were allocated to the vaccination programme in Chad and and the customers. For this reason, in 2015 we created two which have helped to protect the lives of 600,000 children. departments for both of these, which report to the ManageIn addition, in Spain, Iberia joined the initiative set up by the ment Committee. In this dual commitment, punctuality is Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality to curb the an essential element, as it is the indicator most highly rated effects of violence against women. by customers and it is also highly influenced by employee attitude. In 2015 our hard work was rewarded. Iberia was the second most punctual international airline in the world, and our subsidiary Iberia Express, the most punctual lowcost airline. As a result of these achievements our Net 5 1. Strategy and analysis 1.2 Key achievements Iberia is halfway through the Future Plan it implemented in order to transform the company into a competitive company and reach a recognised and sustainable position among national and international airlines. The achievements of 2015 are the results of this Plan. Thanks to the joint effort of the entire company, it adjusted costs, increased revenue and improved its competitive position, whilst offering a better customer experience. Below are the most significant achievements for the sustainability of Iberia, grouped into five key categories for the company. New fleet order In 2015 Iberia strengthened its commitment to innovation of its equipment in order to offer the best service. Proof of this is a new long-haul fleet order; eight A350900 and five A330-200 aircraft, in addition to the order placed a year earlier. 29 long-haul aircraft on order, which join the eight A330-300 aircraft added to the fleet between 2013 and 2014 6 Strategy and analysis Increased offering In addition, Iberia presented the new cabins in Brazil, Peru and Costa Rica in order to promote the company in these markets. More than 20 new routes in 2015 Leader in Latin America During the year Iberia, along with Iberia Express, increased its Iberia consolidated its leadership in Latin America thanks to the seat offering per kilometre by 101%, whilst the number of hard work carried out in 2015 to offer its customers new routes passengers carried per kilometre grew by 1309%. This growth is (Havana, Cali, Medellin and Puerto Rico) and excellent in-flight the result of the two companies opening new routes to Havana, service, having new aircraft and cabins that offer greater Cali, Medellin, Florence, Catania, Naples, Edinburgh, Hamburg, comfort to do this. Gatwick, Charles de Gaulle, Manchester, Budapest and Funchal, in addition to other destinations. Excellence in punctuality Iberia and Iberia Express stood out throughout 2015 for their punctuality statistics. Iberia was the world’s most punctual international airline in November and second in August, September and October. Iberia Express was the most punctual low-cost airline in July, August, September, October and November New long-haul product In 2015 Iberia made a significant investment to renew the aircraft cabins and to offer a better service and greater comfort during flights. To achieve this it had new aircraft and reconditioned the A304-600. As a result of this, the travel platform Skift ranked the company’s business class as the best of all airlines flying between Europe and Latin America. Almost 80% of flights offer the new cabins service 7 1. Strategy and analysis Higher net promotor score Iberia takes its customers’ opinion very seriously because it knows that they are part of the key to the success of the company and in 2015 it multiplied its efforts to improve its quality of service. Thanks to its punctuality, a better product and an improved fleet, it improved the customer experience and increased its net promotor score by 27.7 points between 2013 and 2015. The improvement in punctuality in long-haul business class was 17 points and in economy class, 37 New customers, new products During the year Iberia launched several new products in order to attract new customers and offer a service adapted for pensioners within Mundiplan; tickets with a shared code to their needs. These new products include online auctions with Renfe railway; Infinita and Infinita Prime tickets for to get the best prices; On Business for SMEs; the relaunch of customers who stand out for their loyalty to Iberia and the Iberia Joven with new rates for students and children; trips Iberia PlusStore for online purchases. 8 Strategy and analysis Handling and Maintenance In these areas there were two key achievements: Iberia won 17 of the 20 handling license for which it bid, including the recovery of Barcelona. Maintenance serviced the first V2500 engines, for which Iberia earned certification in 2014. In addition, the maintenance model for all IAG companies is now led by Luis Gallego. Economic results take off Through the measures implemented and the achievements, Iberia continued improving its results. In the first nine months of 2015 its operating profit reached 196 million euros, almost three times the figure in 2014. However, the company is aware that it is halfway to the targets set out. Social commitment In 2015, Iberia renewed its agreement with Unicef, through It continued to support organisations like Envera, Mano a Mano which customers can make donations via Iberia.com and and Make a Wish Spain; joined the campaign against violence launched specific campaigns for Universal Children’s Day. against women and collaborated with Paralympic athlete Gema Hassen-Bey on her challenge to climb Kilimanjaro, along with other initiatives. 9 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Brand Values Over the last three years Iberia has undergone a major change driven by its desire to be a unique company. Iberia is changing to make flying with us a unique experience. During the renovation process we have held on to the fundamental values that have always made us stand out and be a reference for our customers. Thanks to these values, what we do and how we do it takes on a special significance. We are known to our customers for what we do and how we do it, that is, for our values 11 2. Organisational profile Rapport Drive In the sense of: In the sense of: The natural connection with the Hispanic world that we claim The charismatic vitality and dynamism that lead us to invent as our own and our distinguishing feature based on our country and reinvent ourselves, adapting to change in order continuof origin, history and legacy we share with millions of people. ously improve. Our linguistic and cultural similarity with them and the empathy The passion behind our ambition for success and self-improvebetween us, always working as a team and naturally recognising ment, constantly seeking excellence in management to go one people’s value. step further. The close and emotional bond in how we express ourselves; the The ability to channel resources and focus efforts efficiently way we experience and feel things, important in both a Latin and effectively to achieve goals, create value and consolidate America and European context. our leadership as a company and leading brand in our sector. Talent In the sense of: The ingenuity that allows us to apply creativity and imagination to the search for innovative and significant solutions. The professionalism that is recognised and valued in all market research, which we encourage through our training, education and continuous development of top human resources. Resolute spirit, practical, proven and experienced, with which we demonstrate considerable expertise simply and naturally, responsibly and committed to society. 12 Organisational profile 13 2. Organisational profile 2.2 Air transport activity Punctuality and new routes are the mark of leadership Iberia is the benchmark airline in Spain and leader in routes between Europe and Latin America. In 2015 it was leader in punctuality in Europe and it opened new routes in Latin America, such as Havana, Medellin and Cali; in Europe, connecting Madrid with cities in Italy, Germany and the United Kingdom, to name a few; and Africa with the route to Johannesburg. Key figures: 119 destinations in 43 countries* 268 destinations in 53 countries with shared code with other companies 136 aircraft 77 Iberia 20 Iberia Express 39 Iberia Regional / Air Nostrum More than 600 flights a day Iberia operates more than 8,500 flights a day with the other oneworld partners 2015 was a key year for Iberia, as it opened new routes in Europe with direct flights from Madrid to Florence, Naples, Palermo, Catania and Verona in Italy; Manchester and Edinburgh in the United Kingdom; Hamburg in Germany; Funchal in Madeira, Portugal and Budapest in Hungary. It also started new direct flights from Asturias to Tenerife, from Madrid to Paris/Charles de Gaulle and from Madrid to London Gatwick and added 65 flights to 24 routes that were already consolidated. These include New York and Mexico, in transoceanic flights, and Paris Orly, Lisbon, Tel Aviv, Venice, Dublin, Prague, Berlin, Stuttgart, Asturias, the Canary Islands, the Balearic Islands and Galicia, to *Figures on 31 December 2015, including seasonal routes. 14 Organisational profile name a few, in short and medium-haul. The favourable progress reflected in Iberia’s results and the positive behaviour of its revenue, within the framework of the Future Plan, allow future growth to be considered, in terms of both fleet and new destinations. As part of this process of expanding the company’s offering, it has started analysing long-haul routes and considering opportunities in America, Asia and Africa. The destinations being evaluated include Tokyo, Toronto, San Juan de Puerto Rico, Doha, Brasilia, Managua, Guadalajara and Asunción. According to initial estimates, some of these destinations are closer to profitability than others, but the company wants to further analyse them in order to choose those that are profitable and sustainable. This study coincides with the expansion of Iberia’s fleet with an order for 13 A330-200 long-haul aircraft; the first of which were delivered in 2015, and which will all be delivered between 2016 and 2018. In addition, 16 A350-900 options have been ordered, which will be converted into firm orders during the period 20182021 and will allow the company to replace and expand its long-haul fleet. The renewal of the fleet and restructuring of the airline are proof of the investment that Iberia is making in the future. 15 2. Organisational profile The most punctual airlines In 2015 Iberia and Iberia Express confirmed their position as the leading airlines in punctuality. Operating 187,538 flights and 88.97% of them on time, Iberia ranked second in the world and first among European airlines. Iberia, leader in Europe The improvement in the punctuality index of Iberia Group flights reflects, above all, the commitment of all employees to improve the service. Iberia has also implemented a series of initiatives that range from changes to flight schedules to reviewing all processes leading up to take off, permitting it to rank among the most punctual companies in the world. Iberia returns to Havana In June 2015 Iberia resumed one of its most emblematic and oldest routes. After a two-year pause, the company returned to Havana offering the best product on the market. The route started with five flights a week, extending to six in December 2015. The A330 is the aircraft that usually services this line, although for the inaugural flight a 340/600 was scheduled with the new interior, given the expectation aroused. In 1949 Iberia flew to Havana for the first time The incorporation of Havana to the long-haul network is a step further in strengthening Iberia’s leading position in Latin America. The decision to resume flights to the capital of Cuba was possible thanks to different factors that guarantee profitability of the route: labour agreements, which allow lower costs; an A330 aircraft, more efficient and which saves fuel; a market with higher potential, like the Cuban market, with an interesting opening projection; and a more favourable economic climate in Spain and Europe than when flights were stopped in 2013. 16 Organisational profile Iberia to return to Johannesburg New Iberia destinations in Colombia and San Juan de Puerto Rico On 3rd July 2015 flights to Cali and Medellin started; two In July 2015 Iberia started analysing long-haul routes with a view Colombian cities to which Iberia had never flown before. It is a to opening new routes between 2016 and 2017. At the end of triangular route with three flights a week: Wednesdays, Fridays 2015 it announced that it was to resume direct Iberia flights to and Saturdays. San Juan de Puerto Rico during the summer season, from 15th May to 26th October 2016. The route started operating with A330-200 aircraft with three direct flights a week: Mondays, Wednesdays and Sundays. The flight times are scheduled to allow the best connections with the rest of Spain and Europe (more than 90 destinations), via T4 at Madrid-Barajas airport. Similarly, it announced that from 1st August 2016 Iberia would resume flights to Johannesburg. By doing this it recovers one of the last routes that it had to stop operating in order to undertake the transformation in 2013. In this case, there are also three flights a week between the two cities with an A330-300, our most modern aircraft. The South African city thereby becomes the 11th African destination to connect with the rest of the network in Spain, Europe and America. 17 2. Organisational profile The aircraft flying to these destinations are the new Airbus A330 This is the first announcement in 11 years. The initiative was aircraft that were added to the new long-haul product. Their benepossible thanks to labour agreements in February 2014, which fits include seats that convert into two-metre beds in business allow pilots to be hired in market conditions. In previous condiclass, each of them with direct access to the aisle; new larger seats tions, costs and productivity made any hire unfeasible. in economy class; a la carte personal entertainment for all seats, Wi-Fi and GSM connectivity, which allows us to offer the best product on the market. As in all routes with Latin America, the new Current pilots will have more flights to Colombia connect with the group’s more than 80 destinaopportunities to ascend to captain tions in Spain and Europe via our hub at T4 in Madrid. The hiring of new pilots is good news for the company, as it dimensions the staff to current and future needs and allows us First intake of new pilots in 11 years to be increasingly competitive. It is also good news for current In 2015 the public announcement to hire new pilots came into pilots, as they will have more opportunities to progress to effect. It is estimated that around 120 pilots will be hired in the captain, as it is estimated that over the next twelve months next two years. The first course started in summer 2015. more than 100 captain positions will open. 18 Organisational profile 19 2. Organisational profile 2.3 Airport services activity works and the qualityand professionalism with which it provides the service to almost 170 airlines. Goal: Excellence and safety Iberia tackles its daily work based on these coordinates: for customers and employees Excellence: We seek excellence (more than quality) to guarantee the best customer experience. For 85 years Iberia Airport Services has been offering a tailored service in the Iberia handling department. Over these years, Flexibility: The motto is “every customer is different, it has held on to its position as the leading operator in Spain, every operation is unique.” Based on this philosophy of made present in 29 national airports and two international airports to measure suit we also ensure efficiency of the processes (Bata and Malabo, in Equatorial Guinea). adapted to the needs of each customer. With almost 90 years of experience in airport services, Iberia Safety: Of operations and of everyone who works in the Airport Services is the benchmark company in the handling busiairport environment. It is a transversal business principle ness in Spain, in terms of both the number of airports in which it that has made the company worthy of ISAGO certification, 20 Organisational profile awarded by IATA as the highest recognition in the industry in terms of safety in ground operations. Commitment to the environment: The company promotes use of renewable energy, emissions reduction and in short, a more responsible and respectable attitude towards the environment. With a ground fleet of approximately 8,000 vehicles, Iberia is equipped to guarantee everything from the most simple services to the most complete and sophisticated operations. There are three types of services: Passenger: Attending airlines’ customers in the airport at check-in, boarding, incidents, ticket sales and other special services. To do this, it has a staff focused on excellence and commitment to service. Ramp: Provide assistance to the aircraft in ground support equipment, passenger and crew transport, steps, de-icing, communication with the cabin, start up, exterior inspection and cleaning. It has the best technology, guaranteeing the Approximately 55 million pieces of luggage transported, utmost punctuality and safety in the service. 5.7% up on 2014 Operations and cargo: Managing flight dispatch and cargo transport operations. Iberia has the best automatic classificaImprovements to the service tion systems and a specialised team. It is a benchmark service for children travelling alone nationally and internationally. The Airport Services Department provides almost 100,000 services to children travelling alone every year, 36,000 of The figures whom travel through Madrid’s Terminal 4. The year was marked by the outcome of the public ramp license Given the demand for the service, in 2015 Iberia implemented tender and our figures recorded a very positive evolution: improvements to the service. Since March, the parent or guardian is notified via text message at take-off and landing, in 29 national and 2 international airports in operation addition to transit and any other relevant aspect of the journey. 340,000 aircraft assisted, 3.5% up on 2014 In addition, the child will be able to keep their personalised headrest, signed by the crew, as a keepsake. 170 client companies The departments that have taken part in this project are the 8,000 ground vehicles Sales Department (particularly Customer Experience, Digital Business, Sales Spain and Revenue Management), the In-flight More than 83.7 million passengers attended in all the Service Department, Systems, the Ground Operations Departstations in the national network, 6.8% up on 2014 ment and the Airport Services Department. 21 2. Organisational profile Balearic Islands handling licenses activated In December 2015 the ramp handling services for third-party companies were activated in the Balearic Islands airports, through which the service will be provided in Majorca, Ibiza and Menorca for the next seven years. This new license means adding new, more environmentally-friendly equipment at Majorca airport; assisting 10.6 million passengers and more than 46,000 A positive summer We successfully return flights and offering a personalised for Iberia Airport Services to the Barcelona ramp service that allows check-in from hotels and pre-pack. After the summer the data on aircraft After nine years, in November 2015 we and passengers assisted during the resumed providing the ramp handling period 1st July to 30th September 2015 Madrid and Alicante ramp service to third-party companies at El were reviewed, also comparing it to the Prat airport. renewed for seven years values achieved in the same period in 2014. The license is to provide ramp assistance, that is, the services that are carried The data shows that the summer boke out around the aircraft during its layover all records: at the airport: baggage loading and More than 102,000 aircraft unloading, preparing the load sheet, assisted, 4% up on the same period coordinating all of the equipment in 2014. involved during the layover, etc. More than 27.2 million passengers In December the ramp handling license This achievement can be summed assisted in all the stations in the for Madrid and Alicante were renewed up in the following figures: almost national network, 8% up on summer for seven years. 70,000 flights assisted a year and 2014. 840 employees joining Iberia Airport In order to provide the service at Barajas During 2015 the company maintained Services. airport, the company has a staff of 3,000 its leading position in handling in Spain employees; 2,400 pieces of equipment; thanks to winning new licenses to buses, push back steps, electric vehicles, provide the ramp service to third-parties, loading equipment, de-icing, tugs, tracvalid for the next seven years, and tors and various types of vehicle and the recovery of the Barcelona airport new aircraft assistance equipment, such license, where it had been providing asmore efficient generators, buses, platservices through a UTE (Temporary forms and tractors. With this equipment Union of Enterprises) with Groundforce. Iberia Airport Service is reducing the CO2 22 Organisational profile emissions of its operations, in line with In 2015 agreements were also renewed Renewal of contracts its commitment to protecting the enviand signed with new customers to with Vueling and Egyptair ronment. provide handling services. In 2015, the handling contract with In the case of Alicante, it has a staff of New stations Vueling was renewed for three years, 170 and its vehicle fleet is also scheduled for renewal. and customers which also allows assistance at Barcelona and Jerez, after winning the license In August 2015 the Airports sales for these airports. Substitution of ramp team extended the handling contract handling licenses with the Hungarian company Wizz Air, adding three new stations: Tenerife Sur, In September 2015, AENA notified Alicante and Malaga. This new business Iberia of the licenses awarded following means assisting around 400 flights a the ramp handling tender. The licenses year (A320/A321 fleet) at the aforeimplemented are those from Batch 1, mentioned airports. which groups various airports with less than one million passengers (Vigo, San In addition, a new customer joined Iberia Sebastian, Santander, A Coruña, León, Airport Services’ portfolio; Valor Fly, a Pamplona and Vitoria) and Batch 3 company that has entrusted it with the (Badajoz, Córdoba, Gran Canaria, Santa assistance of its schedule of two flights a Cruz de la Palma, Melilla, Jerez, Bilbao, week to Ibiza, from Italy, and other operSimilarly, the contract with Egyptair was Albacete and Granada). ations in Palma, Mahon and Tenerife Sur. renewed, through which the company will continue to provide passenger and aircraft assistance services to the Egyptian company in all of the Spanish airports in which it operates. For Iberia this agreement means a volume of more than 600 flights a year and a stronger commercial relationship with a significant and historic airline, like Egyptair. 23 2. Organisational profile Telemetry to improve performance and safety Iberia Airport Services has installed a telemetry system in the ground equipment at Barajas airport. This has improved vehicle performance and provided automated information about them. Furthermore, this device increases the safety of operators and promotes compliance with the platform safety regulations, contributing to achieving the operational safety standards demanded for providing handling services. New ground equipment Pullmantur Air has started to arrive Iberia Airport Services signed a new In 2015 Iberia Airport Services handling contract with Pullmantur renewed its fleet consisting of more Air. Since May 2015 at Adolfo Suárez than 8,200 pieces of equipment that Madrid-Barajas airport it serves Pullcarry out intense activity every day mantur Air’s passengers and Boeing at all of the airports in the national B747/400 aircraft flying to different network: baggage and cargo loading and corners of America –particularly, the unloading, push-back, passenger and Caribbean– and Europe, maintaining crew transfer, de-icing, etc. its commitment to the equipment and vehicle fleet used to provide the service. After the ramp licenses for the coming years were awarded, the company started to tackle an unprecedented investment in planters, platforms, tractors and generators, as well as other equipment, which will allow the company to provide a more efficient service that is more environmentallyfriendly. In addition, a work group from the Airports Department implemented the Awareness and Conservation Plan in Madrid-Barajas and in the rest of the stations in the network. 24 Organisational profile 25 2. Organisational profile 2.4 Aircraft maintenance activity Iberia Maintenance is in charge of providing the best solutions and staff and is the leader in aircraft maintenance services, to the needs and budgets of its customers. These include Iberia repair, high technology and aircraft modification. LAE, IAG carriers, like Iberia Express, Vueling, British Airways, Open Skies and Aer Lingus, and a hundred companies worldwide. Its experience helps it Goal: to be to know what airlines need the sector benchmark Every year Iberia Maintenance focuses on maintaining and improving its leading position. By doing this, after 88 years Its benchmark is to offer an excellent service in the maintenance of experience in Iberia and third parties’ fleets it continues to checks and repair of aircraft, engines and components, minifocus its effort on reaching full reliability. To achieve this, the mising costs and the effort required by customers and always Iberia division has almost 3,000 technicians and engineers with the highest quality standards. with extensive experience in the widest range of Maintenance, By doing this, Iberia Maintenance is the world’s ninth largest Repair and Operations (MRO) services and options, which maintenance and engineering service provider (excluding manuallows it to manage everything from the simplest solutions to facturers), second in aeronautical in Spain in terms of revenue the most complex. 26 Organisational profile This certification is one of the most complex from Aenor, for both the sizeof its facilities and the range of environmental aspects it includes. The division is also certified by the leading international aviation authorities (The European Aviation Safety Agency, the US Aviation Administration and NATO), as well as by different manufacturers, quality and environmental certification bodies and many other national aviation authorities. The figures Engines: 161 inductions Auxiliary power units: 28 Checks: Total complete overhauls: 385 Components: Repair of 50,422 aircraft components. Line Maintenance. 55 A-checks, in addition to: 1.273 checks with status data 17,242 a day 4,534 transits 3,434 services/week Another fact that adds value to this division is its commitment and dedication to improving processes, increasing efficiency and 2,275 tear-downs effectiveness and to cutting logistics, engineering and management costs. This effort is essential in an environment and in a Iberia Maintenance highlights: market that is constantly evolving and with the demands of 22 in Spain, including those based in Madrid and globalisation of the aircraft maintenance sector. Barcelona, where major maintenance can also be provided Iberia Maintenance 16 in America is constantly upgrading 2 in Africa its integral management services 7 in Europe (excluding Spain) Iberia Maintenance has earned Environmental Management In 2015 the aircraft maintenance sector experienced a fall due to Certification under the Aenor standard UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 the decrease in activity of the airlines in recent years, which led to for aircraft maintenance activities for its facilities in La Muñoza, a slight fall in the number of overhauls and maintenance tasks Madrid, where more than 3,000 employees work. carried out at our facilities compared to 2014. 27 2. Organisational profile selecting Iberia Maintenance to install the first EFB (Electronic Flight Bag) system in an A320 aircraft from its fleet. Iberia has extensive experience in this work, as this technology has already been installed on approximately 30 A320 aircraft in its fleet. During the 2015-2016 winter season, 12 aircraft have been received in order to perform C-checks (an extensive and complete module) of its different variants, depending on the aircraft’s registration number and its maintenance requirements. Improvements in the engine British Airways trusted in components workshop Iberia to install the EFB At the end of 2015 the Components system on its A320 aircraft Department of the Technical Division The good results achieved and the effiimplemented a global improvement ciency of the work done in previous project to improve the work carried out checks has resulted in British Airways in the engine components workshop. The main goal is to introduce a new culture based on continuous improvement and on good communication between the workshop workers. The project was carried out with the engagement and contributions of all staff. To New work for Thomas Cook do this, five study groups with a total of 21 representatives were created, who The commercial relationship maintained worked in the following areas and goals: during 2015 between Iberia Maintenance and Thomas Cook intensified with Storage: reduce tangible assets. the participation in several quotes for performing the checks of its fleet. Finally, Layout: restructure the workshops this hard work resulted in C-checks, and workloadso. cabin seat upgrades and the implemenTest bench: improve the working tation of upgrade programmes and the conditions in the workshop. installation of in-flight entertainment (IFE) systems in various A330, A321 and Tools needed to carry out the work. A319 aircraft. 28 Organisational profile First V2500-A5 engine: MRO Americas: new The Critical Chain future project made business opportunities model establishes a reality In April 2015 Iberia Maintenance and common priorities British Airways Engineering took part for managing with a joint stand at the 20th edition of the MRO Americas exhibition in Miami, uncertainty which brought together around 12,000 In order to overcome these difficulties, professions, beat attendance records. the Critical Chain model implements a The shared stand was attended by reprenew series of priorities, rules and meassentatives of the Sales, Marketing and ures that must be accompanied by a Engine Maintenance areas. change of culture and a change to the roles of staff. Great expectation was aroused over the three days of the exhibition with more than 100 visits to the stand and the sales team had the chance to develop new business opportunities and strengthen relations with current customers. Critical Chain: The V2500 is an engine manufactured a new way of working by International Aero Engines (IAE) Since 20105, the Overhaul area has which powers the aircraft in the A320 been applying the management model family (A319, 320 and A321). It is an known as Critical Chain, a more efficient engine with a future: there are currently way of working driven by the Future more than 5,700 V2500 in service and Plan. It is not an easy task, considering an additional 1,800 on the order books. that the work of Overhaul is characterAt the end of 2012 Iberia Maintenance, ised by uncertainty. with the support of IAG, started the The checks are planned periodically V2500 Project to certify the engine but the results are essential. Only then workshops in the maintenance of the is it clear what additional work needs V2500-A5 and to produce the first to be performed and therefore, what engine of this kind in our facilities. After resources, materials, instruction or plana lot of hard work, in 2015 Iberia joined ning adjustments will be required. the workshops to which IAE sends its customers’ engines for repair. Iberia This uncertainty makes it very difficult to Maintenance is the first workshop that manage the times and synchronise the is not an IAE consortium partner to tasks involved in the check, also disrupting achieve this. the production plans of each area. 29 2. Organisational profile 2.5 Iberia Express world’s most punctual low-cost airline for the second year in a row, with an average Iberia Express is an airline based in Madrid 93.5% punctuality rate and it provides operating short and medium-haul flights service to more than 13 million passensince it started operating in March 2012. gers and 100,000 flights. It was set up to allow the Iberia Group to In addition, in 2015 it expanded its offer its customers more affordable rates offering with 15 new routes. Ten of them whilst maintaining the quality of service. depart from Madrid (London–Gatwick, The passenger thereby enjoys the same Edinburgh, Manchester, Naples, Verona, benefits that flying with Iberia repreParis–Charles de Gaulle, Lyon, Nice, sents: flying to major airports, Iberia Plus Nantes and Menorca); four from the programme, VIP rooms, in-flight service Canary Islands (Tenerife-Asturias, Gran and entertainment, business class, Canaria-London Heathrow, Tenerife– various flight frequencies, connections London Heathrow and Tenerife–Lyon), to more than 200 destinations, and the and one from the Balearic Islands safety provided by the company’s main(Majorca-London Heathrow). tenance, recognised as one of the best in Iberia Express operates 39 destinations; the world. 13 national and 26 international. Iberia Express se The airline –100% owned by Iberia– sitúa entre las cuatro competes efficiently and sustainably in primeras compañías an increasingly difficult market. Iberia Express provides the holding company aéreas de Barajas with direct traffic and connections in a Thanks to this good service, Iberia Express profitable way, thereby supporting Iberia has strengthened its position as the in its long-haul growth. 30 Organisational profile 2.6 IAG International Airlines Group is one of the The airline sector is gradually moving largest airline groups in the world, with towards consolidation, although certain 525 aircraft flying to 255 destinations regulatory constraints still prevail. and carrying around 95 million passenThe corporate mission of IAG is to play an gers a year. It is the third largest group in important role in the future consolidaEurope and sixth in the world in terms of tion of the industry, both regionally and revenue. worldwide. IAG is progressing Iberia’s decision to join a large interand becoming one of national group like IAG is based on the following benefits: the leading groups in the aviation market Financial strength Created in 2011, IAG is the holding Fleet renewal opportunities company of Aer Lingus, British Airways, Iberia and Vueling. The company is Greater strategic importance registered in Spain and its shares are traded on the London and Spanish stock Cost and revenue synergies exchanges. At the same time, Iberia, due to its market IAG combines the leading airlines in value, offers IAG the following benefits: Ireland, the United Kingdom and Spain, which allows them to expand their Firm leadership in the South presence in the aviation industry while Atlantic keeping their own brands and operations. The airlines’ customers benefit from a High growth potential larger combined network for passengers and cargo and from an increased Strong cash contributor capacity to invest in new products and Exchange of best practices to services thanks to their greater financial optimise costs stability. IAG seeks benefits for its customers and offers a combined network with more destinations and services 31 2. Organisational profile British Airways Vueling British Airways is the United Kingdom’s Vueling was set up in July 2004 with flag carrier, offering integral services, the goal of offering excellent customer with a vast global network of routes, service at competitive prices. To do this, flying to and from major international it had a fleet of two A320 aircraft and destinations. Other factors that make it four routes. stand out internationally are the size of its fleet, the number of flights and the Over its 11 years of life, Vueling has premium transport service it offers its experienced significant growth. One of customers around the world. its achievements was to join IAG in April 2013 and become leader in Barcelona– British Airways flies to over 170 destiEl Prat and Rome–Fiumicino airports. nations in 70 countries. It has a fleet of more than 280 aircraft, including It now offers a wide network of flights A380 and 787, and carries more than 40 to Spain, Italy, Europe, the Middle East million passengers a year. and Africa and focuses on offering a premium service at competitive prices. Growing stronger It flies to 131 cities in 38 countries with towards a more a fleet of 90 aircraft and 21 operations bases. profitable future The airline has a strong presence at A reality in the Heathrow, Gatwick and London City market in 11 years airports but its operations base is in Heathrow, more specifically, at Terminal 5, which has been named the best international airport terminal, according to the latest survey carried out by SkyTrax. 32 Organisational profile Aer Lingus IAG Cargo Avios Aer Lingus became the fourth IAG IAG Cargo is the group’s cargo company, Avios is IAG’s shared global rewards company in August 2015. Its incorpoand is acknowledged as one of the currency and is used in its loyalty ration meant future growth by offering leading international cargo companies in programmes: Avios Travel Rewards in customers new routes and services, the world. the United Kingdom and South Africa, whilst maintaining its emblematic brand British Airways Executive Club and in Ireland, where it continues to have its It was set up in April 2011 with the Iberia Plus. base and management team. merger between Iberia Cargo and British Airways World Cargo, providing Avios innovates with the incorporation New future for customers with access to a single of new formulas to benefit customers sales force. It was designed around the and also provides added-value to Ireland’s emblem current and future needs of companies the airlines. One of its priorities is to Aer Lingus was founded in 1936 with throughout the world. implement initiatives that create accuthe mission of connecting Ireland with mulation opportunities for e-commerce IAG Cargo customers currently benefit customers. the world. Its goal is to offer the best from one of the most extensive and product with excellent customer service diverse global networks with over 350 and low rates. It currently has a fleet of destinations, including the 120 largest 50 aircraft operating more than 100 airports in the world for air cargo. Simiroutes from major airports in the United larly, IAG Cargo invests to offer its Kingdom, continental Europe and North customers a unique portfolio of high America. It provides service to approxiquality products that covers its extenmately 11 million passengers a year, sive network of destinations. whilst providing efficient global connectivity along with its associate airlines. Leader in air cargo transport 33 2. Organisational profile 2.7 Corporate Responsibility Policy The new Corporate Social Responsibility model considers the Iberia’s Corporate Responsibility policy is based on a series of principles that allow the company to continue growing, in line economic, social and environmental with the services demands of its customers, within a framework areas of the company of respect and care for the environment. The company thereby actively collaborates in the social environment and promotes In 2015 Iberia’s Corporate Responsibility policy, which was progress of the societies in which it operates. manged by the Corporate Department, started to report to the Communications and Institutional Relations Department. The goal is to create economic The purpose of this change was to expand the perspective of and social value, respect the sustainability and promote progress towards a Corporate Social environment and collaborate Responsibility Policy. This new concept provides triple value to the company because it considers the economic, environmental with stakeholders and social areas that it impacts. Along this line, in 2015 Iberia kept its Corporate Responsibility management focus up-to-date to adapt it to current trends and Iberia keeps all areas informed about it role in terms of the align it with current strategic guidelines. development of Corporate Responsibility in its daily activity. 34 Organisational profile Department Area Responsibility Direct contact with customers. Customer experience Service quality management. Sales Customer service design. Marketing Advertising and brand management. Operational quality Operational safety and quality for customers. Production In-flight service and operations Direct contact with customers in-flight. Direct contact with Customers at airports Airport services National and international airports (passenger and assisted companies). Direct contact with customers in aircraft and Technical Aircraft maintenance engine maintenance work (Iberia and assisted companies). Management and development of corporate Strategic planning strategy. Strategic planning Internal control systems of financial information. Management control and administration and finances Shareholder information. Procurement and fleet Direct contact with suppliers. Innovation Research and development project management. External (customers, stakeholders) and internal Internal and external communication (employees) communication systems. Coordination of the Corporate Social Responsibility Communication policy. and Institutional Relations CSR Social action project management (society). Design and implementation of environmental policies. Network and Alliances Relationship with regulatory bodies, associations Alliances and aero-political affairs development and development of strategic alliances. Relationship with regulatory bodies. Legal Department Legal Good governance coordination. Human resources Direct contact with employees. Implementation of the anti-corruption and Corporate Compliance, corporate risks regulatory compliance policy. Coordination of emergencies Crisis contingency plans. 35 2. Organisational profile Iberia’s CSR policy is defined in the following goals: Support social action initiatives promoted by our employees, engaging other stakeholders. Maintain a leading position in profitability, safety and reliability. Foster personal, labour and social development of our employees within a framework of equal opportunity. Earn recognition within society for our transparency, social commitment and protection of human rights. Promote sustainable development and good management practices among our suppliers and service providers. Apply the best environmental practices in our business activities, making rational use of natural resources. Work together with institutions, public administrations and other companies in the sector on any initiatives Respond to the major concerns of the company’s stakeconsidered of interest. holders. To do this: Participate in cultural, educational, sports social and Guarantee the best customer service in terms of quality economic development projects wherever we operate. and responsibility, respecting protection of their rights. Ensure that these goals are met, with permanent moniCreate value for our shareholders, fostering respect for toring to identify opportunities to further the company’s the environment and distribution of wealth. continuous improvement in CSR management. 36 Organisational profile Initiatives The company’s commitment to this issue leads it to support the United Nations Millennium Development Goals. Through best ethical practices and to participate in the following national its social action, Iberia collaborates on achieving these goals. and international initiatives, which are used as a permanent referThe goals are: eradicate extreme poverty and hunger; achieve ence in their practical application throughout IAG: universal primary education; promote gender equality and empower women; reduce child mortality; improve maternal United Nations Global Compact. Iberia undertakes to meet health; combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases; ensure the 10 principles related to human rights, labour, the environenvironmental sustainability; and develop a global partnership ment and anti-corruption, including clauses in our contracts to for development. Iberia’s social actions in 2015 will be discussed ensure that they are also met by all our suppliers and service in more detail in the corresponding section. providers. Companies for a society free from violence against The International Labour Organization’s Fundamental women programme. Iberia has joined the protocol set up by Conventions. Iberia applies its general principles, recognising the Spanish Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality freedom of association and unions and the right to collective to collaborate on supporting and promoting its information bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced or compulcampaigns. Taking part in this project demonstrates that the sory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the company is committed to equality awareness activities, respect elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and for fundamental rights and the construction of a society free occupation. from violence against women. 37 2. Organisational profile 38 Organisational profile 2.8 Commitment to Quality . Iberia is strongly committed to its customers and offers one of the highest quality services to ensure their satisfaction. This commitment extends to employees and shareholders in order to guarantee the company’s sustainability through efficient management of key processes. In this regard, all of the company’s activities are governed by the strictest quality standards. Area Main certifications Scope Certifying body ISO 9.000 Training and knowledge management AENOR Verification of greenhouse gas Flight and ground operations AENOR emissions Iberia GRI4 Corporate Responsibility Report AENOR Measuring and monitoring AENOR Mark N AENOR the quality of service Madrid Excelente Management excellence AENOR National and international agencies Maintenance certifications Qualified Agency (EASA, FAA, etc.) ISO 9.110 y PECAL General maintenance activity AENOR Iberia Maintenance Environmental management facilities ISO 14.000 AENOR Madrid ISO 17.025 Meteorological laboratory AENOR ISO 9.000 National airports activity AENOR Iberia airport services Environmental management national ISO 14.000 AENOR airports 39 2. Organisational profile 2.9 Awards The hard work of the company and its employees is acknowledged every year through the awards it receives from various institutions and social agents. Below are some of the most significant from 2015. Company of the year in the United States The Spain-United States Chamber of Commerce in Miami gave the Spanish airline its award for its “spectacular transformation” and for its efforts in the development of links between the business networks of Spain and the United States. PRNoticias award for best change of image In November 2015 the PRNoticias.com group gave Iberia the best change of brand award. Every year the group recognises the best professionals and projects in the marketing, communication and media world. “Iberia’s change of image is ultimately a symbol of the transformation of the entire company. Iberia is a Spanish brand, an ambassador brand and we are “Iberia has changed a lot in the last very excited to be recognised for the two years. We present our company change of image” with a new brand image, new classes on our long-haul flights, as an airline Customer service, CRC Gold Award that still has a lot to do, but a solid base Iberia’s customer service received the CRC Gold Award for best has been established to guarantee its phone sales platform, in the framework of Expo Relaciones future” Clientes 2015. The award was presented by the supplier Sitel. 40 Organisational profile Best airline according to Recognition in prevention and safety Condé Nast Traveler In May Iberia received the award for best airline, awarded by the readers of Traveler magazine who vote for the winners of the award. Award for most ecological operator This recognition, awarded by Logística Profesional in the third edition of the logistics efficiency and social responsibility awards, rewarded Iberia for its paint project, the Electronic Flight Bag, collaboration on the algae based fuel project and on the IAGOS project. Coinciding with World Day for Safety and Hygiene, the Mutua Fraternidad–Muprespa presented the 2804 Escolástico Zaldívar awards for Prevention and Safety, in third edition of these awards. During the event, Iberia received second prize in the Large Company category with the project La simplificación documental como herramienta para la integración efectiva de la prevención en organizaciones complejas. Telefónica obtuvo el primer premio. 41 2. Organisational profile Award for the company’s business track record The Air-Hostess awards, divided into 10 categories, acknowledge the merit of professionals, companies, social organisations and media dedicated to the aviation sector. At the awards ceremony of the 1st Air-Hostess International Aviation Awards Iberia was rewarded for its professional track record. Punctuality Award In the 8th edition of the Aviation Awards, Iberia received the award for the most punctual short-haul airline at Brussels airport. Best customer experience Luis Gallego, executive of the year technology project Luis Gallego received the award for executive of the year during the 25th edition of the awards organised by Ejecutivos magazine Contact Center magazine, opinion leader in the technology and which also celebrated its 25th anniversary on the same day. and contact centre sector, presented Iberia and Nuance the Platinum Contact Center Award for the best IT project of the During his speech, Iberia’s chairman highlighted the commitment year in customer experience for its open question project in IVR, of everyone who works in the Company and who have made its headed by the Contact Center Section of the Customer Experirecovery possible. “This award is not mine, it belongs, without a ence Department, with the support of the Digital Business and doubt, to Iberia’s 17,000 employees who have shown exemplary Customer Experience area of the Systems Department. commitment to the future of the company,” he said. The open question in contact centres is for Iberia (one of the first companies in Europe to implement this technology) a leap forward in optimising and rationalising contact and customer experience through the phone channel, channelling customer queries and operations more flexibility and prioritising those that offer higher value when being served by phone operators. 42 Organisational profile 43 2. Organisational profile 2.10 Memberships and redeem avios/miles across the entire network. Emerald or sapphire frequent with fair business practices. Iberia has actively collaborated in the associaof associations flyers can access more than 600 VIP tion’s activities related to Europe, North Rooms across the world and also enjoy America and South America. Associations other benefits, such as higher baggage In September 2015 Barcelona hosted allowances and priority treatment. Emerald frequent flyers can access fast the second edition of the World Finanoneworld cial Symposium, organised by IATA. The track security at some airports. oneworld is one of the three largest event focused on the aviation industry’s world alliances of airline companies in efforts to contribute to sustained finantheir natural markets. cial health in aviation. Since it started it has maintained its ALTA (Latin vocation of offering its customers a American and product and service with the highest Caribbean Air quality standards. Iberia joined the Transport Association) alliance in 1999, celebrating its 16th anniversary on 1st September 2015. In 2015 the company maintained its Over these shared years, Iberia has participation as an associated member witnessed its expansion. of the Latin American and Caribbean Air Transport Association (ALTA). It reaches over 980 destinations in 150 ALA (Association of Airlines operating in countries and offers Other organisations Spain) the customer the best Iberia is a member of the Association services IATA (International Air Transport of Airlines operating in Spain (ALA) oneworld is an alliance of 15 frontAssociation) and is represented on the Management line companies. In addition to Iberia, it Board, the Administrators Committee, includes Air Berlin, American Airlines, Iberia is a member of the International the Users Committee and the Safety British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Finnair, Air Transport Association (IATA), an Committee. Japan Airlines, LAN Airlines, TAM international organisation that brings together approximately 250 regular ALA has been functioning for more than Airlines, Malaysia Airlines, Qantas, Qatar airlines, in charge of the vast majority 50 years and the vast majority of the Airways, Royal Jordanian, S7 Airlines and of national and international air traffic. regular airlines operating in Spain, both Sri Lankan Air, and over 30 subsidiaries. This forum is dedicated to representing national and international, are members. The companies in the alliance work to the sector internationally, promoting It currently represents over 70% of offer their customers a unbeatable travel the simplification of operating procthe turnover on the Spanish market. Its experience, with the highest quality esses, lowering costs and improving purposes include overseeing the safety standards and exclusive benefits for safety. For passengers, IATA is a guarand quality of the services provided by frequent flyers, such as the option to earn antee of service quality and synonymous airlines. 44 Organisational profile Aceta ELFAA (European AEA (Association Low Fares Airline (Association of of Spanish Association) European Airlines) Air Transport Companies) Iberia, along with Iberia Express and Until April 2015 Iberia was also a member British Airways, joined the European of the Association of European Airlines The company is also on the Management Low Fares Airline Association (ELFAA) in (AEA). It left due to disagreements with Board of the Association of Spanish April 2015. the basic policies of the organisation. Air Companies (Aceta). The company defends the interests of the member companies to the Government and agriELFAA defends the interests of the company cultural service providers that affect air in Europe and its platform to seek greater transport. liberalisation of air transport Alliances policies and sales conditions, and other variables, resulting in more flight options and a wider sales offering for customers. Joint Business Agreements benefit both airlines and particularly customers, who have more flight options and more Major agreements valid during 2015 competitive prices. At a time of significant change for the air market, alliances are a major asset for optimising the flight Affected market Partners network. MAD-LON British Airways The company has signed different strategic agreements in order Perú and Ecuador LAN to manage the routes operated in certain geographical areas together. British Airways, American Airlines North Atlantic and Finnair The agreements influence the capacity, schedules, prices, sales 45 3. Stakeholder engagement Iberia considers identifying the stakeholders and understanding their expectations and needs are essential for guaranteeing business sustainability. In accordance with this strategy the company analyses them to classify them according to their importance for meeting the goals and their capacity to influence the company or be influenced by it. Iberia’s stakeholders are divided into: Shareholders Customers Society Regulator Employees Suppliers 47 3. Stakeholder engagement The company has approached these groups to assist them and to set out the issues to address. More specifically, it has defined the As a company Iberia will assist Corporate Responsibility goals, the communication channels stakeholders in relation to the available and the tools to use in relation to each stakeholder. Corporate Responsibility goals Breakdown Goal Communication Channels Materiality Analysis Commercial Communications. Airline, airport Customer service offices. Customers services Achieve customer satisfaction with our Iberia.com Interviews with key customer and aircraft services. Social Networks. service managers. maintenance Ensure business sustainability. Call centres. Complaints analysis. customers. Claims management. Events. Direct participation in these Airline associations Defend common interests within the associations. IATA materiality analysis and alliances. airline industry. Working groups. Social Networks. Interviews with External Maintain permanent interaction with Press Releases. Communications managers. Media and society the media. Corporate Website. Centre for Sociological Research in general. Inform and interact instantly with the Interviews and meetings with studies. digital community. journalists. Market study, Madrid Excelente Society Institutional Relations. and FTSE4Good. Applicable law. Protect the environment and our IAG Annual Report. External audits. Environmental surroundings. Iberia’s CR Report. Internal and external materiality results. CSR Communication Channel. Collaborate actively in organizations, NGOs and social Corporate Website. Analyse requests from NGOs and especially those related to our organizations. Associated NGOs. foundations. employees. Volunteers’ information (Intranet). Government, Guarantee compliance with the Regulator AENA, Civil regulations in each area of activity. Working groups. Key aspects of applicable Aviation, ICAO, Maintain a cooperative attitude with External audits. regulation. IATA, national and regulators in order to help maximize the Specific press releases. local governments benefit of regulation for all stakeholders. Internal communication channels. Employees Regular meetings between Contribute to career development and to Internal materiality survey. EMPLOYEES managers and employees employee wellbeing. Workplace Climate Survey. Grievance mechanisms. Suggestions box. 48 Stakeholder engagement Ensure transparent recruitment Suppliers processes and maintain a relationship Suppliers and Interviews with service that adds value to all parties. Supplier management systems. subcontractors procurement managers. Establish and promote responsible procurement. Shareholder and investor relations Responsible investing criteria. office. Transmit transparently all relevant Key issues addressed in the Accionistas -IAG shareholders. Shareholders’ Meeting. corporate and financial information. Shareholders’ Meeting. -Market analysts. Board of Directors. Fulfil the obligations of corporate Corporate Governance Duties, Quarterly and annual reports. governance. dependent on the Board of Market presentations. Directors. IAG website. Not all stakeholders participate directly in the preparation of have any comments or contributions to make before the report this CR Report, but all their opinions are taken into account and is published. in some cases, they are informed of the contents in case they 49 4. Material aspects and boundaries Iberia has followed the recommendations of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to prepare the materiality analysis. The sources are those stated in the previous point. 51 4. Material aspects and boundaries Result of the material aspects for each stakeholder Stakeholder General aspect Specific aspect CR Report section Products and service categories where safety and health Product impacts are evaluated. 12. Product responsibility responsibility Customer satisfaction surveys. Airline, airport Customers services Iberia’s economic performance. and aircraft maintenance Company’s market presence/weight. 7. Economic Economic aspects customers. Development of investments and indirect economic performance impacts. Employees Employee training programmes. 9. Social performance CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions. Effluents and waste generation. Environmental 8. Environmental Airline Our products and services. associations and Fines and sanctions for environmental non-compliance. alliances. Product Products and service categories where safety and health 12. Product responsibility impacts are evaluated. responsibility Employees (hiring, welfare benefits, etc.) Company/employee labour relations. Employees 9. Social performance Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal opportunity). Products and service categories where safety and health impacts are evaluated. Society Product Customer satisfaction surveys. 12. Product responsibility Products subject to public debate or banned. responsibility Substantiated complaints regarding customer privacy Media and and data. Society in general. Iberia’s economic performance. Company’s market presence/weight. 7. Economic Economic aspects Development of investments and indirect economic performance impacts. Impacts of our operations on biodiversity. CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions. Environmental Effluents and waste generation. 8. Environmental Our products and services (environmental impacts). Environmental assessment of suppliers. 52 Material aspects and boundaries 53 4. Material aspects and boundaries Stakeholder General aspect Specific aspect CR Report section Centres with development programmes for the local Society 11. Society community. Agreements and contracts containing Human Rights clauses Society NGOs and social and employee training in this matter. Human Rights 10. Human Rights organizations. Operations and suppliers at risk in terms of child labour. Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal Employees 9. Social performance opportunity). Complaints and claims on environmental matters. Government, Grievance mechanisms Regulator AENA, Civil Complaints about human rights through formal grievance Aviation, ICAO, All mechanisms. Various IATA, national and Significant fines and sanctions for legal violations. local governments Fines and sanctions related to the provision and use of the company’s products. Employees (hiring, welfare benefits, etc.) Company/employee labour relations. Protection of employees’ health and operating safety. Employees Employees 9. Social performance Employee training programmes. Employees Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal opportunity). Corporate 6. Corporate Company management. Decision-making system. Governance governance 7. Economic Iberia’s economic performance. Suppliers Economic aspects Suppliers and performance subcontractors Environmental Environmental assessment of suppliers. 8. Medio ambiente Gobierno Company management. 6. Corporate corporativo Decision-making system. governance Iberia’s economic performance. Company’s market presence/weight. 7. Economic Economic aspects Development of investments and indirect economic impacts. performance Shareholders Energy consumption in the development of operations. IAG shareholders. Water consumed and recycled. Market Analysts Impacts of our operations on biodiversity. Environmental 8. Environmental CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions. Effluents and waste generation. Our products and services (environmental impacts). Centres with development programmes for the local Society community. 11. Society Measures taken by Iberia to combat corruption. 54 Material aspects and boundaries Employees are the only stakeholders who have directly particiWith regard to the sustainability goals, in 2016 we will analyse pated in the materiality analysis. In addition, existing records the existing methodology with a view to engaging the direct and databases showing the company’s daily dealings with these participation of more stakeholders. stakeholders were analysed and interviews were held with the main managers of the activities directly related to them. Points 6-12 of this report will This analysis will be updated annually to ensure that the analyse materiality according company is aware of the material aspects of its stakeholders and manages its Corporate Responsibility on the basis thereof. to the nature of the information 55 5. Perfil del Informe de RC Every year, Iberia prepares its Corporate Responsibility Report in order to strengthen ties with stakeholders. The report reflects the commitment transparently and aims to serve as a tool for meeting the information expectations of the different stakeholders of the company, in terms of economic, social and environmental management. A tool that brings us closer to our stakeholders 57 5. CR Report profile By publishing this report, Iberia complements the financial and corporate governance information presented in the Shareholders’ AGM. IAG Annual Report 2015. The report is available on IAG’s website, along with editions from previous years Iberia has extensive experience in publishing this type of report. The first report was published in 1994 in order to give an account of its sustainability commitments from an environmental standpoint. Since then it has been reporting information on Corporate Responsibility for the different stakeholders. In 1994 Iberia publishedits first Report on the environment In 2014 it went a step further and tackled a new challenge: follow the criteria set out in the G4 Guidelines, published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), for preparing extensive sustainability reports. This model also inspired the 2015 report with the certainty that it will increase the interest of its content to stakeholders. The report follows the G4 Guidelines criteria for preparing sustainability reports In order to prepare this report information was gathered for the period 1st January to 31st December 2015. The report covers all of Iberia’s activities and prioritises material information, without omitting relevant information. If there are any variations in the scope and cover of the information, they have been indicated within the report. This year there have not been changes in the formula used for calculating the data provided compared to previous reports. 58 CR Report profile 59 6. Governance Materiality Main stakeholders for whom governance is material: Shareholders or investors Society in general Employees Main material aspects in order of importance: Society management Decision-making system Ethics and integrity 61 6. Governance 6.1 IAG – Iberia governance structure Corporate governance is the set of practices governing and controlling relationships among a company’s stakeholders, such as relationships between Shareholders, the Board of Directors and Executive Management and processes through which these three bodies interact, manage and monitor the future of the company are set out. Corporate Governance also responds to the demands of the company’s social environment, adhering to the use of good Representation of corporate governance in IAG and Iberia Shareholders Board of Directors Audit and 4 4 Safety Compliance Committee Committee 12 Nominations 4 4 Remuneration Committee Committee Executive Management Board of Directors Safety Remuneration Committee 3 9 3 Committee Executive Management 62 Governance social and environmental practices, with Iberia is committed to the duties of From these meetings it was deduced special attention to legal and regulaCorporate Responsibility undertaken in that one of the aspects about which tory requirements. In this regard, IAG the role performed by various areas of shareholders demand more informacomplies with the applicable legal provithe company. tion is remuneration. IAG addresses this sions on corporate governance in the issue in the Annual Reportand in the United Kingdom (UK Corporate GovernThe duties delegated to each area are specific remuneration report required by ance Code) and Spain (Good Governance detailed in the section on Iberia’s CR the Spanish National Securities Market Code of Listed Companies). Policy. (Section 2.7) Commission (CNMV). Similarly, in view of our activity, environmental issues The bodies involved in corporate governThe Articles of Association and regulaare always of the utmost interest for ance include the boards of directors of tions applicable to the management of our shareholders, especially regarding IAG and Iberia, which are responsible these governing bodies are published in emissions and aircraft fuel consumption for defining the goals and strategies, the corporate governance section of the efficiency. including approving the general policy IAG website. IAG’s Annual Report also lines, preparing the programmes and contains information on the remuneration policies, the Board diversity policy Nominations and defining the priorities for carrying out the business activity, as well as promoting and other aspects of corporate governremuneration policy and supervising management and fulfilance. The nominations and remuneration ment of the goals established. policy is the responsibility of the NominaCommunication tions Committee and the Remunerations The Board of Directors takes note of and with shareholders Committee, respectively, which report to approves the Corpora¬te Responsibility the IAG Board of Directors. report, after reviewing it and presenting The relationship between IAG and the it to the Management Committee. shareholder is essential for the Iberia The terms of reference of this Nominations Group. For this reason, there is a specific Committee are set out in the Regulations More details on area in charge of developing the consultaof the IAG Board of Directors. the duties, goals tion processes between shareholders and The IAG and functioning of the senior governing body for economic, environmental and social issues. senior executive corporate governance remuneration policy are available on the The different stakeholders (shareholders, analysts, investors, etc.) can check is public and published IAG website the IAG website for regularly updated on the Group’s website The many duties of the Board of Direceconomic and financial information. tors include approving the business plan With regards to remuneration, the goal of and annual budgets; the financing policy Shareholders are called to the IAG ShareIAG is to offer global pay packages that are and structure; the risk management and holders’ Annual General Meeting where competitive with respect to the market supervision policy and the corporate the managers present the Group’s results average, which are linked to the business social responsibility policy, in addition to (annual report and directors’ report). strategy and consider the duties, skills and regularly monitoring internal informaIn this way, IAG meets its obligation to contribution of each person. Full details tion and control systems. inform this group. can be found in IAG’s Annual Report. 63 6. Governance Diversity on the Board The diversity policy of the IAG Board of Directors was approved on 18th June 2014. IAG is a group committed to the value of diversity and nondiscrimination, and this is reflected in the Board’s determination to have governance bodies with a diverse composition. More information about Iberia’s diversity data (ratio of men to women holding senior positons) is available in the equal opportunity section of this report. IAG diversity data for 2015 No. non-executive Mutualistas No. directors No. women directors IAG Board of Directors 9 8 (88%) 3 (33%) Iberia Board of Directors 8 0 (0%) 1 (12%) Iberia diversity data for 2015 Mutualistas No. members No. women Iberia Management Committee 11 2 (18%) Conflicts of interest Reputation is an essential aspect of business that is closely The directors’ obligations are linked to customers’ and the market’s image of the company. defined in the Board of Directors Therefore, it is important to identify, control and prevent Regulations. The Annual Report conflicts of interest. In this respect, IAG has established policies to make sure that there are no conflicts of interest within analyses fulfilment of these its governing bodies. regulations 64 Governance To comply with this policy, all IAG employees, including Iberia, personal or family interests from interfering in the decisions, are bound by the Securities Code of Conduct, which sets out the activities, services or advice taken, performed or provided on rules of conduct follow. behalf of Iberia Group. Iberia Group also has a Code of Conduct, which regulates the In 2015, as in the previous year, no conflicts of interest were conduct of Iberia directors, executives and employees when detected in the performance of duties of Iberia’s Board of Direccarrying out their duties and in their business and professional tors or Management Committee. relationships. The code stipulates that they should prevent any 65 6. Governance 6.2 Risk management on Iberia’s Business Risk Management System are held. To support this effort, Iberia has an Internal Audit Department, which is responsible for independent, objective One of Iberia’s priority goals is to identify Further information on the main risks assurance and consultancy. the most significant risks to the company affecting the achievement of the group’s and assess their economic impact, probgoals can be found in the IAG Annual ability and time horizon. To do this, we Report 2015. 6.4 Ethics and integrity have the IAG Audit and Compliance Committee. Its main duty is to supervise Iberia has a Code of Conduct setting out the effectiveness of internal control of 6.3 Internal the general guidelines that must govern the different group companies. Through the conduct of Iberia’s directors, execuits management, control activities are and external audit tives and employees when carrying implemented in order to mitigate or out their duties and in their business The transparency requirements of the eliminate the impact of risks and achieve and professional relationships, acting securities markets are an important issue the goals set. in accordance with the laws of each for providing security to the reliability country and respecting the ethical prinof financial information. For this reason, ciples of their respective cultures. Iberia reports to the and as set out in the financial reporting internal control policy, Iberia has moniAudit and Compliance The code of conduct, toring systems based on the reference Committee through framework established by the CNMV. which is published the Business Risk in English and These internal control systems are Management System configured around a protocol of procSpanish, is one of In addition to the supervision of the esses that must be followed by the Board the pillars of Iberia’s of Directors, the Audit and Compliance Committee, quarterly reports are Committee, Senior Management and crime prevention compiled for Iberia’s Board of Directors the staff involved. programme and Management Committee in order to identify and manage the impacts, risks and opportunities detected through the Business Risk Management System. Iberia’s Board of Directors and Management Committee perform the duties of identifying and managing economic, environmental and social business risks. In order to guarantee compliance with the Good Governance recommendations of Spain’s National Securities Market Commission and the UK Good Governance Code, self-assessment sessions 66 Governance 6.5 Grievance mechanisms Several tools are available to Iberia Group employees to get advice and solve any incident that they may observe. Employees can contact the compliance area directly There are also grievance mechanisms handled by an external service provider to guarantee total confidentiality. To guarantee knowledge and compliance with it, various All reports are analysed and a Reports Monitoring and Assessactivities are carried out for employees, suppliers and interment Unit, consisting of Senior Managers of the company, is mediaries. This guarantees that all involved are aware of the informed in order to review them and take decisions. principles that govern the conduct of Iberia and its employees The company firmly undertakes not to take any disciplinary action in relation to third-parties. against the employee who, in good faith, reports a grievance. 3,000 employees have receive online training on the Code of Conduct In 2015 IAG published the Supplier Code of Conduct, which is applicable to the supply of goods and/or services to either IAG or any IAG company. This code reflects the values IAG demands from its suppliers: Act with honesty and integrity at all times in all our business dealings. Provide a safe working environment where employees are treated with dignity and respect. Seek to minimise and reduce our impact on the environment. Provide supply chain transparency and improve supply chain standards. In addition, all Iberia employees are bound by the Securities Code of Conduct published by IAG and anti-corruption laws, described in the corresponding section of this report. 67 7. Economic performance Materiality Main stakeholders for which economic performance is material: Shareholders or investors Society in general Suppliers Main material aspects in order of importance: Iberia’s economic performance Company’s market presence/weight Development of investments and indirect economic impacts 69 7. Economic performance 7.1 Economic figures This point summarises the main economic data demanded by GRI4. For more details of the economic results of the year and the risks and opportunities that may affect them, we recommend reading the IAG Annual Report. Economic value generated and distributed Iberia’s main contribution to economic and social development is defined by the impacts is has directly or indirectly on the different stakeholders. Iberia’s business activity generates a major economic impact, which directly favours society. Direct economic value generated 2015 (millions of €) Recurring operating income 4,209 Operating income (including non-recurring) 4,729 Financial assistance received from governments 0* * 2.2 million grants for training received from governments, 2 million deductions R&D. Direct economic value distributed 2015 (millions of €) Iberia Group Operating costs (including non-recurring) 4.197 posted an operating profit of Employee wages and benefits 912 247 million euros, Company’s total contribution to pension plans 21 compared to 55 Total amount paid in National Insurance 179 million in 2014 Airport or Air Navigation taxes 326 Taxes paid 466 Donations (cash) 0.09 European investments 0 70 Econom Business activity Iberia Group’s activity in 2015 shows a growth trend, in terms of both offer and demand. The results of the Future Plan, which implemented efficiency measures in all areas of the company, allowed us to make a more competitive offer, recover routes closed in previous years and open new routes. The evolution of the main indicators is as follows: 2015 2014 % RPK (millions) Revenue Passenger Kilometre (Demand) 48,569 42,690 +13.8% ASK (millions) Available Seat Kilometres (Offer) 59,878 54,321 +10.2% CTK (millions) Cargo Tonne Kilometre (Demand) 1,057 999 +6.0% These indicators are the production units that measure the offer In 2015 Iberia reported a load and demand of an airline and are used to standardise this data with that of other companies, with different aircraft, different factor of 81.1%, 2.5 points up capacities and different routes. on last year Millions 6,500 5,801 5,679 5,217 5,208 5,201 5,500 5,061 4,950 4,878 4,833 4,627 ASK 4,416 Millions 4,500 4,001 4,874 4,949 4,361 4,393 4,316 RPK 3,500 4,003 Millions 3,786 3,777 3,896 3,672 3,442 3,095 2,500 1,500 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 71 ic performance 7. Economic performance At market level, international load factors reported an upward As you can see, 54% of Iberia’s capacity, measured in available trend during the year. seat kilometres (ASK), is on flights to and from Latin America. % of the total Iberia operates an average 250 flights a week to 20 destinations No. of Market ofIberia’s activity Destin-ations in 16 Latin America countries, making it the leader between (measured in ASK) Europe and Latin America. Europe 52 20% Domestic 32 9% In terms of domestic activity, Iberia is second with 27% of total activity (also measured in ASK). The market leader, with a 29% Latin America 19 54% share, is Vueling, which is also an IAG company. Africa and Middle East 11 4% In terms of presence in the Madrid hub, Iberia accounts for 41% United States 5 13% of the airport’s total activity (measured in ASK). 72 Econom 7.2 Innovation management Iberia maintains its commitment and active involvement in innovation projects, in accordance with the strategy promoted since 2001. Iberia has consumes considerable resources in R&D+i management (Research & Development + innovation), and it participates in the negotiations to obtain financial assistance to achieve a better return on projected investment, despite the changes concerning financial assistance. A total of 28 R&D+i projects were managed during 2015 COMINPRO15. New Integrated Plataccording to NDC and the develform of Joint Sales and Loyalty Service opment of the technological tools A total of 28 projects were managed for Airlines. It aims to develop various necessary to standardise the language in 2015, including tax incentives and technological systems (NGS and CIP) of communications between airlines direct financial assistance, with a strong integrated in a shared platform to and travel agents. technological component and classified as R&D+i by independent experts. support the creation of new joint sales OPERCAEF15. Design and develand loyalty programmes for SMEs. opment of operational management The total amount exceeded 25 million HANDCONC15. Development of a processes by reengineering systems euros. As in previous years, tax savings Joint Airport Handling and Customer and digitalising strategic tools, which represented a significant part of the Relations Communication System includes a new system for simplifying return on investment achieved. The through multiple technological platcrew management processes, new amount deducted for 2015 was over 2 forms, software and applications that systems for engineering and maintemillion euros. permit greater efficiency and comfort nance planning and digitisation of the in passenger flow in airports, as well as cabin and flight bag to access informaIn terms of public financing, in 2015 generating joint multi-management tion via a single platform using tablets. funds from the Centre for the Development of Industrial Technology (CDTI) operations and optimising internal In total, with an expenditure of 9.5 were obtained in order to implement communication processes. million euros, 3.75 million euros in projects classified as research and develINTERNDC15. Creation of a New financing was obtained, in the form of a opment projects, which acknowledges International Communications Prosoft loan, with a non-refundable tranche its technological importance. These are tocol between Agents and Airlines of over 750,000 euros. the following: 73 ic performance 8. Environmental Materiality Main stakeholders for which the environment is material: Shareholders or investors Society in general Associations Employees Main material aspects in order of importance: Environmental impacts of our products and services CO2 emissions and other polluting emissions Environmental assessment of suppliers Impacts of our operations on biodiversity Effluents and waste generation 75 8. Environmental For years protecting the environment has been one of the corpoIberia’s business activities (passenger and cargo transport, rate priorities of Iberia. aircraft maintenance and airport services) have environmental impacts, consume materials and energy and generate waste and effluents. The company constantly strives to achieve a sustainable balance To guarantee that these impacts are controlled, the company defines and updates a series of measures, including the implebetween the development of its mentation of environmental management systems; training, activities and its environmental motivation and environmental awareness of its employees; impact periodic internal controls and audits; and collaboration and participation in environmental affairs along with its stakeholders. 76 8.1 Consumption greenhouse installed at Adolfo Suárez Madrid-Barajas Airport. services and transport of its employees were considered. The total amount is summary 19,993 Gj. In 2015 total electricity consumption (295,861 Gj) was reduced by 3.5% Internal energy The type of fuel considered was diesel across the company. The reduction in A, consumed by catering vehicles and consumption electricity consumption was largely the fleet of buses used to transport due to implementing energy savings employees to the La Muñoza industrial The company’s total internal energy policies, which includes a series of initipark. The calculation is based on the data consumption is 64,459,044 Gigaatives to reduce energy consumption reported by the catering company and in joules, 99% of which are consumed in and the company’s carbon footprint. the case of road transport, by estimating flight operations, which use aviation kerosene(Jet-A1) as fuel. The rest of the the average consumption of each bus and Iberia received the calculating the number of kilometres energy is consumed in ground operations, through electricity, natural gas, petrol and most ecological travelled per route. different types of diesel consumption. operator award for Energy intensity Commercial aviation fuel (Jet-A1) various initiatives and The energy intensity of flight operations has very specific characteristics (high savings and efficiency is measured in grams of CO2 emitted per freezing point of minus 47 degrees centigrade, high thermal stability, etc.) projects passenger carried. and there is currently no economically Heating and air¬ conditioning consumpThis data is calculated based on the litres and logistically viable alternative to it. tion, which amounts to 216,366 Gj, of fuel used by the company during the Although specific biofuels for aircraft remained stable throughout 2015, year, converted to kilogrammes and are available, such as those produced although production incre¬ased converted to emissions (1 kg of kerowith energy crops (camelina, jatropha compared to the previous year. These sene equals 3.15 kg of CO2), and divided or algae) or from the treatment of improvements are a result of the initiabetween the data on tonnes per kilodifferent types of waste, their high tives already implemented, such as metre carried (standard measurement production costs and other technical the reduction of the air conditioning in the aviation sector), which are calcuimpediments make them unviable in timetables and modifi¬cation of the lated taking into account the distance the short term. comfort level temperature in both of the route, the weight of the passensummer and winter. gers (distinguishing, babies, children and In this respect, Iberia is participating in collaboration with Aena (the Spanish adults), baggage and cargo carried. In Energy consumption 2015, the company reached an energy Airport and Air Navigation Authority) and the firm Alga Energy in a pilot outside the company intensity of 87.92 grams of CO2 per project for obtaining biofuel from algae, For energy consumed outside the passenger carried, 1.90% lower than in which are cultivated and processed in a company the energy used in catering 2014, considered the base year. Energy 77 Environmental 8. Environmental intensity in ground operations is measured in tonnes of CO2 emitted per employee. The different scopes of emissions are 8.2 Biodiversity: protection calculated (see the ground operations emissions section) and of endangered species divided between the total employees in the company. In 2015, Iberia collaborates closely in the protection of endangered emissions reach 3.92 tonnes per employee, a similar figure to species and does not permit the carriage of these animals on its the previous year. flights. Similarly, we help different institutions that promote the Emissions per employee TN protection and conservation of endangered species and particiof CO2 per ground operations employee pate actively in returning unlawfully removed animals to their natural habitats. As an example of this commitment, in 2015 4.50 and for the sixth year in succession, Iberia collaborated with the 4.16 3.95 3.86 3.92 project organised by Fundación Migres for the recovery of these 4.00 species. 3.50 2012 2013 2014 2015 Water consumption Energy intensity in ground operations is measured in tonnes of CO2 emitted per employee. The different scopes of emissions are calculated (see the ground operations emissions section) and divided between the total employees in the company. In 2015, emissions reach 3.92 tonnes per employee, a similar figure to the previous year. Carla and Tiago, two Spix’s macaws, fly home with Iberia Group Carla and Tiago, two Spix’s macaws that were born in captivity in Brandenburg in 2014, flew from Berlin to Madrid with Iberia Express, where they boarded flight Iberia IB6827 to Sao Paulo. The animals flew in the passenger cabin accompanied by their keepers. Carla and Tiago are part of a project by the German association ACTP to release these endangered birds into their native habitat in 2021. There are only 93 specimens of this species in existence and all of them live in captivity. 78 8.3 Climate change: emissions In 2015 the Sustainability Department was created in IAG, which The Fuel Efficiency Support Group, will be responsible for defining the climate change strategy for involved with the environment the coming years and setting CO2 emissions reduction targets for each operator. In this respect, aware of the importance of The Fuel Efficiency Support Group (GSEC) studies projects that the fight against climate change for the well-being of society, help save fuel. Furthermore, in 2015 it published a fuel effiIberia’s main environmental tar¬get is to reduce CO2 emissions ciency guide and carried out various initiatives to highlight the as a way of achieving sustainable and efficient growth. importance of operating aircraft efficiently. In 2015 the company emitted 5,271,562 tonnes of CO2 in its flight and ground operations, 18.95% more than the previous year, calculated according to the methods established in the Kyoto Greenhouse Gas Protocol. The measures incl¬uded in the Company’s strategy to reduce these emissions are described below: Other measures In 2015 Iberia continued to apply other measures to reduce fuel consumption and, therefore, CO2, emissions, such as establishing a Fuel Efficiency Support Group (GSEC) within the Flight Ope¬rations Department with voluntary pilots from the Flight emissions different fleets in order to docu¬ment, debate, develop and publicise fuel-saving initiatives by implementing good pracFlight emissions tices. At the end of 2015, the average age of the company’s fleet was Reducing use of the Auxiliary Power Unit (APU), used to 10.23 years. During the year, the company took delivery of two provide the aircraft with the energy it needs for start-up. A319 aircraft and one Airbus A330-200, used on long-haul This initiative involves fostering maximum use of the ground international routes, which have latest generation technology facilities for both electricity and air conditioning to avoid to optimise fuel consumption and reduce CO2 emissions, starting up the APU early. Permanent coordination with resulting in final kerosene savings per aircraft of 15% (according the Ground Operations Department has been established to manufacturer’s specifications) compared to the Airbus A340to make sure that aircraft are connected to the facilities 300 they are replacing. according to existing contracts. 79 Environmental 8. Environmental Other measures include optimising the fuel management Other indirect emissions (Scope 3). Emissions produced by system (FMS), seeking the optimum flight level using the the catering services, by the employee transport routes and Nimbus flight plan system; optimising fuel consumption by the other means of transport used to travel to work. These improving the policy of closest alternative airports, operating emissions reached 23,524 tonnes of CO2. These emissions are conditions permitting; and the planned reduction of fuel for estimated, owing to the difficulty of calculating them as the use of the APU on the ground, adjusting it to the current situcompany does not directly control them. ation. In 2015 direct emissions accounted for 32.3% of the total emisGround emissions sions from ground operations; indirect emissions accounted for 31.42% and the rest corresponded to other indirect emissions Inventory of ground emissions (Scope 3). The greenhouse gas emissions from Iberia’s ground operations account for approximately 1% of the total generated by the 8.4 Local air quality and noise company. These emissions can be classified into: In addition to CO2, Iberia must consider its emissions of other Direct emissions (Scope 1). In our case these are emisgases and noise corresponding to aircraft landing and takesions from boilers and diesel and natural gas generators; as off manoeuvres at altitudes of less than 900 metres (3,000 well as emissions from petrol and diesel vehicles used for feet), called LTO cycles (Landing Take Off). These manoeuvres aircraft handling tasks. These emissions reached 20,949 include approach, landing, take-off, climbing and taxiing of tonnes of CO2. aircraft, when nitrogen oxides (NOx), carbon monoxide (NO) and Indirect emissions (Scope 2). Emissions produced during unburned hydrocarbons (HC) are emitted. power generation (by different means) used in the company’s The standards for emissions of gases such as nitrogen oxide facilities. These reached 20,382 tonnes. (NOx) and noise are set by the International Civil Aviation CO2 emissions by scope Organisation (ICAO), which is responsible for establishing the in ground operations (Tn CO2) maximum emissions of these gases and noise levels for aircraft. 20,949 20,382 Iberia’s fleet fully complies with ICAO NOx standards (CAEP 1 and 2). With regard to the good practices defined in CAEP 4, its fleet complies 90.8%. Although the most restrictive standards (CAEP 6 and 8) are not applicable to the company’s aircraft Scope 1 engines, their level of compliance has been analysed as a good practice exercise and 68% and 25% were achieved, respecScope 2 tively. In the coming years this percentage is expected to rise Scope 3 when the new A-330 and A-350 fleet is introduced. In terms of noise, in 2015 the situation of Iberia’s fleet compared to the corresponding noise standard (Chapter 3) reflects full compliance. In Chapter 4 the fleet reached 42% compliance. To mitigate the impact of noise in its operations, the company 23,524 80 complies with the operating procedures set out by the Spanish In terms of waste production, the situation is as follows: Civil Aviation Authority, making limited use of auxiliary engines in airports, reducing the use of brakes by using the thrust reverse Iberia produced 1648.35 tonnes of municipal solid waste technique and following the routes established by air traffic (MSW) in industrial areas, in airport activities and cargo handling. control for arrival and departure at airports. In addition, in 2015 the company introduced new landing procedures for the short In relation to hazardous waste, 790 tonnes of different and long haul fleet in order to reduce their impact. types of hazardous waste were produced. The industrial areas, where the MRO operations are carried out, produced 8.5 Effluents and waste 660 tonnes, airport services 127 tonnes and cargo handling 3 tonnes. This waste was delivered to authorised waste manageThe water used at Iberia’s industrial facilities in Madrid is treated ment companies, which define the elimination method. Of at two Wastewater Treatment Plants (EDAR), an industrial wastethe total volume, 1.38% was reused, 10.94% was recycled, water treatment plant which discharges into the Las Rejas Stream 23.5% was used in waste to energy and 64.18% was placed with a volume of discharge of 1,317 m3 and an urban wastewater in safe landfills. treatment plant which discharges into the River Jarama with a volume of discharge of 71,971 m3. The other facilities use the With regard to catering waste on aircraft, in 2015 Iberia airport wastewater treatment plants or the mains wastewater continued participating in the IATA Cabin Waste working group, treatment plant, in the case of the company’s head offices in which studies the current situation of all the waste generated Madrid. All the discharge parameters of these effluents comply on board aircraft, examines the best practices in its recycling with the limits stipulated by the Integrated Environmental and manages and implements pilot experiences on some flights Authorisation in industrial areas and the parameters stipulated by to gather information. The ultimate goal is to develop integral the airport and mains wastewater treatment plants. management of this type of waste. 81 Environmental 8. Environmental 8.6 Environmental management systems management and internal management systems and specific procedures that cover all of the activities related to the In 2015 Iberia’s CO2 emissions monitoring and reporting system environment. for its European flights and ground operations (industrial areas) The Integrated Quality and Environment System of Iberia’s airport was audited by AENOR, according to the European emissions services has been certified by AENOR, under ISO 9001 and ISO allowance system. 14001, respectively. It is a single integrated system that encomIberia’s fleet also complied with the international environmental passes all of the operations of over 30 stations across the national standards established by the International Civil Aviation Organiairport network. Iberia also has a management system for its MRO sation (ICAO) on noise emissions and air quality below an altitude operations in Madrid and Barcelona certified under ISO 14001, of 900 metres in the vicinity of airports. one of the broadest certifications awarded by AENOR in terms of surface and the variety of environmental aspects covered. These In its ground activities the company identifies and assesses certifications require a huge effort in terms of staff and resources, its environmental aspects and establishes its level of impact. as they demand environmental analysis, adequate documentaIberia develops its management strategy in accordance with this tion, training, awareness and preparation of facilities, and internal assessment. The company has externally certified environmental and external audits, as well as other aspects. 82 Environment-related spending totalled 9 million euros. This Iberia works jointly with its main service providers to reduce amount can be broken down into environmental repairs and environmental impacts within the supply chain. Most of our conservation (one million euros), employee costs associated suppliers are included under Iberia’s environmental certification with environmental management (1 million euros), emissions (ISO 14001) or have their own certified environmental manageallowances (six million euros) and environmental tax (one ment systems. These systems assess the real and potential million euros). In addition, environment-related investments in environmental aspects and establish controls to mitigate them. property, plant and equipment totalled three million euros. In 2015 the company did not have any environment-related grievIn 2015 Iberia also updated its internal environmental risk ances or fines. map and implemented a supplier environmental rating system, nationally and internationally, to rate the environmental The degree of mitigation of the environmental impact of its goods impacts of suppliers and establish priority levels with respect to and services and their packaging is not applicable to air transenvironmental risk. port. Nevertheless, issuing electronic tickets and boarding cards in both passenger and cargo services and waste management in ground operations have led to considerable savings in resources. 8.7 Environmental projects IAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global Observing System) The IAGOS project, included within the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures, consists of fitting long-haul aircraft with scientific instruments to analyse the chemical atmospheric composition (H2O, O3, CO, CO2, NOx) and air particles (aerosols and clouds), assessing air quality at certain altitudes throughout the world. Iberia is the first Spanish airline and the third in Europe to collaborate on a scientific project of this scale, having been selected to form part of the project as the leading company in the EuropeLatin America market. A measuring device is installed on one of our Airbus A340 aircraft, analysing the atmospheric composition at high altitudes and above the Atlantic Ocean. In 2015 this aircraft, registration number EC-GUQ, made its first flights (334 in total) to different destinations in Latin America and Central America. This enables long-term observations and, at the same time, provides almost real-time information for the weather services. These measurements can be used to make more accurate predictions of the weather conditions in the future and help decide what policies should be adopted to combat climate change. 83 Environmental 8. Environmental CO2 calculator Biofuel from microalgae In its strategy to combat climate change, Iberia provides inforIberia participates with AENA (the Spanish Airport Authority) mation to customers and employees about the carbon footprint and the company Alga Energy in a project for producing biofuel of their trip. A CO2 calculator is available at Iberia.com and on from microalgae. The microalgae are cultivated at an experithe company’s website to estimate carbon emissions by journey. mentation technological plant next to Madrid-Barajas Airport. The centre researches, experiments with and finds ways to improve the technologies for capturing CO2 and cultivating microalgae, used to produce biomass, from which biofuels are then obtained The plant can produce between three and four tonnes of biomass a year. One hectare of algae captures the same amount of CO2 as 33,000 trees over 22 hectares Iberia uses the La Muñoza treatment plant for subsequent use as feed for cultivating these organisms. In the near future Iberia will also supply CO2 from its engine mount test facilities. The Additionally there is a possibility of making a voluntary donation goal of this participation is to promote the production of biofuels to assist in the conservation and sustainable management of that will help reduce the CO2 emissions generated during operanatural spaces located in areas close to some Spanish airports. tion of Iberia’s fleet. 84 85 Environmental Environmental 9. Social performance Materiality Main stakeholders for which social performance is material: Employees Society in general Shareholders or investors NGOs and social organisations. Main material aspects in order of importance: Protection of employees’ health and operating safety Employee training programmes Employees (hiring, welfare benefits, etc.) Company/employee labour relations Composition of the workforce (diversity and equal opportunity) Equal pay for men and women 87 9. Social performance 9.1 Employment Iberia has a diverse staff consisting of 16,564 employees divided into five groups, which include National Ground with 71.48% of staff; Cabin Crew, with 18.76% and Pilots with 6.96%. Company staff details on 31 December 2015 Staff breakdown by group Group No. of people Average age Average length of service National Ground 11,840 44.49 16.36 Cabin Crew 3,107 43.83 17.92 Pilots 1,153 47.65 18.80 Local staff 448 45.63 14.29 Spaniards outside national territory 16 43.31 15.88 TOTAL 16,564 44.61 16.76 Staff breakdown by business area Business area Ground Flight Total Corporate 546 546 Air transport 1,756 4,260 6,016 Airports 7,164 7,164 Maintenance 2,838 2,838 GENERAL TOTAL 12,304 4,260 16,564 In 2015 the downward trend in the number of staff continued as a result of the labour force adjustment plans largely implemented 2012 2013 2014 2015 via early retirements and voluntary redundancies to achieve a Iberia 20,610 18,103 16,792 16,564 more efficient organisation. 88 Quality of employment Iberia is committed to quality, indefinite employment and mainOf its total contracts 7.85% are temporary and meet the tains this purpose in the framework of its goal to build a company company’s need to adjust workloads due to the seasonal nature with a new air. of the activity. Staff breakdown by contract type 48 of the total temporary contracts in 2015 have changed to indefinite Contract type No. of people contracts Indefinite regular timetable 12,156 No. of temporary contracts Indefinite part-time 1,510 48 that have changed to indefinite Indefinite discontinuous 112 Indefinite irregular timetable 1,485 Employees with temporary contracts enjoy the same welfare benefits as employees with indefinite contracts (healthcare, Temporary 1,301 access to grants, special salaries, luncheon vouchers and free TOTAL 16,564 plane tickets, in addition to other benefits). 89 Social performance 9. Social performance With regard to salaries, the relationship between salaries in Iberia and the Minimum Wage is: Iberia collaborates with Special Minimum wage (euros) 9,080.40 Employment Centres and makes Iberia minimum wage (euros) 14,448.45 donations and sponsorships Iberia average wage (euros) 46,465.54 in favour of public utility associations The average salary in Iberia is five Iberia’s Management Committee visits times higher than the Minimum Envera’s facilities Wage On 16th December Iberia’s Management Committee held its weekly meeting at Envera’s facilities in Colmenar Viejo (Madrid). Spanish law stipulates when employees are to be given notice and the minimum time of that notice if the company plans to The Management Committee had the opportunity to see firstmake a substantial change to the working conditions of its hand the latest activities being carried out at this integral centre employees. Iberia complies with the times stipulated in the laws for people with intellectual disabilities. Its member took advanand regulations applicable generally. tage of the event to visit the living nativity that Envera-APMIB organises every Christmas. In 2015, 367 formal claims from employees were received and settled (directly or through the unions), including both flight and Beneficiaries of the Care Homes for the Elderly, the Day Centre ground staff in the different committees. for the severely affected and the Occupational Centre recreated different scenes of the nativity. It was an open day in which 367 formal claims were family and friends also took part. received and settled in 2015 Iberia’s Chairman, Luis Gallego, then took part in the Radio Terrícola radio show, taller del Centro Ocupacional (he Occupational Centre’s workshop), where he answered the interviewers’ quesEmployment of people with disabilities tions. In pursuance of the applicable laws and regulations, Iberia must hire a number of people with disabilities equivalent to no less than 2% of its total staff. Given the company’s complex productive nature, it is especially difficult to incorporate a sufficient number of people with disabilities to meet that quota so the company meets its legal obligation through the alternative measures stipulated by law. In both cases Iberia guarantees compliance through its collaboration with the Envera Association, the activity of which is described later on in this report. 90 9.2 Labour/ management relations Union representation Iberia employees have union freedom in all the countries in which it operates. Flight staff is represented in the Flight Committee. The union representatives for Ground staff act on a national level through the Inter-Workplace Committee and on a local level through 18 Workplace Committees and a further 13 workplaces Percentage of union membership through wages nationwide have workers’ delegates. Group No. of people Internationally, Iberia has workers’ repreGround 67.23% sentatives in a large percentage of the countries in which it operates. Cabin Crew 33.49% Technical crew (Pilots) 100% The details of union membership are: Internal communication In accordance with Iberia’s Future Plan, in 2015 internal communication was an essential tool for driving the company’s transformation from the inside towards the outside; it fosters pride of belonging among employees and motivates them to be better brand ambassadors. In 2015 the goal of internal communication was to align our employees with the business strategy, engaged and of managing the change. A change that facilitates future changes. 91 Social performance 9. Social performance Furthermore, after analysing the results of the climate survey carried out in 2014, we detected that employees demanded more direct, close and accessible communication. For these reasons, the strategic working line in 2015 focuses on boosting internal communication on the ground by applying cascade communication schemes, so that all employees receive first-hand information from their superiors. Specific direct and constant communications programmes have also been created for the different groups, which adapt to their needs. We have also been working on new tools that allow us to reach all employees, particularly those who have to travel, making direct communication more difficult (crew, airport or commercial maintenance staff). The development of a mobile app on the Intranet is also worth highlighting, which includes the most used features and through which employees can stay informed and keep in contact with the company. Roll-out will be complete in early 2016. Climate survey At the end of 2014 Participa was launched, our first climate survey. After analysing the results and the additional information gathered during the workshops held as a result of the survey, in the first quarter of 2015 a series of action plans were designed, global for the company and by department. The main initiatives from the Global Action Plan are: Definition of the organisational structure (new organization). The new structure of Network Development and Alliances, the Technical Department, the Carrier’s Technical Department and Digital Business has been announced and the People and Customers Department have been created. Communication of the management team “on the ground”. Breakfast meetings were held with the chairman, which were well received and rated by those who attended 92 as “an excellent opportunity”. Similarly, the management Similarly, management is progressing in the implementation of team was personally and directly involved in announcing the the action plans. Examples of this are the work done by Airports results, taking part in meetings with 85% of employees. to bring communication closer to its areas and offices through projects like monthly debriefings (15-minute informative meetImprovement to the job posting process. The posts ings between supervisors and agents) and roadshows (meetings specify more clearly the duties, requirements and skills with station staff), with the direct participation of managers. required for the post in order to make the profile much clearer. Furthermore, the area or business of the post will offer feedAnother example is the initiative for optimising processes. Its back to every candidate shortlisted and Selection and Talent most ambitious project is RedNova, which proposes implewill give every candidate the opportunity to contact them for menting actions and initiatives tailored to each station in order more information. Actions have also been implemented to to improve operating processes and customer service in each optimise the average duration of the processes. airport in the national network. The Production Department is working on a schedule to improve Employee profile definition. The input of all employees productivity and the quality of life of crew. who took part in the workshops has been gathered. The new profile, which will be announced shortly, will be integrated In the Technical Department actions related to communicain all of the people management process (selection, assesstion are also given priority, as well as the proposals aimed at ment, training, promotion, rotation, etc.) improving the working environment. Creation of a recognition policy. A system has been In the corporate areas actions have been carried out to share created to highlight people and teams with outstanding knowledge with work teams and their interest in the progress actions, both extraordinary and daily, in the promotion of of the Future Plan. the company’s strategic priorities. The managers will be in We are continuing to work on implementing the actions charge of highlighting the differential values provided to the and assessing their impact on the areas in order to continue company, following the recommendations of the Recogniimproving the workplace climate. tion Guide. 93 Social performance 9. Social performance Social funds Solidarity fund Group life insurance These funds are used to meet social needs, such as scholarships, This insurance covers death and permanent disability. In the case grants for children with disabilities and chronically ill children, of flight staff, it also covers the contingency of permanent loss welfare loans and expenses incurred through sickness, to name of licence. It is 60% financed by the company and 40% by the a few. The fund is jointly financed in equal proportions by the employee. company and employees, except in the case of cabin crew, who contribute 0.40% of their basic wage and the company contribOther collaborations utes a fixed sum. Club Iberia Ground and flight This is a non-profit association that organises leisure and sports The company and each employee make monthly contributions activities for company employees and their families, thereby (50% each) through their salary to the pension fund, handled fostering values such as the family, solidarity and teamwork. by Mutualidad Montepío Loreto, set up as a private pension and welfare institution in 1970 by the workers in the aviation The Club Iberia budget is funded mainly by membership fees and sector. This fund covers disability and retirement benefits. In an annual contribution from the company, which also provides the case of flight staff, it also covers long duration temporary premises for the Club’s offices and facilitates internal communidisability and death. cation for all employees via the intranet. 94 9.3 Occupational health and safety Iberia has an organisation which deals with and handles occupational accidents, occupational hazard prevention. It has the necessary human resources, facilities, equipment and financial resources, partly owned and partly through arrangements with external companies, entities and specialists. Iberia has occupational hazard prevention plans and preventive action programmes The Prevention Plan is the tool that eases integration of prevention in the company and establishes the necessary procedures to perform preventive activities and include prevention aspects in the different management areas. Another important function is advising the three types of Health and Safety Committees: Inter-workplace committee. Workplace committees. Flight workplace committee, which is special as this workplace is unique. Members of Iberia’s Prevention Service sit on all these committees. At Iberia, all jobs have the mandatory risk assessment and the Iberia has the internal regulation ‘SH-203. Coordination of busiworkers have received training and information on the risks and ness activities’, which responds to all of the obligations that the preventive measures applicable. All risks assessments include arise from the application of article 24 of the Occupational risk control actions that ensure that no worker is exposed to the Hazard Prevention Law and RD 171/2004 that develops this risks classified as ‘significant’ or ‘intolerable’ in accordance with article. In relation to accidents at work and in accordance with our prevention plan. In addition, and in accordance with the the company’s obligations set out in the aforementioned regulaPrevention Services Regulations, the risk assessments identify tion, contractors must report any accidents that occur as a result tasks that require the presence of a ‘preventive resource’, to date of the projected risks between companies and investigate it. there are 14 tasks of this kind, all related to aircraft Maintenance. Depending on the conclusions of the investigation into the accident, the appropriate preventive measures will be adopted. The Employees who have suffered accidents receive assistance in current version of the regulation does not include the obligation recovery, support and advice from the Aviation Medical and for contractors to report all accidents and therefore, joint statisAssistance area, which applies the appropriate treatments and tics for the workplaces where Iberia is the owner are not available. rehabilitation system for the injuries suffered by each employee. 95 Social performance 9. Social performance No. of occupational health and safety committees 21 committees + 1 Inter-workplace committee 102; 79 PD with committee +17 PD without committee No. of prevention delegates + 6 PD inter-workplace % of workers represented on committees 100% % absenteeism rate due to occupational accidents 0.64% Total Iberia; 0.75% Ground and 0.32% Flight % accident rate compared to 2014 6.13% Economic sanctions for breach of prevention laws 1 Men Women Commuting days lost 2,948 1,064 Ordinary days lost 13,372 4,680 No. of fatal accidents 0 0 No. of serious accidents 4 2 No. of minor accidents 635 558 The main objectives of employee training on occupational hazard prevention are those related with: Knowledge of the basic principles, including laws and regulations in order to be able to identify risk factors related to their work. Understanding the risks of their job, and the source, causes and possible effects on health of those risks should they occur. Knowledge of the preventive measures that, when applied to the job, allow the risks to be controlled. Occupational Hazard Prevention Training 2015 Number of courses 390 Number of students 4,198 Hours of OHP training per employee 3.14 96 9.4 Personal development One of the cross-cutting initiatives of Iberia’s Future Plan is to Improve cross-cutting. We seek to promote cross-cutting and generate a cultural change that transforms the company into a collaboration across the company with a view to transforming modern and sustainable organisation. To achieve this, several Iberia and achieving better results than could be achieved with a initiatives are being implemented around three working areas: classic organisation. Guarantee employee engagement. To increase and guarantee The company continues working to strengthen the leadership of professional engagement, so that employees take on the chalits executives and managers, providing them with tools to help lenges, goals and values of the company, thereby achieving them manage and develop their teams, encouraging feedback on greater individual involvement and better team results. performance focusing on areas of improvement, with a unique style in line with the values of the new Iberia. Have the best professionals. It is important to attract and retain talent. To do this we offer a stimulating work environment and To do this, it has a skills profile, with the reference behaviour that recognition and promote development of the employees’ potencompany leaders are expected to have: tial to increase the company’s success. Customer, Do it at low Within a customer, cost large Group customer Get results Committed and aligned Be a driver Cross-cutting Accept your of change collaboration responsibility Be an Beat your exemplary competitors leader Technical skills This profile was mainly for the launch of the first Performance The assessment is associated to levels of progress and promotion Assessment in 2015, focusing on the managers of Iberia teams, regulated in the collective agreement, which had been frozen which is used to establish a direct link between variable remunerafter the mediation agreements in 2013. The reintroduction of ations and every year measures aspects like communication with this assessment allows the evolution of remuneration and the people and professional development. career of the team to be recovered. This new assessment was launched before the end of the year, All employees have some type which also includes aspects related to talent, such as measuring the potential of people and their professional mobility. of assessment to improve performance and professional In addition, in 2015 the performance assessment for all of the company’s ground staff was reintroduced. development 97 Social performance 9. Social performance These assessments, along with the climate survey and engagement mentioned in this report, provide the company with the 360º information that is essential for launching improvement initiatives. In addition to the assessment processes, the following sections will detail how Iberia achieves personal development goals using talent management tools, such as training and selection. Training Training; an essential and necessary pillar Through training Iberia guarantees the ENGAGEMENT qualification of all those who work in the TRANSFORMATION different operating scenarios, in order INTEGRATION AND SYNERGIES to respond to sector requirements and quality and safety targets set by the company and applicable regulation. Leadership School In this regard, a large investment is made in training and development every year, Project Management School led by the People Department, which Sales School coordinates and designs the company’s joint training plan. This plan covers techTrainer School nical/regulated training schemes and skills development training required by Language School the different businesses, perfectly aligned with aviation requirements and the straSummer School tegic business and company objectives. Values School In view of the circumstances of air transport, highly regulated and constantly adapting to new proceMaintenance Operations Operations Airports CIM Pilots In-flight Service Handling dures and customers’ needs, Iberia is clearly committed to ensuring that its TECHNICAL TRAINING employees have the necessary expertise. 98 This requires a great deal of training in operations, both for new Management Courses and captain training employees and ongoing training (above all, skills, licences and As a result of the company’s need to fill vacancies for captain, a certificates in compliance with laws, regulations and requirepilots training process started. ments of the sector). The first phase, Management courses, consists of training the The principles of the training model in Iberia are: pilot in different topics related to laws, regulations and disciplines that they do not usually put into practice as pilots. In the Be a strategic lever of the company: Iberia culture and second and third phases they are trained in the technical aspect values. using a flight simulator and flight training. These courses finalise the process, after the online verification that one of our testers Alignment with the business: improvement of individual authorises. and company’s performance. After passing all of these tests, the pilot can fly in command with Professional development: Individual Training plans the standard crew. The results of training given in 2015 are: Training data Number of courses 9,230 Average no. hours per job category Superior Group Managers 24.1 As a result of the high level of specialisation and the specific and Technicians nature of the technical know-how, a large part of the training is Pilots 59.3 designed and given by internal instructors, selected from specialised employees in each functional and business area. Iberia is very Cabin Crew 15.7 proud of the high level of its internal training staff. Technicians / Specialists 34.9 The important work done at the technical instruction centres is Administrative / Support Services 19.7 also worthy of special mention. Men Women Number of students 64,181 31,194 Hours taught (MONITOR) 31,597 12,104 Hours/student 267,783 128,058 99 Social performance 9. Social performance Internal trainer refresher courses En febrero de 2015 se puso en marcha un programa de actualIn February 2015 a refresher course programme was implemented for internal trainers in the Airport Services Department. It Operations Instruction Centre: started with the Ramp area, working with 53 monitors, and the The goal is to train the technical crew (captains and co-pilots) and Hazardous Goods area, with 51. maintain their qualifications to be able to reach and maintain the high level of expertise required by their duties. The goal of this training is to update the trainers’ knowledge and comply with current regulations, as specified in the Ground Due to this high level of professionalism of its employees, Iberia Operations Manual (GOM) and required by the IATA Safety Audit has the corresponding qualifications to be able to provide much of for Ground Operations (ISAGO). In March the plan was extended the technical training given at this Instruction Centre, complying to refresher courses for trainers in other areas, such as invoicing, with all the requirements stipulated by EU_OPS, AESA and all boarding and incidents, load sheet and CIC. applicable regulations nationally and internationally. Maintenance Instruction Centre (CIM) In-flight Service Instruction Centre The purpose of this centre is to develop and provide the necesThis centre trains the Cabin Crew to operate safely and efficiently, sary technical training, both basic and refresher, in the Technical complying with all the requirements stipulated in EU_OPS and Department, covering the maintenance and engineering areas other requirements of the Spanish Civil Aviation Authority. It also of the company. It provides training on engines, aircraft line provides training to engage chief flight attendants and cabin crew maintenance, aircraft components and the skills required to in the transformation process towards a culture of excellence comply with applicable regulations EASA 147 and EASA 145, in with a view to improving quality and customer service. addition to other activities. 100 Scholarships and internships Fundación Botín students visit our La Muñoza headquarters Iberia has agreements with various national and international universities and training schools. Similarly, it collaborates with In November we welcomed 35 graduates from the Fundación the government and academic institutions on implementing the Botín from various Latin American countries. education system, offering internships to students and to VocaThe graduates, with outstanding backgrounds in areas like law, tional Education and university graduates, from both Spain and public administration, politics, economics, international affairs abroad. and international relations and with a promising future, visited our headquarters and attended a breakfast meeting with the The scholarship programme has a chairman, Luis Gallego, to find out first-hand about our transfordual goal: give young people their mation process to the new Iberia and our commitment to Latin first contact with the labour market America. They continued their visit in the La Muñoza facilities, where they saw the work carried out in the maintenance area. and get their contribution to the company’s projects The programme also helps us to detect young professionals with potential and talent for the future of our sector. Scholarship agreements Educational Cooperation Students 24 Vocational Education Students 23 Post-graduate scholarships for graduates 25 Internship Contractual novation to employees 2 Interns hired on work practice 5 People on work practice and relief contracts that have been consolidated 2 Attracting talent Iberia is constantly seeking talent, both internally and externally, as talent is a critical factor for guaranteeing the company’s competitiveness. Attracting talent for management posts Men Women No. of employees who joined Iberia in 2015 22 12 101 Social performance 9. Social performance After 11 years, the company also started hiring pilots again that any employee who believes they meet the requirements of a for its short-haul and medium-haul fleet. More specifically, in post can submit an application to be assessed by the recruitment 2015, 38 people were hired to cover the needs arising from the services. growth of the fight plan due to the improvement measures of the Future Plan. In 2015, 227 jobs were posted and managed, including the following: As regards internal selection, the company has established a series of protocols and skills profiles to detect the professionals 339 management jobs, including directors, managers and with the greatest potential. Once detected, they are supported by heads. personalised training programmes, continuous assessment and professional development and succession plans, where talent is 24 senior positions. direct towards the field of specialisation or management. They are also included in specialised leadership development programmes 17 senior operating positions in the businesses. to get professionals capable of applying their skills to the circumstances required, at any given time, by the company’s businesses 88 positions for agents or analysts. and to guarantee smooth take-over of senior positions. 13 opportunities in the Production Department for pilots, Iberia also has a job posting policy, which is a key tool for instructors, day managers, trainers/ verifiers, chief flight supporting mobility and providing equal opportunity when interattendants and cabin crew supervisors. nally filling vacancies within the company. Jobs and their profiles are posted every week, not only in Iberia but also in the group, so 46 opportunities in the Group, secondments, etc. 102 9.5 Diversity and equal opportunity The company has a policy of hiring local staff, so that, apart from a few positions within the structure of some sales offices, which are held by people sent from Spain, the majority of the company’s employees are nationals of the countries in which Iberia operates as a multinational. Gender diversity Staff breakdown by classification and gender in 2015 Women Men Total Work Group No. % No. % No. % Senior group of managers and technicians 382 43.86% 489 56.14% 871 5.26% Administration 2,941 70.26% 1,245 29.74% 4,186 25.27% Aircraft maintenance assistants 6 4.76% 120 95.24% 126 0.76% Support services 408 9.58% 3.851 90.42% 4.259 25.71% Information and communication systems 3 12.50% 21 87.50% 24 0.14% operation and maintenance technicians Aircraft maintenance technicians 34 1.48% 2,257 98.52% 2,291 13.83% Facilities maintenance technicians 0.00% 4 100.00% 4 0.02% Ground equipment maintenance technicians 0.00% 2 100.00% 2 0.01% Data processing technicians 3 17.65% 14 82.35% 17 0.10% Flight/ground staff 29 38.16% 47 61.84% 76 0.46% National ground (A) 3,806 32.10% 8,050 67.90% 11,856 72% Local staff 198 44.20% 250 55.80% 448 2.70% Foreign ground subtotal (B) 198 44.20% 250 55.80% 448 2.70% Pilots 61 5.29% 1.092 94.71% 1.153 6.96% Cabin crew 2,213 71.23% 894 28.77% 3,107 18.76% Flight subtotal (C) 2,274 53.38% 1,986 46.62% 4,260 25.72% TOTAL (A)+(B)+(C) 6,278 37.90% 10,286 62.10% 16,564 100% 103 Social performance 9. Social performance Staff age pyramid by gender: % women/men in each age group Women Men Total % women % men < 30 144 603 747 19.28% 80.72% 30 50 4,783 6,610 11,393 41.98% 58.02% > 50 1,351 3,073 4,424 30.54% 69.46% TOTAL 6,278 10,286 16,564 37.90% 62.10% With regards to the organisational structure, the breakdown of men and women in management positions is the following: Women Men Total Chairman 1 1 Management Committee 2 7 9 Director 2 23 25 Senior Manager 1 3 4 Manager 16 35 51 Head 35 57 92 Sales delegate 6 10 16 Supervisor 38 86 124 TOTAL 100 222 322 The salaries of employees covered by collective agreements are established according to their professional rank, length of service and position. % Average difference The salaries of employees not covered by collective agreemen/women ments (management, senior staff) are negotiated between the Manager 4.99 company and the employee, following criteria of specialisation, experience, duties, etc., with no discrimination on grounds of Head -2.22% sex, race or any other criteria. Supervisor -7.73% The differences in salary by structure level is as follows: TOTAL -2.20% 104 Work-life balance policies Iberia applies reduced working hours for legal guardians to promote childbirth and protect maternity, paternity and care of the elderly, for which 1,889 employees signed up in 2015. The company takes into account the risks that employee’s work may entail for pregnancy and breastfeeding, especially within flight crews, permitting different possibilities for reducing working hours, temporary suspensions of contract and the processing of benefits, all regulated by collective agreements. In 2015 all employees kept their job 12 months after their incorporation following maternity/paternity leave. Number of employees signed up for Reduced Working Hours for Legal Guardians in 2015 Women Men Total Ground 247 139 386 Flight 1,018 475 1,493 Cabin crew 983 204 1,187 Pilots 35 271 306 Combatting discrimination and harassment The Code of Conduct specifies that Iberia undertakes to continue its policy of action based on the development and running of all selection processes with no discrimination on grounds of race, origin, religion, gender, political or union ideas, sex, marital status, age or disability. Iberia also understands that the careers of its employees are closely linked to their integral personal development. For this reason it promotes employee training and fosters an environment in which equal opportunity is effective and guarantees non-discrimination. Iberia does not tolerate, under any circumstances any form of sexual harassment, abuse of authority, offence or any other form of hostility 105 Social performance 9. Social performance The Ground collective agreement lists as very serious misconTo ensure that these principles duct “sexual harassment or sexual, verbal or physical aggression are fulfilled, the disciplinary directed against the dignity or privacy of persons” and “psychomeasures established in the logical harassment”. collective agreements contemplate In 2015 Iberia received no claims for discrimination on the these situations as a very serious grounds of age, race, religion or sex. misconduct During the year 3 complaints of psychological harassment were dealt with following the protocol in place in the company More specifically, the cabin crew and pilots collective agreefor this type of complaint. ments state the penalisation of “any conduct or behaviour at work that violates the respect of a person’s privacy and dignity The company has published protocols for action in case of through physical or verbal offence, including those of a sexual complaints for psychological harassment and sexual harassnature. If such conduct or behaviour occurs from a position of ment or on the grounds of gender, to guarantee the correct hierarchical superiority, this will be considered an aggravating handling of complaints, the corresponding investigations and circumstance.” the appropriate decisions. 106 9.6 Supplier assessment for labour practices In Iberia there are workplaces where different companies work attached documents, on any occupational hazard that may arise together and it is therefore necessary to find an appropriate for both Iberia employees and those of the outsourcer as a result balance between the health and safety of the employees and of the provision of those services. flexibility in applying occupational hazard prevention plans. In this situation, a key element for managing prevention programmes is Coordination of Business Activities clauses are thus included in coordination of business activities. all the company’s contracts, whereby outsourcers declare that they know and apply the measures required under current occuAt Iberia coordination of occupational hazard prevention guaranpational hazard prevention provisions and are aware of their tees that the following goals are met: obligation to exchange information on occupational hazards, as indicated in Regulation SH-203. Correct application of the working methods by the companies operating in the workplace. In order to adapt to new needs and improve compliance, in 2015 temporary instructions that update this regulation were Control of interaction between the different activities published on the Occupational Prevention Portal. performed at the workplace. Adaptation of prevention measures to the hazards in the workplace that could affect the employees of the different companies operating there. In 2015 the IT tool GICO was implemented. GICO is an IT tool that eases management and control of the coordination of business activities After installing GICO on the servers and testing it, a pilot project was set up in which the coordination of business activities with a few selected companies was performed using this application. The goal for 2016 is for all coordination tasks to be performed through this system. Iberia also has different regulations governing Coordination of Business Activities, including the internal regulation SH-203 on Safety and Hygiene. This regulation requires both the company and the companies providing services for Iberia to exchange information, using 107 Social performance 10. Human rights Materiality Main stakeholders for which human rights are material: Shareholders or investors NGOs and social organisations Society in general Main material aspects in order of importance: Agreements and contracts containing human rights clauses and employee training in this area Discrimination incidents and actions taken 109 10. Human rights Iberia is committed to defending and respecting human rights. The Code of Conduct of the Iberia Group explicitly states this commitment to respecting and protecting the human rights and public freedoms recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and major international agreements. This allows the company to guarantee that the principles set out in these agreements are present in all of its policies. In 2015 Iberia did not receive any human rights claims (discrimination, freedom of association, child labour, forced labour, etc.) through any of the available channels. 10.1 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact arose from the acknowledgement of economic players as drivers of market development and growth globally. The initiative, which companies, unions and organisations of civil society may freely join, seeks to convert Corporate Social Responsibility into the cross axis for tackling globalisation challenges. With this goal in mind, the signees must integrate the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into their strategies and operations. The private sector is a key player in resolving globalisation challenges By joining the Global Compact Iberia voluntarily accepts the commitment to incorporate the Ten Principles in its everyday activities and report to society, publicly and transparently, on the progress it makes in their implementation, through progress reports. Iberia is committed to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 110 Location in Area Principle this report Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Section 10 proclaimed human rights. Human Rights Principle 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Section 10 Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Section 9 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Section 10 Labour Principle 5. The effective abolition of child labour. Section 10 Principle 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Section 9 occupation. Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Section 8 challenges. Environment Principle 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Section 8 Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Section 8 technologies. Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Anti-corruption Section 11 extortion and bribery. 10.2 Human Rights training The social responsibility to respect human rights extends to In 2015, 737 Iberia employees and executives, selected all companies and Iberia is no exception. For this reason, the according to their duties and responsibilities, did the one-hour group’s Code of Conduct establishes respect for human rights online course on this code. and public freedoms recognised in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The course included the text of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and an explanation of the international standConsequently, directors, managers and employees must second ards that Iberia joined: the United Nations Global Compact; the this commitment within their duties, ensuring compliance of that International Labour Organisation Fundamental Conventions obligation in the performance of all their professional activities. and the Millennium Development Goals. 111 Human rights 10. Human rights 10.3 Responsible procurement Procurement and outsourcing manage1. Optimisation of costs Procurement at IAG GBS has created a ment at Iberia was transferred to IAG team to monitor responsible procureGlobal Business Services (IAG GBS) in 2. Internal customer satisfaction ment in the supply chain of group 2015 in order to modernise work praccompanies. IAG GBS undertakes to tices and improve their efficiency by 3. Compliance with the law supply goods and services obtained from creating a new culture to offer the best suppliers who demonstrate ethical prin4. Work ethically, respecting and services to IAG and its group companies. ciples in the way they run their business protecting all cultures and collaborates with them on quality, Management of procurement and 5. Transparency and confidentiality safety, environmental responsibility and outsourcing of services for IAG GBS, human rights regulations. which is aligned with Iberia’s goals, is 6. Innovation and development of regulated by internal procedures and creative solutions that provide value It also builds relations with suppliers guided by the following general princicommitted to improving the levels of ples: 7. Caution and risk management the supply chain. 112 The tender process includes a survey ConfidentialityIndustrial Compliance with these clauses is assessed that assesses aspects of Corporate Social with adequate frequency according to Responsibility (CSR) and labour polithe monitoring information, the level of Property cies and regulation, reviewed by the risk to the company’s reputation and critioutsourcing area. cality for the value chain. Data protection IAG GBS also maintains a close relaThe clauses on the United Nations tionship with Sedex, a not for profit Labour commitment Global Compact require all suppliers membership organisation dedicated to awarded the service to: driving improvements in responsible and Environmental commitment UN ethical business practices in global supply Global Support and respect the protection chains. The outsourcing process therefore of internationally proclaimed human includes clauses related to: Compact Regulatory compliance rights in their respective spheres of influence. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Uphold the freedoms and rights of their employees in the labour area. Support the effective abolition of child labour. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Undertake any necessary initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. IAG GBS continued progressing in health and safety and the environment in 2015 by carrying out audits and working with suppliers to be leaders in safety through training and local programmes. 113 Human rights 11. Society Materiality Principal stakeholders for which aspects regarding society are material: NGOs and social organisations Shareholders and investors Employees Principal material aspects in order of importance: Measures taken to fight corruption Centres with development programmes for the local community 115 11. Society Iberia is committed to the Millennium Development Goals This section is a compilation of the action taken in 2015. In that approved by the United Nations in 2000 and aims to develop period, Iberia detected no significant negative impacts on the social action that contributes directly or indirectly to achieving local communities. them, by contributing funds and resources to solidarity projects and conducting ongoing assessment of the social contributions The details of any significant fines (valued by IAG as those to bring the company’s social action into line with the estabexceeding 20,000 US dollars) can be consulted in the Corporate lished strategy. Responsibility sections of the IAG Annual Report. 116 11.1 Key social development actions Iberia supports projects and associations that are in line with Corporate Social Responsibility principles. In 2015, we collaborated in different socially valuable activities with the following organisations and bodies. Spanish National Transplant Organisation Iberia is an active supporter of the work of the National Transplant Organisation (ONT), by providing help to make transporting organs to their destination quicker and easier. This helps to ensure the organ’s survival and the viability of the transplant. Iberia makes transporting organs for transplants quicker and easier The pleasure of helping with a transplant The company’s efforts in this area were recognised by the ONT in 2014. The company continued its efforts in 2015 and collabOn 5 May 2015, Iberia got the news that thanks to the joint orated with all those involved in air traffic to help organs for collaboration of Iberia, Air Nostrum and AENA, a patient in transplants to reach their destination. Bilbao was able to receive a donated organ from Malaga and recovered successfully. 117 Society 11. Society Unicef Iberia, in conjunction with Amadeus, renewed the collaboration agreement with Unicef’s Spanish Committee, which was signed in 2013. Its main aim is to raise funds to support the 100% Let’s Vaccinate Every Child initiative, which provides solutions to fight illnesses such as measles, polio and whooping cough. As part of the agreement, the Amadeus platforms makes it possible for Iberia.com customers to donate from 3 to 20 euros through just one click when buying a plane ticket on the Iberia web page. Since this agreement began in 2013, more than 87,000 donations have been processed, amounting to a total of The agreement with Amadeus 500,000 euros from Iberia customers, thus demonstrating that the programme is a sustainable method of funding large social and Unicef’s Spanish Committee projects on a global scale. was renewed for two years 118 Iberia customers donate 500,000 euros to Unicef These donations are devoted entirely to Unicef global vaccination campaign, 100% Let’s Vaccinate Every Child. The campaign is endeavouring to increase the number of children receiving essential vaccinations in the world’s most far-flung communities and eradicate polio and other illnesses in eight at-risk countries due to their low vaccination rates. Make a Wish Iberia and Make a Wish: keep making young children’s dreams come true The Make a Wish organisation devotes itself to granting the wishes of children suffering from serious illnesses, thus enriching Iberia joined forces with Make a Wish to let Vera fulfil her dream their lives through unique, unforgettable experiences. In doing of swimming with dolphins. Vera was not the only one who got to so, it enables young people to overcome negative emotions, have a unique, hope-filled experience in 2015. Iberia witnessed such as fear, anguish and loneliness, transforming them into how many other children could live their dream. Like Arnau, vitality, energy and an eagerness to fight. who got to meet his idol, racing driver Fernando Alonso. Iberia’s endeavours are possible thanks to the efforts of the crews and Iberia has been collaborating with the organisation’s mission the rest of the staff involved in transporting these children. since 2001 as the official carrier and contributes to making the dreams of these children come true. Iberia Veterans Association This association, named Asociación de Veteranos de Iberia in Spanish, was created in 1972 and has a long and successful track record. The main purpose of this organisation is to offer all members the opportunity to participate in the different activities organised (cultural activities, sports, outings, travel, etc.) and make available to active employees, those in early retirement and retired workers from Iberia and from other companies in the air transport sector, as well as anyone else who is interested, the various options for participation. It is also involved in charitable activities, such as the Christmas market fundraiser. 119 Society 11. Society AECID Envera Iberia collaborates with the Spanish International CooperaThe Envera Foundation, formerly known as APMIB, was set up tion and Development Agency (AECID) through agreements in 1977 by Iberia employees with children with special needs. It that include special discounts for issuing tickets for cargo and focuses on the protection and social and professional integration passengers on its flights. of people with physical, mental or sensory disabilities. Its mission is to integrate these people into society and the workforce through comprehensive care and assistance throughout their lifetime. Mano a mano This NGO was founded in 1994 by Iberia employees to make Envera strives to achieve social and use of the free space in the cargo holds of Iberia flights to send professional integration throughout humanitarian aid to countries hit by natural disasters or wars. It delivers the aid without middlemen, i.e. “hand to hand” (“Mano the life cycle of people with a Mano” in Spanish). Its commitment to helping the less fortudisabilities nate who are at risk also leads this NGO to arrange flights to bring children and their families to Spain. Once in Spain, they are provided with specialist medical attention and accommodation. It also manages aid projects in developing countries. Iberia donates plane tickets and cargo space to this NGO and provides the areas and supplies they need for their activities. This foundation assists 1,500 people with functional diversity and provides 330 care service places. Its special employment centres offer employment to 468 people with disabilities Among the services it provides, the foundation offers tutelage, social assistance and educational support to people with disabilities who so choose or who have been orphaned or left homeless. At the same time, Envera contributes to their development and provides them with the opportunity to carry out work that is appropriate to their abilities. In 2015, Envera hired 570 people First charity run with disabilities through its special employment centres and In 2015, the first charity run took place to commemorate the outsourcing services. In total, the group’s Labour Insertion 25th anniversary of hangar 6 and to support Mano a Mano and Service advised 140 people and placed 54 people with funcEnvera. tional diversity in jobs in other companies. 120 121 Society 11. Society 11.2 Meeting the UN Millennium Development Goals As part of its commitment to society, Iberia collaborates with different social action organisations to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. The targets and the projects Iberia is involved in are explained 1 below. Eradicate extreme poverty Collaboration by Mano a Mano with and hunger Asociación Plataforma 21, through food donations for the Alameda de Targets: Osuna neighbourhood, in Madrid, Spain, to assist around 200 families. Halve the proportion of people living on less than 1 dollar a day. Help from Mano a Mano for children at a school in Madrid through grants Halve the proportion of people who for school meals. suffer from hunger. Remittance by Mano a Mano of Projects: humanitarian aid for Sacred Hearts Donation by Mano a Mano to the San Missionary Sisters in Equatorial Alfonso María de Ligorio soup kitchens Guinea. in one of Lima’s poorest districts and to orphanages in Santa Anita, Lima, Conveyance of humanitarian aid Peru. for different Mano a Mano projects, mainly in Latin America, Africa and Remittance by Mano a Mano of Spain. humanitarian aid for the soup kitchen of the Basakato Welfare Centre in Holding of a Christmas charity Equatorial Guinea. market at the Iberia facilities to raise funds for Mano a Mano projects. Dispatch by Mano a Mano of clothes and food to the Pozo del Tío Raimundo initative in the Vallecas neighbourhood of Madrid, as part of the soup kitchen project. 122 Achieve universal primary Donation by Mano a Mano to the Sponsorship of Carolina Foundation. education “A Compás del Flamenco” project in Cuba, which aims to teach 130 girls Collaboration by Mano a Mano in Target: from underprivileged families through creating two football schools at the Ensure that children everywhere, Spanish Flamenco dancing. port of Haina (at the San Judas Tadeo boys and girls alike, will be able to school and in the Paraíso district) in complete a full course of primary Donation by Mano a Mano to the the Dominican Republic. schooling. Computation Project of the Dominican Nuns in Cuba, which teaches Holding of a Christmas charity Projects: 400 children in Havana how to use market at the Iberia facilities to raise computers. funds for Mano a Mano projects. Donation by Mano a Mano to the “Accede a un Respiro” association in Donation by Mano a Mano to Collaboration by Mano a Mano in Alcorcón, Madrid, for children with collaborate with a nursery in Chambo, organising a multi-cultural children’s autism. Ecuador, by providing individual toys camp, “Aquí Cabemos Todos”, in Los and toy libraries. Navalmorales, Toledo. Collaboration by Mano a Mano in transporting books to a school in Collaboration with Mano a Mano to Collaboration with the Envera Guatemala. 2 create three toy libraries and donation group. of toys in Equatorial Guinea. Collaboration by Mano a Mano in Collaboration with the dyslexia and transporting books to Peru, donated Collaboration with Mano a Mano family foundation Fundación Dislexia by a publisher of children’s books. in donating toys in the projects being y Familia regarding attendance at developed in Ecuador. several congresses on the American Collaboration by Mano a Mano in continent. building a computer room and toy Free carriage of PCs by Iberia, in libraries in several locations in Lima, collaboration with Amadeus, for Peru. educational and social projects in Africa and South America. 123 Society 11. Society 3 Promote gender equality and empower women Target: Eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary education. Projects: Donation by Mano a Mano to a sewing workshop at El Pozo del Tío Reduce child mortality Target: Reduce by two thirds the under-five mortality rate. Projects: Donation of tickets by Iberia to transport children from disadvanCollaboration by Mano a Mano in Santo Domingo to create sanitary areas in a number of schools in the 27 de Febrero and Los Corales districts. Collaboration with Mano a Mano in the Dominican Republic to help associations devoted to children with Down’s syndrome. Raimundo, in the Vallecas neighbourtaged backgrounds to Spain for Collaboration by Mano a Mano hood in Madrid, Spain. operations or treatment, in collaborawith the Agencia Española del Medition with Mano a Mano. camento (the Spanish medicines Sponsorship by Iberia of the Women authority) in donating and conveying for Africa Foundation. Collaboration between Mano a of medicines to Dakar, Senegal. Mano and the Spanish Federation of Donation by Mano a Mano to the Parents of Children with Cancer El Nooman orphanage in El Cairo to Collaboration through Mano a 4 create a sewing workshop for 90 girls. Donation and dispatch of hospital Mano with the Leukaemia foundamaterial for the hospice in Basakato, tion, Fundación de la Lucha contra la Signing of the Companies for a Equatorial Guinea. Leucemia, in Murcia, Spain. Society Free from Gender-Based Violence initiative from the Spanish Collaboration by Mano a Mano in Micro-donation programme organMinistry of Health and Social Affairs. projects in the Dominican Republic. ised by Iberia and Amadeus through Through Almacén de Emergencias, aid which Iberia customers can make donaCommemoration of the internahas been extended to several hospitals tions to Unicef. The campaign is going tional day to fight gender-based in the country, including the Robert well; it raised more than 500,000 violence in its in-house media, on 25 Reed Hospital in Santo Domingo, euros since its launch. November. which focuses on child health care, and several health clinics. 124 Improve maternal health Target: 5 Reduce by three quarters the maternal mortality ratio. Projects: Donation from Mano a Mano to the medical centre in Ñómalas, Chulucanas-Piura (Peru), for young Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases Target: Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the spread of HIV/AIDS. Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the incidence of malaria and other major diseases. Collaboration through Mano a Mano with the Leukaemia foundation, Fundación de la Lucha contra la Leucemia, in Murcia, Spain. Collaboration through Mano a Mano with the Women for Africa Foundation to take humanitarian aid to Africa to increase the safety of medical professionals in the fight against Ebola. pregnant women and newborns. In the Dominican Republic, we Projects: increased help through the EmerCollaboration by Mano a Mano in gency Warehouse to several hospitals the Dominican Republic. Through Collaboration with the AIDS founin the country, including the Robert the Emergency Warehouse, help has dation Fundación Lucha contra el Sida. Reed Hospital in the capital city, which been extended to several different is dedicated to child patients. Hospitals in the country, including Donation and conveying of mate6 the Robert Reed Hospital based in the rials to build a hospice in Basakato, Collaboration by Mano a Mano with capital, which is dedicated to health Equatorial Guinea. the Agencia Española del Medicamento care for children, and several health (the Spanish medicines authority) for Donation of tickets by Iberia to centres. the donation and conveying of meditransport children from disadvancines to Dakar, Senegal. taged backgrounds to Spain for Collaboration through Mano a operations or treatment, in collaboraMano with the Leukaemia foundation with Mano a Mano. Collaboration with the dyslexia and tion, Fundación de la Lucha contra la family foundation Fundación Dislexia Leucemia, in Murcia, Spain. Collaboration between Mano a y Familia regarding attendance at Mano and the Spanish Federation of several congresses on the America Parents of Children with Cancer. continent. 125 Society 11. Society Collaboration between Iberia and Ensure Develop a global the Spanish National Transplant environmental partnership for Organisation (ONT). suitability development Micro-donations programme organTargets: Metas: ised by Iberia and Amadeus through which Iberia customers can make Integrate the principles of sustainDevelop further an open, donations to Unicef. The campaign able development into country policies rule-based, predictable, non-discrimis going well; it raised more than and programmes and reverse the loss inatory trading and financial system. 500,000 euros since its launch. of environmental resources. Address the special needs of least Halve the proportion of the populadeveloped countries. Collaboration with Make a Wish tion without sustainable access to safe in its social action activities. Iberia drinking water and basic sanitation. collaborates by providing the transport Address the special needs of landfor the seriously ill children that the locked developing countries and foundation takes to different locations Achieve, by 2020, a significant small island developing States. to enable them to fulfil their dreams improvement in the lives of at least 7 and live an unforgettable experience. 100 million slum dwellers ADeal comprehensively with the Iberia, as the official air carrier, thus debt problems of developing counhelps the children to manage to overProjects: tries. come negative emotions, such as fear, anguish or loneliness, transforming See the specific section on the envithem into vitality, energy and renewed ronment for programmes to reduce eagerness to fight. emissions and waste. 126 Projects: Commitment to the Global Compact principles. CSR framework agreement with Unicef and Amadeus. Sponsorship by Iberia of the Spanish 8 International Cooperation and Development Agency (AECID). Sponsorship by Iberia of the Carolina Foundation. 127 Society 11. Society 11.3 Iberia Anti-Corruption Policy Iberia manages this risk through the programme, the general structure of which is designed, in accordance with best practices Iberia’s anti-corruption and anti-bribery measures are included and applicable international laws, around the following four within its Crime Prevention Programme. pillars: Existence of clear policies and adequate risk management The Crime Prevention Programme is an active commitment against Communication and awareness processes for all employees corruption Continuous monitoring of high-risk processes The Programme is a set of measures intended to prevent, detect Specific controls in relations with third parties and react to possible offences covered by the Spanish Penal Code. In addition, it is a commitment to permanent surveillance Iberia has an anti-corruption standard setting out the company’s and penalising of unethical conduct and to maintaining effecpolicy, with a clear commitment to ensuring ethical behaviour tive mechanisms for communication and awareness on the part and compliance with the law by its employees and related third of all employees to encourage a preventive culture. parties. It thus supplements the other related regulations, 128 including the regulations on conduct with civil servants or the corporate hospitality policy. This programme regulates employee conduct and complements the Code of Conduct This standard regulates conduct both in general and in specific situations, such as possible conflicts of interest, the prohibition regarding political activities and appropriate management of donations. The highest risk indicators, within the countries where Iberia operates, are in Africa and Latin America, and as a result the preventive controls and actions to reduce them have been increased in these countries. The anti-corruption programme and its goals are assessed and planned for all of IAG in the Compliance Committees, in which Iberia and the other Group companies participate, so that it covers the activity throughout the network. The Compliance Committees supervise the anti-corruption programme. The Compliance Regulations lay down the obligation for all employees to be familiar with internal regulations and external laws and to ensure compliance. To this end, and to facilitate access to the information, all the regulations are published and made available to all employees following approval by Iberia’s bodies. Iberia publishes the Compliance Regulations so that they are known and observed by everyone In addition to the traditional channel for communication of regulations, the anti-corruption policies and procedures are explained in the anti-corruption training given, according to criteria and ratings of the employees’ positions and duties. In 2015, the company did not receive any claims or fines for any cases of corruption in the performance of its activities. 129 Society 11. Society Due diligence 11.4 Public policies of the In order to comply with the company’s anti-corruption policy organisation and internal Compliance Regulations, Iberia regularly carries out due diligence processes (finding and analysing information) on Iberia respects the anti-corruption third parties linked to it. In particular, the processes check the suitability of tenderers for contracts and commercial brokers, standard to avoid any potential according to the different criteria established. Those processes offences and unethical conduct assess the transparency, lawfulness and efforts of third parties in fighting corruption and contracting with those third parties is According to the Iberia Group’s anti-corruption regulations, accepted or barred depending on the results. all activity performed within the group must strictly respect the guidelines established in the applicable laws and regulaIn 2015, Iberia performed due tions, both external and internal (Iberia and IAG), to avoid any potential criminal offences related with that activity (such as diligence processes on 113 corruption between individuals, bribery, alteration of prices in tenderers and 20 commercial competitive tendering and public auctions, money laundering, brokers corruption in international commercial transactions, etc.) and/ or unethical conduct that is not acceptable for the company. In addition, the internal anti-corruption and corporate hospitality regulations are sent to suppliers and advisers having existing In general, it is strictly forbidden within the Iberia Group to make contracts with different areas of the company. any kind of donation in cash or in kind to political parties or asso130 11.5 Compliance with rules on competition Iberia bases itself on IAG’s antitrust programme to apply policies and procedures in accordance with the rules on competition The programme for compliance with competition rules and regulations is based on a specific risk matrix at IAG level and is implemented through the senior management’s commitment to the approved compliance strategy. This is also reflected in the the compliance commitment within the company’s Code of Conduct, the internal guidance for employees through the Competition Compliance Manual and specific guidelines, training initiatives, the internal whistleblowing channel and process monitoring. No formal proceedings were instituted against Iberia in 2015 with regard to competition issues. 11.6 Commitment to passenger rights Iberia remains committed to compliance with the European Aviation Customer Commitment, a code of conduct signed on 2 July 2002 together with the other airlines in the Association of European Airlines (AEA). ciations. Nor may the cost of their purchases of goods, work or services or any other expenses generated by their activity be The code lays down obligations such as respecting the agreed covered, in full or in part. price, providing any information requested on the operating carrier, reporting any incidents and assisting passengers, expediting the payment of refunds and attending reduced-mobility No contributions to political parties, passengers and minors, among others. in cash or in kind, were recorded in 2015 Iberia abides by the European code The constraints established in current legislation regarding of commitment to its passengers incompatibilities of senior officers are scrupulously respected in and meets all its obligations the hiring of employees and executives. 131 Society 11. Society Another important point regarding passenger rights is dealing with customer complaints. Iberia complies with the European 11.7 Commitment to price regulations on compensation and assistance to passengers in transparency the event of boarding being denied, cancellation or long delay Iberia publishes the final prices of its tickets, including all the of flights (Regulation (EC) No 261/2004 of the European different elements comprising each price, such as fuel surcharges, Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004). issue charges or airport taxes, such that the advertised price is the final purchase price of the ticket. “Iberia is one of the European In the checks conducted by the Department of Consumers companies that stand out for Rights on compliance with EU legislation of airline ticket sales on respecting transparency on their prices.” Internet, Iberia is one of the European airlines that fully respect (Department of Consumers Rights) that legislation, due to its price information transparency and consumer protection in the services offered on Iberia.com 132 133 Society 12. Product responsibility Materiality Principal stakeholders for whom products responsibility is material: Customers Society at large Shareholders and investors Associations Principal material aspects in order of importance: Categories of products and services in which safety and impact on health are assessed Customer satisfaction surveys Corroborated complaints regarding privacy of customers and their data 135 12. Product responsibility 12.1 Commitment ously improving its services to be at the fore of technological advances in the air with aisle access; multiple nooks in which to store personal items; an à la carte to continuous transport market. entertainment system, with 15.4-inch improvement tactile screens enabling passengers to Iberia is undergoing a very important choose between the latest film releases, Iberia pursues excellence with its transformation. In business class, this the best TV series, documentaries, a customers and is committed to continuchange takes the form of the features broad range of musical options and offered in long-haul operations. several interactive games; Wi-Fi and GSM Iberia is committed Customers availing themselves of this connectivity; mood lighting to adapt the to exceeding service have seats that convert into lighting to the flight’s different stages; totally flat beds nearly two metres long, and menus designed with the help of four its customers’ with a design offering: greater space as of Spain’s best chefs, each the recipient of expectations they are set in individual modules, each a two-star Michelin rating. 136 The improvement in the Iberia service also affects the planes where these new features are to be enjoyed. The new Airbus A330 have been designed especially for the company and the new features are also being installed into the A340 craft. The attention Iberia pays to its product goes beyond the flight service. The company has an extensive insurance programme through policies taken out with top-level Spanish insurers and reinsurance of maximum solvency in international markets. Thanks to this programme, the company guarantees that coverage levels meet best-practice gation and access to current films and standards for the air transport market, Iberia’s business class international releases. exceeding in all cases the requirements is rated the second laid down by the Spanish Air Traffic Law Other advantages offered by this class (Ley Española de Navegación Aérea) and best in Europe and are more comfortable seating that make international agreements. the leader for flights it possible to personalise the screen, between Europe and connect devices and use them to access the Internet; a wide range of series Latin America and documentaries; a menu tailored to customer tastes, including choices of a Thanks to this major commitment, in healthy option and other, more tradiFebruary 2015 Iberia was recognised tional dishes; and a Wi-Fi connection and for its business class, when it was ranked GSM connectivity throughout the flight. second best in Europe in the ranking drawn up by US platform Skift, specialising in travelling and a benchmark in the Customers are market. satisfied with the Comfort and on-board entertainment on new features, which long-haul flights have also been impleprovide comfort, mented in tourist class. entertainment The new tourist class seating for longand quality of haul flights provides individual 9-inch tactile screens offering intuitivenaviservice 137 Product responsibility 12. Product responsibility to increase its visibility and make it stand out from tourist class. The new design includes the new Priority logo for oneworld, which will be placed with the brand on the signs for the special customer care services offered by companies in the alliance to those passengers oneworld Priority, who hold the main loyalty cards. already available in T4 IAG confirms As part of a joint project of the oneworld Collaboration agreement orders for 15 A320neo alliance, the new oneworld Priority with Lexus signage has begun to be installed at all International Airlines Group (IAG) has the airports where Iberia operates. Lexus and Iberia Plus have signed a collabtransformed 15 options for Airbus oration agreement through which, as 320neo, which were announced in The aim of the new signage is to smooth from 1 July 2015, Lexus customers earn August 2013, into firm orders. the way through the airport for the alliAvios when they purchase new vehicles, ance’s frequent flyers. The oneworld The aircraft are to be delivered in 2021 use the maintenance service, buy accesPriority signs identify which services can and 2022 and may be used by any of sories or take out insurance or financing by used by Iberia customers and those of the group’s airlines to replace aerothrough the manufacturer’s official dealthe alliance’s other carriers depending planes from its fleet. ership network. on the level of their frequent flyer card These aircraft are modern and boast (Emerald, Sapphire or Ruby), in checkThe Avios can be swapped later on for efficient fuel use, thus providing costin, access to the fast-track security plane tickets, night stays in hotels, vehicle savings for the fleet and environmental lanes, access to VIP lounges and priority rentals or exclusive services with Iberia benefits. boarding. Plus partners. New business image at airports Almost two years after Iberia began updating its brand image at airports, the company went one step further and tackled a new change which will affect its business class image at airports. Without breaking away from the foundations guiding the image of the new Iberia, a new brand for Iberia’s business class was designed, with a more elegant image that will help 138 Through this measure, the company is aiming to meet the customer needs it has detected through various focus groups and surveys completed by current and potential customers. This new software improves the user experience, incorporates new languages, reduces and simplifies the process and cuts check-in times at kiosks. Defining the passenger cabin for the A350 at the Our Black Friday, (Cyber Monday) were the days showing Airbus HQ in Hamburg the highest volume of visits to iberia. a top-selling success com. The impact of this action constiIberia wants to be close to its customers. tuted 18% of searches and 19% of total To this end, on 27 November 2015, it purchases during this period. launched the Black Friday compaign which it advertised through social New software networks, emails to customers, press for check-in kiosks at T4 releases and announcements on its web page. On 2 December, work began on installing the new software at all the From launch until the end of the kiosks in the T4 check-in area. This softcampaign on 3 December, flight searches ware was designed in collaboration with rose by 21%, purchases by 27% and the Ground Operations Department, earnings by 23% compared to the same Madrid-Barajas Airport Management On 18 and 19 November 2015, at the period in the previous year. Friday 27 and the Customer Insight and Digital Airbus headquarters in Hamburg, a November and Monday 30 November Business areas. meeting was held for participation in the gratifying, arduous and lengthy process of defining the interior of an aeroplane’s passenger cabin. On this occasion, the participants were working on the A350, which is expected to become the company’s new large aeroplane and therefore an emblem of the new Iberia. The Cabin Crew (TCP) Department, alongside other Iberia departments, has a very important role in this task. 139 Product responsibility 12. Product responsibility Iberia Plus, now Infinita, The value of these communications has been demonstrated in operational securewarding loyalty rity aspects and in customer satisfaction Iberia wants the travel experience of its indicators (NCP and NPS), as passengers best customers to begin before take-off perceive more personalised attention on and not to end upon their return. our flights. . It has created two lifelong cards, Iberia Plus Infinita and Iberia Plus Infinita Prime. The first is aimed at the more than 700 customers who have accumulated at least 125,000 Elite points since they were first registered on the programme. The main goal is to reach a segment of Iberia Plus Infinita Prime, meanwhile, young customers who are very used to is reserved for the 105 customers who social networks and shopping online. This have accumulated more than 200,000 system offers economical prices without Elite points. needing a specific destination or date. In addition, the portal benefits traffic on Iberia.com as it shows the best price available for that flight on the website and a direct link to the purchase page. Automated loudspeaker system at boarding gates Iberia, pionera en Iberia is implementing an automated organizar un vuelo loudspeaker system at the boarding social gates in T4. This new software is being installed in the terminals at the boarding Guide to passenger gates and lets our colleagues just click to Auction portal: how much communication activate pre-recorded announcements do you want to pay for a with the boarding information. flight? In its efforts to improve processes and make certain aspects of the operation Promotion in conjunction decide how much they pay to fly with us? easier in the work of our crew members, with El Corte Inglés: No This original idea sparked the social flight the Operations Department has drawn Pararás de Volar initiative, where tickets for a flight from up a guide for passenger communication, Madrid to New York were auctioned off on in collaboration with several areas of the During the week of 26 October–1 Iberia’s Facebook page. After the success company (Communication and Customer November 2015, an advertising of that flight, Iberia began to work on the Management). The main goal of the campaign was launched in conjunction idea of making online auctions of tickets guide is to help cabin crew to implement with the El Corte Inglés travel division a regular occurrence. The result of this routines and guidelines that boost the to increase revenues with regard to work has been the launch of an auction quality of communication with passenstrategic destinations in Latin America, portal which kicked off on 18 May 2015. gers and customers. Europe and Spain. 140 new features, such as the ability to sign up new customers for the Iberia Plus programme, information about customers’ on-board baggage and recognition of the new high-value customer categories. The development of these new features is the fruit of the joint work of several departments at the company, such as the Airports Department, the Customer On Business continues Cross-cutting Experience Department, the Marketing expanding collaboration by Iberia Department, the Ground Operations in Latin America Department and the On-board Service departments is key in Department. On Business, the new programme aimed developing the project at small and medium-sized businesses, continues to expand in Latin America. Following its launch in November 2015, it has expanded to include the markets of Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Panama, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Guatemala, Peru and El Salvador. In these countries, the companies that sign up to the programme will be able to get On Business points on Iberia, British Airways and American Airlines flights. They will also have access to direct discounts (at least 5%) and the opportunity to swap their points for upgrades on Iberia and British Airways flights. Technology brings us closer to our customers The purser’s iPad is a fundamental tool in improving customer satisfaction. The new version, launched in 2015, boasts a number of improvements and 141 Product responsibility 12. Product responsibility 12.2 Operating safety Iberia’s Operating Safety Policy is its first and foremost commitment to its customers, the aviation authorities and its employees. This commitment to safety is included in Iberia’s Operation Manual and distributed among all employees and suppliers. One of the key points of this policy is the Safety Management System (SMS), a set of processes implemented within the organisation to obtain and analyse information and make coordinated Operational safety is everyone’s concern operating decisions, in order for any safety risks, as there always Operational safety has always been associated with those who are risks, that may arise in respect of operations to be mitigated are more involved in operations. However, it is a topic of interest and controlled. In this manner, the company focuses on continufor all Iberia employees. With the aim of increasing awareously improving the safety management of all Iberia’s operations. ness throughout the workforce about this topic and about how important it is to identify and report any situation that seems The key tasks in the SMS unusual in relation to safety, starting in September 2015 the team leading the SMS (Safety Management System) began Identification of hazards: Method for identifying any giving a course on operational safety. hazards that may arise in our operations. Measuring of indicators: Periodical monitoring of ratios Safety reporting: Procedure for all and any employees to that are important for safety (impacts in ground handling, report any significant observations regarding safety, such as errors in maintenance, ground proximity system alerts) to risks, errors or incidents. guarantee permanent improvement and maintenance of safety levels. Risk management: Method for assessing risks and taking actions to mitigate them, depending on the level of risk Compliance supervision: Checking that mitigating measentailed. ures are applied. 142 12.3 Quality of service Luis Gallego, chairman of Iberia, stated, “We are especially proud of this great achievement because punctuality has a (punctuality and NPS) direct, very positive impact on our customers’ travel experience; and because being among the world leaders demonstrates the Punctuality involvement and commitment of all the employees.” In 2015 we beat the punctuality Iberia Express was the world’s most punctual low-cost airline for the second year in a row, with 31,355 flights of which scores from 2014, demonstrating 93.50 per cent of them were on time. This position was held how well and hard all our for six consecutive months, from July onwards. employees had worked Fernando Candela, chairman of Iberia Express, said, “The satisIn 2015, Iberia and Iberia Express were named once again among faction from obtaining this recognition for the second year the top most on-time airlines in the ranking prepared by Flightrunning is two-fold, because it demonstrates that we have a stats. Iberia was ranked the second most punctual airline in the great team and that we offer our customers one of the world’s world and Iberia Express was leader in the low-cost segment. highest levels of quality.” In 2015 Iberia ranked second in the world and first among As for Iberia Operador, for the total number of its shortand European airlines, operating 187,538 flights and 88.97% of medium-haul flights, departure punctuality was 90.2% versus them on time, up from 88.46% in 2014. 83.0% for long-haul flights. 100 93.9 93.8 92.0 92.4 92.6 92.4 92.2 95 90.9 90 85.9 87.3 85.4 85.1 SHORT/MEDIUM HAUL 85 86.3 86.6 86.4 86.0 86.3 LONG HAUL 80 83.0 83.1 82.7 81.2 79.6 78.7 75 78.2 70 65 60 55 50 Jan Feb Mar Apr May June Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec 143 Product responsibility 12. Product responsibility Commitment to satisfaction The main indicator used by Iberia to measure customer perception is the NPS (Net Promoter Score). The NPS is a recommendation index drawn up on the basis of the answer to a single question in the survey on journey experience: How likely would you be to recommend Iberia to a relative, friend or acquaintance? (where 0: you would certainly not recommend it, and 10: you would recommend it for sure). If we call customers who answered with a score of 9 or 10 “promoters” and those who gave a score between 0 and 6 “critics”, the NPS is calculated as the difference between the proportion of promoters over that of critics. In 2015 the year ended with a closing NPS score of 13.7%, which shows a significant improvement of 3.3 points over the score in 2014. NPS 13.7% 2015 NPS 2014 10.4% 0 5 10 15 In addition, 2015 saw the introduction of a new model to measure customer perception, supported by a survey (Customer Voice) with a more attractive and approachable image, which has increased the volume of impacts to cover virtually all our customers and the frequency of sending to daily. The new model, which polls passengers the day after their trip has finished, allows us to have sample volumes of nearly 20,000 surveys a month, enabling us to obtain more highly detailed measurements. This evolution of the model was accompanied by certain changes Flight punctuality is one of the values most highly appreciated in the NPS calculation criteria. Since 2015 the weighting of our by passengers, leading Iberia to establish numerous initiatives customers’ answers in the global NPS calculation depends on to improve it, including changes in the flight programme, review the weighting of the revenue of the segment (cabin-haul) to of take-off processes, specific rules, watchdog committees, which they belong. If we standardise the NPS calculation criteria decision-making and cause analysis, and review of operating in 2014 and 2015, the reported growth of 3.3 points becomes a processes, etc. real growth of 4.4 points. 144 145 Product responsibility 12. Product responsibility 12.4 Quality of service (claims) Iberia is committed to establishing quality relationships with its CACS-7, etc.) and the Environmental Management System certicustomers and giving them excellent service. An important part fication under standard UNE-EN ISO 14001:2004 from AENOR of this commitment is suitable handling of customer incidents for aircraft maintenance activities at the premises in La Muñoza, and claims. in Madrid, where nearly 3,000 employees work. This certificate is one of the most extensive issued by AENOR, due both to the Managing claims size of the facilities and to the variety of environmental aspects contemplated and number of workers involved. Iberia Maintewell constitutes a key nance is committed to constantly increasing and improving its asset of the service quality and environmental policies. It therefore manages those claims proactively in order to meet the needs of customers as quickly as possible. The principal service quality In line with this focus, in 2015 response times were shortened indicator is the continual renewal by 20% and the year ended with 85% of claims being answered of the different certificates for in under 21 days. aircraft MRO The information from managing claims is used by the Customer Experience areas as a source of information for continuous The large number of qualifications of Iberia Maintenance can be improvement of the service. seen on its specific website www.iberiamaintenance.com 12.5 Quality of service (airports and MRO) Quality in the MRO business The maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) business is performed in a highly regulated environment which requires specific certificates linked to permanent audits. Iberia Maintenance is certified by the major international aviation authorities (such as EASA, the European Aviation Safety Authority, and FAA, the US Federal Aviation Administration), as well as numerous national aviation authorities and leading manufacturers. In addition, it holds many different quality certificates (AENOR ISO 90001:2008, UNE-EN ISO 9110:2012, ENAC ISO17025, 146 Quality in the airport business . A total of 79 audits were received in 2015, from 36 customer . companies to check compliance with both the applicable laws and the manuals and procedures of each operating company. The aspects audited include organisation, training, procedures, coordination, loading and unloading of aircraft, check-in and boarding, maintenance of handling equipment, supply of drinking water and cleaning of aircraft. Special mention must be made of the prestigious ISAGO (IATA Safety Audit for Ground Operations) certificate, awarded by IATA. All deviations detected were remedied satisfactorily within the deadlines established after implementing the corresponding corrective actions. Iberia Airport Services receives the ISAGO certificate To qualify for the certificate, Iberia underwent an exhaustive Iberia was awarded the highest-ranking certificate that can be audit of all its protocols, procedures, regulations and rules, and awarded to an airport service provider in relation to operational documentation that govern ground operations in order for ISAGO safety: the ISAGO certificate awarded by IATA. Thanks to this to verify that they fulfilled IATA’s regulatory requirements and certificate, the company is in pole position to obtain customers standards. The certificate reflects the effort and intensive work at the 29 airports where it operates. by the team made up of all the areas of the Airports Department. 147 Product responsibility 12. Product responsibility 12.6 Customer privacy Iberia ensures the compliance of its obligations in respect of These access formats comply with security standards, as does the privacy of its customers’ data. The highest quality standencrypted storage, which ensures the appropriate use thereof. ards are followed and information security and security There is also regular testing and back-up copies are made to policies are applied that comply with applicable legislation, i.e. prevent information from becoming lost in the event of an incithe Spanish Organic Law on Personal Data Protection (LOPD). dent. The Data Protection Regulations have also been approved Iberia is committed to its internally, with the aim of guaranteeing awareness of existing customers’ right of privacy obligations to protect data and applicable security measures. and its policies comply with No incidents attributable to Iberia occurred in 2015. the Spanish data protection law 12.7 Communication channels Demonstrating its commitment are the policies laid down governing access to the various systems to ensure that access Iberia is receptive to the involvement and participation of its is individual and non-transferable. Specifically, they have been stakeholders and has several procedures for gathering informadesigned so that access is only possible in accordance with the tion to allow it to find out the expectations, opinions and needs profile and duties of each user. of those stakeholders. Between these channels, over the last 148 Iberia is present on the most popular social networking sites and boasts a considerable number of followers, which positions it as one of the most popular airlines in terms of followers. It was precisely in order to optimise resources on social networks that in 2015 Iberia created a single Facebook page to bring together in one place all the languages of our customers: Spanish, English, French, German, Italian and Portuguese. This change has signified an improvement in communication as a whole with its supporters and has prevented duplication in the number of fans. Iberia’s presence on main social networks: Social networks No. of followers FACEBOOK 1,415,492 TWITTER 508,899 GOOGLE + 5,445 few years its social-network-based communication strategies INSTAGRAM 30,592 have been consolidated. PINTERST 1,073 Iberia’s choice in this sphere has led it to become recognised as one of the best-rated companies in the Spanish digital LINKEDIN 40,323 environment and one of the most active in social networks, as substantiated by the leading online reputation agencies, YOUTUBE 9,229 including TREI, Social Bakers and On Magazine. TOTAL 2,011,053 For Iberia, since its social network 12.8 Advertising ethics channels opened in 2010, social networks have become a highly Iberia contributes to strengthening useful and interesting forum for advertising self-regulation participation Iberia is committed to respecting its stakeholders’ rights and champions responsible advertising based on the ethical principles The strategy followed on social networks has centred on of the Association for Self-regulation of Commercial Communiachieving closer relationships with customers, giving and cation (Asociación para la Autorregulación de la Comunicación obtaining useful and interesting information, solving queries Comercial, Autocontrol). This association is dedicated to moniand offering specific marketing campaigns that help them to toring the advertising industry, ensuring that there are guarantees identify with the brand. of confidence and credibility in the commercial community. 149 Product responsibility Annex Global Reporting Initiative Indicators The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is an independent institution that created the first global standard for criteria for preparing sustainability reports for companies that wish to assess their economic, environmental and social performance. It is an official collaborating centre of UNEP, the United Nations Environment Programme. Created in 1995, until 2002 the GRI was a joint project between the UNEP and CERES (Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies). It was conceived with the aim of improving the quality of the sustainability reports prepared, to put them on an equal footing with financial reporting as regards comparibility, rigour, credibility, regularity and verifiability. At the current time, it is an independent institution with its own Board of Directors and is based in Amsterdam. The GRI boasts active participation from representatives from human rights, labour rights, research and environmental organisations, and from corporations, investors and accounting organisations. 151 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Statement from the chairman. Section 1 of the CR Report No Provide a description of key impacts, risks, Section 1 and 6.2 of the CR Report G4-2 No and opportunities. Page 47 the IAG Annual Report 2015 PERFIL DE LA ORGANIZACIÓN IBERIA, L.A.E., S.A. OPERADORA, G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. No SOCIEDAD UNIPERSONAL IBERIA LINEAS AEREAS G4-4 Report the primary brands, products and services. IBERIA AIRPORT SERVICES No IBERIA MANTENIMIENTO C/ Martínez Villergas, 49 G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters. No 28027, MADRID (SPAIN) Report the number of countries where the 43 countries: G4-6 organisation operates and names of countries where Spain and Latin America (Argentina, Brazil, No the organisation has significant operations. Lima, Chile,…) and the US. SOCIEDAD ANÓNIMA UNIPERSONAL. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. It belongs to the shareholders of No International Airlines Group (IAG) Air Transport Business: Spain, Europe, America, Africa and Middle East. Report the markets served (including geographic Maintenance and Airport G4-8 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers No Services Businesses: Spain, Europe, America and beneficiaries). and Africa. From Spain, it assists airlines around the world. Report the scale of the organisation, including: Total number of employees. Section 9.1 CR Report No Total number of operations. Punto 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 y 7.1 del IRC No G4-9 Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net Section 2.2, 2.3, 2.4 and 7.1 CR Report No revenues (for public sector organisations). Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and Section 7.1 CR Report No equity (for private sector organisations). Quantity of products or services provided. Section 2 CR Report No 152 GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Workforce information Total number of employees by employment contract Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No and gender. Report the total workforce by employees, supervised Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No workers and by gender. Report the total workforce by region and gender. Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No G4-10 Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals Section 9.1 CR Report No other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Report any significant variations in employment Section 9.1 CR Report No numbers. Report the percentage of total employees covered by G4-11 Section 9.2 CR Report No collective bargaining agreements. G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain. Section 2 CR Report No Report any significant changes during the reporting G4-13 Section 1.2 CR Report No period regarding the organisation. Report whether and how the precautionary approach G4-14 Section 6.2 CR Report No or principle is addressed by the organisation. List externally developed principles or initiatives G4-15 to which the organisation subscribes or which it Section 10.1, 11.1 and 11.2 CR Report No endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations and organisations. Section 2.10 CR Report No IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES List all entities included in the organisation’s financial G4-17 Section 5 CR Report No statements. Explain the process for defining the report content G4-18 Section 4 and 5 CR Report No and the aspect boundaries. List all the material aspects identified in the process G4-19 Section 4 CR Report No for defining report content. For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary G4-20 Section 4 CR Report No within the organisation. 153 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary G4-21 Section 4 and 5 CR Report No outside the organisation. Report the effect of any restatements of information The materiality analysis carried out in 2014 G4-22 provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such No was considered to compile this Report restatements. Report significant changes from previous reporting The materiality analysis carried out in 2014 G4-23 No periods in the scope and aspect boundaries. was considered to compile this Report STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups. Section 3 CR Report No Report the basis for identification and selection of G4-25 Section 3 CR Report No Stakeholders with whom to engage. Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by G4-26 type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of Section 3 CR Report No whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and G4-27 Section 3 CR Report No concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 2015 No G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2014 No G4-30 Reporting cycle. Annual No G4-31 Provide the contact point at the organisation. responsabilidadcorporativa@iberia.es No G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option chosen. Comprehensive No 154 GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss REPORT PROFILE Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-33 Section 5 CR Report No Report the relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation. Section 6.1 CR Report No Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the G4-35 Section 6.1 CR Report No highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. Report whether the organisation has appointed an executive-level position or positions with G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental and social Section 6.1 CR Report No topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body G4-37 on economic, environmental and social topics. If Section 6.1 CR Report No consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Report the composition of the highest governance Section 6.1 CR Report G4-38 No body and its committees. 2015 Director Remunerations Report Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer and, if so, his or her G4-39 Section 6.1 CR Report No function within the organisation’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 155 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss GOVERNANCE Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and G4-40 Section 6.1 CR Report No the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. G4-41 Section 6.1 CR Report No Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders. Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organisation’s purpose, value or G4-42 Section 6.1 CR Report No mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance G4-43 the highest governance body’s collective knowledge Section 6.1 CR Report No of economic, environmental and social topics. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and G4-44 Section 6.2 CR Report No social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, G4-45 environmental and social impacts, risks and Section 6.2 CR Report No opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organisation’s risk G4-46 Section 6 CR Report No management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s G4-47 review of economic, environmental and social impacts, Section 6 CR Report No risks and opportunities. 156 GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss GOVERNANCE Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organisation’s G4-48 Section 6 CR Report No sustainability report and ensures that all material aspects are covered. Report the process for communicating critical G4-49 Section 6 CR Report No concerns to the highest governance body. Report the nature and total number of critical Section 6 CR Report G4-50 concerns that were communicated to the highest No Page 47 the IAG Annual Report 2015 governance body. Report the remuneration policies for the highest 2015 Director G4-51 No governance body and senior executives. Remunerations Report Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether 2015 Director G4-52 No they are independent of management. Report Remunerations Report any other relationships which the remuneration consultants have with the organisation. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including 2015 Director G4-53 No the results of votes on remuneration policies and Remunerations Report proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organisation’s highest paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median 2015 Director G4-54 No annual total compensation for all employees Remunerations Report (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organisation’s highestpaid individual in each country of significant 2015 Director G4-55 operations to the median percentage increase No Remunerations Report in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. 157 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code General standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss GOVERNANCE Describe the organisation’s values, principles, G4-56 standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of Section 6.4 CR Report No conduct and codes of ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and G4-57 Section 6.5 CR Report No matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and G4-58 Section 6.5 CR Report No matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Identification, management and evaluation of G4-DMA Section 4 CR Report No material aspects. ECONOMIC Economic performance Report the direct economic value generated and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals basis. To better Section 7.1 CR Report assess local economic impacts, report EVG&D The investment data, following the criteria G4-EC1 No separately at country, regional, or market levels, of GRI4 guidelines, represents investments where significant. Report the criteria used for defining not related to the business activity. significance. Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate G4-EC2 Section 8.3 CR Report No substantive changes in operations, revenue or expenditure. 158 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ECONOMIC Economic performance Where the plan’s liabilities are met by the organisation’s general resources, report the estimated value of those liabilities. Where a separate fund exists to pay the plan’s pension liabilities, report: • The extent to which the scheme’s liabilities are estimated to be covered by the assets that have been set aside to meet them • The basis on which that estimate has been arrived at • When that estimate was made. G4-EC3 Where a fund set up to pay the plan’s pension Section 7.1 CR Report No liabilities is not fully covered, explain the strategy, if any, adopted by the employer to work towards full coverage, and the timescale, if any, by which the employer hopes to achieve full coverage. Report the percentage of salary contributed by employee or employer. Report the level of participation in retirement plans (such as participation in mandatory or voluntary schemes, regional or country-based schemes, or those with financial impact). Report the total monetary value of financial assistance received by the organisation from governments during the reporting period, including, as a minimum: • Tax relief and tax credits • Subsidies • Investment grants, research and development grants, and other relevant types of grants • Awards G4-EC4 • Royalty holidays Punto 7.1 y 7.2 del IRC No • Financial assistance from Export Credit Agencies (ECAs) • Financial incentives • Other financial benefits received or receivable from any government for any operation. Report the information above by country. Report whether, and the extent to which, the government is present in the shareholding structure. 159 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ECONOMIC Market presence When a significant proportion of the workforce is compensated based on wages subject to minimum wage rules, report the ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation to the minimum wage. Report whether a local minimum wage is absent G4-EC5 Section 9.1 CR Report No or variable at significant locations of operation, by gender. In circumstances in which different minimums could be used as a reference, report which minimum wage is being used. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the percentage of senior management at G4-EC6 significant locations of operation that are hired from Section 9.1 CR Report No the local community. Indirect economic impacts Report the extent of development of significant infrastructure investments and services supported. Report the current or expected impacts on G4-EC7 communities and local economies. Report positive Section 7.1 CR Report No and negative impacts where relevant. Report whether these investments and services are commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagements. Report examples of the significant identified positive and negative indirect economic impacts the organisation has. Report the significance of G4-EC8 the impacts in the context of external benchmarks Section 7.1 CR Report No and stakeholder priorities, such as national and international standards, protocols, and policy agendas. 160 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ECONOMIC Procurement practices Report the percentage of the procurement budget G4-EC9 used for significant locations of operation spent on Not applicable due to the activity of Iberia No suppliers local to that operation. ENVIRONMENTAL Materials Report the total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organisation’s G4-EN1 No primary products and services during the reporting period. Not applicable. Section 8.6 CR Report Report the percentage of recycled input materials G4-EN2 used to manufacture the organisation’s primary No products and services. Energy Report total fuel consumption from non-renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types Section 8.1 CR Report No used. Report total fuel consumption from renewable fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types Section 8.1 CR Report No used. Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: G4-EN3 • electricity consumption; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Heating consumption;; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Cooling consumption Section 8.1 CR Report No • Steam consumption. Section 8.1 CR Report No Report in joules, watt-hours or multiples, the total: • Electricity sold. Section 8.1 CR Report No 161 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Energy • Heating sold; Section 8.1 CR Report No G4-EN3 • Cooling sold; Section 8.1 CR Report No • Steam sold. Section 8.1 CR Report No Report energy consumed outside of the organisation, G4-EN4 Section 8.1 CR Report No in joules or multiples. Report the energy intensity ratio. Section 8.1 CR Report No Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio Section 8.1 CR Report No denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. G4-EN5 Report the types of energy included in the intensity Section 8.1 CR Report No ratio: fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all. Report whether the ratio uses energy consumed Section 8.1 CR Report No within the organisation, outside of it or both. Report the amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of Section 8.1 CR Report No conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or G4-EN6 multiples. Report the types of energy included in the reductions: Section 8.1 CR Report No fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, and steam vapour. Report the reductions in the energy requirements G4-EN7 of sold products and services achieved during the Section 8.3 CR Report No reporting period, in joules or multiples. Water G4-EN8 Report the total volume of water withdrawn. Section 8.1 CR Report No Report the total number of water sources G4-EN9 Not applicable. Section 8.1 CR Report No significantly affected by withdrawal by type. 162 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Water Report the total volume of water recycled and reused Not applicable. Section 8.1 CR Report No by the organisation. G4-EN10 Report the total volume of water recycled and reused as a percentage of the total water withdrawal Not applicable. Section 8.1 CR Report No reported under Indicator G4-EN8. Biodiversity Report the following information for each operational site owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas: • Geographic location; Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No • Subsurface and underground land that may be Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No owned, leased, or managed by the organisation; • Position in relation to the protected area (in the area, adjacent to, or containing portions of the Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No protected area) or the high biodiversity value area outside protected areas; G4-EN11 • Type of operation (office, manufacturing or Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No production, or extractive); • Size of operational site in km2; Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No • Biodiversity value characterised by: the attribute Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No of the protected area or high biodiversity value area outside the protected area (terrestrial, freshwater, or maritime ecosystem); listing of protected status (such as IUCN Protected Area Management Categories, Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No Ramsar Convention, national legislation). Report the nature of significant direct and indirect Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No impacts on biodiversity. G4-EN12 Report significant direct and indirect positive and negative impacts with reference to the following: • Species affected. Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No • Extent of areas impacted; Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No 163 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Biodiversity • Duration of impacts; Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No G4-EN12 • Reversibility or irreversibility of the impacts. Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No Report the size and location of all habitat protected areas or restored areas, and whether the success Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No of the restoration measure was or is approved by independent external professionals. Report whether partnerships exist with third parties to protect or restore habitat areas distinct Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No G4-EN13 from where the organisation has overseen and implemented restoration or protection measures. Report on the status of each area based on its Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No condition at the close of the reporting period. Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No used. Report the total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in G4-EN14 Not applicable. Section 8.2 CR Report No areas affected by the operations of the organisation, by level of extinction risk. Emissions Report gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent, independent of any GHG Section 8.3 CR Report No trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. G4-EN15 Report gases included in the calculation (whether Section 8.3 CR Report No CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3, or all). Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 1) Section 8.3 CR Report No GHG emissions. 164 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions Report gross energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent, independent of G4-EN16 Section 8.3 CR Report No any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. Report gross other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent, excluding indirect emissions from the generation of purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling, and steam Section 8.3 CR Report No consumed by the organisation (these indirect emissions are reported in Indicator G4-EN16). Exclude any GHG trades, such as purchases, sales, or transfers of offsets or allowances. G4-EN17 Report gases included in the calculation, if available. Section 8.3 CR Report No Report biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent separately from the gross direct (Scope 3) Section 8.3 CR Report No GHG emissions. Report other indirect (Scope 3) emissions categories Section 8.3 CR Report No and activities included in the calculation. Report the GHG emissions intensity ratio. Section 8.3 CR Report No Report the organisation-specific metric (the ratio Section 8.3 CR Report No denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio. G4-EN18 Report the types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio: direct (Scope 1), energy indirect Section 8.3 CR Report No (Scope 2), other indirect (Scope 3). Report gases included in the calculation. Section 8.3 CR Report No Report the amount of GHG emissions reductions G4-EN19 achieved as a direct result of initiatives to reduce Section 8.3 CR Report No emissions, in metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent. 165 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions Report gases included in the calculation (whether Section 8.3 CR Report No CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, NF3 o todos ellos). Report the chosen base year or baseline and the Section 8.3 CR Report No rationale for choosing it. G4-EN19 Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions Section 8.3 CR Report No used. Report whether the reductions in GHG emissions occurred in direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope Section 8.3 CR Report No 2), other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. Report production, imports, and exports of ODS in Section 8.3 CR Report No metric tonnes of CFC-11 equivalent. Report substances included in the calculation. Section 8.3 CR Report No G4-EN20 Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions Section 8.3 CR Report No used. Report the source of the emission factors used. Section 8.3 CR Report No Report the amount of significant air emissions, in kilograms or multiples for each of the following: • NOX Section 8.4 CR Report No • SOX Not applicable. Section 8.4 CR Report No • Persistent organic pollutants (POP) Not applicable. Section 8.4 CR Report No G4-EN21 • Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Section 8.4 CR Report No • Hazardous air pollutants (HAP) Not applicable. Section 8.4 CR Report No • Particulate matter (PM) Not applicable. Section 8.4 CR Report No • Other standard categories of air emissions identified Not applicable. Section 8.4 CR Report No in relevant regulations. 166 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Emissions G4-EN21 Report standards, methodologies, and assumptions Section 8.4 CR Report No used. Report the source of the emission factors used. Effluents and waste Report the total volume of planned and unplanned water discharges by: • Destination; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Quality of the water including treatment method; Section 8.5 CR Report No G4-EN22 • Whether it was reused by another organisation. Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No Report standards, methodologies, and Section 8.5 CR Report No assumptionsused. Report the total weight of hazardous and non-hazardous waste, by the following disposal methods: • Reuse; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Recycling; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Composting; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Recovering, including energy recover; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Incineration (mass burn); Section 8.5 CR Report No G4-EN23 • Deep well injection; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Landfill; Section 8.5 CR Report No • On-site storage; Section 8.5 CR Report No • Other (to be specified by the organisation). Section 8.5 CR Report No Report how the waste disposal method has been determined: Disposed of directly by the organisation or otherwise Section 8.5 CR Report No directly confirmed; 167 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Effluents and waste • Information provided by the waste disposal Section 8.5 CR Report No contractor; G4-EN23 • Organisational defaults of the waste disposal Section 8.5 CR Report No contractor. Report the total number and total volume of recorded Section 8.5 CR Report No significant spills. For spills that were reported in the organisation’s financial statements, report the additional following information for each such spill: • Location of spill; Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Volume of spill Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No Material of spill, categorised by: G4-EN24 • Oil spills (soil or water surfaces); Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Spills of wastes (soil or water surfaces); Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Fuel spills (soil or water surfaces); Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Spills of chemicals (mostly soil or water surfaces); Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Other (to be specified by the organisation). Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No Report the impacts of significant spills. Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No Report the total weight for each of the following: • Hazardous waste transported; Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Hazardous waste imported; Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No G4-EN25 • Hazardous waste exported; Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Hazardous waste treated. Section 8.5 CR Report No Report the percentage of hazardous waste shipped Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No internationally. 168 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Effluents and waste Report water bodies and related habitats that are significantly affected by water discharges based Section 8.5 CR Report No on the criteria described in the Compilation section below. Adding information on: G4-EN26 • Size of water body and related habitat; Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No • Whether the water body and related habitat is designated as a protected area (nationally or Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No internationally); • Biodiversity value (such as total number of Not applicable. Section 8.5 CR Report No protected species). Products and services Report quantitatively the extent to which environmental impacts of products and services have been mitigated during the reporting period. G4-EN27 Section 8.1, 8.3 and 8.4 CR Report No If use-oriented figures are employed, report the underlying assumptions regarding consumption patterns or normalisation factors. Report the percentage of reclaimed products and their packaging materials for each product category. G4-EN28 Not applicable. Section 8.6 CR Report No Report how the data for this Indicator has been collected. Compliance Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • Total monetary value of significant fines Section 8.6 CR Report No • Total number of non-monetary sanctions Section 8.6 CR Report No G4-EN29 • Cases brought through dispute resolution Section 8.6 CR Report No mechanisms. Where organisations have not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief Section 8.6 CR Report No statement of this fact is sufficient. 169 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Transport Report the significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting Section 8.1 CR Report No members of the workforce. Where quantitative data is not provided, report the reason. Report how the environmental impacts of G4-EN30 transporting products, members of the organisation’s Section 8.1 CR Report No workforce, and other goods and materials are mitigated. Report the criteria and methodology used to determine which environmental impacts are Section 8.1 CR Report No significant. Overall Report total environmental protection expenditures by: • Waste disposal, emissions treatment, and G4-EN31 Section 8.6 CR Report No remediation costs; • Prevention and environmental management costs Section 8.6 CR Report No Supplier environmental assessment Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-EN32 Section 10.3 CR Report No screened using environmental criteria. Report the number of suppliers subject to Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts. G4-EN33 Report the significant actual and potential negative Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts identified in the supply chain. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. 170 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss ENVIRONMENTAL Supplier environmental assessment Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative G4-EN33 Section 10.3 CR Report No environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Environmental grievance mechanisms Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed through formal Section 8.6 CR Report No grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: • Addressed during the reporting period; Section 8.6 CR Report No G4-EN34 • Resolved during the reporting period. Section 8.6 CR Report No Report the total number of grievances about environmental impacts filed prior to the reporting Section 8.6 CR Report No period that were resolved during the reporting period. LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment Report the total number and rate of new employee hires during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. G4-LA1 Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No Report the total number and rate of employee turnover during the reporting period, by age group, gender and region. 171 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment Report the benefits which are standard for full-time employees of the organisation but are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. These include, as a minimum: • Life insurance • Health care G4-LA2 • Disability and invalidity coverage Section 9.1 and 9.5 CR Report No • Parental leave • Retirement provision • Stock ownership • Others Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Report the total number of employees that were Section 9.5 CR Report No entitled to parental leave, by gender Report the total number of employees that took Section 9.5 CR Report No parental leave, by gender Report the total number of employees who returned Section 9.5 CR Report No to work after parental leave ended, by gender. G4-LA3 Report the total number of employees who returned to work after parental leave ended who were still Section 9.5 CR Report No employed twelve months after their return to work, by gender. Report the return to work and retention rates of Section 9.5 CR Report No employees who took parental leave, by gender. 172 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Labour/management relations Report the minimum number of weeks’ notice typically provided to employees and their elected representatives prior to the implementation of significant operational changes that could G4-LA4 Section 9.2 CR Report No substantially affect them. For organisations with collective bargaining agreements, report whether the notice period and provisions for consultation and negotiation are specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety Report the level at which each formal joint management-worker health and safety committee typically operates within the organisation. G4-LA5 Section 9.3 CR Report No Report the percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities, for the total Section 9.3 CR Report No workforce (that is, total employees plus supervised workers), by region and gender. Report types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational G4-LA6 diseases rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR) and work-related fatalities for independent Section 9.3 CR Report No contractors working on-site to whom the organisation is liable for the general safety of the working environment, by region and gender. Report the system of rules applied in recording and Section 9.3 CR Report No reporting accident statistics. 173 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Occupational health and safety Report whether there are workers who are involved in G4-LA7 occupational activities who have a high incidence or Section 9.3 CR Report No high risk of specific diseases. Report whether formal agreements (either local or global) with trade unions cover health and safety. G4-LA8 If yes, report the extent, as a percentage, to which Section 9.3 CR Report No various health and safety topics are covered by theseagreements. Training and education Report the average hours of training that the G4-LA9 organisation’s employees have undertaken during the Section 9.4 CR Report No reporting period, by gender and employee category. Report on the type and scope of programmes implemented and assistance provided to upgrade employee skills. Report on the transition assistance G4-LA10 programs provided to facilitate continued Section 9.4 CR Report No employability and the management of career endings resulting from retirement or termination of employment. Report the percentage of total employees by gender and by employee category who received a regular G4-LA11 Section 9.4 CR Report No performance and career development review during the reporting period. 174 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Diversity and equal opportunity Report the percentage of individuals within the organisation’s governance bodies in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups G4-LA12 • Other indicators of diversity where relevant Section 9.5 CR Report No Report the percentage of employees per employee category in each of the following diversity categories: • Gender • Age group: under 30 years old, 30-50 years old, over 50 years old • Minority groups • Other indicators of diversity where relevant Equal remuneration for women and men Report the ratio of the basic salary and remuneration of women to men for each employee category, G4-LA13 Section 9.5 CR Report No by significant locations of operation. Report the definition used for ‘significant locations of operation’. Supplier assessment for labour practices Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-LA14 Section 9.6 CR Report No screened using labour practices criteria. 175 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Supplier assessment for labour practices Report the number of suppliers subject to impact assessments for labour practices. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices identified in the supply chain. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having G4-LA15 Section 9.6 CR Report No significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. Labour practices grievance mechanisms Report the total number of grievances about labour practices filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: G4-LA16 • Addressed during the reporting period Section 9.5 CR Report No • Resolved during the reporting period Report the total number of grievances about labour practices filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. HUMAN RIGHTS Investment Report the total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include G4-HR1 human rights clauses or that underwent human Punto 10.3 del IRC No rights screening. Report the definition of ‘significant investment agreements’ used by the organisation. 176 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss HUMAN RIGHTS Investment Report the total number of hours in the reporting period devoted to training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. G4-HR2 Section 10.2 CR Report No Report the percentage of employees in the reporting period trained in human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Non-discrimination Report the total number of incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to the following: • Incident reviewed by the organisation G4-HR3 Section 9.5 and 10 CR Report No • Remediation plans being implemented • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Report operations and suppliers in which employee rights to exercise freedom of association or collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk either in terms of: • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier. G4-HR4 Section 9.2 and 10.3 CR Report No • Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. Report measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to support rights to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining. 177 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss HUMAN RIGHTS Child labour Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of: • Child labour • Young workers exposed to hazardous work Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of child labour either in terms of: G4-HR5 Section 10.3 CR Report No • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier • Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk. Report measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Forced or compulsory labour Report operations and suppliers considered to have significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour either in terms of: • Type of operation (such as manufacturing plant) and supplier G4-HR6 Section 10.3 CR Report No • Countries or geographical areas with operations and suppliers considered at risk Report measures taken by the organisation in the reporting period intended to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Security practices Report the percentage of security personnel who have received formal training in the organisation’s human rights policies or specific procedures and their G4-HR7 Section 10.2 CR Report No application to security. Report whether training requirements also apply to third party organisations providing security personnel. 178 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss HUMAN RIGHTS Indigenous rights Report the total number of identified incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous peoples during the reporting period. Report the status of the incidents and the actions taken with reference to: G4-HR8 • Incident reviewed by the organisation Section 10 CR Report No • Remediation plans being implemented • Remediation plans have been implemented and results reviewed through routine internal management review processes • Incident no longer subject to action Assessment Report the total number and percentage of operations G4-HR9 that have been subject to human rights reviews or Section 6.4, 6.5 and 10.3 CR Report No human rights impact assessments, by country. Supplier human rights assessment Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-HR10 Section 10 CR Report No screened using human rights criteria. Report the number of suppliers subject to human rights impact assessments. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts. Report the significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts identified in the supply chain. G4-HR11 Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having Section 10.3 CR Report No significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. 179 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights grievance mechanisms Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: G4-HR12 • Addressed during the reporting period Section 10 CR Report No • Resolved during the reporting period. Report the total number of grievances about human rights impacts filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. SOCIETY Local communities Report the percentage of operations with implemented G4-SO1 local community engagement, impact assessments, and Section 11 CR Report No development programmes. Report operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities, including: G4-SO2 • The location of the operations. Section 11 CR Report No • The significant actual and potential negative impacts of operations. Anti-corruption Report the total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. Report the G4-SO3 Section 11.3 CR Report No significant risks related to corruption identified through the risk assessment. 180 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss SOCIETY Anti-corruption Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and percentage of business G4-SO4 Section 11.3 CR Report No partners that the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by type of business partner and region. Report the total number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on anticorruption, broken down by region. Report the total number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, broken down by employee category and region. Report the total number and nature of confirmed incidents of corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption. Report the total number of confirmed incidents when contracts with business G4-SO5 Section 11.3 CR Report No partners were terminated or not renewed due to violations related to corruption. Report public legal cases regarding corruption brought against the organisation or its employees during the reporting period and the outcomes of such cases. Public policy Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by G4-SO6 the organisation by country and recipient/beneficiary. Section 11.4 CR Report No Report how the monetary value of in-kind contributions was estimated, if applicable. 181 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss SOCIETY Anti-competitive behaviour Report the total number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anticompetitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust and G4-SO7 monopoly legislation in which the organisation has been Section 11.5 CR Report No identified as a participant. Report the main outcomes of completed legal actions, including any decisions or judgements. Compliance Report significant fines and non-monetary sanctions in terms of: • Total monetary value of significant fines • Total number of non-monetary sanctions • Cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms. G4-SO8 Section 11.5 CR Report No If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Report the context against which significant fines and non-monetary sanctions were incurred. Supplier assessment for impacts on society Report the percentage of new suppliers that were G4-SO9 Section 10.3 CR Report No screened using criteria for impacts on society. Report the number of suppliers subject to assessments for impacts on society. Report the number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society. Report the significant actual and potential negative impacts on society identified in the supply chain. Report the percentage of suppliers identified G4-SO10 Section 10.3 CR Report No as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment. Report the percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts on society with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment, and why. 182 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss SOCIETY Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed through formal grievance mechanisms during the reporting period. Of the identified grievances, report how many were: G4-SO11 • Addressed during the reporting period Section 11 CR Report No • Resolved during the reporting period. Report the total number of grievances about impacts on society filed prior to the reporting period that were resolved during the reporting period. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety Report the percentage of significant product and service G4-PR1 categories for which health and safety impacts are Section 12 CR Report No assessed for improvement. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a fine or penalty G4-PR2 Section 12 CR Report No • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 183 Appendix Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Product and service labelling Report whether the following product information is required by the organisation’s procedures for product information and labelling: • The sourcing of components of the product or service • Content, particularly with regard to substances that might Section 8.1 and 12.2 CR Report produce an environmental or social impact G4-PR3 No • Safe use of the product or service The on board catering service is • Disposal of the product and environmental/social impacts managed by specific suppliers. • Others (explain) Report the percentage of significant product or service categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by: • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in G4-PR4 Section 11.7 CR Report No a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes Report the results or key conclusions of customer satisfaction surveys (based on statistically relevant sample sizes) conducted in the reporting period relating to G4-PR5 information about: Section 12.3, 12.4 and 12.5 CR Report No • The organisation as a whole • A major product or service category • Significant locations of operation 184 GRI G4 Code Specific standard disclosures Location in the report or explanation Omissionss PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Marketing communications Report whether the organisation sells products that are: • Banned in certain markets Iberia does not operated in locations G4-PR6 • The subject of stakeholder questions or public debate subject to public debate therefore no No Report how the organisation has responded to questions questions have arisen. or concerns regarding these products. Report the total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by: G4-PR7 • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in Section 12.8 CR Report No a fine or penalty • Incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning • Incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes Customer privacy Report the total number of substantiated complaints received concerning breaches of customer privacy, categorised by: • Complaints received from outside parties and substantiated by the organisation G4-PR8 Section 12.6 CR Report No • Complaints from regulatory bodies Report the total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data. If the organisation has not identified any substantiated complaints, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. Compliance Report the total monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. G4-PR9 Section 12.4 CR Report No If the organisation has not identified any non-compliance with laws or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 185 Appendix IBERIA, L.A.E., S.A. OPERADORA, SOCIEDAD UNIPERSONAL Calle Martínez Villergas, 49 28027, Madrid Telephone 901 111 500
