UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGIES Contents The 10 PRINCIPLES of the Global Compact …………………………………………………………………… pg.2 Message from the General Manager …………………………………………………………………………….. pg.3 Human Rights Principles ………………………………………………………………………………………….. pg.4 Labour Standards …………………………………………………………………………………………………... pg.5 Environment …………………………………………………………………………………………………………. pg.6 Anti – Corruption ……………………………………………………………………………………………………. pg.7 How will we make the 10 Principles public ……………………………………………………………………… pg.7 Advanced Technologies SRL 1|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Companies should support and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they don’t take part to human rights abuses Labour Principles Principle 3: Companies should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environmental Principles Principle 7: Companies should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Companies should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Advanced Technologies SRL 2|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33 Statement by the Chief Executive Officer Advanced Technologies’ line of business consists in the distribution and marketing of digital products, including consumer electronics products. We offer products such as tablets, smartphones, gadgets and accessories. Our goal is to offer high value products with innovative design, to provide the latest technology and the best quality at affordable prices. Our Company has a constant range of products, from mobile phones to tablets to convertible laptops to gadgets and related accessories. Based on the idea which started it all, to offer better value for your money, Advanced Technologies’ mission is to develop consumer electronics at affordable prices. In 2016 Advanced Technologies was pleased to reaffirm its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption, an important step in our organization’s efforts to meet the challenge of a safer and corruption-free working environment for our employees, partners and customers. We are proud to contribute to the development and availability of modern technologies. With this communication, we express our guarantee of implementing and sustaining the 10 principles. We are committed to keep the Global Compact and its values as a main part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. Our support for the United Nations Global Compact is a formal expression of Advanced Technologies’ commitment to conduct our business with the upmost respect for the universal principles around Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-corruption. Advanced Technologies makes a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public in its public CSR policy and CSR annual report. This communication shows the progress and commitment of Advanced Technologies regarding Corporate Social Responsibility, emphasizing our active policy of sustainable development and respect for Human Rights and for the quality of the working environment within our company and partner companies, our determination to conduct our business operations in such a manner as to ensure minimal environmental footprint, and our rejection to any form of corruption. Our effort is to provide equal opportunities at all levels and prevent discrimination in all its forms. We aim also to minimize our environmental impact at local level. Advanced Technologies remains fully committed to the United Nations Global Compact. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dragos Vasile – CEO Advanced Technologies Inspired by Technology since 1996 Advanced Technologies SRL 3|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Companies should support and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they don’t take part in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals The respect of human rights is stated in our company policy. Our company respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through our internal regulation document, named Code of Conduct, available to all our employees. When we select our suppliers and customers, we take into account the adherence of our partners to Global Compact principles and we do not do business collaborations with organizations that do not respect human rights. Our company respects the human rights of employees by offering all requested benefits imposed by national laws and other regulations. For the upcoming year we intend to have the same attitude in respecting human rights without exception, wherever we expand our business. Implementation  Both the Internal Rules and Code of Conduct are published and sent to every employee so that they can access the documents at any time. On their first day of work, the employees enter the Induction Programme that acknowledgers’ internal rules and Code of Conduct, documents that will be signed once the Programme is accomplished. Each employee is trained regarding all company’s policies related to Human Rights.  Any violation of Human Rights can be at any time sent by e-mail, to the HR Department.  In 2016, all employees attended courses related to Labour Protection and methods by which they can be applied. Measurement of outcomes  Our efforts were rewarded and, until now, our company did not face any incidents of Human Rights violations.  Our Code of Conduct is annually updated by the company’s management.  Actions are in place against child and forced labor Company specific system to verify ages of job applicants and employees (Recruitment Policy and Code of Conduct)  Human Rights incidents will be solved by Legal and HR department.  The Campaign for Worker’s Rights Awareness is a programme that begun in 2013 and has resulted in a complete lack of legal complaints from employees. We continued this campaign in 2016. The campaign had two steps:  Step 1: Each new employee went through a development period in which they were informed of every right and responsibility they have as an employee of Advanced Technologies. All internal procedures are made available, explained and discussed in order to prevent any breach of rights.  Step 2: Employees are made aware of any changes in procedures or legislation as soon as they’re enacted. Advanced Technologies SRL 4|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33 LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3: Companies should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals All Advanced Technologies employees have the right to join labor unions, workers' councils, or other collective bargaining organizations. All Advanced Technologies employees are issued with regular contracts, which clearly state their terms and conditions. Advanced Technologies employees are free to join any nongovernmental association. Our Business Code of Conduct is agreed by all our business partners and suppliers. Implementation  We continued this year the “Suggestions box” – implemented last year, so all the employees can make anonymous complaints regarding any events related to Labour, if necessary.  All Advanced Technologies employees went to courses, related to Labour topics (revised policy); in our Training Calendar we had 4 Courses related to this topic.  In 2016, Advanced Technologies continued to make donations to special social cases, SMURD Foundation, non-profit associations (Adept Transilvania Foundation, “Pro Scoala si Familia” Association). Measurement of outcomes  Advanced Technologies has not been involved in any investigation, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles.  Advanced Technologies has not been subjected to any health and safety statutory notice or prosecutions in the last year.  All our key suppliers meet the standards for Corporate Social Responsibility as it is confirmed throughout their annual reports.  Number of lost time injury events – 0  Number of days lost due to injuries – 0  Advanced Technologies does not have employees under 18 years old. We do not tolerate child labour in either our company or supply chain. Advanced Technologies SRL 5|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33 ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principle 7: Companies should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Advanced Technologies undertakes environmental responsibility, promoting best practices in this area. We are responsible to the environment through the purchasing of equipment with low-energy consumption: computers, servers, monitors, lighting. Printing is kept to an absolute minimum and printing is kept to an absolute minimum. We have a formalized environmental policy regarding the following: Energy Consumption and Greenhouse gases (reduction of energy and fuel consumption, CO2 emissions), Water – reduction of water consumption, Local Pollution (management of local emissions of dust, noise, odor, road congestion), Materials, Chemicals & Waste (management / reduction of nonhazardous and hazardous materials / chemicals and waste recycling), Customer Health and Safety. Implementation  All Advanced Technologies employees attended courses related to Environment protection.  In 2015 our Company started a Reducing & Recycling Programme (to reduce energy usage, to use renewable energy and recycled paper, to implement efficient consumption of natural resources, and to protect the environment)  To prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health in working environment, and provide adequate control of health and safety risks arising from work activities.  To implement emergency procedures such as evacuation in case of fire or other significant incident at working environment.  To provide necessary training to ensure that employees are competent to work at their working environment. The following actions are in place regarding the reduction of energy consumption and the emissions of GHG  Reduction of energy consumption through employees awareness programs  Reduction of energy consumption through innovative technologies  Monitoring direct CO2 emissions  Measures to optimize transport or reduce CO2 emissions from transport  Official program of Offsetting of CO2 emissions (e.g. Carbon neutral program)  Reduction of energy consumption through training of clients or tools provided to clients Measurement of outcomes  We keep records of energy, water and paper consumption.  We continued with the campaign “Earth Hour” in March 19th, 2016, and we have turned the light off for one hour on our premises. This way, we have supported the international campaign, and we will continue to do the same in 2017.  Advanced Technologies is collecting and recycling garbage and batteries, as an official partner to Ecotic Company.  Advanced Technologies has never had a reportable environmental incident. Advanced Technologies SRL 6|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Principle 10: Companies should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Advanced Technologies takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and we are committed to act professionally and with integrity in all our dealings. Advanced Technologies supports the UN Convention against Corruption and does not operate in countries or organizations that are corrupted. Our company implemented a formal policy covering any of the following topics: Anticorruption and Bribery, Conflict of interest, Fraud, Money laundering, Anti-competitive practices, Respect of intellectual property rights, Truthfulness of marketing and advertising messages (Code of Ethics and Integrity in business) Implementation  Communication and training for all employees on the anti-corruption commitment were updated in 2016  Advanced Technologies reviews its Confidentiality and Data Protection Policy, which ensures that our staff is aware of the need of protecting personal data.  Communication of Code of Ethics/business ethics policy to all employees.  Communication of Code of Ethics/business ethics policy to business partners  Nomination of an Ethics Committee  Nomination of Ethics Officer to manage policy implementation Measurement of outcomes  All employees have been updated and trained regarding Internal Rules, Code of Conduct and Business Code of Conduct  Advanced Technologies has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. How will we make the 10 Principles public? The 10 Principles are available to all our employees, suppliers and general public by e-mail and on our website www.vonino.ro Advanced Technologies SRL 7|P a g e Address: 6-8 Pantelimon Drive, Bucharest 021585, ROMANIA Tel. Office: +40 (21) 569 85 33
