2017 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report 2017 01 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Contents Editorial Policy 02 Respect for Human Rights 40 Directions Support for International Standards 42 You can move easily between pages via the category tabs and navigation buttons. Promotion of Management for Human Rights 43 Company 03 Enhancement of Local Industrial Category tabs Bases & Quality of Life 44 Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Message from Our CEO 04-05 Development of the Social Infrastructure 47 Provision of Safe, Reliable Products and Services 47 Protection of the Global Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Participation and Development in Communities 48 Environment Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. 06-11 Contribution to Developing People with an 50 International Mindset Click on the tabs to go to the top page of each category Value Creation in Pursuit of Social Sustainability 06 Stable Supply of Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders 08 Resources & Materials 52 Participation in Initiatives 10 Navigation buttons Link buttons Resource Development, and the Securing 55 and Stable Supply of Materials and Food Go forward one page Link to website Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Promotion of Supply Chain Management 55 12-19 Go back one page Identification and Review for Materiality 13 Corporate Governance Return to previously viewed page Link to related information & Human Resources 61 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach 14 Corporate Governance & Internal Controls 64 SDGs and Mitsui & Co.’s Initiative by Materiality 17 Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance 66 Compliance & Risk Management 69 Activity Reports by Materiality Human Resources to Translate into Assets 72 20-83 Human Resources Development 73 Promoting Diversity Management 75 Protection of the Global Environment 21 Occupational Health, Safety and Work Environment Initiatives 79 Message from Mitsui’s Environmental Officer 24 Data of Personnel Affairs 81 Enhancement of Environmental 25 Management System Cover: Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation 30 Evaluation by Society 2017 Mitsui & Co. has defined Mitsui's material issues ( materiality ) for the company to focus on, 84 Sustainability Report with the aim of meeting the expectations of a variety of stakeholders and contributing to the Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, Including 34 Curbing Global Warming (with Environmental Data) creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled, as set out in our Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity 37 corporate mission. Addressing Environmental Issues through 39 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 86 The images shown on the cover represent the Mitsui's material issues outlined in the Contribution to Society Strategic Focus sections of this year's Report. Sustainability Report 2017 02 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Editorial Policy Mitsui & Co. believes companies can only be sustainable if the societies they operate in are sustainable, and Scope of Coverage in the Sustainability Report: unsustainable companies cannot fulfill their social responsibilities. Mitsui and major consolidated subsidiaries and associated companies. The scope of coverage for In recent years, there has been growing interest in the United Nations’ “Sustainable Development numerical data is provided individually in appended notes. Goals” (SDGs) and in “Environmental, Social, and Governance” (ESG) investing. Under these circumstances, we consider it important to send a clearer message about Mitsui’s unchanging commitment to the Period Covered: creation of new value for society through our business activities and our continual pursuit of the mutual Mainly the fiscal year from April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2017, but also including some information about sustainability of society and our company. Accordingly, we have replaced the word “CSR” used in the policies and activities for the fiscal year ending March 2018. context of Mitsui’s activities with “sustainability”.* As an annual report for communicating detailed ESG information, the PDF version of our “Sustainability Independent Practitioner ’s Assurance Report 2017” emphasizes comprehensiveness and continuity in regard to our approach to materiality, and The “★” logo indicates that the sustainability information concerned has been given limited assurance, for reports on activities undertaken in accordance with Mitsui’s Materiality (“materiality”) At the same time, in the purpose of increasing its reliability, by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. in its independent “Strategic Focus” and in “Activities for FY Ended March 2017”, the report gives clear examples of how we practitioner’s assurance report. are generating new value that provides solutions to societal issues. On our website, we focus on ensuring convenient browsability and searchability of information related Publication Date: to sustainability, and we have posted our list of policies, guidelines, and data, as well as a GRI guidelines September 2017 (Previous publication date: August 2016; next publication scheduled for August 2018) comparison chart. Our website also provides details of our social contribution activities to complement the information contained in the PDF version of the “Sustainability Report 2017”. Reference Guidelines * No changes have been made to Basic CSR Policy, Supply Chain CSR Policy, names of employee-awareness raising tools, and other related materials. GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 2013 GRI Guidelines Comparison Chart List of Sustainability Report 2017 and Website (Sustainability) Contents Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 version) established by the Ministry of the Environment of Social Contribution Activities Japan ISO 26000 (Guidance on Social Responsibility) Published by: Sustainability Committee, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. A Cautionary Note on Forward-looking Statements This Sustainability Report contains statements (including figures) regarding Mitsui & Co., Ltd. (“Mitsui”, “Mitsui & Co.”, “Company”)’s Contact: corporate strategies, objectives and views of future developments that are forward-looking in nature and are not simply Corporate Planning & Strategy Division, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. reiterations of historical facts. These statements are presented to inform stakeholders of the views of Mitsui’s management, but 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan should not be relied on solely in making investment and other decisions. You should be aware that a number of important risk Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower factors could lead to outcomes that differ materially from those presented in such forward-looking statements. These include, but are not limited to: (i) changes in economic conditions that may lead to unforeseen developments in markets for products handled by Mitsui, (ii) fluctuations in currency exchange rates that may cause unexpected deterioration in the value of transactions, (iii) adverse political developments that may create unavoidable delays or postponement of transactions and projects, (iv) changes in laws, regulations or policies in any of the countries where Mitsui conducts its operations that may affect Mitsui’s ability to fulfill its （03） : 3285-1111 commitments, and (v) significant changes in the competitive environment. In the course of its operations, Mitsui adopts measures （03） : 3285-9906 to control these and other types of risks, but this does not constitute a guarantee that such measures will be effective. : www.mitsui.com/jp/en/sustainability/ Sustainability Report 2017 03 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Company Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2017) Company Name Major Business Areas Organization Chart (As of July 1, 2017) MITSUI & CO., LTD. Utilizing our global operating locations, network and information resources, we are multilaterally pursuing business that ranges from General Meeting of Shareholders Date of Establishment product sales, worldwide logistics and financing, through to the Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board July 25, 1947 development of major international infrastructure and other projects in the following fields: Iron & Steel Products, Mineral & Metal Resources, Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Member Div. Head Office Infrastructure Projects, Integrated Transportation Systems, Chemicals, 1-3, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Energy, Food, Food & Retail Management, Healthcare & Service, President & Chief Executive Officer Corporate Management Committee (registered head office location) Consumer Business, IT & Communication Business, Corporate Nippon Life Marunouchi Garden Tower Development Business. Internal Auditing Div. (Head Quarter Business Units) 3-1, Ohtemachi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8631, Japan Iron & Steel Products Business Unit Our Business JA Building Six business areas Secretariat Mineral & Metal Resources Business Unit Human Resources & General Affairs Div. Infrastructure Projects Business Unit Legal Div. Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit I Representative Corporate Logistics Div. Integrated Transportation Systems Business Unit II Tatsuo Yasunaga, President and Chief Executive Officer New Head Office Building Development Dept. Basic Materials Business Unit Number of Affiliated Companies for Consolidation Corporate Planning & Strategy Div. Performance Materials Business Unit Common Stock Subsidiaries: Japan 62 Overseas 206 Mitsui Global Strategic Studies Institute Nutrition & Agriculture Business Unit Investment Administrative Div. Energy Business Unit I ¥341,482 million Equity Accounted Investees: Japan 38 Overseas 163 Information Technology Promotion Div. Energy Business Unit II Regional Business Promotion Div. Food Business Unit Number of Employees Total Assets ¥11.5 trillion Corporate Communications Div. Food & Retail Management Business Unit 5,971 Total equity*1 ¥3.7 trillion Environmental • Social Contribution Div. Healthcare & Service Business Unit Consolidated 42,316 CFO Planning & Administrative Div. Consumer Business Unit Revenue ¥4.4 trillion Global Controller Div. IT & Communication Business Unit Profit for the Year*2 ¥306.1 billion Finance Div. Corporate Development Business Unit Number of Offices and Overseas Trading Affiliates Core Operating Cash Flow*3 ¥494.8 billion Risk Management Div. 139 offices Investor Relations Div. Domestic Offices: Total 12 Domestic: 12 (Head Office: 1 Offices: 6 Branches: 5) *1 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent (Business Supporting Unit) Head Office: 1 *2 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent Planning & Administrative Div. (Metals) Office: 6 Overseas: 127 (Overseas offices: 32 *3 Core Operating Cash Flow “= cash flows from operating activities” “changes in operating Planning & Administrative Div. Branch: 5 Overseas Trading Affiliates: 95 (Head Offices: 34)) assets and liabilities“ (Machinery & Infrastructure) Overseas Overseas Trading Affiliates: Total 127 (As of July 1, 2017) Planning & Administrative Div. (Chemicals) Overseas Trading Affiliates: Head Office 34 Planning & Administrative Div. (Energy) Overseas Trading Affiliates: Others 61 Worldwide Network Planning & Administrative Div. (Food & Services) Overseas Offices: Branch 2 66 countries/regions Overseas Offices: Others 30 Planning & Administrative Div. (Consumer & Healthcare) (As of July 1, 2017) Planning & Administrative Div. (Innovation & Corporate Development) Financial Management & Advisory Div. I Worldwide Network Financial Management & Advisory Div. II Financial Management & Advisory Div. III Financial Management & Advisory Div. IV Sustainability Report 2017 04 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Message from Our CEO Mitsui & Co. will contribute to a better, more sustainable future where the aspirations of people can be fulfilled Tatsuo Yasunaga President and Chief Executive Officer Creating value through business activities As economic globalization progresses and the increasing world population strains our energy, consider the future, and consider our sustainability as part of society. As a company operating food, water, and other resources, there is growing demand for infrastructure such as power globally, we believe it is our obligation to ensure that through our business activities we generation, transportation and telecommunications, along with fundamental community contribute to the sustainable development of every country and region in which we do services such as education and health care. At the same time, we face environmental and business. human rights issues on a global scale with respect to climate change, loss of biodiversity, As evidenced by global UN initiatives̶including the COP21 Paris Agreement on climate immigration and other highly consequential matters. change and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)̶there is a growing call for At Mitsui & Co., we have developed our capabilities and accumulated a strong corporate companies to take a much longer term approach to business, focusing on sustainable value track record by engaging with stakeholders to fully understand their needs and the wider creation. Accordingly, we must work closely with our business partners, customers, shareholders expectations of society. Takashi Masuda, the founder of the former Mitsui, advised colleagues to, and society to build mutual trust and ensure the best possible understanding of our strengths “Let not short term gains tempt your mind, seek only enduring prosperity by embracing grand and our vision. aspirations”. To me, this expresses the idea that continues to drive us today: the need to Sustainability Report 2017 05 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Cultivating people who can bring sustainability to business and society A sustainable future where aspirations are fulfilled People are our most valuable resource. And in an era of uncertainty and complexity, it is only In October 2004, Mitsui signed and pledged its support for the UN Global Compact, a charter of through bringing together people with a diversity of ideas, backgrounds and abilities that we voluntary principles for businesses and institutions concerning human rights, labor, the can develop business that truly reflects the needs of society today. Business knowledge and environment, and anti-corruption. Since then we have been working to realize the aims of the expertise is vital, but equally important are the human qualities of integrity and humility that compact. Similarly, in 2015 we defined “Five materialities”, which we have been promoting enable us to earn the trust of society and operate as a united group of strong individuals. throughout Mitsui while identifying the risks and opportunities associated with the materialities I am committed to creating the best possible environment in which to foster people with for each of our business areas. In May 2017, we changed the name of our CSR Promotion these attributes, so that each person can make full use of their capabilities. Times of great Committee to the Sustainability Committee, and strengthened its functions. We will continue to change are inevitably times of great opportunity, and as I noted earlier, embracing diversity will fulfil our responsibilities as a corporate citizen, and through the ESG themes of environment, enable us to create new value in a spirit of free-thinking challenge and fresh-thinking society and governance will endeavor to bring a heightened awareness of sustainability to every innovation. aspect of our operations. Mitsui is driven by the concept of “360° business innovation.”, and by creating work in Japan and worldwide that is consistently recognized as useful and valuable, we intend to contribute to a sustainable future where the aspirations of people can be fulfilled. President and Chief Executive Officer Sustainability Report 2017 06 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Value Creation in Pursuit of Social Sustainability Mitsui & Co.’s Value Creation Mitsui & Co.’s Value Creation Companies can only be sustainable if the societies they operate in are sustainable, and unsustainable companies cannot fulfill their social responsibilities. At Mitsui & Co., we try to anticipate changes in society with each era. We reflect on how A夢溢れる未来 better future * 360°business innovation. is our corporate slogan. It expresses our we should advance our capabilities and ceaselessly challenge ourselves to express our potential in ways that bring the message of connecting ideas, information, customers, partners most benefit to society. and business across the planet to We believe that we must continually improve the way we engage with environmental and societal issues, listen create new possibilities. Value creation closely to our stakeholders, and ensure that we have a clear understanding of key concerns, issues, and expectations. It is then our responsibility to contribute to addressing issues and meeting expectations in the most effective way possible. We continue to ensure that all of our employees share our management philosophy, as expressed in our Mission, Vision, and Values, and to strengthen our robust management platform, including our governance and risk 360°business innovation.＊ management systems. At the same time, working alongside our stakeholders, our aim is to pursue business in a manner expressed in our “360°business innovation.” slogan. Business Business associates• activities This slogan indicates that one of our greatest strengths is our ability to connect ideas, information, customers, and Consumers Government bodies business partners to create new value around the world so as to strive to contribute to the creation of a future where Corporate Mission, the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled. This is what Mitsui is expected to do and how Mitsui strives to create new Shareholders• NPOs• value in pursuit of social sustainability. Investors Mission Vision NGOs Values Management Employees platform Communities Recognition of environmental and societal issues Sustainability Report 2017 07 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Value Creation in Pursuit of Social Sustainability Corporate Mission Vision Values In 2004 Mitsui systematically and clearly set forth in written form the implicit values we share and issued our Mission, Basic CSR Policy Vision and Values (MVV). We believe that sharing this management philosophy is even more important than ever as we work to create true value around the world through our global activities. 1. We will conduct our business activities with honesty and integrity, make prudent efforts to understand the culture, traditions, and customs of countries and regions around the world, and reinforce the importance of CSR with each of our employees. Based on our conscientious management, we will strive to enhance corporate value to Mission, Vision and Values (MVV) stakeholders and to produce value to society. 2. We will make every effort to actively contribute to the achievement of a sustainable society through the Mission Strive to contribute to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled. promotion of sustainable development as well as maintaining a strong awareness of the importance of preserving the global environment. We will also emphasize the importance of interactive communication with stakeholders to understand their concerns and fulfill our accountability for our CSR activities. Vision Aim to become a global business enabler that can meet the needs of our customers throughout the 3. We recognize the significance and importance of the human rights contained in the general principles of world. international standards such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Throughout all occasions of our entire business activities, we will give due consideration to basic labor rights. Values Build trust with fairness and humility. 4. As a global company with operations throughout the world, we will support Mitsui & Co.’s group companies in the Aspire to set high standards and to contribute to society. practice and implementation of our CSR policies, and will sincerely seek our business counterparties’ Embrace the challenge of continuous innovation. understanding and cooperation to support this initiative. Foster a culture of open-mindedness. Strive to develop others and oneself to achieve full potential. Mitsui’s Core Values The former Mitsui* which was established in 1876, was disbanded as part of the dissolution of Japan’s zaibatsu Basic CSR Policy (industrial conglomerates) shortly after the end of World War II. The current Mitsui was founded by employees of the former Mitsui that shared the values of the original company: “Challenge and Innovation”, “Open-Mindedness”, and Mitsui’s Basic CSR Policy, which is built upon our management philosophy of Mission, Vision and Values based on the “Focus on Human Resources”. The Mitsui of today continues to contribute to the creation of new value for society. foundation of our business activities, was formulated in 2004 and reviewed in 2013 to reflect input from society and our The way we work and the way we think are still very much based on the values espoused by Takashi stakeholders. In addition, our Long-term Management Vision (formulated in 2009) for the Mitsui of 2020 upholds our Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui, and are reflected in our stance toward our work. The principles of goal of providing industrial solutions to meet the changing needs of the times. This goal sums up the core message of Mitsui’s approach to sustainability as social responsibility have always reflected its founder’s values, a way of our corporate mission. In our CSR policies, our approach to sustainability as our social responsibility is clearly thinking unchanged to this day. incorporated, and we earnestly continue to strive for its realization. * The current Mitsui was established through mergers of the various new companies that had been established after the disbandment of the former Mitsui by the order of GHQ, so legally speaking, there has been no continuation between the former Mitsui and the current Mitsui. “Let not short term gains tempt your mind, seek only enduring prosperity by embracing grand aspirations”. “I started Mitsui with the goal of realizing trade on a large scale, not in pursuit of money, but from the desire to work”. “Mitsui has a pool of very talented individuals. This is Mitsui’s most important asset”. Takashi Masuda, the first president of the former Mitsui Sustainability Report 2017 08 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Initiatives in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2017 Mitsui & Co. closely monitors the effects of its diverse and global business activities on society, identifies ● Dialogue with Partners (Supplier On-site Surveys) and acknowledges stakeholders of particular interest, and strives to have interactive communication with Mitsui conducts supplier on-site surveys each year under its Supply Chain CSR Policy. Any issues identified through on-site them in all areas of its business operations. surveys and discussions are used to improve business operations. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, we implemented on-site surveys at a fruit juice processing plant and fruit farms in In particular, we are committed to the development of relationships based on mutual trust with a China. The results showed that the company is maintaining a high level of management in accordance with international diverse range of stakeholders, including local communities, NPOs & NGOs, government bodies, business standards, and that, because its processes use large amounts of water, it is also working to minimize consumption through associates & consumers, shareholders & investors, and employees, through proactive information recycling and purification. An external expert who accompanied the survey team suggested that we should place greater disclosures and continual communication with our stakeholders. emphasis on the high quality standards achieved through these sophisticated management systems in promotional activities for this product. Through interactive communication with its stakeholders, each of Mitsui ’s employees and officers is endeavoring to acquire a firm understanding of what society expects from and requires of Mitsui. Based on ● Dialogue and Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs this understanding, Mitsui strives to respond to changes in market environments, constantly evolves, and, A business corporation cannot find solutions to complex and multi-layered societal and environmental issues solely through its through its business activities and by exercising its unique capabilities, creates new value that is useful to own efforts. There are NPOs and NGOs that engage in specialized frontline efforts to solve problems, and cooperation with these organizations is essential. Mitsui holds dialogues with these organizations to gain an understanding of their perceptions of society. issues and expectations toward the business activities of corporations, and considers those points in deliberations about changes to our activities, or other actions that may be required. Through dialogue with NPOs and NGOs, we identify environmental and societal issues in the regions where we engage in or plan on doing business, in order to formulate CSR program that lead toward business sustainability through mitigating Business Associates Government (challenging) environmental and societal issues. From the fiscal year ended March 2016 onwards, we have been undertaking & Consumers Bodies forest conservation initiatives in collaboration with environmental NGOs, with the aim of halting forest destruction, which is a Jointly respond Business promotion cause of global warming, through the formation of a program designed to raise quality of life in local communities. to society’s aligned with expectations government policies In September 2016, Mitsui participated in a panel discussion about certified palm oil in the Japanese market as part of RSPO Japan Day 2016, which was the first official event in Japan by the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). We took the opportunity to disseminate the message that continuing awareness-raising activities are needed to heighten awareness among companies and consumers in the Japanese market about sustainable palm oil, which is already the focus of increasing international interest. Appropriate Shareholders Collaboration NPOs ● Dialogue with Shareholders and Investors (ESG) prompt information Mitsui & Co. for solving & NGOs & Investors disclosure societal issues During the fiscal year ended March 2017, in response to the increasing demands on companies to disclose their business strategies and future growth scenarios, including nonfinancial information about ESG and other areas, we exchanged views about the initiatives and disclosures required for companies, with the market through detailed dialogue from the perspective of ESG. We continue our efforts to maintain high standards of accuracy, timeliness, and quality in our disclosure of information, and to foster good communication with the investment community. Harmony with Focus on human local residents ● Dialogue with Academics and Other External Experts resources Mitsui actively engages in dialogue with academic experts involved in sustainability research. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, we sought opinions about the disclosure of our initiatives, especially in relation to the United Nations Sustainable Employees Communities Development Goals (SDGs), and obtained advice about the relevance of our initiatives to the SDGs. We also received opinions about the need for the continual updating of our materiality in order to reflect opinions from a more diverse range of stakeholders. We are using this input to improve the disclosure of sustainability information. Sustainability Report 2017 09 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Interactive Communication with Mitsui & Co.’s Stakeholders Relationships with Stakeholders and Communication Business Associates & Consumers Government Bodies We contribute to the development of a sustainable society through our We are committed to compliance with related laws and regulations formulated by efforts to identify the needs and expectations of our business partners and government agencies and local governments in the countries where we engage consumers, supply safe and reliable products and services, and disclose in business activities. Furthermore, through cooperation with governmental accurate corporate information, and through initiatives to address agencies and local governments, we propose and promote business projects that problems in supply chains. align with their policies and deliver the unique value that only Mitsui can offer. Mitsui & Co. websites Supplier questionnaire and on-site Participation in policy councils Training programs for local Corporate Brochure/Advertisements/ surveys Participation in consultation and government bodies TV commercials Initiatives that align with our policies advisory meetings with government Activities through business and Recruitment pamphlets and rules on the handling of agencies and offices industry groups Annual Reports consumer products: “Consumer Activities based on the Supply Chain Product Handling Policy”, “Consumer CSR Policy Product Handling Regulations” Shareholders & Investors NPOs & NGOs We strive for continuous improvement of our corporate value and We identify solutions for environmental and societal issues by networking appropriate market recognition by fulfilling transparency and and collaboration with various NPOs and NGOs. Through the Mitsui & Co. accountability in management with timely and accurate disclosure of Environment Fund, we provide support for research and initiatives by NPOs information, and by engaging in interactive communication with and NGOs that are working to solve environmental problems. shareholders and investors. Mitsui & Co. General meetings of shareholders Annual Reports Discussions and local visits for Responses to questionnaires from IR meetings (presentations on Newsletter to Shareholders cooperation with NPOs/NGOs NPOs and NGOs financial results, Investor Day, Mitsui & Co. websites Participation in seminars hosted by Activities through the Mitsui & Co. briefings for individual investors) Surveys from ESG research NPOs and NGOs Environment Fund Securities Report organizations Employees Communities Employees are our most important assets. We strive to carry out diversity We contribute to growth and prosperity through our wide-ranging business management to enable diverse individuals to reach their full potential to activities in countries and regions throughout the world. We also aim to achieve undertake new challenges, by promoting Work Style Innovation and harmonious coexistence with local communities through contributions in such enhancing workplace environment human resources development areas as local industry development, creation of employment opportunities, and programs, personnel systems, etc. the improvement of educational environments. Intranet Volunteer Activity Leave Activities through the Mitsui & Co. Support for Brazilian residents in In-house newsletter of Mitsui & Co. Training programs and seminars; Environment Fund Japan Roundtable Meetings, New Active Opinion surveys Activities through company-owned Activities through the Mitsui Talk Wednesday (dialogue between In-house and external whistleforests “Mitsui’s Forests” SASUGAKU Academy (Education for managements and employees) blowing channels Activities through scholarships, Sustainability) Diversity Cafe Discussions with labor unions Mitsui endowed lectures, and Japan Training programs for local Mitsui Environment Month studies programs government employees Activities under the Mitsui Global Support for overseas activities Volunteer Program through various funds Sustainability Report 2017 10 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Participation in Initiatives United Nations Global Compact Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The United Nations Global Compact is a set of voluntary action principles for corporations proposed by former UN The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a clear statement of global priorities and visions that Secretary-General Kofi Annan at the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland, in January 1999. He proposed a need to be realized so that poverty can be eliminated and all people can enjoy dignity and equality of opportunity, with means to harness the creative powers of the private sector to fulfill the wishes of underprivileged people and meet the consideration given to balancing sustainable growth and the limits of the Earth. needs of future generations. It is neither a regulatory means nor a legally binding code of conduct, but rather a strategic Mitsui uses its capabilities in the five areas of marketing, financing, logistics, risk management, and IT process policy initiative that encourages corporations to come together as global citizens to solve the various problems that configuration to develop diverse business operations across nations and regions. As such, we believe that we can could arise as a result of economic globalization. Participating corporations are asked to support and put into practice leverage these capabilities to make a wide-ranging contribution to the achievement of the 17 goals. We will strive to 10 universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and achieve, in particular, the goals related to our identified material issues in partnership with our stakeholders. anti-corruption. As of May 2017, over 12,000 corporations, labor unions, and civil society As a corporate member of Global Compact Network Japan, Mitsui will continue to raise awareness of the SDGs in its organizations from around the world are participating in the UN Global Compact. business organizations, to reflect the SDGs in our business strategies, and to ensure that our business activities are In October 2004 Mitsui & Co. signed and pledged its support for the UN Global always guided by a determination to contribute to the achievement of the SDGs. Compact. Mitsui has been participating as a member of the Global Compact Network Japan and is complying with the principles as part of its own corporate guidelines. Currently Mitsui P.17 SDGs and Mitsui & Co.’s Initiative by Materiality conducts a companywide survey every other year in order to check compliance with the UN Global Compact principles and is working to comply with and practice the principles on a global group basis. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Environment 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to internationally proclaimed human rights; and environmental challenges; 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labor Anti-Corruption 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; including extortion and bribery. 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Sustainability Report 2017 11 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Participation in Initiatives World Economic Forum to ascertain the views of various stakeholders, including overseas CSR-related organizations, by participating in presentations and seminars on CSR-related themes. The World Economic Forum is an independent international organization that engages leaders from the worlds of business, politics, academia, and other sectors of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas in the spirit of global Japan Forum of Business and Society (JFBS) citizenship, through cooperation between the public and private sectors, for the improvement of the world situation. As a partner company, Mitsui attends the annual meetings of the World Economic Forum held in Davos, Switzerland Mitsui is a GOLD member of the Japan Forum of Business and Society (JFBS), an academic association that conducts every January. academic research and discussion on the relationship between business and society, focusing on global trends and encouraging cooperative relations among academia, industry, government, labor, and NPOs/NGOs. Japan Foreign Trade Council, Inc.: Global Environment Committee, CSR Study Committee Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership As a member of the Global Environment Committee of the Japan Foreign Trade Council, Mitsui monitors energy use for all trading companies (shosha) and promotes reduce/reuse/recycle (“3R”) activities. We also gather information about The Japan Business and Biodiversity Partnership was established through a collaborative initiative by the Keidanren, the new energy technology through our business activities and contribute to the development of the trading company Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Executives) with the aim sector’s voluntary action plan for environmental initiatives for a low-carbon, recycling-oriented society. of promoting private-sector initiatives on biodiversity. As a member company, Mitsui promotes biodiversity Mitsui is also a member of the Japan Foreign Trade Council’s CSR Study Committee, which studies CSR-related conservation initiatives in partnership with NPOs, NGOs, research institutions, and other related entities in Japan and issues and conducts surveys and research about trends in Japan and overseas. We work with other members on such overseas. Furthermore, Mitsui contributes to conservation of biodiversity in its supply chains by promoting a sound activities as the formulation and review of the Supply Chain CSR Action Guidelines based on the principles of the resource-cycle policy in its business management focusing on the lifecycle of products and services. Shosha’s Corporate Code of Conduct (code of conduct for trading companies). Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) Japan Business Federation (Keidanren): Committee on Corporate Behavior & Social Responsibility, Committee on Gender Diversity, Committee on Environment and Safety, The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®) is an international nonprofit organization with members including environmental Committee on Nature Conservation NGOs, private business corporations, and organizations representing indigenous communities. It promotes the sustainable management and use of the world’s forests in consideration of environmental and societal aspects by certifying forests and Mitsui is a member of Keidanren’s Committee on Corporate Behavior & Social Responsibility, which works to ensure ethical the processes involved in the distribution and processing of lumber taken from those forests. behavior by businesses, promote CSR, and expand and encourage social contribution activities by businesses and business Mitsui has obtained FSC® forest management (FM) certification at all 74 of its forests, which total approximately people, including support for disaster recovery efforts. We are also a member company of the Committee on Gender 44,000 hectares, while Mitsui Bussan Forest Co., Ltd., a Mitsui subsidiary, has obtained Chain of Custody (CoC) Diversity, which implements the Action Plan on Women’s Active Participation in the Workforce and formulates an action certification for the processing and distribution of cut lumber. Mitsui is the biggest supplier of Japanese-grown lumber plan to urge employers to promote women to managerial and executive positions, and the Committee on Environment with FSC® certification. As a member of FSC Japan’s Board of Directors, Mitsui is helping to promote the FSC® in Japan and Safety, which works toward the implementation of environmental policies designed to be compatible with economic and to study and prepare principles, standards, and risk assessments for Japan. activities, including the promotion of voluntary action plans and countermeasures relating to global warming, waste, recycling, and environmental risks. Moreover, since 2012 a Mitsui employee has been seconded to Keidanren’s Committee Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) on Nature Conservation, which works to conserve biodiversity and protect the natural environment. The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is a nonprofit organization established to promote the sustainable Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC) production and utilization of palm oil through the conservation of tropical rain forests and biodiversity. Mitsui supports the RSPO’s philosophy of contributing to sustainability through industry and has been collaborating on various As a member of the Council for Better Corporate Citizenship (CBCC), which was established by Keidanren, Mitsui works business-based initiatives since joining the organization in 2008. Sustainability Report 2017 12 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Mitsui & Co. prioritizes and focuses on sustainability in its corporate management. We have identified Mitsui’s material issues (“materiality ”) for the company to focus on, with the aim of meeting the expectations of a variety of stakeholders and contributing to the creation of a future where the aspirations of the people can be fulfilled, as set out in our corporate mission. We recognize the identified Mitsui’s materiality as societal issues relevant to all of our business activities. We assess the risks and opportunities that arise from the effects of these issues and disclose our approach to each of them. Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases Stable Supply of Resources Corporate Governance Protection of the Global Environment Respect for Human Rights & Quality of Life & Materials & Human Resources P.14 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.14 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.15 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.15 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach P.16 Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Detailed reports on each of the themes addressed in “Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality ” (P.14–16) can be found in “Activity Reports by Materiality ” (P.20–83). Sustainability Report 2017 13 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Identification and Review for Materiality Identification Processes on Materiality In March 2015, Mitsui defined five Material Issues for the company as the important management indices. In the Recognition of society ’s concerns & expectations, and environmental specifying process, we identified various issues with respect to international frameworks, such as ISO 26000, and GRI & societal issues through communication with stakeholders Guidelines, and narrowed downed the materiality for stakeholders based on our dialogue with business associates, ̶International initiatives taken into account NPOs & NGOs, experts, and other stakeholders. ̶Stakeholders identified for communication̶ (basic frameworks)̶ Shareholders/investors, business associates/ UN Global Compact, SDGs, OECD Guidelines for To ensure compatibility between the identified materiality and key corporate priority measures and strategies for Multinational Enterprises, Universal Declaration of Human consumers, government bodies, NPOs/ Rights, ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights each business domain, we carried out deliberations at the CSR Promotion Officer’s meeting (current Sustainability NGOs, local communities, employees, etc. at Work, Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, ISO26000, GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Promotion Officer’s meeting) and CSR Promotion Committee (current Sustainability Committee) and asked external experts to verify the adequacy, in order to define the key priority issues. Then, the identified material issues were approved by the Corporate Management Committee and the Board of Directors and were shared with all officers and employees. At the same time, as a management approach in line with the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, we define Verification of compatibility with Mitsui & Co.’s management philosophy, specific themes to work on each material issue, and clearly indicate relevant policies and set targets accordingly. policies and business plans Through this approach, we strive to implement measures to address issues by identifying material aspects and ̶Compatibility perspectives̶ Periodic Management philosophy, Long-term Management Vision, Medium-term Management Plan, boundaries as indicated by the G4 Guidelines. Impact Assessment on Management (growth potential, profitability, risks and opportunities), Periodic reviews Specially Designated Business Management System reviews Review Process on Materiality Each aspect of the materiality and the relevant themes to be addressed will be periodically reviewed in order to meet Sustainability Committee (organization under the Corporate Management Committee) the changing needs and expectations of society and to reflect them in our Medium-term Management Plan and take Identification of materiality & obtaining internal approvals into account those changes impacting the economy, environment, and society in our sustainable management. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality As the basis for the periodical review, we have adopted the international initiatives that are stipulated in the Protection of the Respect Enhancement of Stable Supply of Corporate Local Industrial Bases Governance & Global Environment for Human Rights Resources & Materials diagram below: & Quality of Life Human Resources United Nations Global Compact ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Value creation and solution for societal issues through Mitsui & Co.’s entire business activities, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Rights at Work which include environmental & social contribution activities OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Universal Declaration of Human Rights ISO26000 GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Sustainability Report 2017 14 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Protection of the Global Environment Respect for Human Rights Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities As a corporation that operates across countries and Risks As a company with a diverse range of value chains in Risks regions around the world, we recognize the importance Negative impact on business activities brought about by climate many countries and regions, we regard respect for human Disputes or protests concerning human rights issues in of giving consideration to impacts on the global change and resource constraints, such as water shortage and rights, including those of business associates and every spectrum of business that could hinder the start-up environment. higher environmental costs resulting from ecosystem destruction, consumers, based on international standards as the or continuation of business, and leakage of information Global warming, climate change degradation, etc., as a consequence of business activities. foundation of sustainability management. held by the company that could be used to identify Loss of biodiversity Opportunities Greater responsibility for human rights in the supply individuals Energy and water shortage Expansion of environment-related markets due to chain (labor practices, impact on local residents, etc.) Opportunities Environmental pollution increased environmental awareness and the tightening of Consideration for indigenous people in conjunction Strengthening of the ability to ensure stable supply regulations, and expansion of business domains as a result with resources development through consideration for human rights across all supply of energy diversification. Illicit use of personal information that may be obtained chains. via the increasingly widespread use of Internet and digital communications technology Mitsui ’s Approach We rigorously comply with environment-related laws, regulations, and treaties. We strive to prevent environmental pollution and curb greenhouse gas emissions, to adapt to climate change, and to maintain biodiversity. We are alert to environmental impacts Mitsui ’s Approach and work to mitigate those impacts. We use our integrated strengths and work in cooperation with our partners to achieve Being aware of our role as a member of the international community, we work to understand the culture, traditions, and rational, long-term industrial solutions to environmental problems. We systematically provide grants, through the Mitsui & Co. practices of each country and region in which we operate. We are working to ensure there is no discrimination based on Environment Fund, for university research and NPO/NGO activities that contribute to the solution of environmental problems, race, belief, gender, social status, religion, nationality, age, or mental or physical abilities, and take action to rectify labor efficient resource utilization, protection of ecosystems, and harmonious coexistence between ecosystems and human beings. practices that violate human rights. We are committed to the eradication of forced labor and child labor. We do not Examples of how Mitsui creates value for society through its business activities condone any form of child labor and are committed to following minimum working age laws wherever we operate. We are P.21 Strategic Focus committed to complying with laws concerning slavery and human trafficking wherever we operate. Acknowledging that our responsibility extends beyond legal compliance within our own operations, we also work to ensure that human rights GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary Theme Related policies and guidelines, are respected in the supply chain. We are also contributing to the development of a society in which human rights are and targets set Identified material aspects Within the Outside the organization organization respected, by preventing the illicit use of personal information through implementation of countermeasures against Enhancement of Environmental Environmental Policy Overall increasingly sophisticated and devious cyber attacks and the resulting risk of the leaking of information that could be used Management System to identify individuals. Compliance Examples of how Mitsui creates value for society through its business activities Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation Products and Services P.40 Strategic Focus Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, [Targets set] Energy GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary including Curbing Global Warming An annual reduction in energy Emissions Theme Related policies and guidelines, consumption rate of at least and targets set Identified material aspects Within the Outside the 1% on average organization organization Transport Support for International Standards Basic CSR Policy Security Practices Water Indigenous Rights Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity Environmental Policy Biodiversity Forest Management Policy Promotion of Management for Human Investment Addressing Environmental Issues through Social Contributions Policy Rights Assessment Contribution to Society Sustainability Report 2017 15 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities We recognize the importance of contributing to the lives of Risks The establishment of supply sources for resources, such as Risks people in the countries and regions where we do business, with Loss of credibility due to safety or health problems energy, metals, water, food resources, chemicals, and Suspension of business operations and instability in the respect to the enhancement of quality of life, development of affecting infrastructure users or final consumers of materials, as well as the stable supply of these resources supply of energy and food resources because of climate local industries, development of the educational environment, products and services. and materials have become important social priorities change and population growth. and the creation of employment opportunities. Opportunities because of demand expansion driven by population Opportunities Ageing infrastructure in developed nations Expansion of markets through infrastructure development, growth and the desire for a better standard of living, Sustainable resources development and food supply, Infrastructure development in emerging countries measures to ensure food safety, and “healthcare ecosystem” especially in emerging countries. reinforced competitiveness through consideration for the Food safety and reliability development aimed at enhancing the quality of life in Population increase and expansion of demand for environment, labor and social aspects, and measures to Maintenance of health, securing of medical, nursingemerging countries, etc., and creation of markets by promoting resources and materials ensure traceability across entire supply chains. care, and welfare services ICT-based business to build urban social infrastructure in Expanded responsibility for environmental and social response to the move toward developing smart cities. aspects in supply chains Mitsui ’s Approach Mitsui ’s Approach Through our business activities, we engage in developing the infrastructure needed for growth and prosperity in We work with suppliers, users, and business partners in Japan and overseas to engage in resource development, countries and regions all around the world, including electric power, transportation and communications. We also strive production, product distribution, processing, and recycling initiatives in various parts of the world. We also strive to build to improve basic services, such as healthcare and care for the aged, to create new value, envisaging a future in the optimized supply chains through the improvement of infrastructure and logistics, including the development of railroad next-generation business domains that embody innovation, and to develop local industries and create employment. transportation and port facilities. At the same time, we work to identify sustainability priorities and achieve We also contribute to developing human resources with global perspectives and improving the educational comprehensive improvements and solutions across the supply chain as a whole. environment through the hosting of endowed lecture programs at universities and through a variety of education funds and scholarships. Examples of how Mitsui creates value for society through its business activities P.52 Strategic Focus Examples of how Mitsui creates value for society through its business activities P.44 Strategic Focus GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary Theme Related policies and guidelines, and targets set Identified material aspects Within the Outside the GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary organization organization Theme Related policies and guidelines, and targets set Identified material aspects Within the Outside the Resource Development, and the Securing Indirect Economic Impacts organization organization and Stable Supply of Materials and Food Development of the Social Infrastructure Indirect Economic Impacts Promotion of Supply Chain Management Supply Chain CSR Policy Supplier Environmental Assessment Provision of Safe, Reliable Products and Consumer Product Handling Customer Health and Safety Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Services Policy Consumer Product Handling Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Regulations Society Participation and Development in Social Contributions Policy Local Communities [Targets set] Supplier Human Rights Assessment Communities Ensuring that 100% of new Freedom of Association and Contribution to Developing People with Social Contributions Policy suppliers are aware of the Collective Bargaining an International Mindset policy Child Labor Forced or Compulsory Labor Sustainability Report 2017 16 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Mitsui & Co.’s Approach Corporate Governance & Human Resources Recognition of societal issues Main risks and opportunities Related policies and guidelines, GRI specific standard disclosures Boundary Theme and targets set Within the Outside the Corporate governance is the foundation for our efforts to Risks Identified material aspects organization organization make a continuing contribution to society through our Impact due to lack of appropriate decision making from a broad Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Corporate Governance and business activities and maintain our status as a company perspective, corruption in business of high public significance in Internal Control Principles trusted by society. We regard the enhancement of corporate emerging countries and other markets, and suspension of Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance Specially Designated Business governance and internal controls as key priorities, in addition business operations due to information security problems. Management System to the fostering of human resources who support these efforts Opportunities Compliance & Risk Management Business Conduct Guidelines Anti-corruption and constitute the foundation for all of our company’s for Employees and Officers Public Policy Contributions to labor productivity improvement via business activities. Anti-Corruption Policy innovation in working styles, promotion of fair and equitable Anti-competitive Behavior Global Tax Management Policy Malfunctioning of corporate governance and internal treatment and meaningful human resources training, Personal Information Compliance controls enhancement of individual competitiveness through Protection Guideline Stagnation in productivity due to cookie-cutter working promotion of diversity management, and creation of new Rules on Information System styles business opportunities focusing on the solution of societal Management Diversification and globalization of human resources issues through heightened employee sustainability awareness. Rules on IT Security Information Security Policy Human Resources to Translate into Assets Three key policies of human Human Resources Development resource system Training and Education Mitsui ’s Approach Promoting Diversity Management Action plan for the Act of Diversity and Equal Opportunity Promotion of Women’s Equal Remuneration for Women In order to maintain our status as a company trusted by society, we work to maintain effective governance, ensure fair business Participation and and Men Advancement in Workplace practices, and prevent corruption. We review working styles from the perspectives of productivity and efficiency, while creating Employment Voluntary action plans on an environment in which diverse individuals can reach their full potential. In this way, we will enhance our corporate promotion of women to competitiveness. Moreover, to strengthen the driving force of Mitsui & Co., we will further demonstrate our integrated strengths managerial and board position and our ability to connect at an even greater magnitude, and develop human resources capable of taking responsibility for Occupational Health, Safety and Work Basic Policy on Health Occupational Health and Safety global group management equipped with the capacity to create businesses that would make a meaningful contribution to the Environment Initiatives Management society. Mental Health Promotion Plan Examples of how Mitsui creates value for society through its business activities P.61 Strategic Focus Sustainability Report 2017 17 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources SDGs and Mitsui & Co.’s Initiative by Materiality With respect to the 17 goals and 169 individual targets included in the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Mitsui & Co. has implemented a number of initiatives, focusing in particular on those goals and targets that relate directly to Mitsui's materiality. Materiality Theme Related SDGs（ Target Numbers） Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Protection of Enhancement of Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns (12.8) We promote sustainable procurement by actively obtaining environment-related certification, such as FSC® certification for forests and ASC the Global Environmental and MSC certification for fisheries. In particular, our company-owned forests “Mitsui’s Forests” is the largest FSC® certified private-sector Environment Management round wood supplier in Japan. In addition, all officers and employees regularly attend seminars and training about environmental laws and System Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts (13.3) regulations, ISO14001, and other related topics. Initiatives toward Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all We develop environment-related business activities as part of our contribution to providing industrial solutions to environmental issues, Environmental Value (7.2, 7.a) which is one of the Environmental Policy Action Guidelines. In the renewable energy field, we are pursuing and strengthening its initiatives Creation Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable related to renewable energy projects all over the world. As of March 31, 2017, renewable energy, including hydroelectric power, accounted (11.6) for approximately 20% of our total generating capacity of 10.4GW. In the resource recycling field, in addition to development of underground resources, we have also positioned the recycling of aboveground resources as an area for emphasis within its comprehensive Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns (12.2, 12.4) energy and environmental strategy. The objective of these activities is to offer industrial solutions to environmental problems and provide stable supplies of various resources. Initiatives to Reduce Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts (13.1) With a target of reducing energy consumption by an average of 1% or more per year, we are striving to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) Environmental Load, emissions by improving energy utilization efficiency and implementing other measures. Our new building project including Mitsui’s new Head Including Curbing Office, which is currently under construction, is designed to achieve high energy-utilization efficiency by combining cogeneration systems Global Warming Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for (CGS) with district heating and cooling (DHC), by effectively utilizing waste heat from CGS to generate heat source water for DHC systems. all (6.3) Initiatives for Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, We have obtained FSC® and PEFC certifications to drive our forest resources business, giving consideration to biodiversity conservation. Preserving sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse Mitsui has obtained FSC® and SGEC certifications for all of its 74 company-owned forestlands (approx. 44,000 hectares). We have Biodiversity land degradation and halt biodiversity loss (15.2, 15.4) designated company-owned forests “Mitsui’s Forests” into different management zones. Ten percent of all Mitsui’s Forests are designated as “biodiversity conservation forests” and are maintained, managed, and owned accordingly. Addressing Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global We operate the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund to support and encourage university research and NPO/NGO activities targeted toward Environmental Issues partnership for sustainable development (17.16, 17.17) solving environmental problems. As of the end of FY2016, a total of 538 grants worth ¥5.56 billion had been provided. through Contribution to Society Respect for Support for Reduce inequality within and among countries (10.2) As a company engaged in business activities in many countries and regions around the world, we regard understanding culture, traditions, and Human Rights International customs in each country and region and respecting human rights based on international standards as essential elements of our Basic CSR Policy. Standards Examples of initiatives in relation to indigenous peoples include surveys concerning the impact of a forest resource business project in Australia on Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Aboriginal archaeological sites. In Japan, we have signed an agreement related to Mitsui’s Forests with the Biratori Ainu Association and the town (11.4) of Biratori in Hokkaido providing for cooperation in protection and fostering of Ainu traditional culture for future generations. Promotion of Management for Human Rights Sustainability Report 2017 18 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources SDGs and Mitsui & Co.’s Initiative by Materiality Materiality Theme Related SDGs（ Target Numbers） Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Enhancement Development of the Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages (3.8) We continue contributing to the enhancement of quality of life through our business activities in such areas as electric power, water of Local Social Infrastructure treatment, water supply and sewerage systems, logistics, railroads, healthcare, and communications by developing infrastructure that is Industrial Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable essential for the growth and advancement of countries around the world and local communities. Bases & industrialization and foster innovation (9.1, 9.4, 9.5, 9.a, 9.c) In the Asia region, where countries are facing serious problems relating to the rapid aging of the population and the dramatic increase Quality of Life in the prevalence of lifestyle diseases that require intensive, long-term treatment, we are working to help build next-generation healthcare Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable infrastructure “healthcare ecosystems” that will make a positive contribution to society by improving both the quality and efficiency of (11.2) healthcare provision, by taking hospitals as the core platform and flexibly integrating related activities including specialist medical care provision, pharmaceuticals manufacturing, medical information systems, healthcare services, etc. Provision of Safe, Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for In the midst of increasing importance of water resources on a global scale, high efficient water infrastructure developed through utilization Reliable Products all (6.1) of private sector funds and advanced technology has great social significance. We are working on such projects in Mexico, the Czech and Services Republic, and Thailand. Participation and Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong As a company engaged in wide-ranging business operations in Brazil, Mitsui. provides scholarships, implements extracurricular programs for Development in learning opportunities for all (4.5, 4.7) Brazilian schools in Japan, hosts the “Conference for a Future of the Children”, and provides support for a total of 14 related NPOs, with the aim Communities Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global of building reciprocal understanding between Japan and Brazil and finding solutions to issues affecting the Brazilian community in Japan. partnership for sustainable development (17.16, 17.17) Mitsui is participating in the TOMODACHI Initiative, which aims to foster young generations of people who will contribute to the Contribution to strengthening of the Japan-U.S. relationship in the future. This initiative is spearheaded by a public-private partnership involving the U.S. Developing People government and the U.S.-Japan Council, while drawing its inspiration from the spirit of cooperation and friendship between Japan and the U.S. with an International in Operation TOMODACHI, launched after the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 to provide assistance in devastated areas through the joint Mindset efforts of the U.S. military and the Japan Self-Defense Forces. Stable Supply Resource End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote Mitsui is building optimal supply chains spanning all stages from upstream to downstream, including production, distribution, processing, of Resources Development, and sustainable agriculture (2.1, 2.4, 2.a) and logistics, and contributes to the stable supply of resources and raw materials, such as energy, metals, food resources, and chemicals. & Materials the Securing and Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all In our food business, against the backdrop of world population growth widening the gap between food supply and demand, and Stable Supply of (7.1) expanding regional imbalances in supply capacity, we strive to ensure the stable and efficient supply of safe, reliable food resources. We Materials and Food place particular importance on traceability management for grain crops, such as wheat, corn and soybeans, starting at the production and Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable collection stages. (11.c) Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development (14.2、14.7) Promotion of Supply Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and Mitsui has built diverse supply chains throughout the world to provide a wide range of functions and services. In conducting our business Chain Management productive employment and decent work for all (8.7, 8.8) globally, we are fully aware of our responsibilities, such as complying with laws, respecting human rights, and maintaining safe and sanitary Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns working conditions, giving comprehensive consideration to reduction of the environmental burden, and ensuring safety and consumer (12.2, 12.3, 12.4, 12.7) confidence. Together with our business partners, we endeavor to solve various issues present in our supply chains in order to meet society’s expectations. Specifically, we conduct supplier surveys based our Supply Chain CSR Policy every year to check the status of our Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, suppliers’ sustainability measures. In FY2016, we conducted on-site surveys on our apple juice suppliers in China. sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss (15.7) Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels (16.5) Sustainability Report 2017 19 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources SDGs and Mitsui & Co.’s Initiative by Materiality Materiality Theme Related SDGs（ Target Numbers） Initiatives by Mitsui & Co. Corporate Corporate Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, We are continually enhancing our corporate governance framework, and developing and improving our internal controls on a global Governance Governance & provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and group basis, to make Mitsui a company that is trusted by society. We recognize that ensuring thorough compliance with respect to internal & Human Internal Controls inclusive institutions at all levels (16.7) controls is a particularly important issue. Resources Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance Compliance & Risk Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, Our sound reputation is the foundation of our business. As such, we recognize that it is only through compliance that we can maintain that Management provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and reputation and gain even more trust from our customers. To that end, we are working to heighten awareness among all management and inclusive institutions at all levels (16.5) staff of the importance of upholding high ethical standards and are accordingly striving to build a global compliance framework that advances best business practices. Human Resources to Translate into Assets Human Resources Development Promoting Diversity Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls (5.5) We carry out our diversity management initiatives to enhance our corporate competitiveness by fully mobilizing our employees from a Management wide variety of backgrounds in terms of nationality, gender, values, and other attributes. We identify career advancement for female as a particularly urgent priority for the realization of our diversity management aims. We continue to create an environment in which female Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and employees can achieve their full potential, focusing on their human resources development and career advancement. productive employment and decent work for all (8.5) Also, in order to continue evolving our diversity management initiatives, we review our traditional work styles from the perspectives of productivity and efficiency, and promote “Work Style Innovation” by implementing new measures as necessary. Occupational Health, Safety and Work Environment Initiatives Sustainability Report 2017 20 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Activity Reports by Materiality Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Protection of the Global Environment Respect for Human Rights Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources P.21-39 P.40-43 P.44-51 P.52-60 P.61-83 Sustainability Report 2017 21 Protection of the Global Environment Strategic Focus 630 Estimate of market size of worldwide car sharing in 2021 Approx. JPY billion According to the survey report “What's Ahead for Car Sharing?: The New Mobility and Its Impact on Vehicle Sales” (2016) by the Boston Consulting Group Annual CO2 emission reduction rate 44.9 (average) of households subscribed to car sharing % According to the “Verification Report on the Environmental Load Reduction Effect of Car Sharing” by the Foundation for Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation. Related Product Segment: Machinery & Infrastructure Offering low-cost and environment-friendly mobility options through car sharing Mobility patterns and the ways in which cars are being used are diversifying around the world. A trend that is currently emerging especially in Europe and the United States is car sharing, where a single car is made available for use by multiple members. This reflects increased concern for the environment as well as an awareness of the high costs incurred by owning a private car. Mitsui & Co. is positioning car sharing as a next-generation mobility service that is in tune with the current shift from ownership to renting. In 2010 we acquired an equity stake in the Car Club Private Limited of Singapore. By harnessing business know-how and expertise gained in Singapore, we aim to extend operations into other Asia-Pacific markets, where the car society is moving to a mature phase. With a car-sharing service, the cost for each instance of using a car becomes clearly known. This in turn facilitates the use of alternatives, such as public transport, bicycle, or walking. A choice of the most cost-effective mobility option can be made, depending on the purpose of the trip and the current situation. Through this service, Mitsui will be able to propose a new type of car life as one of the mobility options for people in various countries and regions, which also ties in with increased consideration for the environment. We see this business as a chance to offer mobility options of low cost and low environmental impact to global society. By alleviating traffic congestion and reducing vehicle travel distances, a positive effect on the environment as a whole can be achieved. Sustainability Report 2017 22 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Enhancement of Introduction of e-Manifest for use in monitoring industrial waste disposal in the Initiatives toward Development of distributed solar power generation capacity, and Environmental Head Office building Environmental Value development of next-generation energy management services (U.S. and other Management System Achievement of “Good Point” assessment in independent ISO14001 inspection Creation countries) of environment management in the Head Office and company-owned Modal shift promotion through rolling stock leasing buildings (Nagoya, Osaka) Promotion of green chemicals business, such as palm oil and other natural-oil Sale of emission trading credits from the old Head Office building (17,575 t-CO2) derived oleochemicals business (Malaysia, China), and corn-derived glucose to an affiliated company to support that company’s regulatory compliance based biochemical business (Canada) Administration of environmental management system according to Investment and participation in a wood biomass power plant (Japan) ISO14001:2015 Commencement of geological surveys, drilling, and development for launching Development of environmental accident response tools to support an of geothermal power business through Mitsui Oil Exploration Co. (Japan) appropriate initial response Investment and participation in fuel and chemical product business based on Development of new networks in collaboration with international NPOs and the use of microbial fermentation technology (U.S.) NGOs to drive projects based on environmental and social priorities Construction completion and operation commencement of a jetty boil-off gas Implementation of environmental law seminars (2 seminars, approx. 100 recycling plant through Qatar LNG project (Qatar) attendees), environmental seminars relating to industrial waste (2 seminars, Initiation of development of a manufacturing and transportation value chain for approx. 110 attendees), and a Mitsui Environment Month lecture (approx. 220 hydrogen as a promising next-generation clean energy resource attendees), for officers and employees of Mitsui &. and its affiliated companies Implementation of a survey concerning the reduction of electric power consumption through the utilization of waste heat from a factory to power air Initiatives toward Global supply of automotive parts with excellent environmental performance conditioning in a neighboring housing complex (UAE) Environmental Value through investment and participation in Gestamp Automoción, S.A. (North and Provision of operational maintenance services for solar and biomass power Creation South American operations Spanish parent company) generation facilities by Mitsui & Co. Foresight Contribution to the supply of wind power related materials and equipment Continued efforts to obtain Bluesign® and Global Recycle Standard (GRS) through investment and participation in GRI Renewable Industries, S.L. (Spain) certifications for outdoor apparel fabrics through Mitsui Bussan I-Fashion, Business development of our joint venture for remanufacturing automotive which resulted in the maintenance of compliance with those environmental parts by introducing Japanese technology standards. Promotion of development and sales of environment-friendly and Launch of the project aiming to reduce environmental burden in iron ore highly functional textile products (Europe, U.S., etc.) operation by eliminating the need for a dam and ore trucks for tailings (lowInvestment in Alcantara, which has achieved carbon neutrality certification for grade ore), through investment and participation in Vale (Brazil) all manufacturing processes and devotes around 30% of its total investment in Effective utilization of copper resources through copper concentrate blending sustainability-related facilities to promoting the sale of Alcantara products to business optimizing impurity level in complex conc blended with clean conc automobile manufacturers Renewable energy IPP business (approx. 2GW in Japan and overseas), including Driving sharing economy through C to C E-commerce business (Japan, U.S., UK) the completion of a run-of-river type hydropower plant that will reduce CO2 Supply of lithium-ion rechargeable batteries for electric automobiles and other emissions by 600 million tons per year (Brazil), and commencement of new-energy vehicles (China) operations at Wind Farm Hamada and Hamamatsu Solar Park Implementation of energy-efficient smart city project (Malaysia) Sustainability Report 2017 23 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Initiatives toward Improvement of energy efficiency through visualization of data from office Initiatives to Reduce Monitoring of CO2 emissions, water use survey Environmental Value buildings, factories, and other facilities, (U.S.), contribution to power Environmental Load, Group companies in Japan: Monitoring of changes in CO2 emissions over time, Creation consumption savings of around 20% (depending on the facility) through Including Curbing identification of scope for reductions, and efforts to reduce GHG emissions remote management of air conditioning systems (Japan) Global Warming based on a target of reducing energy consumption (including consumption Support for reliable supply of energy through solar power generation at business facilities) by an average of 1% or more each year; Global group: monitoring services, cloud-based energy management services, and other Efforts to reduce CO2 emissions by affiliated companies based on services (Japan) management levels adjusted according to output levels, with intensive Contribution to global warming countermeasures through the optimization of management and monitoring of year-on-year changes for companies that fertilizer amounts on farmland, leading to the reduction of N2O emissions have high CO2 emissions (overseas affiliated companies); continuation of last (Canada, U.S., Brazil, etc) year’s survey of water use by subsidiaries in key countries and other locations Formation and sale of solar power infrastructure funds through Mitsui & Co. Estimate of CO2 absorption (approx. 160,000 tons/year) through the Alternative Investments appropriate management and development of Mitsui’s Forests Investment in renewable energy projects through the Emerging Markets Infrastructure Fund Initiatives for Support by Toho Bussan for production and sales of rice grown using farming Shortening of transportation distance for logistics services (MGL) by utilization Preserving methods that develop biodiversity (Japan) of local ports (Japan) Biodiversity Initiatives to Reduce Effective utilization of waste products, including commercialization of chicken Addressing Provision of grants through the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund for university Environmental Load, manure by Prifoods, as a fertilizer and snow-melting agent (in carbonized Environmental Issues research and NPO/NGO activities that contribute to the solution of Including Curbing form), and utilization of tea leaf residues as a compost ingredient by Mitsui through environmental issues (21 grants totaling ¥171 million), and employee Global Warming Norin Contribution to participation in the activities of grant recipients (13 projects, approx. 200 Society participants) Sale of recycled feed made from food manufacturing by-products and other raw materials to compound feed manufacturers, resulting in the effective Implementation of school-visit classes for elementary, middle, and high school utilization of previously unused resources, and contributing to the creation of a students, utilizing Mitsui’s Forests (13 visits, approx. 800 participants), and forest recycling-based society and the improvement of the feed self-sufficiency ratio experience programs for elementary school children and their parents, employees and their families, and other participants (10 programs, approx. 300 Land, Infrastructure and Transport Minister’s Award in the 36th Green City participants) Awards won by Ikuta Green Space Management Consortium, for which Mitsui & Co. Foresight is the representative company Contribution to human resources development for the forestry and timber Reduction of energy consumption and environmental burdens through the industries through the continuing endowment of a lecture program at Keio renewal of plant utilities at MicroBiopharm Japan, resulting in an 84.7% yearUniversity (course completed by approx. 300 people) on-year reduction in energy use (crude oil equivalent) per unit of product Presentation of a special lecture program on the significance of forests owned Acquisition of LEED certification by Acibadem Altunizade Hospital as a by business corporations, in collaboration with the Tokyo University of sustainable medical facility (Turkey) Agriculture (approx. 100 participants) Supply of FSC® certified timber from Mitsui’s Forests in Mie Prefecture for use in a wooden building built for the Ise-Shima Summit Sustainability Report 2017 24 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Environmental Policy Policy Guiding Principles Message from 1. Mitsui & Co. believes that one of its most important management themes involves providing a positive response to environmental issues on a global group basis, in order to contribute to the creation of a future where the Mitsui’s Environmental Officer dreams of the inhabitants of our irreplaceable Earth can be fulfilled. Satoshi Tanaka 2. Mitsui & Co. will make every possible effort towards realizing a “sustainable development” which is aimed at Representative Director, Executive Vice President, creating a harmony between the economy and the environment on a global group basis. Environmental Officer In view of the above principles, and in accordance with the Action Guidelines shown below, Mitsui & Co. will design, periodically evaluate, and continually improve an adequate risk management system, including response to matters such as global warming, nature conservation with consideration given to biological diversity, and the prevention of pollution, which will cover the wide range of activities that it undertakes on a global scale. At the same time, we will strive to ensure the development and dissemination of earth-friendly technologies and further reinforce our We have entered an era in which an international community with diverse values increasingly expects business responsibility with respect to the environment on a global group basis. corporations to play a key role in finding solutions for environmental and social issues relating to climate change, resource recycling, biodiversity, and harmony with local communities. Business activities that are not in tune with society’s expectations are unlikely to survive long in this context. Action Guidelines “Sustainable development” is the key concept in the report of the Brundtland Commission, which was published by the United Nations in 1987 under the title “Our Common Future”. Since then, the idea of 1. Compliance with relevant We will comply with various relevant environmental laws and regulations, as well environmental laws and as all agreements signed by the company for promoting business activities. “sustainability” has been embraced as a symbolic slogan for global environmental issues. Today the concept of regulations sustainability has become a solid foundation for international initiatives, such as the United Nations Sustainable 2. Efficient utilization of We will strive to reduce the burden on the environment within each of our Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Agreement on climate change. We are witnessing the beginnings of a resources and energy workplaces and in our business activities through the efficient utilization of huge wave of change spanning multiple eras and generations, accompanied by an increasing awareness and resources and energy, as well as the reduction, reuse, and recycling of waste and focus on, environmental, social, and governance (ESG) perspectives. its proper disposal. As a company engaged in a wide variety of activities, Mitsui responds proactively to environmental and 3. Environmental care for We will give the utmost consideration to the environment to the extent social issues, and creates opportunities to address those issues at the global level. Of course we will continue to products and services technologically and economically feasible by exercising an appropriate degree offered, as well as existing of influence in enlisting the understanding and support of involved business strive toward sustainable growth by undertaking business activities that are based on genuine care for the and new businesses partners, as well as evaluating the impact that we have on the environment, not environment and society. We draw attention to the work of the Sustainability Committee, and also our Specially only in the prevention of pollution, but on such issues as global warming and Designated Business for environment-related project assessments. Our Environmental & Societal Advisory the conservation of biological diversity as well. Committee comprises external experts whose input is invaluable. Finally, We should mention our Mitsui & Co. 4. Contribution to providing We will engage in business activities with the goal of providing rational and Environment Fund, which supports the activities of NPOs, NGOs and academic researchers undertaking work industrial solutions to permanent industrial solutions, and contribute to the realization of sustainable environmental issues development by exploiting our individual abilities and the collective strengths relating to global environmental issues, a and numerous other social contribution initiatives and engagement of our organization in cooperation with our global partners. with stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2017 25 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Enhancement of Environmental Management System Environmental Management System System Addressing Environmental and Social Risks and Opportunities in Business System Environmental Management Philosophy Mitsui is expanding its business globally in six business areas: metals; machinery and infrastructure; chemicals; energy; Mitsui maintains environmental management systems based on ISO14001 and various international guidelines as the lifestyle; and innovation and corporate development. In conducting business in each of these areas, we categorize our basis for an active response to environmental and societal problems through the business activities into “new business phase” and “existing business phase”, and we have put in place mechanisms to ensure that activities of its global group. We acquired ISO14001 certification in 1999. Since the fiscal year the utmost consideration is given to the environment and society during our business activities in each of these phases. ended March 2017, we have been working to strengthen our compliance with Furthermore, in accordance with the SDG targets, we identify programs that are closely related to our business ISO14001:2015, including integration with business processes, initiatives in response to (such as biodiversity protection programs) as “opportunities”, and we introduced an internal subsidy system for such business risks and opportunities, and an increased emphasis on stakeholder perspectives. programs in the fiscal year ended March 2017. Mitsui is seeking to build a sustainable society by simultaneously resolving environmental and societal issues and enhancing business value. 【 Standards Covered】 ISO14001, ISO26000, the GRI Guidelines, the Equator Principles, the World Bank Procurement Policies and Guidelines, and the IUCN Guidelines Environmental Management System Responding to Environmental and Social Risks (as of March 2017) To facilitate effective environmental management, Mitsui has established the Environmental Management System on a global group basis. We have appointed an executive officer who is responsible for overall environmental management, Incorporation of Societal Needs and Various Perspectives while the General Manager of the Environmental-Social Contribution Division supervises the operation of the Shareholders, investors, business partners, consumers, government agencies, local communities, NGOs/NPOs/experts Environmental Management System. Other organizations, such as individual business units, each have their own environmental management structures established by the divisional/departmental general managers. We set companyEnvironmental Policy and Environmental Goals wide targets, and we are continually improving our environmental and societal risk management framework by means of periodic reviews, including Sustainability Committee meetings. Specially Designated Business Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Environmental Management Management System Improvement, Review, & Evaluation Improvement, Review, & Evaluation NPO/NGO activity grants Business that has a material impact on Compliance with Research grants for universities, the environment environmental regulations and other institutions Use the ESG Due Diligence Response to NGOs/NPOs Strategic grants for programs that Checklist Environmental accident resolve environmental problems, prevention ↓ programs in which employees can Environmental education/ participate, etc. Advice from external experts in training Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee meetings ↓ Ringi process & follow-up Contribute to fulfilling corporate social responsibilities and resolving environmental and societal issues through business activities Address such issues as climate change, ecosystem conservation, water conservation, environmental pollution, human rights, social involvement, information disclosure, corporate reputation Sustainability Report 2017 26 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Enhancement of Environmental Management System Environmental Management for New Business System Activity Environmental Management for Existing Business System Activity Specially designated business management systems and the Environmental & Societal Advisory In order to properly monitor and manage various environmental and social risks related to existing business operations, Committee we urge our affiliated companies that are engaged in activities that could cause significant environmental impacts to New business projects are subject to internal screening during the new business phase. If necessary, we convene establish environmental management systems based on the ISO14001 international environmental management meetings of the Sustainability Committee and the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee, which consists of standard, or on international guidelines relating to consideration for environmental and social factors. We encourage external experts. Directors make final decisions regarding ringi approval after receiving reports and proposals from these subsidiaries to establish their own autonomous environment management systems, while maintaining structures to committees as to whether or not a particular project should be promoted, or how it can be improved. The members of achieve continual improvement by monitoring and reviewing preventive measures based on reports on environmental the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee are selected mainly from among external experts who are familiar accidents and other problems. with a broad range of fields—including climate change, environmental restoration, environmental policy with respect to water, energy, etc., technology trends, human rights protection in relation to the environment and other matters—as Interactions with NGOs and NPOs well as attorneys and other knowledgeable individuals. Communication with NGOs and NPOs is essential to the progression of our relationship with society, and helps us to monitor our positioning in society. We work with NGOs and NPOs to implement programs that contribute to the Use of ESG due diligence checklists solution of environmental and societal issues. New business investment projects that will have a significant impact on the environment are investigated by experts. Before implementing these surveys, we first identify environmental and social risks, and create environmental, social Management of subsidiaries and governance (ESG) due diligence checklists for each project. These lists, which are compiled with reference to We identify domestic and overseas subsidiaries that need to acquire ISO14001 certification based on comprehensive international standards in relation to environmental and societal consideration, help us to focus on areas covered by assessments that take into account such factors as the type of industry, environmental and ecosystem impacts, and expert surveys. They are shared within the company and used to ensure that ESG perspectives are taken into account in input from stakeholders. We urge these companies to introduce environmental management systems based on relation not only to pollution prevention but also to analysis of risk factors in connection with climate change, ISO14001, or on international guidelines, and we help them to build robust management systems. ecosystems, indigenous peoples, and water stress. As of the end of March 2017, out of the 40 target companies, 35 subsidiaries have already acquired ISO14001certification, and 5 companies have introduced environmental management systems in line with international guidelines. Response to environmental accidents During the fiscal year ended March 2017, there were no environment-related incidents at Mitsui and its subsidiaries. We employ various measures to prevent recurrence of environmental accidents, including the use of collections of case studies to raise employee awareness. Any accident is promptly reported to the relevant units, and comprehensive steps are taken to prevent recurrence, beginning with the identification of the true cause of the accident and an assessment to determine appropriate corrective and preventive measures. Sustainability Report 2017 27 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Enhancement of Environmental Management System Acquisition of Environment-related Certification System Mitsui promotes sustainable procurement in partnership with suppliers throughout the world. We work actively to Salmon Farming Business (Chile) achieve environment-related certification in Japan and overseas, including FSC® certification for forests, and ASC and Mitsui is a shareholder and participant in the business operations of MSC certification for fisheries recognizing the importance of natural capital. We also develop procurement mechanisms Salmones Multiexport S.A., a major salmon farming, processing, and sales that take into account the need to address global warming and conserve biodiversity. company in Chile. This company has obtained certification as a sustainable ® aquaculture business under the Best Aquaculture Practices (BAP) system*3, which focuses the five key areas of environmental conservation, social responsibility, animal welfare, food safety, and traceability. Company-owned forests “Mitsui’s Forests” (Japan) Salmones Multiexport also achieved Aquaculture Stewardship Council (ASC) certification*4 for four of its sites in 2015, and is now In 2009, Mitsui obtained FSC® certification*1 for all of its 74 forest-lands (approx. 44,000 hectares) throughout preparing to obtain certification for additional locations. Japan. Our purpose in seeking certification under this international standard was to obtain verification, based *3 This certification system is planned and administered by the Global Aquaculture Alliance (GAA), a US-based NGO dedicated to the establishment and spread on objective assessments, that our forests are being managed sustainably with proper consideration for of responsible aquaculture. The system certifies each component of the aquaculture value chain including hatchery, feed mill, farm, and processing plant. The program, which is depicted by the BAP eco-label, is supported by numerous retailers and commercial food suppliers, especially in North America. environment, society and the economy. Mitsui was the first private company in Japan to obtain this *4 The aim of the ASC certification system is to ensure that markets and consumers are supplied with responsibly produced aquaculture products, by certifying certification for large-scale forests covering an area of over 10,000 hectares. aquaculture businesses that show consideration for local communities and do not impose a major burden on the environment. Qualifying products are instantly recognizable thanks to the use of eco-labels. Among the different types of FSC® certification, Mitsui has received Forest Management (FM) certification, while Mitsui Bussan Forest, an affiliated company, has received Chain of Custody (CoC) certification for the processing and distribution of cut lumber. As a result, Mitsui became the largest supplier of domestic FSC®-certified wood in Japan. Food Importation and Sales (U.S.) *1 FSC® certification is based on international standards established by the Forest Stewardship Council, a non-profit committee-type organization that Our subsidiary, Mitsui Foods, Inc. (MFI), imports and sells canned tuna certified under the Marine administers an international forest certification system. Certification is provided for timber that was managed and produced in a way that preserves the forest environment and benefits local communities, while also ensuring economic sustainability. Stewardship Council (MSC) system*5, the aim of which is to ensure the sustainable supply of seafood over the long-term future. MFI has also obtained MSC certification as an individual company for its careful management at the distribution stage. Feed Business (Japan) *5 The aim of this system is to ensure the sustainable utilization of marine resources. Certification is limited to marine products that are Our affiliated company, Feedone Co., Ltd., manufactures and sells organic animal harvested appropriately in terms of catch size, timing, methods, etc., and that are processed and distributed appropriately. The MSC label (Marine Ecolabel, MSC Ecolabel) indicates that products have been produced responsibly from the perspective of marine resources and the ocean environment. feed products produced using methods designed to minimize the environmental burden, in compliance with the Japan Agricultural Standards (Notification 1607 of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries). Shrimp Exporting Business (Vietnam) As a shareholder, Mitsui participates in the management of Minh Phu Hau Giang Seafood Joint Stock Company, a Vietnamese company engaged in shrimp processing and exporting. The company has Palm Oil Import Business (Malaysia) obtained environment-related certification, under the ASC, BAP and Global Good Agricultural Practice Wangsa Mujur Sdn. Bhd., in which Mitsui invests and participates, has acquired certification from the (GAP) systems*6, to meet the needs of buyers and consumers seeking products that have been produced Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO),*2 a nonprofit organization that promotes the production responsibly with care for the environment. and use of sustainable palm oil. The RSPO stipulates the legal, economic, environmental, and social *6 Aquaculture system indicates that a company has met global standards for food safety and sustainable production management. conditions required for sustainable palm oil production in 8 principles and 43 criteria, and Wangsa The full production chain is verified from broodstock, farming, feed and processing. Currently there are 35 countries implementing this standard for 30 species from the finfish, crustaceans and molluscs worldwide. Mujur operates in accordance with its policy. *2 RSPO certification aims to advance the production, procurement, and use of sustainable palm oil and lessen the impact and burden on the environment of producing countries and neighboring communities. Sustainability Report 2017 28 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Enhancement of Environmental Management System Compliance with Environment-related Laws and Regulations System Our efforts to meet our corporate social responsibilities and keep pace with the expansion of those responsibilities Response to REACH regulations include the creation of compliance assurance mechanisms based on our environmental management system. We also REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorization, and Restriction of Chemicals) is legislation developed by the European use training and other methods to ensure that staff both in Japan and overseas understand and comply with various Union (EU) that regulates the registration and assessment of chemicals and the permits required. The REACH legislation environmental laws and regulations. became effective on June 1, 2007, with pre-registration completed on December 1, 2008, the first full registration in At the start of each business year, environmental representative in each department use environmental law November 2010, and the second full registration in May 2013. compliance checking tools to identify environment-related laws and regulations that are relevant to the operations of All manufacturers and importers in the EU are subject to the REACH regulations. their units. They also assess compliance every half-year. In addition, an internal environmental audit or environmental In cooperation with its European offices, Mitsui has completed the establishment of a database covering all the self-check process is carried out every year to confirm that environmental management systems are being applied relevant chemical substances, and has established a system for confirming compliance with REACH regulations prior to effectively. Mitsui itself, as well as any subsidiaries whose activities could have significant environmental impacts, conclusion of a contract. acquires certification under ISO14001 or equivalent standards. We have established effective environmental law compliance mechanisms based on environmental management systems developed according to these standards. Other Applicable Environmental Laws and Regulations In promoting business activities, we comply with various environmental laws and regulations, as well as other relevant Energy saving laws and regulations laws and regulations. With the idea of compliance and environmental conservation in mind, we abide by energy saving laws and regulations (laws related to rationalizing energy use), and we are promoting of energy conservation in office and developing Act on Special Measures Concerning Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Wastes/Act on Rational Use and Proper environmentally friendly business activities. Management of Fluorocarbons/Water Pollution Prevention Act/Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act/Act on the With transportation operations in Japan in excess of 30 million ton-kilo-meters* per year, Mitsui is classified as a Promotion of Sorted Collection and Recycling of Containers and Packaging/Act on Promotion of Recycling and Related “Specified Consigner”. Activities for Treatment of Cyclical Food Resources/Air Pollution Control Act/Offensive Odor Control Law/Chemical We therefore calculate the total amount of freight based on Mitsui-owned cargo as well as freight arranged for Substances Control Law/Pollutant Release and Transfer Register Law/Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control transportation in Japan. Act/Fire Service Act/Industrial Safety and Health Act When Mitsui became a Specified Consigner, we began to carry out an array of company-wide initiatives to promote efficient energy use in our logistics business in accordance with the requirements of the Energy Savings Act. These initiatives included making improvements to our operating systems and arranging seminars and other information events. * Ton-kilo-meters are calculated by multiplying the number of metric tons of cargo by the distance they are transported (in kilometers). Compliance with Waste Disposal Laws Mitsui operates in compliance with the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Law (also referred to as “Waste Disposal Law” or “Waste Law”). In order to properly manage the disposal of industrial waste generated through logistics operations and general waste from business activities, we have formulated a workflow in connection with the handling of industrial waste and general waste from business activities, and have prepared FAQ documents. These tools and documents have been utilized by relevant divisions and departments. We also hold periodic seminars within the company to increase awareness and understanding of proper waste disposal practices, covering such matters as the selection of waste management subcontractors and manifest compilation and management. Sustainability Report 2017 29 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Enhancement of Environmental Management System Seminars and training sessions held in the fiscal year ended March 2017 Environmental Education/Communication System Activity Title Number of times per year Target audience Outline As we work to accelerate environmental initiatives across the global group, it is vital that we raise the environmental Training Seminars on Held three times Mainly officers and Management methods based on ISO14001, recent environmental law Environmental Laws and Approx. 100 participants employees of Mitsui and trends, basic knowledge, key law amendments, etc. awareness of each of our employees at all levels. We conduct seminars and training sessions to promote these Regulations its affiliated companies messages internally. Environment Seminar: Held twice Officers and employees Lecture on the responsibilities of Generator (waste-disposing parties) “Lecture on Environmental Approx. 110 participants of Mitsui and its affiliated and precautions related to industrial waste. The tour of the processing Waste and Tour of companies facility aims to promote understanding of the importance and efficacy of Training Seminars on Environmental Laws and Regulations Processing Facility” on-site verification. New Staff Induction Held once New employees The program includes explanations about the environmental and social risks We work to raise awareness of environmental issues among employees of Mitsui and its subsidiaries and affiliated Training (Environment) Approx. 190 participants in Mitsui’s business operations, and the measures used to prevent those risks. companies through regular seminars, environmental law training sessions, and ISO14001 training programs. We also Temporary Staff Induction Held 9 times Temporary employees The programs include explanations on the environmental policy of regularly publish in-house environment and social newsletters as a way of raising the environmental awareness of Training (Environment) Approx. 40 participants Mitsui as a part of introductory training provided by the Human Induction Training for Held 4 times General and seconded Resources and General Affairs Division to inform newly hired employees officers and employees. General/Seconded Contract Approx. 90 participants contract employees about Mitsui’s management philosophy (MVV) and rules and regulations, Staff (Environment) the importance of compliance, and other matters Environmental education policy, planning, and aims Awareness activities (seminars, etc.) Environmental auditor training Mitsui Environment Month New Hires Induction Course (Environment) Training Seminars on Environmental Laws and Mitsui has designated June each year as the “Mitsui Environment Month”, during which a variety of programs for officers and employees Regulations Induction Course for Temporary Staff (Environment) ISO14001 ISO14001 Provisional Auditor Training of Mitsui and its affiliated companies are held as a part of Mitsui’s environmental education activities. During Mitsui Environment Month Temporary Staff Induction Course for Contract Employees/Secondees ISO14001 Lead Auditor Training 2016, we held the following lectures and “Forest School” presentations about company-owned forests. working at Mitsui (Environment) Environmental Representative in each Lecture: Saving the Earth with New Lifestyles Environment Month (Seminars, lectures, etc.) Environmental department Induction Course (Professor Masaru Kitano (Doctor of Engineering), College of Humanities, Shukutoku University, Continuing Environment Seminar Plant visits (learning key aspects of approximately 100 participants) Management Education Environment-related Newsletter environmental management) Participants commented that their own lifestyles were changing steadily in step with changes in their environmental awareness, that they had realized that they could help to alleviate environmental problems by changing their attitudes and behavior, and that the lecture had been very informative, with specific explanations about issues confronting Training seminars on environmental laws and regulations humanity, such as global warming and energy problems. Professor Masaru Kitano We hold seminars for employees of Mitsui and its subsidiaries and Lecture: Using the Sea to Prevent Global Warming, and Improving the Ocean affiliated companies regarding environmental laws and regulations. Environment Starting from the fiscal year ended March 2014, we began co-hosting (Mr. Nobuyuki Furukawa, President, Yokohama Hakkeijima Inc., approximately 60 participants) these seminars with other trading firms, thereby helping to further Participants said that they had gained a new awareness of the various roles played by the aquarium business, including education about the value of life, nutritional education, and environment-related compliance. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, contributions to environmental conservation and local communities. Others commented approximately 100 people participated from Mitsui group companies. that this was the first time that they had heard about “blue carbon” concept, and that they We also conducted a separate training seminar on the Waste had learned that the sea absorbs a higher percentage of carbon dioxide than forests. Mr. Nobuyuki Furukawa Management and Public Cleansing Law, providing classroom training Lecture: The Role of the FSC® in International Forecast Certification̶A Green Employees attend lectures about industrial waste and visit Symbol Linking You with Forests focused on precautions in regard to complying with the Law, as well as disposal facilities and plants. (Ms. Emika Kono, Key Account Officer, Forest Stewardship Council Japan, approximately 80 participants) training that covered procedures for on-site checks at waste disposal Participants felt that using the FSC® management standards as the starting point for a facilities and actual visits to such facilities. presentation about the management of company-owned forests was a novel approach. They said that the mini-lecture had reminded them about the importance of integrated management encompassing not only forests but also finished products. Others said that they had learned that certified products were sold and used in many places, and that in the future Ms. Emika Kono they would try to choose goods on the basis of environmental responsibility as well as price. Sustainability Report 2017 30 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation Environment-Related Business The increasing seriousness of climate change, population growth, resource depletion, and other issues is through our engagement in the development and operation of various railway projects, in addition to our reflected in growing public interest in nature and biodiversity conservation, the low-carbon, recyclinglong-term railway lease business. As of the end of March, 2017, the total railroad track network in which oriented society, and renewable energy, as well as in an expanding range of initiatives targeting these Mitsui is involved now amounts to 10,700 kilometers for freight services and 1,922 kilometers for passenger issues. trains. Mitsui & Co. engages in a wide range of business in the world around us, and, under the Environmental In the resource recycling field, in addition to development of underground resources, Mitsui has also Policy Action Guidelines, it positions active participation in finding industrial solutions for environmental positioned the recycling of aboveground resources as an area for emphasis within its comprehensive issues as one of its highest management priorities. Accordingly, we carry out a broad spectrum of energy and environmental strategy. The objective of these activities is to offer industrial solutions to environment-related business activities on a global group basis. environmental problems and provide stable supplies of various resources. In the renewable energy field, responding to global warming and building a sustainable society, Mitsui In the paper manufacturing resource business, Mitsui has been engaged in afforestation projects on is pursuing and strengthening its initiatives related to renewable energy projects all over the world. As of the scale of about 30,000 hectares with the aim of securing resources for pulp and paper manufacturing. March 31, 2017, renewable energy, including hydroelectric power, accounted for approximately 20% of By cultivating sustainable forests, these projects contribute to protecting valuable natural resources, Mitsui’s total power generating capacity of 10.4GW. absorbing and chemically immobilizing carbon dioxide, preserving biodiversity, and preventing soil In the modal shift field, we are contributing to building and improving transportation infrastructure erosion and salt pollution. Bii Stinu Wind Project (Oaxaca, Mexico) Siemens Electric locomotive in Europe Precision Agricultural Solutions Business Sustainability Report 2017 31 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation Renewable Energy Activity Project Company name Country Generating capacity/Scale Project Company name Country Generating capacity/Scale Solar power generation business Haneda Solar Power Co., Ltd. Japan 2MW Wind power generation business SOP Wind Canada 40MW Tottori Yonago Solar Park Japan 42.9MW West Cape Wind Canada 99MW Izumiotsu Solar Park Japan 19.6MW Caribou Wind Canada 99MW Tomatoh Abira Solar Park Japan 111MW Harrow Wind Canada 40MW Kumamoto Arao Solar Park Japan 22.4MW PAR Wind Canada 49MW Omuta Miike Port Solar Park Japan 19.6MW Plateau Wind Canada 27MW Hamamatsu Solar Park Japan 43MW ELSC Wind Canada 99MW Tahara Solar-Wind Joint Project Japan 50MW Erieau Wind Canada 99MW Brockville Solar Canada 10MW Cape Scott Wind Canada 99MW Beckwith Solar Canada 10MW Brazos Wind U.S.A. 160MW Solar thermal power generation Guzman Energia S.L. Spain 50MW Eoliatec del Istmo Mexico 164MW business Eoliatec del Pacifico Mexico 160MW Wind power generation business NS Wind Power Hibiki Japan 15MW Zajaczkowo Windfarm Poland 48MW Tahara Solar-Wind Joint Project Japan 6MW Biomass power generation business Green Power Ichihara Japan 50MW Wind Farm Hamada Japan 48MW Tomakomai Biomass Power Generation Co., Japan 5.9MW Norway Wind Canada 9MW Ltd. Run-of-river hydroelectric power Energia Sustentavel do Brasil Brazil 3,750MW generation business Spanish Hydro Spain 84MW Sustainability Report 2017 32 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation Modal Shift Activity Recycling Activity Quantitative effects/ Business investment Business investment (Company name) Main business Country Main business Country Business size project size (Company name) Mitsui & Co. Global Logistics., LTD. Tokyo Bay barge transportation Japan 92.3% reduction in CO2 MM & KENZAI Corporation Metal scrap collection and sales business Japan Handles 7 million tons/year of (Ichihara to Yokohama) emissions compared to truck metal scrap transportation Kyoei Recycling Co., Ltd. Industrial waste processing and gas Japan Processing capacity of 27,000 mt/ MRC (Mitsui Rail Capital, LLC) Freight wagon leasing business U.S.A. Four global basis (US, Brazil, production year, 140,000 Nm3/day Europe, Russia) Freight wagons: approx. Mitsui Bussan Metals Co., Ltd. Non-ferrous metal scrap and nonJapan Handles 100,000 tons/year of 16,000 ferrous metal product trading business non-ferrous metal scrap MRC-LA Freight wagon rental business Brazil Locomotives: approx. 300 (Mitsui Rail Capital Participacões) Sims Metal Management Ltd. General recycling business (metal scrap, North America, Handles 12 million tons/year of electronic device recycling, etc.) Europe, metal scrap, etc. MRCE Locomotive leasing business Europe Australia, New (Mitsui Rail Capital Europe B.V.) Zealand, and elsewhere MRC1520 (MRC1520 LLC) Freight wagon leasing business Russia Wuhan GHM Auto Parts Remanufacturing of automotive parts China 360,000 units of remanufactured VLI Freight transportation business Brazil Operating a railway network of Remanufacturing Co., Ltd. automotive parts per year approx. 10,700 km and port terminals SuperVia (Supervia Concessionária de Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. Transporte Ferroviário S.A) business 620,000 passengers per day Paper Manufacturing Resource Business Activity (Rio de Janeiro suburban railway) (December 2016) Carioca (Concessionária do VLT Carioca S.A) Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. business 30,000 passengers per day Business investment (Company name) Country Business size (Rio de Janeiro Light Rail Train) (December 2016) BTP (Bunbury Treefarm Project) Australia 9,400ha Via Quatro (Concessionária da Linha 4 do Passenger railway transportation Brazil Transportation record: Approx. Metrô de São Paulo S.A.) business 630,000 passengers per day GTP (Green Triangle Treefarm Project) Australia 1,500ha (São Paulo metro line no. 4) (December 2016) PTP (Portland Treefarm Project) Australia 1,600ha BFP (Bunbury Fibre Plantations Pty., Ltd.) Australia 15,000ha Sustainability Report 2017 33 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives toward Environmental Value Creation Other Environment-Related Business Activity Global Warming Prevention Initiatives through Business Activity Project Main business Forest Asset Management Business With the aim of contributing to the development of a sustainable society through ensuring a stable supply of forest resources, Mitsui Materials for secondary Structuring systems for the stable production and supply of secondary battery materials, including principally concluded an equity participation agreement with New Forests Pty Limited (“New Forests”, Sydney, Australia), which has been engaging in battery use those used in lithium-ion batteries forestry asset management business in Oceania, Asia, and North America. High-pressurized tanks Import and sale of tanks for installation on vehicles powered by natural gas and fuel cells New Forests was established in 2005. It has been entrusted with the control and management of forestry funds worth a total of 2.8 for NGVs and FCVs billion Australian dollars (approximately ¥240 billion) and manages forests covering 600,000 hectares. Forestry assets belonging to funds Car-sharing business Operation of a car-sharing business that utilizes high fuel-efficiency, low-pollution vehicles (Singapore) managed by New Forests in Oceania are used mainly to produce paper raw materials and construction timber. Having assets in Asia helps to ensure reliable supplies of wood-based materials to meet growing demand as living standards rise. Other investment targets include rubber Water treatment business Participation in four major water treatment projects (including one still under construction) in the State of plantations in Southeast Asia. In North America, New Forests manages not only forestry resources but also a fund that sells greenhouse gas in Mexico Jalisco and other parts of Mexico through a consolidated subsidiary, Atlatec, S.A. de C.V. (headquartered in Mexico) emission rights to meet the needs of energy companies and other users. In addition to its global business development and management capabilities, New Forests has also adopted forestry asset investment and management policies that comply with the United Nations Water and sewer In September 2013, Mitsui and FCC Aqualia, a leading water management company in Spain, entered into a concession business in water concession business in Ostrava, Czech Republic. The project company is currently supplying drinking Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI)*. Under these policies, in principle, all of its the Czech Republic water, including bulk water, and a sewage water treatment service for approximately 1.3 million users investments and business operations must be certified by independent bodies. Through this investment, Mitsui will contribute to the sustainable development High-grade urea solution: Mitsui & Co. Plastics Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary, is building and expanding a nationwide network of sales AdBlue® business and logistics locations and infrastructure for Mitsui Chemicals’ AdBlue®, which converts the nitrogen oxides of forestry resources, which relates closely to the global environment and for which contained in exhaust gases into harmless water and nitrogen further demand growth is anticipated. Solar power generation Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary, offers cloud-based remote monitoring services * The six Principles for Responsible Investment were announced by the United Nations in April monitoring service to check the operation status of solar power generation facilities and detect any irregular behavior and 2006. They call for the reflection of perspectives relating to the environment, society, and malfunction corporate governance (ESG) in the decision-making processes and in the shareholding policies of institutional investors. A forest plantation managed by New Forests in Australia Cloud-based energy Mitsui Knowledge Industry Co., Ltd., a consolidated subsidiary, offers cloud-based energy saving management saving service service with automatic and remote control of air conditioning operation in commercial facilities Wood Biomass Power Generation Business Investment for the Mitsui invested in the venture company LanzaTech New Zealand Limited, which is developing technology to Mitsui has established Tomakomai Biomass Power Co., Ltd. in Tomakomai City, Hokkaido through a joint investment with Iwakura Corporation, development of microbe convert carbon monoxide (CO) and carbon dioxide (CO2) into fuel and chemicals via the microorganism gas Sumitomo Forestry Co., Ltd., and Hokkaido Gas Co., Ltd. The company has commenced power generation business using wood biomass fuel. gas fermentation fermentation process Wood biomass power generation is a carbon neutral method of supplying energy and is expected to contribute to the prevention of technology global warming. The plan is to utilize 100% of previously unused wood* from forests in Hokkaido, including company-owned forests Precision agricultural Mitsui has acquired an equity stake in Farmers Edge of Canada, a precision agriculture and independent data “Mitsui’s Forests” to produce woodchip fuel. This will facilitate the improvement of solutions business management solution provider which helps farmers to raise crop yields and reduce costs by assisting them with the implementation of efficient fertilizer application plans, which contributes to reducing environmental forests in Hokkaido and contribute to the development of the forestry industry. The burdens project also has considerable social significance, including contribution to community revitalization through job creation. Lithium ion secondary Mitsui contributes to realizing a sustainable energy consumption society by providing solutions to save cell business in China electricity via our business participation in Tianjin EV Energies Co., Ltd., which manufactures and sells Mitsui has close links to the region through its Hokkaido Office, and is rechargeable batteries for electric automobiles, hybrid automobiles, and plug-in hybrid automobiles in China expanding its network with companies and local governments in the region. We will Japan-Australia Mitsui and other participants carried out a demonstration of the new oxyfuel technology in the Callide Oxyfuel continue to use our experience with wood biomass power generation to identify demonstration project Project, a public-private initiative by Japan and Australia. The project, using carbon capture and storage (CCS) new energy projects that can contribute to the stable supply of energy. for oxyfuel and CCS technology, aims for zero-emission electricity generation at coal-fired power stations by recovering CO2 from the technologies stations and injecting the gases underground for storage. Demonstration operation at the Callide A Power Station * Forest (timber) resources that have previously not been utilized, such as thinning timber and residual materials from forests. Tomakomai Biomass Power in central Queensland was completed successfully, and we will utilize the technology in commercial projects Sustainability Report 2017 34 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, Including Curbing Global Warming (with Environmental Data) Concerning the data marked with ★, an independent practitioner’s assurance report in accordance with the international standards ISAE 3000 and 3410 CO2 Emissions★ established by the IAASB was provided by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. 2,000 P.86 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 1,850 1,730 1,500 Management of Environmental Burden on a Global Group Basis Activity 1,000 725 622 642 Mitsui is carrying out initiatives for the reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from energy sources on a global 500 group basis. From the fiscal year ended March 2006, Mitsui has continually surveyed its domestic GHG emissions in order to understand its fixed quantity of emissions year by year. Mitsui has also announced its objective of reducing 0 energy consumption for Mitsui itself as well as for its domestic subsidiaries, by an average of over 1% per year. The entire (Unit: 1,000t-CO2 ) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 global group is working to achieve the goal through various measures, including improvement in energy efficiency. In addition, Mitsui has begun surveying the GHG emissions of its overseas subsidiaries since the fiscal year ended March Management of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions (Unit: 1,000t-CO2) 2009 and we are continuing to explore new initiatives to reduce GHG on a global group basis. FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 SCOPE1★ 1,364 1,460 384 284 314 Energy Consumption★ SCOPE2★ 366 390 341 338 328 SCOPE3* — — — 42 37 FY2011 20,000 19,475 Energy Consumption Total 1,730 1,850 725 664 679 19,274 19,462TJ * The sources include employees commuting, business trips, logistics amounts, and waste amounts. 15,000 12,334 10,495 10,865 Water Consumption (Unit: Thousand m3) 10,000 878 FY2015 FY2016 4,941 5,000 25,846 39,502 5,046 0 <Scope of coverage and calculation criteria> （TJ） FY2012 FY2013 FY2015 FY2015 FY2016 The scope of coverage for energy consumption, CO2 emissions, and water consumption includes Mitsui, domestic affiliated companies, and overseas affiliated companies: ・Figures for Mitsui are calculated in accordance with the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (factories and Steam workplaces). The scope of Mitsui includes not only its Headquarters, offices, and branches, but also buildings owned by Mitsui in Japan as well as Electricity buildings, offices, and training centers rented by Mitsui. Fuels ・Affiliated companies in Japan are domestic subsidiaries as specified in the Financial Instruments and Exchange Law. Calculation is carried out based on the computation criteria stipulated in the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. ・Overseas affiliated companies are overseas subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Calculation is carried out based on the computation criteria stipulated in the GHG protocols ”Emission Factors from Cross Sector Tools (April 2014).0” and “GHG emissions from purchased electricity (Version 4.7)” of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. ・We expanded the scope of coverage (including estimates) for the results of FY2015 and onwards. ・Estimates are calculated by using CO2 emission factors by country/region released by the International Energy Agency (IEA). The calculation method for the estimates has been changed since FY2016, and figures for the previous fiscal years are recalculated by the current method. Sustainability Report 2017 35 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, Including 地球温暖化防止などの環境負荷軽減 （環境データ含む） Curbing Global Warming (with Environmental Data) Reducing the Environmental Impact of Offices Activity Activity Paper Consumption★ We promote reduction in paper consumption by initially setting up every multifunctional printer with All employees at Mitsui strive to reduce the burden on the environment not only when conducting business, but also in double-face printing and other measures. We also promote use of recycled paper to reduce the their office activities through the efficient utilization of energy resources, as well as the reduction, reuse, and recycling of environmental burden resulting from raw material procurement. The utilization rate of recycled paper waste and its proper disposal, with the targets of “reduction of electricity consumption by 1% or higher on average per for FY2016 was 99%. year” and “a recycling rate of 85% or higher by 2020”. 60,000 13.766 15 13.249 Electricity Consumption★ 11.790 11.970 11.530 0.124 40,000 10 0.123 30,000 0.12 0.105 0.106 0.106 57,833 56,588 20,000 50,155 50,369 48,529 5 20,000 20,155 20,434 19,097 0.08 15,739 15,598 0 0 10,000 0.04 (Thousand sheets: FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Per unit A4-size sheet equivalent) (1,000 sheets /employee) 0 0.00 Waste★ (Unit: MWh) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Per unit (1,000 kWh/ 1m2 of utilized area) 3,000 0.3 0.343 Water Consumption★ 0.278 0.281 At the Headquarters, we use recycled water for toilet flushing in order to promote reduction in water 2,000 0.242 0.252 0.2 consumption. 1,421 The wastewater amount for FY2016 was 61,986 m3 (The amount of wastewater that cannot be 1,140 1,171 1,000 989 1,034 0.1 measured is calculated on the premise that such amount is equal to the amount of water used). 871 988 1,222 801 832 80,000 20 0 269 183 199 188 202 0 16.074 16.857 （t） FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Per unit 60,000 14.357 15.133 15 (t/employee) 13.643 mount of ﬁnal disposal 40,000 10 Amount recycled 65,921 70,228 59,553 55,827 61,986 20,000 5 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 0 0 Recycling rate (%)★ 76.4 84.4 86.0 81.0 80.5 (Unit: m3) FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Per unit (m3/employee) <Scope of coverage and calculation criteria> • The scope of coverage for electricity consumption and paper consumption includes all offices in Japan (Tokyo Headquarters, 6 Offices, and 5 Branches). • The scope of coverage for water consumption and waste includes Tokyo Headquarters and Mitsui-owned buildings (Osaka and Nagoya). • We changed the calculation method, and recalculated the figures for the previous fiscal years. Sustainability Report 2017 36 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Load, Including Curbing Global Warming (with Environmental Data) Initiatives toward Environmentally-friendly Logistics Activity Environmental Accounting/Environmental Liabilities Activity In collaboration with our logistics partners, we implement energy saving measures, including promotion of economical Environmental Conservation Costs driving practices and other fuel-saving techniques, improvement in transportation efficiency by using larger transport The cost of environmental conservation during the fiscal year ended March 2017 is outlined below. vehicles, introducing cargo consolidation arrangements, and reviewing transport routes, and modal shifts using rail and （Unit: 1,000JPY） ship transport. Category Investments Expenses Business areas costs 632,787 817,982 Freight Volumes Handled by Mitsui★ Upstream/downstream costs 3,499 86,519 1,500 0.0206 0.021 Administration costs 126 442,177 0.0199 0.0198 0.0183 Social activity costs 0 452,707 1,000 0.0144 0.014 Environmental remediation costs 0 53 767 Other cost 8,874 2,536 635 0.0 580 624 0.0 83 Total 645,286 1,801,974 500 0.1 510 0.0 0.007 89 0.0 92 85 89 684 <Scope of coverage and calculation criteria> 491 532 550 421 •The scope of coverage includes all offices in Japan (Tokyo Headquarters, 6 Offices, and 5 Branches). 0 0 •We calculated the figures based on the Environmental Accounting Guidelines (2005 version) published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. (Unit: Million FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Per unit (kl/1,000 ton-kilo-meters∗) ton-kilo-meters∗) Environmental Conservation/Economic Effects Ship Mitsui’s environmental conservation and economic effects in the areas of paper consumption and energy consumption Truck Air/Rail during the fiscal year ended March 2017 are shown below. * Ton-kilo-meters are calculated by multiplying the number of metric tons of cargo by the distance (kilometers) they are transported. Environmental conservation effects Economic effects (Unit:1,000JPY) Paper consumption 1,839 Thousand sheets 1,673 Initiatives toward Environmentally-friendly Logistics Electricity consumption △15 MWh 32,541 Selection of transportation method Use of railways, shipping (modal shift) <Scope of coverage and calculation criteria> Use of sophisticated freight services • The scope of coverage for paper consumption (Sheet: A4-size sheet equivalent) includes all offices in Japan (Tokyo Headquarters, 6 Offices, and 5 Branches). Measures to improve transportation Use of shared/mixed loading efficiency Selection of appropriate vehicle class • The scope of coverage for electricity consumption includes Tokyo Headquarters and Mitsui-owned buildings (Osaka and Nagoya). Optimization of routing and method • Environmental conservation/economic effects are calculated by subtracting actual numerical results for the current fiscal year from actual numerical results for Scaling up of vehicle size the previous fiscal year. Use of most efficient freight vehicles Review of schedules to avoid congestion Alliances between transportation service Review of distribution frequencies Assessment of Environmental Liabilities providers and users Adoption of coordinated logistics planning Currently, demands are being placed on corporate management to make proactive efforts regarding environmental Measures to increase fuel efficiency Eco-drive driving techniques Installation of fuel-saving equipment issues. In addition to satisfying legal requirements, Mitsui understands the environmental risks (particularly asbestos, PCB, and soil pollution) related to tangible fixed assets such as the land and buildings owned by Mitsui itself, as well as those owned by its domestic group companies, through self-driven surveys, and in light of such risks, makes decisions and judgement related to management policies. Sustainability Report 2017 37 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity Conservation of Biodiversity through Business Activity About Initiatives at Mitsui’s Forests Policy Eucalyptus Tree-Planting Program Overview of Mitsui’s Forests Mitsui is carrying out a eucalyptus tree-planting program in Australia, together with partners such as Nippon Paper Industries Co., Ltd., for the stable Mitsui owns forests in 74 locations in Japan, from Hokkaido in the north to Kyushu in the south. Company-owned forests provision of wood chips (the raw material for paper). As of the end of March 2017, the total area planted stood at around 30,000 hectares, and the “Mitsui’s Forests” cover a total area of approximately 44,000 hectares, which is equivalent to about 70% of the area of Tokyo’s 23 project was in its second rotation. We will continue to develop this business while ensuring appropriate management with proper consideration for wards, or 0.1% of Japan’s territory. In accordance with our Forest Management Policy, we have worked to protect and nurture the environment from a long-term perspective. these forests and make productive use of the benefits that they provide. For tree-planting areas, we have acquired either FSC® (Forest Stewardship Council) certification or the Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) (both of which are international certifications), in order to promote sustainable use and protection of forests. With periodic certification audits, we comply with the criteria set by the relevant certification bodies, and engage in business in consideration of biodiversity Forest Management Policy Policy conservation. As an example of our efforts, we preserve wetlands and headwaters in treeplanting areas where many kinds of flora and fauna live, in order to protect the 1. Guiding Principle In line with its Management Philosophy, Mitsui will actively contribute to protecting our irreplaceable Earth and fulfilling the dreams of its inhabitants, and we are committed to carefully nurturing our forests ecosystem of such areas. We are also actively preventing the supplanting of native to pass them on to the next generation. vegetation by controlling specific invasive weeds. In waterfront and tree-planting sites and surrounding areas, all forest management activities are carried out with reference to 2. Management Policy Mitsui gives its forests the status of “assets with a high degree of public use that benefit the whole of the database of rare species (for native reptiles, mammals, birds, fish, etc.) of Australia’s society”. As well as providing the reusable natural resource of lumber, forests can fulfill a range of socially beneficial functions if properly managed and enhanced on a consistent basis; for instance, they can purify Department of Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities. As a the atmosphere by absorbing carbon dioxide to produce oxygen, and they can act as a reservoir that result, these activities also serve to protect native species, headwaters, and water quality. A forest plantation in Australia stores and purifies rainwater. On the other hand, if forests are neglected and not adequately maintained, they may increase the likelihood of natural disasters and develop into a source of other social problems. Jirau Hydroelectric Power Plant Aware of the social value that its forests possess, Mitsui regards their long-term ownership and Located on the Madeira River in Brazil’s Rondonia State, the Jirau Hydroelectric Power Plant uses the run-of-the-river system, whereby the natural flow of maintenance as an important social responsibility. So as to maximize the socially beneficial functions of our forests, we work to enhance these functions based on the FSC®’s Forest Management Principles and the river is used to drive generators. By supplying power to approximately 10 million people in metropolitan Sao Paolo, the facility reduces the need to Criteria, and also SGEC’s Forest Management Certification Principles and Indicators. generate power by burning fossil fuels. As one of the biggest hydropower plants certified by the United Nations, the station also earns emission rights for 6 million tons of CO2 per year. The Madeira River is a tributary of the Amazon River and forms part of the Amazon Basin, a region that is known for its rich 3. Activity Policy In its concrete activities in the context of its forest holdings, Mitsui will act conscientiously on the basis of biodiversity but is also under serious threat from forest depletion. Because of its location, the Jirau project has been closely watched by local communities, the management policy outlined above, giving full consideration to their social significance and maintaining a strong awareness of their environmental impact. Accordingly, we will redouble our efforts NGOs, and other stakeholders, and every possible step is being taken to ensure that the plant is operated in an environmentally responsible way. As part of in the following areas: an approximately ¥60 billion environmental program, we conducted preliminary surveys to identify every possible impact that could affect the local Offering Forest Environmental Programs to stakeholders environment and communities. We then built hospitals, schools, and new housing to improve the local living environment. Other initiatives include Research work and concrete action to preserve biodiversity measures to protect wild flora and fauna, such as fish and mammals. Unlike hydropower Achieving sustainability in the production of wood materials as a reusable natural resource and schemes with reservoirs or pumped-storage systems, which require the construction of promoting their utilization as wood biomass dams to block rivers, run-of-the-river hydropower schemes minimize the impact on local ecosystems resulting from the separation of upstream and downstream areas. The Jirau project also has a fishway, which effectively protects fish species that need to swim Mitsui’s Forests upstream in the spawning season. The huge scale of this project is matched by the scale of the environmental countermeasures undertaken. Knowledge and expertise gained from these countermeasures will be applied to future projects undertaken by Mitsui. A panoramic view of the power plant Sustainability Report 2017 38 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Initiatives for Preserving Biodiversity Social Value of Forests Activity Management zoning categories of Mitsui’s Forests Category Definition Area (ha) Appropriate forest management is just part of our commitment. We are also actively engaged in initiatives to utilize forest Forests for Harvest-oriented Sustainable Cycle Forests Forests for the production and supply of lumber resources through the 6,839 Regeneration repeated cycle of harvesting, planting, and cultivating. resources on various levels. As part of our contributions to society and to local communities, we use our forests for and Harvest Natural Restoration Forests Forests to be restored as Naturally Regenerated Forests consisting of 10,631 environmental education activities. Resources from our forests are also used to support cultural activities and traditional events in coniferous and broad-leaved trees. surrounding areas, as well as reconstruction in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011. Mitsui supports the Forests for Biodiversity Special Conservation Forests Forests confirmed to support a large number of rare creatures whose 324 Regeneration Conservation habitat requires protection. campaign to promote the use of Japanese-grown timber as a way of revitalizing the Japanese forestry industry and providing and Harvest, Forests Environmental Conservation Forests confirmed to support a large number of rare creatures whose 875 additional impetus for regional development. We utilize Mitsui’s Forest resources for a wide range of purposes, including the use Natural Forests Forests habitat requires protection. and Naturally of timber from our forests in our offices, and stable provision of wood biomass fuel for local biomass power generation projects. Regenerated Water and Soil Conservation Forests with plentiful water stocks that form a water resource, reduce the 3,164 Forests Forests risk of natural disasters, or have other major socially beneficial functions that In the area of environmental education, Mitsui’s Forests are used for field studies that teach people about the role of forests, for contribute to the safeguarding of the water supply and the preservation of forestry experience programs, and for various other activities within and beyond the Mitsui organization. We also provide “Visiting ecosystems. Lectures” at elementary and junior and senior high schools throughout Japan Cultural Conservation Forests Forests requiring protection due to the particularly high value of their 117 “cultural services” —functions that nurture traditions and culture and form to present lessons about the functions and management of forests and the part of the “ecosystem services” that are dependent on biodiversity. role of forestry. In the area of helping to protect culture, we have entered into Naturally Productive Naturally Regenerated Forests Forests to be cultivated for tree species useful as a source of lumber. 1,814 Regenerated an agreement with the Biratori Ainu Association and the town of Biratori in Forests General Naturally Regenerated Forests Forests not composed of productive species but to be cultivated for 19,149 increased social value. Hokkaido concerning the protection and fostering of Ainu culture. Other Naturally Regenerated Forests Naturally Regenerated Forests other than in the above categories. 1,504 In order to contribute to local communities, we also have started to Total 44,417 promote the use of wood biomass as an alternative to fossil fuels. For example, we are providing steady supplies of wood biomass from Mitsui’s Forests for a biomass power generation project in Tomakomai, Hokkaido, Forest Certification System Forestry program (tree thinning experience) at the which became operational in December 2016. company-owned Kameyama forest For all of the Mitsui’s Forests (approximately 44,000 hectares at 74 locations), Mitsui has acquired FSC® certification, which is an international forest certification, and Sustainable Green Ecosystem Council (SGEC) certification, which is a Japan-specific forest Cultivating Different Types of Forests: Forest Management Zoning System certification. Forest certification is given based on assessments regarding whether fixed criteria are met concerning forest Mitsui’s Forests are divided into Forests for Regeneration and Harvest (approximately 40%) and Natural Forests and Naturally management methods. The spread of such certification prevents unregulated deforestation, preserves healthy forests, and Regenerated Forests (approximately 60%). Forests for Regeneration and Harvest are forests that have been planted and helps protect the global environment. cultivated by human hands, follow a repeated cycle of planting, cultivating, harvesting, and are utilized for the production and In December 2009, we achieved certification for all Mitsui’s Forests under the FSC® international forest standards. Mitsui supply of lumber resources. Natural Forests are forests that have been cultivated through natural action, while Naturally was the first private company in Japan to obtain this certification for large-scale forests covering an area of over 10,000 Regenerated Forests are forests that have grown back mainly through hectares. natural action following deforestation due, for instance, to a natural The FSC® certification is a type of certification established by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®), an international NGO disaster or tree-harvesting. Forests in these categories are maintained in with a membership system that operates an international forest certification system. FSC® has 10 principles and 70 criteria for their natural state. Areas within these forests that are particularly important forest management from perspective of environment, social, and economy. Certification criteria not only focus on whether from the viewpoint of biodiversity are designated as Biodiversity the forest manager is carrying out appropriate management from an economic standpoint, but also look at consideration for Conservation Forests (approximately 10% of all Mitsui’s Forests). the environment, maintaining favorable relationships with regional communities near the forest, and other factors. When Mitsui manages Mitsui’s Forests in accordance with the forest Mitsui completed the certification procedures, a survey was given to stakeholders in our 74 forestlands across Japan. This management zoning categories as shown below. Appropriate survey confirmed that Mitsui and our subsidiary Mitsui Bussan Forest Co., Ltd., which manages the forestlands, have built a Tashiro forest, which has been assessed as being of great management is applied to each forest category. significance in terms of its high level of biodiversity favorable relationship with all local communities. Sustainability Report 2017 39 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Protection of the Global Environment Addressing Environmental Issues through Contribution to Society Overview of the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund System Activity Selection of Grant Recipients System Activity In July 2005, Mitsui launched the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund as a grant program that aims to contribute to the [Message from a Selection Committee Member] sustainable development of society and address global environmental problems by supporting various activities and The global social and economic situation relating to the environment is changing significantly, including the signing of the research projects pursued by NPOs, universities, and other entities. Since the fiscal year ended March 2012, when the Paris Agreement as a response to climate change, the adoption of the SDGs by the United Nations, and the emergence of Great East Japan Earthquake occurred, Mitsui has also been engaged in recovery efforts aimed at achieving the EGS investment. Every aspect of life is being affected by these changes. There has also been a significant shift of direction in sustainable development of society through initiatives to mitigate and resolve environmental problems caused by the the criteria used to select issues for the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund. earthquake and the accompanying tsunami. In addition to its financial support for the activities and research conducted In the past, we tended to prioritize the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity. Our priorities today include the by NPOs, universities, etc., the fund is also encouraging Mitsui’s officers, employees, and their families to participate in reduction of CO2 emissions, the solution of societal issues, and the governance of all organizations in relation to these issues. the activities conducted by the groups or organizations that received our grants, as volunteers. As of the fiscal year These changes were reflected in our approach when calling for applications for Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund grants ended March 2017, we have awarded grants totaling ¥5.56 billion to 538 projects. in the fiscal year ended March 2017. We gave priority in our selection process to activities and research that would take up the challenge of finding solutions for issues that are regarded as socially significant. We will continue to emphasize these Launched July 1, 2005 aspects going forward by striving to select proposals that demonstrate high aspirations toward our goal of contributing to the creation of a sustainable society for the future, and a commitment to social change. Screening Sustainability Committee, Project Deliberation Panels, Project Selection Meeting (including external experts) structure • Activity Grants Grants awarded (Unit: number of projects, ¥million) • Research Grants Activity Grants Research Grants Total Grant program For practical activities or research providing concrete proposals, which contribute to the sustainable development of society and address global environmental problems. Number Value Number Value Number Value FY2005 15 117 － － 15 117 A. Global Environment B. Resource Circulation FY2006 18 217 － － 18 217 Focus fields C. Ecosystems and the Symbiotic Society FY2007 48 437 23 456 71 893 D. Relationship between People and Society FY2008 51 523 24 368 75 891 Eligible groups NPOs, NGOs, general incorporated associations and foundations, public interest incorporated associations FY2009 34 311 17 213 51 524 or organizations and foundations, special civil foundations, universities, and national institutes of technology FY2010 28 244 22 285 50 529 FY2011 ＊ 52（43） 528（463） 46（34） 603（481） 98（77） 1,131（944） FY2012 ＊ 36（22） 237（157） 14（2） 112（13） 50（24） 349（170） FY2013 20 165 15 150 35 315 FY2014 21 118 8 85 29 203 A. Global FY2015 15 155 10 65 25 220 environment FY2016 11 92 10 79 21 171 Total 349 3,144 189 2,416 538 5,560 B. Resource C. Ecosystems Sustainable development of society * Figures in parentheses show the Great East Japan Earthquake Restoration Grants. However, since the fiscal year ended March 2014, we have continued to and the circulation support restoration projects within the framework of regular programs, without providing a separate additional framework. The total value of the restoration symbiotic society projects since the fiscal year ended March 2012 is ¥1,308 million. D. Relationship between people and society The Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund Sustainability Report 2017 40 Respect for Human Rights Strategic Focus 4 Number of information leak incidents through cyber attacks and similar in 2016 Over billion According to survey results obtained by IBM’s security research organization “X-Force” from more than 8,000 client companies in 100 countries Number of network connections possibly involving access 1,692 by a malicious program occurring in 2016 (per day, per single IP address) According to “Cyber Threat Trends” released by the National Police Agency on March 23, 2017 Related Product Segment: Innovation & Corporate Development Preventing illegal use of personal information by providing cybersecurity services for enterprises In recent years, cyber attacks have become more sophisticated and ingenious, leading to an increased leakage risk for company-held data, including information identifying individuals. Such stolen data are actually being sold through sites on the so-called “dark web” which are not accessible by regular channels. In view of this situation, the amended Act on the Protection of Personal Information which took effect in Japan in 2017 introduced provisions that in principle prohibit the collection of information on race, creed, medical history, criminal record, etc. without the concerned individual’s consent, in order to prevent unfair discrimination and prejudice. Such measures are aimed at strengthening the protection of human rights. According to a survey conducted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in 2016, the number of information security experts in Japan is lower than it should be by some 132,000 people. This personnel deficit is projected to increase to 193,000 by the time of the Tokyo Olympics in 2020. The fostering of human resources capable of responding to cyber attacks is therefore an urgent issue. Also, compared to other countries, it is evident that Japan lags behind on this issue. As of April 2017, there were 75,312 persons in the U.S. with Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) credentials, an internationally recognized qualification, while there were only 1,720 such persons in Japan. In order to address this issue, Mitsui Bussan Secure Directions, Inc. harnesses the expertise of highly skilled cybersecurity professionals to offer a wide range of solutions including vulnerability assessment, illegal access monitoring, high-level security platform implementation and management, malware analysis, and more. In addition, through the discovery and reporting of vulnerabilities in widely used products and open source products, along with technical analysis of malware with the potential to cause significant harm, we are aiming to proactively prevent attacks that exploit vulnerabilities and unauthorized use of personal information. By doing so, we contribute to the creation of a society where human rights are fully respected and protected. Sustainability Report 2017 41 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Respect for Human Rights Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Support for Maintenance and improvement of living environments and local job creation Promotion of Collection of a commitment to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines International through global business activities relating to water, power generation, and gas Management for for Employees and Officers and the Standards for Discipline of the Employment Standards Support for the sale of RSPO (Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil) certified Human Rights Regulations from all the applicable employees and officers palm oil Implementation of compliance tests (e-learning) for persons who have not yet Provision of healthy menu choices in employee cafeterias (operated by AIM completed this process Services), and donation of school lunches for children in developing countries Implementation of Compliance Review Week activities, including the through Table for Two International, a non-profit organization (approx. 570,000 dissemination of messages by the President and COOs, etc., as well as meals donated) seminars, information-sharing, and discussions Collection of letters of agreement with the Supply Chain CSR Policy from 5,012 Implementation of the Compliance Awareness Survey (for domestic employees Japanese and overseas suppliers by Mitsui Bussan I-Fashion (MIF), and addition and officers). Formulation and implementation of compliance activities based of new provisions to the policy in FY2016, including the prohibition of on the results of the Survey employment discrimination, respect for the right of collective bargaining, and Formulation of the plans for compliance activities for FY2017 based on the the prohibition of excessive working hours review of FY2016 activities undertaken by the Compliance Committee (twice Bluesign® certification obtained for outdoor apparel fabrics supplied by MIF, annually) based on compliance with standards that include consideration for the Attendance at compliance meetings and seminars implemented by regional environment, freedom of association, and labor health and safety, as well as business units, etc. the elimination of child labor, forced labor, and discrimination Promotion of compliance-related activities at overseas subsidiaries and Publication of an anti-slavery and human trafficking statement in response to affiliated companies, in line with initiatives by the parent company section 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. (Mitsui, affiliated companies) Visits to key affiliated companies to provide advice on the development and Continuation of an agreement with the Biratori Ainu Association and the town operation of compliance activities of Biratori in Hokkaido, providing for cooperation in efforts to ensure that Ainu Conveyance of alerting messages about compliance (via intranet, meetings, culture is protected and handed down to future generations through Mitsui’s etc.). Sharing information about actual disciplinary cases through reporting Forests, and signing of a related agreement with the Iwor Forest Development lines Group of the Nibutani Craft Cooperative Association, providing for cooperation Improvement of the effectiveness of expert advice about environmental and in the development a forest environment for traditional Ainu cultural activities social risks provided through the Environmental & Societal Advisory in the Mitsui-owned Saru Forest Committee Sustainability Report 2017 42 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Respect for Human Rights Support for International Standards Human Rights Initiatives Policy ILO Core Labour Standards Policy Conducting business globally in many countries and regions of the world, Mitsui considers the protection of human The International Labour Organization (ILO) was founded in 1919 as an international organization responsible for rights in accordance with international standards to be its sustainability management platform. Mitsui’s Basic CSR Policy drawing up and overseeing international labor standards. The ILO is a tripartite agency that brings together states, “make prudent efforts to understand the culture, traditions, and customs of countries and regions around the representatives of governments, employers, and workers to shape programs together on the subjects of human rights, world” and “recognize the significance and importance of the human rights contained in international standards”. occupational safety and health, hiring policies, and the development of human knowledge for the adoption of ILO The “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd.” prescribe and require Mitsui agreements and recommendations. employees and officers to observe: full consciousness of their role as members of international society; understanding of In 1998, the ILO established the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. As the basic rights and respect for the cultures, customs, and history of individual nations; protection of human rights; and eschewing any of workers (ILO Core Labour Standards), they are defined in the 8 conventions in 4 fields (freedom of association and the form of discrimination based on race, creed, gender, social status, religion, nationality, age, or physical or mental ability. right to collective bargaining C87/C98; the prohibition of all forms of forced labor C29/C105; elimination of the worst Furthermore, regarding measures to prevent any kind of discrimination and sexual harassment, we are raising employee forms of child labor C138/C182 and non-discrimination in employment C100/C111). and officer awareness by providing compliance seminars and other opportunities tailored to each job level. Mitsui supports the 8 conventions constituting the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also support various international standards, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Respecting Indigenous Peoples System Policy Universal Declaration of Human Rights Policy When conducting operations, Mitsui strives to comply with all laws of the applicable country or region, and to respect the human rights and cultures of its indigenous peoples in accordance with international standards such as the United The Universal Declaration of Human Rights is a common standard of objectives for all peoples and all nations to respect Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the Convention concerning Indigenous and Tribal Peoples human rights and freedoms. The Declaration was proclaimed on December 10, 1948 at the third United Nations General in Independent Countries (ILO Convention: C169). Assembly and occupies an important position in the history of human rights. For example, in our forest resources business for pulp and paper manufacturing in Australia, we are exercising due Following this declaration, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and the diligence by assessing the level of impact that Mitsui’s projects might have on the indigenous Aboriginal population. As International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) were adopted by the 21st United Nations General Assembly part of our research into available solutions in the event that any problems are discovered, we conduct advance surveys on December 16, 1966. They both recognize the majority of the rights indicated in the Universal Declaration of Human from the viewpoint of cultural protection to ensure that our operations will not destroy Aboriginal historical sites. In our Rights. Japan ratified both treaties in June, 1979. iron ore mining operation in Brazil, we maintain close communication with the indigenous Parketêjê people to foster Mitsui supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ICESCR and the ICCPR. mutual respect. In Japan, Mitsui has entered into agreements with the Biratori Ainu Association and with the town of Biratori in Hokkaido, where a part of Mitsui’s forests is located to cooperate in activities to protect, and pass on Ainu traditional culture through the conservation of forests. Sustainability Report 2017 43 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Respect for Human Rights Support for International Standards Promotion of Management for Human Rights Guidelines for Appointing a Security Firm System Management System for Human Rights and Labor Conditions System The UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials was adopted in December 1979 so that the UN can promote Mitsui & Co. conducts an internal survey in alternate years concerning compliance with the UN Global Compact, to raise and ensure that law enforcement authorities such as the police and the military in member countries take on the awareness of management and employees regarding human rights and labor issues at its business units, corporate appropriate roles as well as respecting and protecting human dignity. The Principles on the Use of Force and Firearms staff divisions, and domestic and overseas organizations (branch offices and consolidated subsidiaries). by Law Enforcement Officials was also adopted in August/September 1990 as the standard for the use of force and firearms by law enforcement officials. Mitsui bases its appointment of security firms on these codes of conduct and principles. 1. Do you fully understand the UN Global Compact? 2. Have there been any violations of the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact? If so, report the details of the violation and what measures were taken to handle the situation. As a consequence of this survey, if it is found that we have a unit, a division, or an organization that materially lacks an understanding of the UN Global Compact, we will take measures, such as providing additional training seminars. In addition, we continue to hold e-learning courses and other training activities to remind employees of the importance of addressing and managing risks related to human rights and labor problems in the supply chain. With regard to our main suppliers, we promote initiatives for improving our supply chain management by conducting supplier surveys which involve sending out questionnaires and carrying out on-site surveys based on a checklist. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, we sent questionnaires to 50 of our suppliers, and conducted on-site surveys at food material suppliers. Through these surveys, we confirmed their compliance with our Supply Chain CSR Policy, which covers human rights, labor conditions, and other aspects. Moreover, through our participation in working groups of Global Compact Network Japan, such as the Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD) Working Group and the Supply Chain Working Group, we are able to keep up-to-date with international trends related to human rights, and can make use of the information we obtain from other companies to enhance our sustainability promotion activities. We continue to deepen our awareness of human rights and labor issues in reference to international guidance, such as the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, by measures such as inviting outside experts to hold seminars. Sustainability Report 2017 44 Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Strategic Focus Number of patients in the Asia-Pacific region receiving renal replacement therapy, such as hemodialysis 2,162,000 (forecast for 2030)* * According to data published by a research group led by Dr. Thaminda Liyanage at the University of Sydney in Australia Related Product Segment: Lifestyle Aiming to provide reliable high-quality dialysis medical services in Asia, where the number of patients with kidney failure is rising rapidly In the emerging countries of Asia, lifestyle diseases, such as hypertension and diabetes, have become more prevalent in recent years due to population growth and the increased Westernization of dietary habits. The number of end-stage renal disease patients requiring dialysis treatment has risen significantly, but due to a shortage of dialysis clinics, many patients are unable to obtain suitable treatment. In August 2016 Mitsui & Co., Ltd. entered into an agreement with DaVita Inc. and a strategic investment fund of the government of Malaysia to participate in a joint venture operating dialysis clinics in the Asia-Pacific region. The number of patients in Asia who undergo renal replacement therapy, such as hemodialysis, is forecast to reach 2,162,000 in 2030,* which is more than twice the actual number in 2010 and would represent the highest rate of increase in the world. Improvements in medical insurance systems and the rise in income levels in various Asian countries have resulted in a supply-demand gap. Efforts are being made to close this gap, but dialysis operators capable of reliably providing high-quality dialysis treatment are always in high demand. In response to such needs, Mitsui has acquired a 20% equity stake in DaVita Care (Singapore), a company in the DaVita group operating dialysis clinics and bringing high-quality dialysis services developed in the United States to the Asian region. The improvement of health and medical standards in emerging and developing countries is an important issue. In 2011 Mitsui invested in IHH Healthcare Berhad, the largest private healthcare group in Asia, and in 2015 we acquired the MIMS Group, which handled medical information services in Asia and Oceania. In 2016 we invested in Columbia Asia, the largest hospital group in Asia for middle-income earners, and we also cooperate with Panasonic Healthcare Holdings, Japan's leading medical device manufacturer, in which we acquired an equity stake in 2017. These efforts are aimed at building a healthcare ecosystem designed to evolve into a high-level, next-generation medical infrastructure oriented toward optimum patient care. Sustainability Report 2017 45 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Development of the Promotion of water infrastructure business (Mexico, Czech Republic, Thailand), Development of the Meeting demands for developing infrastructure through heavy lifting & Social Infrastructure port container terminal operations (Indonesia), international cargo terminal Social Infrastructure transport by Huationg Holdings (Southeast Asian countries) operations at Haneda Airport (Japan), co-generation business (Thailand, Brazil), Provision of insurance risk management and arrangement of insurance and other infrastructure business around the world coverage for business-related risks through Mitsuibussan Insurance Promotion of energy-related infrastructure business in various countries, such Provision of reliable hedging measures, through investment and participation as natural gas distribution business (Mexico, Brazil), and sales of electricity from in New Ocean Capital Management, for catastrophic risks to primary insurance gas-fired power generation and renewable energy sources (21 countries) companies, by the management of funds that involve investment primarily in Providing stable transportation with low-price by supporting for operational catastrophic risk efficiency through rolling stock leasing (U.S., Europe, Russia, Brazil) Transportation cost reduction such as grains, fertilizers, steel products etc. Provision of Safe, Promotion of pharmaceutical development that contributes to enhancement through freight transportation services (Brazil) Reliable Products of patients’ quality of life through investment and participation in NovaQuest Improvement of safe and reliable passenger transportation services by means and Services Support for patients who need financial assistance, through investment and of urban transportation infrastructure development (Brazil) participation in IHH, by providing cancer education and free cancer checks to Remarkable logistic improvement by dedicated freight railways (India) poorer inhabitants of local communities, as well as by providing medical Eco-ship sales, owned and operation. LNG bunkering project promotion services for patients who test positive (Singapore) Promotion of tank terminal business in distribution collection sites that serves as Support for events for diabetes patients and for breast cancer awareness-raising basic distribution infrastructure for the petrochemicals industry events through investment in Columbia Asia Hospital; through investment and Promotion of an urban redevelopment project in the Tamura-cho area (Nishiparticipation in DaVita Care, provision of seminars for chronic kidney disease Shimbashi 1-chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo) through Mitsui & Co. Real Estate that patients, provision of services, including free medical checks and voluntary contributes to the local community and improvement of urban functions cleaning services, for elderly people living alone (Malaysia) through the creation of harmonious streetscape, the enhancement of local Support for the development of pharmaceuticals, IT, and agrochemicals disaster-preparedness, the stimulation of community and business activities, through investment and participation in NovaQuest and venture capital and the installation of facilities that will help to enhance the community investment undertaken by Mitsui Global Investment Development of communications infrastructure and growth of internet use Participation and Support for community revitalization by holding the Mitsui Foods Food Show through engagement in high-speed mobile data communications business Development in for the exhibition and sales of products from different regions throughout (Sub-Saharan Africa, Indonesia) Communities Japan New shopping experience offering SmartCart (shopping cart with tablet device) Continuous support for food education activities through the Kids Kitchen to shoppers inside the store (Japan) Association in collaboration with Mitsui Foods and Bussan Food Service Provision of new lifestyles through TV shopping business (Japan, India, China), Promotion of the Sendai Umino-Mori Aquarium operations with partner e-commerce business (Indonesia), meal kit business (Russia), and IT-based companies (approx. 2,807,600 visitors between July 1, 2015 and March 31, one-stop renovation service business (Japan) 2017), and issuing of invitations to local schoolchildren to attend a memorial Support for overseas market development (Asia, Latin America) by local ceremony on March 11, 2017 companies and promotion of consumer goods logistics (Asia) through Mitsui & Donation to the Sakura Namiki Network (a non-profit organization dedicated to Co. Global Logistics planting cherry trees in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake) by AIM Services, resulting in the planting of 40 cherry trees Sustainability Report 2017 46 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Participation and Creation of additional local jobs (for both mid-career recruits and new Contribution to Support for local communities and coal mine employees through a scholarship Development in graduates) created under a siting agreement between MicroBiopharm Japan Developing People program and Japanese teaching program, etc., implemented by Mitsui Coal Communities and a local government in preparation for investment in new facilities with an International Holdings (Australia) Support for developing reliable, safe childcare environments via the promotion Mindset Continuing participation in scholarship program run by Takatuf Oman to of the communication app “Kids Note” service business for childcare facilities, support Omani students to study abroad (Oman) such as kindergartens and guardians (Japan) Donation to education events held at the Petroleum Institute in Abu Dhabi Provision of scholarships for Brazilian students as part of our support activities (UAE) for Brazilians living in Japan (440 students in 26 schools), implementation of Provision of scholarships to enable students from the University of Lurio to extracurricular programs for Brazilian schools (6 programs, 197 participants), study in Japan (Mozambique) hosting of the Conference for a Future of the Children (11 cities, 750 Conclusion of a donation agreement with Qatar to support the renovation of participants), and financial support for related NPOs (14 organizations) facilities and the continuation of research that will contribute to food security Continuation of support for human resources development of junior and senior (Qatar) high school students as part of our initiatives for recovery of the region Teaching and training cybersecurity experts by dispatching lecturers to affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake, including a “Visiting Lecture universities and devising curriculums (Japan) Project” featuring people who were profiled in the TV program “Textbook for Implemented the Young Professional Leadership Program for Japanese and U.S. Our Future”, as the lecturers for the Project (6 schools in Iwate, Miyagi, and professionals through participation in the TOMODACHI Initiative arranged by Fukushima Prefectures), and “English Conversation Class Project” for which the U.S. government and other organizations (20 participants in total from employees are serving as volunteer teachers at the “Collaborative School” run Japan and the U.S.) by Katariba, a certified non-profit organization in Onagawa, Miyagi Prefecture Continued implementation of Mitsui-endowed lecture programs at St. (866 participants) Petersburg State University and the Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Support for a scholarship project in India through the Mitsui Global Volunteer Ministry of Foreign Affairs (2 times) Program (3,950 participants, donations totaling ¥3,950,000), and installation of Support for short-term training programs in Japan for university students from a Panasonic solar power generation system in Myanmar (equipment Australia and Russia (11 trainees) purchased by the MFL Foundation using funds donated by Mitsui) Support for Indonesian students in Japan through the Mitsui-Bussan Scholarship Program for Indonesia (12 participants) Contribution to Continuation of personnel exchange training program with China Baowu Steel Provision of scholarships and accommodation for overseas students in Japan Developing People Group Corporation (BAOWU) (145 staff accepted from BAOWU and 526 staff through the Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion Foundation (10 participants) with an International sent to BAOWU since 1992; 14 staff accepted from BAOWU and 24 staff sent to Continuation of SASUGAKU Academy classes (Education for Sustainability) to Mindset BAOWU in FY2016) support children’s “power to create a sustainable future” (30 participants) Support for educational programs, including Japanese teaching, and activities to introduce the Japanese language and culture through Vale, etc. (Brazil) Continuation of personnel exchange training program with Vale (275 participants since 2003; 4 trainees dispatched to Vale in FY2016) Implementation of a science education program at primary schools near an iron ore development project operated by Mitsui Iron Ore Development (Australia) Sustainability Report 2017 47 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Development of the Social Infrastructure Provision of Safe, Reliable Products and Services Initiatives Through Business Activity Ensuring Safety and Consumer Confidence Policy System Mitsui continues to contribute to the enhancement of people’s quality of life through its business activities in such areas The Consumer Affairs Agency was established in September 2009 in order to proceed with the measures to protect and as electric power, water treatment, water supply and sewerage systems, logistics, railroads, healthcare, and enhance consumer benefits and deliver a society where every consumer can enjoy a safe, secure and prosperous life. communications, by developing infrastructure that is essential for the growth and advancement of countries around the Likewise, Mitsui & Co. is also well aware of that consumer safety, confidence and security are of major importance in world and local communities. conducting its business. In the area of electric power and renewable energy, while we engage in power generation and gas distribution, we With such concerns in mind, Mitsui has established its Consumer Product Handling Policy and Consumer Product recognize the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as a material issue and are reinforcing our environmental Handling Regulations, and has also prepared detailed regulations for each business unit to ensure the appropriate business, such as solar photovoltaic and solar thermal power projects, wind power projects, and biomass related plant handling of consumer products. projects. Moreover, in the foods area, Mitsui works to secure food products to supply Japan, which has the lowest rate of There is a growing need for improvements in convenience and safety, against the backdrop of growing population, food self-sufficiency among the industrialized countries. Food Business Unit Food & Retail Management Business Unit rising living standards, and changing lifestyles. Mitsui is responding to that need by developing and operating sewage place maximum priority on food safety and security and accordingly has established internal rules and committee for and water supply systems and wastewater treatment facilities, and by engaging in urban development projects, such as food sanitation, maintains a food-safety database, and monitors related activities overseas down to the food production the development of logistics and industrial facilities, especially seaport and airport projects, and smart city development stages. projects, to respond to changing societal needs. To manage the risk against food safety and security, we have been holding ongoing food safety seminars for our In the Mobility domain, with regard to ship business, Mitsui is focusing on vessel ownership and operation and the employees and those of Mitsui subsidiaries and associated companies, and have been redoubling efforts to ensure that LNG carrier business, to adapt to tighter environmental regulations and growth and change in maritime cargo traffic. As details on labels such as country of origin, product quality, and product grade are accurate, and to facilitate product for railroads, which form a major artery for land transportation, we export freight cars and related facilities and undertake traceability. rail transportation infrastructure projects using Japanese institutional finance. Other business activities in this area When it comes to product safety and peace of mind, consumers can rest assured that the overriding priority that include rail leasing, the general freight business, and passenger transportation. Mitsui places on ensuring the safety and security of consumer products and food extends to all of the items that we Mitsui is also taking initiatives for basic services, such as medical care and nursing care, which address the problems handle. posed by aging societies throughout the world, changes in disease incidence patterns, and other issues. In the Asia region, we are working to help build next-generation healthcare infrastructure “healthcare ecosystems” that will make a The Consumer Product Handling Policy positive contribution to society by improving both the quality and efficiency of healthcare provision, by taking hospitals as the core platform and flexibly integrating related activities including specialist medical care provision, Placing More Emphasis on the Consumer and Ensuring Product Safety pharmaceuticals manufacturing, medical information systems, healthcare services, etc. We are also helping the Whether engaging in manufacturing, importing, or domestic marketing of consumer products, Mitsui reaches pharmaceutical industry to develop and manufacture new drugs by providing solutions across the entire value chain, beyond its goal of providing products that offer cost savings or superior performance, and thereby additionally from drug development to manufacturing and distribution. emphasizes a consumer-oriented approach by which the utmost priority is placed on handling safe products that Mitsui also promotes the utilization of ICT in such areas as high-speed communications, electronic settlements and consumers can use with total confidence. This policy is aligned with our management philosophy comprising our Mission, Vision and Values (MVV). other communications and service platform businesses, especially in emerging countries, aiming for the enhancement of quality of life and social infrastructure. At the same time, in our effort to build new social systems, we strive to create Developing and Operating a Risk Management System new business, including medical healthcare services, agriculture, and energy management. To ensure that the Consumer Product Handling Policy functions in practice, we have developed a sound risk management system and are working to maintain and improve systems used in collecting, disseminating, and disclosing information on accidents involving products, and arranging for product recalls in the event of productrelated accidents. Sustainability Report 2017 48 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Participation and Development in Communities Finding Solutions to Local Issues through Social Contribution Policy Social Contributions (the Fiscal Year Ended March 2017) Activity Today’s increasing trend toward globalization, advances in IT, and other developments in society have brought The breakdown of social contribution expenses, which totaled ¥1,554 million on 547 activities, is shown below. considerable diversity and change to the world we live in; as we pursue greater convenience and enrichment in our Percentages are based on monetary amounts. lives, we also face a broad range of issues, including global warming and other environmental problems, poverty, and educational inequality. Mitsui & Co. works to address local and global societal issues through various social contribution activities. Mitsui’s Assistance to disaster-stricken communities Assistance for disaster-prevention community work 1% 18 activities 0% 0 activity Operational Guidelines for Social Contributions Policy specify three areas of focus: international exchange; education; Local community involvement Human rights 0% 4 activities and environment. Within these three areas, Mitsui utilizes its strengths and know-how by focusing its social contribution 1% 87 activities activities on multicultural symbiosis, human resource development with an international perspective, and the global NPO infrastructure-building work 0% 5 activities Archaeology, preservation of traditional environment. By continuing our initiatives in these fields, working together, and sharing our initiatives with society, we culture 1% 1 activity believe our activities will have follow-on effects that will lead on to solutions to larger-scale social issues. Arts and culture 11% 55 activities Academic activities, research International exchange In addition, we are planning and promoting volunteer programs with the hope of building interest and sensitivity 1% 9 activities and cooperation toward social issues amongst our executives, management personnel, and other employees. Sports 1% 15 activities 10% 59 activities Health and medicine 1% 11 activities Social Contributions Policy Policy Social welfare Education, social education 4% 78 activities Total 20% 110 activities ¥1,554 million Guiding Principles 547 activities We will build a congenial relationship with our stakeholders by striving to create harmony with the global community and local communities in accordance with the Mitsui & Co. Management Philosophy (Mission, Vision and Values), and we will actively contribute to the creation of a future where the dreams of the inhabitants of our irreplaceable Earth can be fulfilled. Action Guidelines Environmental protection 47% 95 activities 1. In order to respond in an appropriate manner to the needs of the global environment, and of international and regional society, Mitsui actively promotes social contributions. 2. Mitsui will establish the three important areas of “International exchange”, “Education”, and “Environment” for Social contribution activities its social contributions, and will implement social contribution activities befitting of Mitsui & Co. 3. In addition to the making of economic contributions, such as donations, etc., Mitsui also aims to carry out proactive social contributions that involve the participation of its executives and employees. P.37 About Initiatives at Mitsui’s Forests 4. Mitsui promotes social contributions with an emphasis on transparency and accountability in respect of its stakeholders. It also aims for the continued improvement of activities through communication and cooperation P.39 Overview of the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund with its stakeholders. Sustainability Report 2017 49 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Participation and Development in Communities Fostering Future Leaders to Drive Reconstruction in the Tohoku Region System Activity Support for the Brazilian Community in Japan System Activity Mitsui is helping to foster future leaders to drive the reconstruction process in areas stricken by the Great East Japan As a company with extensive business operations in Brazil, we provide the following support to foster reciprocal Earthquake, in collaboration with local government and NPOs tackling issues in these areas. We are coordinating these understanding between Japan and Brazil and find solutions to issues affecting the Brazilian community in Japan. efforts in line with the Reconstruction and Revitalization Period designated by the government in the Basic Guidelines In 2009, we established a scholarship program for families that were finding it difficult to afford tuition fees at for Reconstruction in Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake. Brazilian schools because of the economic downturn or other factors. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, a total of 440 Under the “Visiting Lecture Project” launched in 2014, a textbook has been prepared featuring 12 individuals out of students received scholarships to attend 26 schools. the roughly 300 people that have been profiled in the “Textbook for Our Future” program on the BS12 Channel, which is Since 2014, we have supported extracurricular classes, including visits to Mitsui facilities and museums in Tokyo, for operated by a Mitsui subsidiary. The 12 selected individuals visit schools, where they act as teachers for a day and hold children attending Brazilian schools in Japan. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, staff with experience of working in classes that encourage children to think about making a contribution to the region and regional revitalization as a key Brazil gave 6 classes to introduce Mitsui’s business activities, with 197 children participating. factor in their future career choices. To date, approximately 2,700 students at a total of 21 schools in Iwate, Miyagi, and Brazilian schools are affected by a range of problems, including truancy and non-enrollment linked to long-term Fukushima Prefectures have taken part in this project. residence in Japan and other factors, and concerns about children’s We are also supporting the “English Conversation Class Project” for future careers. Mitsui is helping to find solutions to these problems by junior and senior high school students at a “Collaborative School” run inviting psychologists and clinical psychotherapists from Brazil to by Katariba, a certified non-profit organization, in the town of attend informal meetings to discuss the future of Brazilian children. Onagawa, Miyagi Prefecture. Many children in Onagawa are currently These meetings have been held in 11 cities with large Brazilian living in temporary housing and have limited opportunities to attend communities. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, around 750 people coaching schools and extracurricular classes. The three curricula participated. offered through our project are designed to awaken children’s interest In addition, Mitsui supports a total of 14 NPOs that provide in different cultures and values and broaden their knowledge through consultation services for general life issues affecting Brazilians living in the study of English. The students develop useful English-speaking Japan, including health and education problems. An extracurricular class held at Mitsui Headquarters ability through on-line conservational English classes via Skype Visiting Lecture Project provided by RareJob, Inc., a company with which Mitsui has a capital Employee Participation Activities: Mitsui Global Volunteer Program (MGVP) System Activity and business alliance. They also experience the wider world through a short-term summer study travel program in Japan. Under the career We have been implementing the Mitsui Global Volunteer Program (MGVP) since October 2009, with the aim of education class, students hear about personal stories of various encouraging all employees to participate in various social contribution activities with a sense of unity. Under the MGVP, overseas experiences from Mitsui staff acting as voluntary teachers. every year we provide matching donations to an NPO or NGO This encourages them to think about a future in which they can make dedicated to the solution of a social issue. use of the English they have learned. A total of 62 students have Funds donated through this program to the Mae Fah Luang (MFL) participated since the inception of the program in the fiscal year ended Foundation in the fiscal year ended March 2015 were used to install a March 2015. English Conversation Class Project solar power generation system manufactured by Panasonic Corporation in Yin Ma Chaung, a village in the Magway Division of Myanmar. The provision of this stand-alone electricity generator with support from Mitsui has enabled this village to take the first step toward becoming an independent, self-supporting community. Solar power generation facility and local residents Sustainability Report 2017 50 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Contribution to Developing People with an International Mindset TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program System Activity Mitsui Bussan Scholarship Program for Indonesia System Activity Mitsui & Co. is participating in the TOMODACHI Initiative, a public-private partnership program established to foster the Mitsui has built a close relationship with Indonesia through business. In 1992 we established the Mitsui-Bussan development of young people who will contribute to the strengthening of Japan-U.S. relations in the future. Scholarship Program for Indonesia, with the aim of nurturing talented human resources who can contribute to the In 2013, we launched the TOMODACHI-Mitsui & Co. Leadership Program with the aim of developing leaders who further reinforcement of relations between Indonesia and Japan. Scholarship recipients are selected from among can drive the reconstruction process by encouraging potential leaders in the three prefectures affected by the Great Indonesian high school students who are strongly motivated toward university study in Japan. They receive support East Japan Earthquake to participate in Japanese delegations. Under this program, we create opportunities for that enables them to study and live in Japan for five-and-a-half years, including a period to prepare for Japanese networking with American delegations visiting the earthquake-affected areas and tackle various issues, such as the university entrance exams. After arriving in Japan, the students spend 18 months learning Japanese and studying for promotion of inbound tourism and revitalization of industry. Through these activities, Mitsui is supporting the recovery entrance exams. They then sit exams for their desired faculties and subjects and continue their studies at the universities of earthquake-affected communities. for which they qualify. In this program, 10 young professionals selected from Japan and 10 from the United States spend approximately This scholarship program is not limited to the provision of funds. Our staff members also pay careful attention to one week visiting each other’s countries. In addition to networking among delegates, there are also opportunities for detail, and provide extensive support for the students, including mental health care. dialogue with government officials, top business executives and young leaders, and tours of local sites. These activities By the end of the fiscal year ended March 2017, a total of 40 people had been accepted under this program since its allow participants to broaden their perspectives and knowledge and build diverse networks in preparation for their inception. Twelve are currently enrolled. Scholarship programs are also operated by the Mitsui Bussan Trade Promotion future global leadership roles. A cumulative total of 79 people have participated in the Japanese and American Foundation and the Mitsui U.S.A. Foundation. delegations. Members of the Japanese and American delegations for 2016 Send-off party for the 19th scholarship intake in Jakarta Photography by Kerry Raftis (Keyshots.com K.K.) Sustainability Report 2017 51 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Enhancement of Local Industrial Bases & Quality of Life Contribution to Developing People with an International Mindset Contributing to Global Human Resource Development through System Activity Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy 2016 System Activity Mitsui-endowed Lecture Programs at Overseas Universities and Training in Japan The program named “SASUGAKU” (education for sustainable development) by Mitsui helps children who will play an Mitsui is working to foster reciprocal understanding with young leaders of the future, and contribute to human resource important role in creating a sustainable future to develop their learning, thinking, and communication capabilities. development on a global scale, through Mitsui-endowed lecture programs at universities in countries and regions Mitsui designed Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy in 2014; this is a 5-day capacity building program for primary where it is engaged in business activities. Mitsui also runs programs that provide opportunities for training in Japan. schoolchildren in upper grades, which uses Mitsui’s business activities as teaching materials. In Russia, Mitsui has established endowed lecture programs at St. Petersburg University in 2007 and at the The theme for activities in 2016 was “Let’s create future lifestyles and work styles”. Participants imagined future Diplomatic Academy of the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2016. We also run a Japan studies program for cities, such as a “desert city” and a “space city”, and considered the issues that might affect those cities and solutions to university students. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, three university students participated in the Japan studies those issues. During a study period, participants learned about a power-assist suit project on which Mitsui is working. program and spent two weeks visiting Tokyo, Kyoto, the Tohoku region, and Hiroshima. They toured the facilities of The children actually tried on the suits and imagined the role of robots in the society of the future. Participants also companies involved in Mitsui projects, including member companies of the Kesennuma Shishiori Processing visited the National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation to view a permanent exhibit entitled “Mission Cooperative and the Sendai Umino-Mori Aquarium in the areas devastated by the Great East Japan Earthquake in the Survival: 10 Billion”. This led to enthusiastic debate about the various risks that affect cities, and measures to prevent Tohoku region, as well as the Mazda Museum and Kanda Shipbuilding in Hiroshima, and also gained a deeper those risks. On the final day, each group shared their achievements over the course of the five-day program through understanding of Mitsui. presentations that included video content. Mitsui has endowed lecture programs at John Caroll University, the City University of New York, and Columbia As a result of presentations at academic conferences and other venues, these sustainability education initiatives by University in the United States, Peking University and Fudan University in China, and the University of Warsaw in Poland. Mitsui have attracted considerable interest and praise as progressive examples of education for sustainable development (ESD). In the fiscal year ended March 2017, the program was selected by the Japan Association for Human and Environmental Symbiosis for its environmental activity award, and also won the Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT). Russian students learn about the activities of Kanda Shipbuilding in Hiroshima. Participants visiting the National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation Sustainability Report 2017 52 Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Strategic Focus 40 Estimate of market size of global hydrogen infrastructure Approx. JPY trillion (2030) * * According to the “NEDO Hydrogen Energy White Paper” Courtesy of Chiyoda Corporation Related Product Segment: Energy Participating in a pilot project to transport and store hydrogen in bulk, contributing to a stable supply of energy With a view toward the diversification of energy sources and reduction of CO2 emissions, efforts to realize a “hydrogen society” are currently being actively pursued. Combustion of hydrogen has the advantage of not producing any CO2 emissions. Consequently, the scale of the hydrogen infrastructure market is expected to reach 40 trillion yen worldwide by 2030. At the same time, however, in order to realize a commercial hydrogen energy utilization system on the large scale such as hydrogen power generation, establishing a suitable supply chain that includes production, storage, and transport of hydrogen from unused resources abroad to Japan represents a major challenge. Mitsui & Co., in collaboration with Chiyoda Corporation, is aiming to establish a hydrogen supply chain using a technology developed by Chiyoda, known as the organic chemical hydride method. This involves hydrogenation to fix hydrogen to the widely used industrial solvent toluene, thereby producing methylcyclohexane (MCH), which can be handled at ambient temperature and pressure. Storage and transportation occur in MCH form, and at the end point, dehydrogenation is performed to obtain hydrogen and toluene. The toluene that was used to transport hydrogen can be reused repeatedly. In 2015, a Chiyoda project entitled “Demonstration of the Hydrogen Supply Chain by Organic Chemical Hydride Method Utilizing Unused Energy” was selected as a New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) support program. Mitsui joined this project as a one of research partners led by Chiyoda. Aiming for the establishment of a large-scale hydrogen supply chain, a demonstration project is planned for 2020 to verify fundamental technologies, once again in collaboration with the same partners. Mitsui intends to continue contributing to the stable supply of energy and the improvement of economic efficiency, to reduce the environmental burden and help bring about the realization of a fully-fledged hydrogen society and low carbon society. Sustainability Report 2017 53 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Resource Stable supply of materials, such as rails, steel pipes, steel sheets, rebar, etc. required Resource Initiatives by MicroBiopharm Japan: Development, and for infrastructure projects around the world Development, and Development of key materials for new drugs designed to curb antibiotic resistance the Securing and Continuation of iron ore project development and securing of a stable supply of the Securing and (Japan) Stable Supply of iron ore (Australia, Brazil) Stable Supply of Development of technology for targeted cancer drugs with reduced side-effects Materials and Food Participation in the Moatize coal mining project and engagement in development Materials and Food (Japan) activities (Mozambique) Exploration of compounds from natural microbial resources that have potential as Continuation of copper project development and securing the stable supply of new therapeutic drugs for intractable diseases (Japan) copper (equity-share production: 125,000 tons) (Chile) Stable supply of wood products from T.M. Baikal (Russia) for the Japanese, Chinese, Implementation of investments that contribute to the development of new and Russian markets (approx. 110,000 m3) applications of copper and the improvement of mining efficiency through a fund Maintenance of FSC®/CoC certification (Mitsui’s Life Essentials Business Div., Forest established jointly with the Chilean state-owned copper companies Codelco and Resources Marketing Dept.: FSC® C104107; Mitsui Bussan Woodchip Oceania Pty. Corfo; in FY2016, approval was obtained for investments in copper aquaculture fish Ltd.: FSC® C107463) and PEFC/CoC certification, to promote responsible nets, the recycling of waste tires at mines, and ore grading sensors for selective management and handling of forest resources processing Maintenance of FSC® CoC certification (by Mitsui Bussan Packaging: FSC® C009939) Stable supply of raw materials, such as nickel, cobalt and lithium, for rechargeable to ensure that the supply chain of certified paper promotes to sustainable forest batteries for eco-cars, hard metals for automobile manufacturing resources management Stable transportation for grain, coal etc. through freight transportation services Increased supply of food resources through providing precision agricultural (Brazil) solutions (Canada, U.S., Brazil, Russia, etc.) Efficient transportation for natural resources, oil & gas by stable supply of Promotion of international transportation services and warehousing business international ship’s space through Mitsui & Co. Global Logistics and other affiliated companies (China, Securing of material ingredient sources for fertilizers and selling products by Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, Dubai, Brazil, etc.) engaging in phosphorus ore deposits development, etc. (Peru) Provision of hedging functions through commodity derivatives business (Japan, Promotion of fertilizer distribution business (Japan), manufacture and sales of raw U.K., U.S., Singapore) materials and products for feed (U.S.), and agrochemicals (U.S., Europe) Continuation of forest management and lumber production in accordance with Global, highly sophisticated hybrid distribution of sulfur FSC® certification and SGEC for all Mitsui’s Forests (74 locations in Japan, approx. Securing a diverse, stable supply of energy resources such as crude oil, petroleum 44,000 ha) products, and LNG around the world. Upstream oil and gas assets production : Stable supply of ligneous resources through production of round raw timber from 243,000 boe/day (equity-share production in FY2016) Mitsui’s Forests, which constitutes about 0.1% of Japan’s entire wood consumption Promote the development of LNG projects (Mozambique, U.S., etc.) in terms of round timber (approx. 62,000 m3 ) Promotion of E&P business via affiliated companies (Australia, the Middle East, Asia, Supply of round raw timber from Mitsui’s Forests as fuel for the wood biomass Europe, U.S., etc.) power generation plant in Tomakomai, which commenced electricity sales in Securing a stable supply of food [grain trading volume: 18 million tons/year February 2017 (cumulative total of approx. 58,000 m3 as of March 2017, (FY2015) → 20 million tons (FY2016) ] representing approx. 47% of total volume) Promotion of large-scale agriculture through equity investment in Agricola Xingu, etc. (Brazil) Sustainability Report 2017 54 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Promotion of Supply At Mitsui Bussan I-Fashion, expansion of the scope of suppliers from whom it Chain Management obtains written consent to observe its “Supply Chain CSR Policy”, by including vendors with whom it has a transaction history of 3 years or more, in addition to its new suppliers (252 companies for FY2016, and a cumulative total of 5,012) Implementation of supplier questionnaire surveys concerning our Supply Chain CSR Policy (50 suppliers) Implementation of supplier on-site surveys of food raw materials Sustainability Report 2017 55 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Resource Development, and the Securing and Stable Supply of Materials and Food Promotion of Supply Chain Management Initiatives through Business Activity Supply Chain CSR Policy Policy Mitsui has built optimal supply chains, spanning all stages from upstream to downstream, including production, Mitsui has built diverse value chains throughout the world and provides a wide range of functions and services. We are distribution, processing, and logistics, and contributes to the stable supply of energy, metals, food, chemicals and other active at every stage of the supply chains, from upstream to downstream, and have as many as 20,000 business resources and materials. partners. In conducting business globally, we are fully aware of our responsibilities, such as complying with laws, As part of its efforts, Mitsui engages in investment and trading business in such areas as oil, natural gas/LNG, and respecting human rights, and maintaining safe and sanitary working conditions, giving comprehensive consideration to coal, to secure and supply the energy resources needed by industrial society. In particular, we participate in natural gas/ reduction of the environmental burden, and ensuring safety for products and services and consumer confidence. LNG development projects in various parts of the world to ensure stable supplies of this clean energy resource. Our Together with our business partners, we endeavor to solve various issues present in our supply chains in order to meet extensive involvement covers the entire value chain, from production to marketing. We are also strengthening our oil society’s demands. trading capabilities through our business in Asia. In addition, looking ahead toward the realization of the low-carbon In order to correctly assess and solve CSR-related issues in the supply chains, Mitsui formulated its Supply Chain CSR society, we are engaging in the commercialization of renewable energy technologies, such as bio-fuels, and the Policy in December 2007, and has since worked to ensure that all of Mitsui’s business partners fully understand our creation of business models for hydrogen transportation and storage. standards and cooperate in the implementation of the policy. We are working to ensure compliance with and Mitsui actively participates in the development of iron and steel raw materials and non-ferrous metals resources. We implementation of this policy while continuing to review the policy based on society’s changing expectations and endeavor to ensure stable supplies of mineral and metal resources, such as iron ore and copper, for Japan and other demands. We are making every effort to enhance our supply chain management by identifying potential problems in markets around the world. We are also building a supply network of metal scrap and rebuilt automotive parts in our supply chains and identifying key CSR issues based on the characteristics of each business model, country, and preparation for the global recycling society of the future. With iron and steel products, we are building supply structures industry. for infrastructure projects to meet buoyant demand in rapidly growing emerging economies. At the same time, we procure and supply iron steel products for a wide range of industrial sectors, including the motor vehicle industry and the energy sector. Supply Chain CSR Policy In the automotive sector, we not only export vehicles, but also conduct local logistics business in respective regions, and have built a stable global chain spanning from production to finance. As regards our rail transport business, 1. Mitsui & Co. will strive to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society by understanding and solving issues associated in addition to the export of freight cars and related equipment, we also engage in leasing business and other services to with the supply chains of its businesses, consistent with the wishes of its stakeholders. meet a variety of needs across the railroad value chain. 2. Mitsui & Co. will strive to support improvements in the supply chains by seeking understanding and implementation of In our food business, against the backdrop of world population growth widening the gap between food supply and the following principles by its business associates: 1. To engage in fair trade, prevent corruption, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations demand, and expanding regional imbalances in supply capacity, we strive to ensure the stable and efficient supply of 2. Not to be complicit in human rights abuse and violations safe, reliable food resources. We place particular importance on traceability management for grain crops, such as wheat, 3. To prevent discrimination with respect to hiring and employment corn, and soybeans, starting at the production and harvest stages. 4. To respect the rights of employees to associate freely and bargain collectively Mitsui is also deepening its engagement in the agricultural sector, including the manufacture of the nutritional 5. To appropriately monitor employees’ working hours, holidays, and leaves of absence, and prohibit unlawful element methionine, as well as the development of phosphate rock fertilizer resources, and global trading of fertilizer excessive work raw materials, such as sulfur and sulfates. We are also developing our chemicals business through wide-ranging 6. To prevent forced labor, child labor, unlawfully-cheap labor, physical discipline, and physical, sexual and other transactions and investments that contribute to various industries, including new initiatives focused on carbon fiber and forms of harassment green chemicals. 7. To ensure a safe and sanitary work environment 8. To reduce and mitigate business impact on the global environment 9. To ensure the safety and reliability of products and services 10. To disclose adequate and timely information relevant to the above Sustainability Report 2017 56 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Promotion of Supply Chain Management Current State of Implementation of Supply Chain CSR Policy System Activity Future Actions System Activity We attach great importance to interactive communication with suppliers. We also conduct supplier questionnaire We will continue taking appropriate measures to ensure that all suppliers of Mitsui and its subsidiaries understand our surveys and on-site surveys based on our Supply Chain CSR Policy. Supply Chain CSR Policy, and that we grasp the actual situation of the business, with regard to how the supply chain follows our CSR Policy. We will also continue sending out letters to new suppliers to obtain their agreement to follow Company-wide uniform supplier communication forms our Supply Chain CSR Policy prior to starting business relationships with them. In the event that we discover violations Beginning in the fiscal year ended March 2009, we started sending letters (in Japanese, English, Chinese, French, of this policy in our supply chain, we will urge the supplier to remedy and improve the situation, while providing Spanish, and Portuguese) to all suppliers of Mitsui’s business units, overseas offices, and subsidiaries (more than 45,000 support to the suppliers as needed. However, if there are no improvements to the situation by the suppliers, we will suppliers in total) requesting their understanding and cooperation in regard to our Supply Chain CSR Policy, in a move determine carefully whether to continue our business with that supplier. to ensure that all Mitsui suppliers are fully aware of this policy. In addition, we conduct internal examinations in alternate To increase the sensitivity of all employees with respect to human rights, labor, and other issues in our supply years, to verify that the letters were dispatched to the suppliers. chains, and to prevent problems, we will continue to heighten employee awareness and provide training seminars (101 participants in the fiscal year ended March 2017). Supplier questionnaire surveys Moreover, through our participation in the working groups of Global Compact Network Japan, such as the Supply In promoting compliance with this policy, we consider interactive communication with our suppliers to be very Chain Working Group, we are deepening our understanding of the CSR aspect of the entire supply chain in cooperation important. We work to build relationships of trust, and strengthen our supply chain management by working jointly on with about 60 participating companies in said working group, and continue to strive for enhancement of our supplyideas for improvements with our partners, wherever needed. chain management. For this reason, we regularly conduct questionnaire surveys targeting the suppliers of Mitsui and its subsidiaries to confirm (1) the status of their adherence to our Supply Chain CSR Policy, and (2) whether they have CSR policies related to such areas as “human rights and labor practices”, “ health and safety”, “business ethics”, and “environmental management”. In the fiscal year ended March 2012, Mitsui conducted supplier questionnaire surveys for coffee, cocoa, and other agricultural products (39 companies), as well as for consumer products such as apparel (153 companies). In the fiscal year ended March 2015, as part of a new initiative, we selected our main suppliers from all our business domains for the survey (72 suppliers in the fiscal year ended March 2015, 39 suppliers in the fiscal year ended March 2016, and 50 suppliers in the fiscal year ended March 2017). Supplier on-site surveys In addition to the above-mentioned supplier questionnaire surveys, we also conduct supplier on-site surveys in order to conduct interviews with responsible persons and check the situation at the operation sites, in accordance with the checklist for compliance with the Supply Chain CSR Policy. In the fiscal year ended March 2015, we conducted on-site surveys of coffee bean farms in Brazil, and in the fiscal year ended March 2016, suppliers of pulp and paper manufacturing resources. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, our targeted suppliers were food material suppliers, and we visited a fruit juice processing company (Mitsui’s supplier), their factory, and fruit farms from which fruit is procured. We conducted on-site surveys together with an external expert to check operation site situations with regard to such areas as “legal compliance”, “environmental management”, “human rights and labor practices”, and “quality control and traceability”. No violations of our Supply Chain CSR Policy were found. Sustainability Report 2017 57 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Promotion of Supply Chain Management Summary of Supplier On-site Surveys (Procurement of food & beverage materials) System Activity warehouses, wastewater treatment facilities, control centers, canteens, Mitsui conducts interviews with supplier representatives and carries out on-site surveys in accordance with the checklist and dormitories. During interviews with factory supervisors and prepared under our Supply Chain CSR Policy, and reviews the status of suppliers’ sustainability initiatives. farmers, we carried out checks on “environmental management”, In September 2016, we visited a fruit juice processing company (Mitsui’s supplier), their factory, and fruit farms from “human rights and labor practices”, “legal compliance”, and “quality which fruit is procured, in Shandong Province, China, and carried out on-site surveys. China is the world’s largest apple control and traceability”. producer, accounting for approximately half of global apple production by volume, and is also one of the major As a result of the on-site surveys, it was confirmed that all matters producing regions from which Mitsui procures concentrated apple juice. are being handled correctly, and no matters were identified that failed As part of the surveys, we inspected a variety of workplaces, including a fruit farm, fruit transportation equipment, to satisfy the requirements of the Supply Chain CSR Policy. Apple fruit transportation equipment that uses water juice extraction factories, chemicals storage facilities, quality inspection rooms, filling factories, low-temperature We will continue to carry out on-site surveys in relation to supply currents to deliver apples into the factory chain CSR. Results of Supplier On-site Surveys Environmental management Human rights and labor practices Legal compliance Reusing residue: Extracts from the residue (apple pomace) are reused in the Hiring: Most of the fulltime and temporary staff are local people; migrant workers and It was confirmed that the suppliers are complying with local laws and regulations manufacture of pectin (a food additive). foreign workers are not hired. relating to the environment, working hours, employment, and other matters, and that Use of chemicals: No chemicals are used to clean the apples. Only listed chemicals are Working hours: During the peak production season, the factory is operational on a they possess the required operating licenses. The company has received the used to clean the production line. All other efforts are taken to minimize the use of 24-hour basis, but a three 8-hour shift system has been adopted, and there is no commendation of the advanced enterprise from the government. chemicals and to strictly control chemicals. overtime work. Use and discharge of water: The process that uses the most water is the apple cleaning Management of labor safety and health: It was confirmed that safety and hygiene in process, which uses tap water. The materials contained in the wastewater consist of the factories and warehouses are ensured, and that fire extinguishers and other safety Quality control and traceability only organic substances (dust, mud, and leaves). Part of the wastewater is recycled, equipment have been installed. Quality control: The fruit selection process is carried out by manual workers with the while the rest is discharged to a wastewater Creation of a pleasant working environment: The utmost care. It was confirmed that quality control and insect management are also treatment plant after being subjected to effluent canteen is large and clean, with sufficient tables and being carried out appropriately in subsequent processes, for which only machines are treatment. Efforts are being made to reduce water chairs, allowing the entire staff to eat together at the used. usage by streamlining the manufacturing process same time. The dormitories are bright, clean and Traceability: Records of the status of deliveries from neighboring contracted fruit farms and by other means. hygienic. are managed appropriately to ensure traceability. Exhaust gas: Government standards are met in an environmentally friendly way through the A wastewater treatment facility for Apple orchard installation of exhaust sensors and filters, and by purifying factory waste generated other methods. in the fruit cleaning process, etc. Carrying Out the Supplier On-site Surveys Dr. Naoki Adachi, CEO of Response Ability, Inc. can be achieved by pursuing these high standards in the course of management. Meanwhile, in terms of mediumto long-term management, there is a need to work alongside the factories and To carry out these surveys, we visited the main supplier of apple juice handled by Mitsui & Co. and a contracted fruit farms to come up with ways of preparing for and responding to potential risks, including recently-emerging risks related farm, which are located in Shandong Province, China. to climate change and global water risks, as well as China’s rapidly declining birthrate and ageing society. The supplier carries out management under HACCP*. Accordingly, there were no hygiene-related issues. In terms of * This is a process management method for carrying out ongoing monitoring and recording of particularly important processes that can help to prevent harm, occupational health and safety, the supplier appeared to be implementing management in accordance with by predicting, for example, microbial contamination and mixing of metal fragments, in all processes, from acceptance of raw materials through to the finished international standards. Regarding hiring practices, large numbers of employees are hired from local neighborhoods, product. By adopting the HACCP system, it becomes possible to implement appropriate measures across all processes at the stage when issues are likely to and there do not appear to be any issues often associated with the use of migrant labor. Final consumers in Japan take a arise, and to ensure the safety of products by preventing harm resulting from food poisoning (including microbes and chemical substances) or foreign objects. particularly strong interest mainly in quality, and it would be advisable to raise awareness of the fact that high quality Sustainability Report 2017 58 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Promotion of Supply Chain Management Examples: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Supply Chain CSR Initiatives Apparel Operations In addition to these initiatives, MIF engages in the development and sale of environment-friendly textile-related products with advanced functionality that are kind to and safe for the Earth and people. MIF has also obtained Mitsui Bussan Inter-Fashion Ltd., a Mitsui subsidiary engaged in the production and procurement of apparel and fashion certification and registration under bluesign® and the Global Recycle Standard (GRS) and maintains compliance with goods, and Mitsui Bussan Techno Products Co., Ltd., another Mitsui subsidiary engaged in trading in textile raw these standards, which are regarded as among the most stringent in the world. materials, industrial raw materials, and woven and knitted fabrics, merged in October 2016 to form Mitsui Bussan To obtain bluesign® certification and registration, MIF is required to ensure that its collaborating supply-chain I-Fashion Ltd. (MIF). MIF aims to achieve sustainable growth in ways that allow it to exist in harmony with society. The manufacturing facilities in Japan and overseas are taking comprehensive steps to care for not only the environment but company is making a determined effort to find solutions to various issues by continuing the supply chain CSR activities also their workers. An applicant company and its supply-chain facilities must meet the standards set out for bluesign® of the two original companies, by conducting business that creates environmental value, and by pursuing initiatives certification, such as the prohibition of child labor, the elimination of forced labor and discrimination, upholding of relating to human rights management. freedom of association, and occupational safety and health. As a member of the Mitsui group, MIF undertook the following supply chain CSR activities in the fiscal year ended If an infringement of the Supply Chain CSR Policy or related laws and regulations has occurred at a supplier, MIF has March 2017 with an eye on becoming a company worthy of earning the trust of all stakeholders, including shareholders, a system in place to support and follow up on remedial action and improvements by the supplier to ensure the overall suppliers, customers, employees, consumers, and local communities. soundness of the CSR management framework throughout its supply chains. MIF also regards support for the development of appropriate working environments at suppliers in Japan and overseas through day-to-day 1. The number of items in the Supply Chain CSR Policy formulated in October 2008 was increased from 7 to 10 to reflect communication with them as an important part of its role as a sustainable company in its supply chains. changes in the external environment and the expectations of society. 2. Since the formulation of the Supply Chain CSR Policy, suppliers, including contract manufacturers in Japan and Supply Chain CSR Activities at MIF overseas, have been asked to provide written confirmation of their understanding of the policy (“written confirmation of understanding”). In 2014 this approach was taken a step further by changing the content of these October 2008 MIF established its Supply Chain CSR Policy. The company began sending notices to its documents to state that suppliers understand the policy and suppliers, including contracted manufacturers in Japan and overseas, to request their observe it (“written consent to compliance”). Such written consent understanding of and support for MIF’s policy and obtaining their written confirmation. to compliance was obtained from new suppliers. As for the main suppliers from which written confirmation of understanding had August 2014 MIF conducted a questionnaire survey of its 93 main suppliers concerning the utilization of been obtained, the confirmation letters were replaced with the Technical Intern Training Program. “written consent to compliance”. A total of 252 written consents MIF started to require its suppliers to understand and comply with its Supply Chain CSR Policy were obtained in the fiscal year ended March 2017. and to obtain written consent from its 26 main suppliers and new suppliers. 3. MIF implemented an e-learning program targeted at all officers and January 2015 MIF required the aforementioned 26 suppliers to conduct a CSR self-check concerning their employees, as well as CSR procurement seminars by external compliance with the policy. experts. The purpose of these activities is to raise awareness of supply chain CSR and ensure that the policy is understood by all September 2015 MIF asked the 241 suppliers from which it had obtained “written confirmation” to replace this officers and employees. expression with “written consent”. February 2017 The Supply Chain CSR Policy formulated in October 2008 was expanded from 7 items to 10. As of March 31, MIF had obtained “written confirmation” and “written consent” from a total of 5,012 (1,463*) Visit to the manufacturing plant of a supplier 2017 suppliers: 3,896 (1,044*) in Japan, and 1,116 (419*) overseas. * Figures in parentheses indicate the number of “written consents” obtained. Sustainability Report 2017 59 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Promotion of Supply Chain Management Examples: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Initiatives designed to ensure a stable supply of green coffee beans Food & Beverage Materials assistance from Mitsui, Bau Farm is building new sales channels in Asian and European countries, as well as Japan. Bau Farm values its employees and improves the quality of its products by improving the quality of the labor. Mr. The production volume of coffee, a product enjoyed by people throughout the world, is greatly affected by natural Fukuda believes that “careful work comes from motivation, and motivation is created by the good treatment and events including frosts and droughts, as well as climatic conditions such as rainy and dry seasons, and this has a major education of employees”. The owner’s philosophy is reflected in the efforts made by the employees themselves to effect on the market price. Thus, it is difficult to purchase coffee at a stable price and maintain a balance between supply improve the working environment and consistently apply the 5S methodology. Employees also gain a deeper and demand. understanding of the world of coffee through training and workplace education, giving them relevant knowledge and Mitsui plays the role of liaison between producers and consumers experience of the product and about trends in coffee-consuming countries. This commitment to high-quality in the supply chain. Mitsui works to improve relations with suppliers employee education has enabled Bau Farm to maintain a stable workforce, giving it an important advantage over other around the world in order to guarantee a stable supply of high-quality coffee farms. green coffee beans carefully selected from regions around the world, Moreover, under the slogan of “kaizen”, the Farm actively introduces new technologies to produce even better such as Central and South America, Southeast Asia, and Africa. coffee. Bau Farms’ another distinctive characteristic is its commitment to constantly trying new ideas that utilize new In particular, our base of operations in Brazil, Mitsui Alimentos (a methods and kinds of coffee trees. For example, by installing an irrigation system for avoiding drought damage, Bau wholly owned subsidiary), has built alliances with superior producers, Farm also increases the efficiency of its workforce by controlling the flowering period of the plants in order to stagger and, by ensuring traceability, transparency and identifiability at all the harvest periods. It has also introduced GPS for effective soil improvement. stages of business in the supply chain, has created a stable supply The green coffee beans that Mitsui supplies to consumers embody the producer’s determination to grow highsystem for high-quality green coffee beans. quality beans through initiatives such as these. We bring the owner of Bau Farm to Japan once every two years to For example, Mitsui is cooperating with Mitsui Alimentos to engage in direct dialogue with coffee shop proprietors and beverage manufacturers. These visits provide excellent provide comprehensive marketing and sales support to Bau Farm in opportunities to gain a deeper understanding about the needs of the Cerrado region. We have maintained an excellent relationship with consumers. Similarly, when Mitsui customers who handle Bau Farm Bau Farm for over 20 years by providing financial support as needed for coffee visit Brazil, we create opportunities for them to visit the farm so the development of new plantations, and by entering into long-term that they can learn more about the place where the coffee is grown. agreements as the basis for stable business. Leveraging this excellent Through initiatives such as these, Mitsui works to bring producers and relationship, we are devising new initiatives for further expansion of the consumers together in a value chain based on face-to-face business. communication. Bau Farm is owned by Mr. Tomio Fukuda, a second-generation Mitsui will continue its efforts to provide consumers throughout Japanese-Brazilian. As a former engineer, Mr. Fukuda is totally the world with stable supplies of high-quality coffee, and to contribute committed to the production of excellent coffee based on the quality to the success of producers through its business activities. Bau Farm is owned by the Fukuda family. control concepts of kaizen and “5S”. This approach has allowed Bau Farm to become one of Brazil’s leading specialty coffee farms. With Sustainability Report 2017 60 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Stable Supply of Resources & Materials Promotion of Supply Chain Management Examples: Assessing and Solving Supply Chain Issues Tea Leaves Procurement in Consideration of Quality, Safety, the Environment and Work Conditions Food & Beverage Materials Improving Procurement Reliability Through Legal Compliance and the Forest Certification System Lumber Procurement Mitsui Norin Co., Ltd., our subsidiary, markets “Nittoh Black Tea”, which is a very familiar brand in Japan. The company procures Significant deforestation and reduction and degradation of biodiversity and forest ecosystems caused by illegal logging tea leaves from tea producers around the world to meet a wide range of customer needs. At present, it procures tea leaves have become major environmental issues globally. In 2006, as a countermeasure against illegal logging, the Japanese from approximately 450 tea producers in eight countries, including India, Sri Lanka, Kenya, and Indonesia. Mitsui Norin government enacted the Green Purchasing Law, which requires that government agencies only purchase lumber that is designates as its preferred suppliers those tea producers which give appropriate consideration to quality and safety, the certified to have come from legal logging in sustainably managed forests. environment, and work conditions, for example by carrying out controls based on Rain Forest Alliance certification and Hazard As one of Mitsui’s missions is to ensure the stable supply of building materials, paper resources, and other wood Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) certification, being committed to Fair Trade, and engaging in organic cultivation. products, we cooperate with suppliers from around the world to ensure that our purchases contain no illegally logged In the Darjeeling district of India, for example, one producer makes various efforts to improve both the work conditions of lumber. employees and the profitability of the business, for example by introducing a small hydroelectric generator on the farm, For example, in our forest resources business for pulp and paper manufacturing in Australia, Mitsui implements entrusting its management and operation to the workers, growing and selling organic produce such as ginger and oranges, environmental management and operation procedures based on the two major forest certifications, the Forest and producing honey. The producer also raises cows on the farm to provide milk to children to enhance the quality of life of Stewardship Council (FSC®) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC), and we the workers and their families, and uses the manure as fertilizer for organic cultivation to contribute to reducing environmental conduct regular checks to ensure that only reputable plantation operators are used, that operations do not result in load. environmental destruction, for example through chemical soil contamination, and that the obligation to replant logged Mitsui and Mitsui Norin undertake comprehensive quality control in all phases of the value chain. To ensure complete areas is being fulfilled. In addition to Australian companies, in 2014 Trans Pacific Fibre, a forest resources business for traceability in all product stages from procurement of raw materials to manufacturing, inspection, shipment, and delivery, both pulp and paper manufacturing joint venture company in Chile, companies together created an original traceability system. In tea producing regions, Mitsui and Mitsui Norin periodically visit obtained both FSC® and PEFC certification. tea farms to conduct on-site surveys of tea growing environments, quality control, and agrochemical controls and other Increased awareness of environmental conservation has led to aspects. As regards agrochemical controls, both companies conduct tests for residue agrochemicals on the tea leaves at a increased numbers of companies and consumers who choose third party contract institution, in addition to on-site visits and confirmations at the tea farms. products with the above-mentioned forest certifications when they purchase wood and paper products. Mitsui cooperates with its The Black Tea Manufacturing and Sale Business Value Chain partners and manufacturers to increase the use of FSC® and PEFC certified products in the supply chain, in order to create products that are in accordance with higher awareness of environmental Woodchip processing plant Tea leaf appraisal conservation. (Bunbury Port in Western Australia) by tea-tasters Overseas production locations Japan Tea Factory Shipper Customers plantations Mitsui & Mitsui Norin Fresh tea Black Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Consumers leaves tea ••Importation •• Packaging Products •• Procurement Blending Appraisal • Cleaning Inspection Blending process Quality management guidance Tea-picking Deciding on the tea leaf Agrochemicals management guidance blending Sustainability Report 2017 61 Corporate Governance & Human Resources Strategic Focus From Mitsui Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles 2016 Ratio of employees feeling motivation in their work 70.7 % Ratio of employees feeling personal growth through work 73.4 % Ratio of employees feeling proud to be working for this company 84.1 % Realizing diversity management by building an environment in which individual employees can fully display their abilities In a business environment where global competition is further escalating, a wide palette of human resources with diverse values is required in order to respond to various changes as a general trading company and seize risks as business opportunities. From this perspective, Mitsui & Co. has been actively attracting human resources from diverse backgrounds, including nationality, gender, and sense of values. Our diversity management aims at improving corporate competitiveness by bringing new value to the business and creating innovation through the dedicated efforts of our employees. In order to realize these goals, we designated 2016 as “year zero for work-style innovations”. We are reviewing conventional work styles from the points of view of efficiency and productivity and are actively introducing new patterns and initiatives where appropriate. While referring to the data reported in the “Employee Opinion Survey on Work Styles 2015”, we made workplaces and time allocation more efficient in the fiscal year ended March 2017 by introducing such initiatives as annual paid leaves on an hourly basis and mobile work, and we also implemented on a trial basis an individual-based staggered working hour scheme. We will continue to conduct periodical surveys and use the results to implement improvements and enhance productivity according to the plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. We also plan to introduce various other measures so as to build a workplace environment that, through the realization of varied work patterns with high levels of efficiency and productivity, enables employees to engage in their jobs with greater motivation and dedication, thus strengthening the competitiveness of the company as a whole. Sustainability Report 2017 62 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Corporate Implementation of highly transparent disclosure of information and disciplined Compliance & Risk Formulation of the plans for compliance activities for FY2017 based on the Governance & employee conduct related to internal controls Management review of FY2016 activities undertaken by the Compliance Committee (twice Internal Controls Implementation of assessment of the effectiveness of the Board of Directors in annually) response to the adoption of the Corporate Governance Code Promotion of compliance-related activities at overseas subsidiaries and Full explanation of business plans, results, management strategies, etc. for affiliated companies, in line with initiatives by the parent company FY2016 as an integral part of communication with investors Visits to key affiliated companies to provide advice on the development and operation of compliance activities Reinforcement of Utilization of a food safety management database to strengthen the traceability Formulation and publishing of the MITSUI & CO., LTD. Anti-Corruption Policy Sustainability of food and food products, and to ensure strict safety controls Governance Improvement of food hygiene knowledge, and continual implementation of Human Resources to Changes to existing assessment systems to ensure that such aspects as food safety awareness-raising activities through the holding of committee Translate into Assets achievements and new business challenges are fairly reflected in assessments meetings and seminars for employees (11 of each type of event) Human Resources Cross-organizational reallocation of human resources to drive initiatives of high Based on the Specially Designated Business Management System, promoting Development strategic significance (approx. 40 people) the business with potential-risk analysis related to the environment, society, Reinforcement of recruitment advertising with the aim of securing diverse and governance, and implementation of measures to increase the internal human resources, and implementation of employee-led recruiting events (over penetration level of the System and the level of understanding at the business 200 times, more than 400 employees involved); continued strenuous efforts frontline aimed at recruiting global human resources including new graduates, midIncrease in the applicability of expert advice on environmental and social risk career hires, global staff, Ph.D.-level personnel, etc. management issues through the work of the Environmental & Societal Continuing implementation of various programs designed to strengthen global Advisory Committee human resources development (approx. 1,300 participants in total) Streamlining and value enhancement of human resources development Compliance & Risk Reinforcement of compliance through the implementation of e-learning programs aimed at creating new business. Management programs, questionnaire surveys, and other initiatives in collaboration with Provision of training programs to group companies, and regular affiliated companies implementation of human resources information sharing meetings for group Reinforcement and development of the risk management framework by companies, with the aim of strengthening global group management (2 carrying out drills arranged by the Emergency Response Headquarters meetings, 103 participants from 62 companies) pursuant to the Rules on Safety Measures Implementation of summer and winter internship programs to offer interns Collection of a commitment to comply with the Business Conduct Guidelines working experience (3 programs, approx. 150 participants) for Employees and Officers and the Standards for Discipline of the Employment Regulations from all the applicable employees and officers Implementation of Compliance Review Week activities, including the dissemination of messages by the President and COOs, etc., as well as seminars, information-sharing, and discussions Implementation of Compliance Awareness Survey (for domestic employees and officers). Formulation and implementation of compliance activities based on the results of the survey Sustainability Report 2017 63 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Activities for FY Ended March 2017 Business Area Metal Machinery & Infrastructure Chemicals Energy Lifestyle Innovation & Corporate Development Corporate & Others Theme Business Activities Theme Business Activities Promoting Diversity Implementation of initiatives to enable our diverse human resources to take on Development of the working environment for disabled employees by Management more active roles installing automatic doors at a special-purpose subsidiary for the Continued implementation of the employee opinion survey on work styles, employment of people with disabilities and promotion of Work Style Innovation initiatives, such as the introduction Held a Seminar regarding the employees with disabilities (for Head Office and of the annual paid leave on an hourly basis and a mobile work system, a trial domestic affiliated companies), (Held once, there were 56 participants from of individual-based staggered working hours (Head Office and domestic 34 domestic affiliated companies) branches and offices, 1,400 participants) (the decision was made to introduce this system formally at the beginning of FY2017), and establishment of a Occupational Health, Promotion of Health Management leading to productivity improvements dedicated work-style innovation intranet page Safety and Work through maintenance and enhancement of employee health Environment Stress checks, seminars, and training (health management when working Diversity management training for managerial staff (Head Office and domestic Initiatives overseas, mental health, low-carb diets, safe alcohol consumption) (total of 30 branches and offices) (6 programs, 160 participants) events, 873 participants) Enhancement of family care measures through various initiatives, including distribution of a family care handbook based on the results of a questionnaire Recognition as a 2017 Certified Health and Productivity Management on the balancing of work and family care, seminars on the company’s family Organization by METI care system (Head Office) (2 times, 57 participants) and holding of family care Establishment of the Health Promotion Committee seminars (Head Office and domestic branches and offices) (2 times, 77 Deepening of internal communication participants) Continued holding of meetings with unions, attended by the CFO, branch and Enhancement of childcare support measures through various initiatives, office managers, and business unit COOs, about management policies, the including regular seminars on the company’s childbirth and childcare systems administration of human resources management systems, human resources (2 times, attended by 12 male employees and 36 female employees) and development, and other topics (12 meetings) partial subsidization of babysitting costs Launch of new “Active Talk Wednesday” to facilitate dialogue between Implementation of Female Business Staff Training (Head Office, domestic management and employees (Head Office) (7 sessions, approx. 1,700 branches and offices) (2 programs, 39 participants) and a Diversity Cafe (Head participants) Office) (2 times, 22 participants) to help female employees to on take more Dialogue between the President and employees through the Kurumaza active roles (roundtable meetings) program (30 sessions in Head Office, 6 in branches and offices; also held at overseas branches and offices in a total of 26 countries) Selection as a Nadeshiko Brand company by METI and the Tokyo Stock Exchange for two consecutive years, followed by selection as a SemiFormed of the interior design and the concept behind the floor layout for Nadeshiko Brand company in FY2016 increasing productivity in the new Head Office building Promotion of various revitalization measures such as training programs Creation of safe, comfortable working environments targeting senior human resources (11 programs, 235 participants) Implementation of security measures in Head Office and domestic branches and Promotion of employment of people with disabilities offices, provision of in-house services, and implementation of workplace patrols Continued employment of people with disabilities, including new hires, which In accordance with business continuity planning (BCP), continued resulted in keeping the employment rate of people with disabilities exceeds implementation of emergency drills arranged by the Emergency Response the statutory employment rate (2.48% as of March 2017) Headquarters Integration of the chain of command for safety and security measures Sustainability Report 2017 64 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Corporate Governance Approach Policy We have five audit & supervisory board members, two full-time and three external, and we have established the Audit & Supervisory Board Member Division as a framework to provide added support to the audit & supervisory board We are making efforts to enhance our corporate governance framework and develop and improve our internal controls members in the execution of their duties. Audit & supervisory board members attend the meetings of the Board of on a global group basis, to make sure that Mitsui & Co. is a company that is trusted by society. Directors and other important in-house meetings, overseeing procedures and resolutions, and visit offices in and We recognize that ensuring thorough compliance with respect to internal controls is a particularly important issue. outside Japan and important affiliate companies. Business execution and internal control system Corporate governance and internal control: Systems and implementation System In the fiscal year ended March 2012, we adopted the so-called “J-SOX” standards defined in Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Act as the basis for the evaluation of our internal control systems. We are determined to Corporate governance framework maintain highly effective internal control systems that are compliant with the new global standards and in keeping with Mitsui & Co. has chosen to base its corporate governance framework on a corporate auditor system, headed by the the values of Mitsui & Co., and to ensure that all employees, including those working for affiliated companies, are fully audit & supervisory board. To achieve effective corporate governance for shareholders and other stakeholders, the aware of and comply consistently with the basic principle that “without compliance there will be no work and no Company has established the following governing bodies: company”. At the core of our internal control system, the Internal Control Committee, chaired by the president, establishes 1. The Board of Directors is Mitsui & Co.’s ultimate decision-making body for business execution and oversight. To ensure basic internal control policy and carries out company-wide internal control evaluations and improvements. The that those functions are fulfilled, Mitsui appoints no more than the number of directors necessary to enable effective Compliance Committee, Disclosure Committee, and J-SOX Committee all operate under the Internal Control deliberations, and conducts an annual assessment of the Board in order to validate its effectiveness and discloses a Committee. summary of the results. The company has also established the Governance Committee, Nomination Committee, and Furthermore, to respond to the increasingly diverse kinds of risks associated with our business, we have established Remuneration Committee as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, with external directors and external audit & the Portfolio Management Committee, which monitors the Company’s entire portfolio, makes proposals on the supervisory board members serving as members of these committees. Company’s overall portfolio strategy, and conducts individual discussions on important projects. In addition, we have 2. The audit & supervisory board members audit the execution of the duties of the Board of Directors as an independent formed the Crisis Response Headquarters, an ad-hoc body reporting directly to the president, which exercises swift, body and report to shareholders. In pursuit of this objective, the audit & supervisory board members carry out precise decision-making when there is a need for a swift response, and the Sustainability Committee, which promotes multifaceted, effective auditing activities, such as attending important internal meetings and auditing various types of management with greater emphasis on the sustainability of both society and Mitsui & Co., and the Business Innovation reports, and develop necessary measures in a timely manner. Committee, which promotes initiatives for next-generation innovation business. Moreover, we have formed the Information Strategy Committee, which formulates policies related to company-wide information and IT strategies and To ensure transparency and accountability, which are key requirements of corporate governance, we are prepares major policies related to promoting the enhancement of the management platform and information strategy endeavoring to strengthen management oversight and supervision, taking into account the perspectives of external and monitors the implementation of those policies, and the Diversity Promotion Committee, which analyzes and directors and external audit & supervisory board members. At the same time, the Company is developing its internal addresses current issues to realize the full mobilization of our diverse workforce. control framework with respect to information disclosure, and, based on the general rules of fair disclosure, executives and employees are responsible for ensuring accountability. Furthermore, to separate the functions of business execution and oversight, Mitsui has broadly transferred the authority for business execution to the Company’s executive officers, and the Board of Directors is responsible for overseeing the execution of business by the executive officers. The chief operating officers of the Company’s 16 Headquarters business units and 3 overseas regional business units also serve concurrently as executive officers, supporting a dynamic approach to business execution across Mitsui & Co. global group. At the time of the General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2017, there were 14 directors, five of whom were external directors. Sustainability Report 2017 65 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Internal Controls Current status of the internal auditing structure responsible in their respective fields for surveillance of the risk position of the Company as a whole, risk control within The Internal Auditing Division, which reports directly to the president and has a staff of about 60, conducts regular the prescribed range of their authority, and assistance of the relevant representative directors and managing officers. audits, including audits of subsidiaries inside and outside Japan. Internal auditors make independent and objective evaluations of such areas as management and operational effectiveness, compliance, and the reliability of financial reporting. The audit results are reported to the president, and follow-up reports from the audited department are requested on items where improvement is deemed necessary. Furthermore, we have established an internal auditing section in each business unit. Such internal auditing sections carry out self-auditing of their business units on their own initiative, and combined with the Internal Auditing Division’s audits, this contributes to further improving the effectiveness of our internal controls. Initiatives to enhance corporate governance over the last fiscal year As we have terminated our registration with the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the current fiscal year is the sixth year that we have adopted the J-SOX standards as the basis for the evaluation of our internal control systems. As with last year, we took great care to maintain the same high level of transparency, information disclosure, and internal control discipline as under the US standards. In line with the Corporate Governance Code put into force in June, 2015, we are continuing to provide direct briefings to shareholders and others concerning our corporate governance systems. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles Mitsui & Co. enacted the following “Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles” in April 2006 (Revised: November 2015) Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance and Internal Control Principles Risk Management The Chief Operating Officers of business units and regional business units manage risks arising from Mitsui’s business operations within the authority delegated to them by the management. When a business unit or a regional business unit takes risks greater than the scope of authority delegated to the Chief Operating Officers, it is necessary to obtain approval of the Corporate Management Committee or a representative director in charge, or a senior managing officer in charge in accordance with the standards of the internal approval system. In business fields considered typically to have higher levels of risks, including environment-related business and business with a high public profile, a particularly careful investigation is carried out through the Specially Designated Business Management System. Construction and maintenance of the risk management systems and response to significant risks on a companywide level are handled by such organizations as the Portfolio Management Committee, the Internal Control Committee, the Sustainability Committee, and the Crisis Management Headquarters. The corporate staff divisions are Sustainability Report 2017 66 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance Developing the Sustainability Framework System Activity In 2004, Mitsui & Co. formed the CSR Promotion Committee (current the Sustainability Committee) as an organization under the Corporate Management Committee to develop Mitsui’s internal framework with respect to sustainability, and President & to work to raise sustainability awareness among employees. Mitsui also promotes sustainability-related activities based on cross-organizational collaboration to meet the needs and expectations of society in relation to companies’ social values and initiatives. As a measure to facilitate planning and promotion of sustainability activities, such as supporting the practice of sustainability management and raising sustainability awareness at each organization, together with the staff in the workplaces of each unit, we continue to appoint CSR Promotion Officers (current Sustainability Promotion Officers) in each of the corporate staff divisions, Headquarters business units, overseas regional business units, and domestic offices, and we are building our internal network. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, CSR Promotion Officers meetings (current Sustainability Promotion Officers meetings) continued to be held quarterly, where we shared new policies relating to our sustainability-initiatives and other important information discussed and formulated by the CSR Promotion Committee (current the Sustainability Committee), and gave reports on surveys and measures related to supply chain management. In addition, working groups were held to consider society’s needs and expectations, and our responsibilities to society, using case studies of Mitsui & Co. environment fund Mitsui’s business from the perspective of Mitsui’s identified materiality. Moreover, Mitsui CSR Promotion Officers in business units and corporate divisions have taken the initiative in organizing various sustainability awareness-raising programs, such as in-house sustainability seminars and lectures by people from partner companies and external experts, and sustainability-themed workshops through employees’ dayto-day work. In this way, we are urging employees to consider sustainability issues in their everyday business. Sustainability Report 2017 67 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance Sustainability Committee System Activity 11. Approve important matters (basic policies, business plans, etc.) relating to the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund. 12. Select the proposals from internal applicants for the Environment Fund grants. 13. Select the proposals from external applicants for the Environment Fund grants. In recent years, there has been growing interest in the United Nations’ “Sustainable Development Goals” (SDGs) and in 14. Decide and report whether to support an exceptional acquisition of forests or the disposal of company owned forests, “Environmental, Social, and Governance” (ESG) investing. In order to send a clearer message about Mitsui & Co.’s which is out of the scope of the Guidelines on the acquisition of a new forest and disposal of company owned unchanging commitment to the creation of new value for society through our business activities and our continual forests, based on Rules on the Management of Company Owned Forests. pursuit of the mutual sustainability of society and our company, we launched the Sustainability Committee on May 1, 2017. Furthermore, the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee has been established under the Sustainability The Sustainability Committee will assume a stronger and broader role than its predecessor, the CSR Promotion Committee. Committee members are selected mainly from among external experts who are familiar with a broad range Committee. It will submit proposals to the Corporate Management Committee regarding sustainability-related of fields—including climate change, environmental restoration, environmental policy with respect to water, energy, etc., management policies and business activities (identifying risks and opportunities in business), company-wide policies technology trends, human rights, and other matters—as well as attorneys and other knowledgeable individuals. relating to the environment, conduct deliberations on effective information disclosures to stakeholders, inculcates the importance of sustainability management throughout the Company, make proposals in relation to Specially Designated Businesses, and engage in other sustainability related matters. CSR Promotion Committee (now the Sustainability Committee) Meetings The committee’s chairman is the executive officer in charge of corporate staff divisions (overseeing the Corporate in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2017 Planning & Strategy Division), and its deputy chairman is the executive officer in charge of corporate staff divisions (overseeing the Human Resources & General Affairs Division and the Legal Division). The general managers of each Meeting 1 (May 13, 2016) A report was given of the response to GRI G4 in the CSR Report 2016, and deliberations were held. corporate staff division — the Corporate Planning & Strategy Division (secretariat), the Investor Relations Division, the Corporate Communications Division, the Human Resources & General Affairs Division, the Legal Division, the Investment Meeting 2 (August 26, 2016) Administrative Division, and the Environmental·Social Contribution Division serve as committee members. The Deliberations were held on the response to Article 54 of the UK Modern Slavery Act (MSA) in the following fiscal committee has the following duties: year and onwards, and a report was given on our response to the ESG questionnaire surveys. Meeting 3 (December 22, 2016) 1. Develop basic policies on the company’s sustainability management and fundamental plans for activities to promote Reports were given on the review of our CSR promotion framework and our response to the ESG questionnaire sustainability and CSR. surveys. 2. Review and make proposals on the company’s management policies, as well as policies and strategies of the business Meeting 4 (March 3, 2017) units and corporate divisions from the viewpoint of sustainability. Deliberations were held on proposed revisions to the CSR Promotion Committee and the proposed new 3. Present proposals on company-wide environmental policies. committee, and on the results in the fiscal year ended March 2017 and action plan for the fiscal year ending March 4. Make proposals on sustainability-focused business activities (understanding risks and opportunities involved in 2018 in respect to our sustainability promotion activities and the Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund. Reports were business) given on the results in the fiscal year ended March 2017 and action plan for the fiscal year ending March 2018 in 5. Deliberate on the effective disclosure of information to stakeholders, and the content, methods, and means of respect to environmental and social contribution activities. transmission thereof. 6. Consider and present proposals relating to progress reviews and monitoring required for management. 7. Configure and establish the internal structure for promoting sustainability management of the company. 8. Identify the material issues to focus on each year for promoting sustainability and CSR activities of the company and ensure progress on these. 9. Respond to issues related to sustainability and CSR, both internal and external to the company. 10. Decide and report whether to support individual proposals which qualify under the matters of Specially Designated Business, and indicate the necessary cautions for projects that will be supported. Sustainability Report 2017 68 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Reinforcement of Sustainability Governance ESG-Related Risk Management System Activity Business Domains Subject to Specially Designated Business Management System Business Domain Key Points for Screening Business opportunities and the risks associated with doing business have increased and are becoming more diverse due to economic globalization, progress in information technology, and the increasing awareness of the corporate social Applicable to All Four Business Domains responsibility. Based on this understanding, Mitsui & Co. recognizes the necessity of comprehensively managing risk • Significance and social value of the business itself • Significance of Mitsui engaging in respective business from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives, by responding appropriately to changes in social conditions and business models. With this awareness, we have designated the business domains listed in the table below, which have 1 Environment-related business • Contribution of such business to the environment and society high qualitative risks, including risks related to the natural environment, society, and governance, as specially designated All business that have large impact on environments • Measures to mitigate environmental impact (incl. Climate Examples: coal fired power plant business, offshore oil field change, Biodiversity loss, Water risk), and safety assurance business, and we have been endeavoring to develop such businesses with due caution under our Specially Designated business, etc. • For development business, appropriate consideration and Business Management System. Specifically, when beginning new projects, we conduct internal assessments and, understanding of human rights belonged to local residents wherever necessary, approach the Sustainability Committee as well as the Environmental & Societal Advisory and other related parties • Compliance with environmental laws, regulations and Committee for advice as to whether or not to proceed with the proposed projects and for recommendation on how guidelines, etc. improvements can be made. Ultimately, the final decisions on whether or not to proceed with any given project are made by representative directors after respective proposal documents have been circulated to the relevant 2 Medical, healthcare and bioethics related business • Ethical screening based on guidelines of three Japanese Businesses related to the fields of medical and healthcare, and ministries (Ethical Guidelines for Human Genome and Genetic departments. The members of the Environmental & Societal Advisory Committee are selected mainly from among Sequencing Research: MEXT, MHLW, METI) that engage in the development of technologies relating to the external experts who are familiar with a broad range of fields—including climate change, environmental restoration, human genome, genetic analysis, genetic recombination, and • Approval by the ethics committee of the research institute, environmental policy with respect to water, energy, etc., technology trends, human rights, and other matters—as well as other relevant matters, or businesses that handle products to acquisition of informed consent, checking of processes, etc. which these technologies are applied. attorneys and other knowledgeable individuals. Examples: Business with a high public profile in the medical and In the fiscal year ended March 2017, 26 projects were individually assessed under the Specially Designated Business healthcare fields (a dialysis, pharmaceutical drug manufacturing Management System. By business domain, 7 of these projects were the environment-related business, 3 were the business), development of new drugs using genetic analysis technology, etc. medical, healthcare and bioethics related business, 14 were the projects receiving subsidies, and 2 were the businesses harboring other unusual reputation risks. 3 Projects receiving subsidies • Evaluation in light of Mitsui ’s management philosophy (MVV) In this fiscal year, we conduct a comprehensive and well balanced management of risks on specially designated All projects that directly or indirectly receive subsidies from • Social impact and ensuring accountability and process governmental and administrative agencies within and outside transparency business at the earlier stage of business development process and up to the follow-up stage in view of the ESG of Japan. • Determination of interests of stakeholders, and resultant investment with support from those units. considerations and responses Furthermore, we have established the Rules on ODA Business Management for promoting ODA business, which has • Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term a high public profile and, therefore, requires operation processes that are highly transparent. acting as the operator of a business with a high public profile Under this system, as necessary, Mitsui’s ODA Projects Evaluation Committee considers these projects and engages 4 Business harboring other unusual reputation risks • Evaluation in light of Mitsui ’s management philosophy (MVV) in appropriate risk management practices. Businesses that may be in conflict with public order and • Social impact and ensuring accountability and process morality, Mitsui ’s management philosophy, etc. and businesses transparency with a high public profile. • Determination of interests of stakeholders, and resultant Examples: business with sensitive personal information, social considerations and responses infrastructure businesses, etc. • Responsibility and capability over the medium-to-long term acting as the operator of a business with a high public profile Sustainability Report 2017 69 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Compliance & Risk Management Compliance Approach Policy The Compliance Program The Compliance Department of the Mitsui Legal Division leads compliance efforts on a global and Group-wide basis under the direction and supervision of the Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) and with the support of the Compliance Our sound reputation is the foundation of our business. As such, we recognize that it is only through compliance that Supervising Officers appointed in each of Mitsui’s domestic and overseas business units, in Mitsui branches and offices, we can maintain that reputation and gain even more trust from our customers. and in other such entities. The objectives of these efforts are to: (i) heighten awareness of compliance issues, (ii) To that end, we are working to heighten awareness among all management and staff of the importance of strengthen and improve compliance programs and systems within Mitsui, and (iii) respond to specific compliance issues upholding high ethical standards and are accordingly striving to build a global compliance framework that advances that arise. In addition, a Compliance Committee has been established as a forum for discussions relating to the best business practices. promotion of compliance with laws and ethical standards across the Group as a whole. With the participation of external attorneys, the Compliance Committee discusses various issues that have arisen in the wider Group, and Building a Better Compliance Framework Policy System Activity discussion outcomes are made available on the company intranet. Specific measures carried out with compliance in mind include conducting thoroughgoing supervision at the working level, preventing corruption through management of business entertainment for public officials and Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers appointment of agents, strengthening systems to comply with applicable competition laws, strengthening business The “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd.” specify how every Mitsui employee process controls, and promoting the rotation and movement of personnel. Such initiatives are implemented on an should act in his or her daily activities, from the perspective of compliance with laws, internal regulations, and corporate ongoing basis, and with the aim of preventing misconduct. With respect to anti-corruption, we have published MITSUI & ethics. The Business Conduct Guidelines help us fulfill our corporate social responsibility (CSR) and win the trust of our CO., LTD. Anti-Corruption Policy. stakeholders. They have been revised from time to time since their enactment in February 2001, to reflect changes in the law and best practices. Our aim is to ensure that all Mitsui employees develop a broad awareness of the Business Conduct Guidelines MITSUI & CO., LTD. Anti-Corruption Policy through training and e-learning opportunities, and to see that all employees have pledged to comply with them. We have also introduced bespoke business conduct guidelines for each of Mitsui & Co. Group companies, which are based on the Business Conduct Guidelines but tailored to the specific business structures of those companies. In addition, we have put in place the Business Conduct Guidelines in each of our overseas offices, reflecting the local laws, regulations, and customs of the countries in each region. Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers 1. Compliance with the Law and Respect for Human 8. Company Fund and Financial Reporting Rights 9. Political Donations and Other Contributions 2. Office Environment and Harassment 10. Social Contributions 3. Compliance with Antitrust Law 11. Protection of the Environment 4. Conflicts of Interest between Employees and the 12. Action against Corporate Racketeering and Company Industrial Espionage 5. Gifts and Favors 13. Reporting and Sanctions 6. Treatment of Company Information 7. Compliance with Procedures for Export and Import and Other Applicable Laws Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers Sustainability Report 2017 70 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Compliance & Risk Management Facilitating Communication and Improving the Internal Whistleblowing System We believe that the compliance function essentially calls for us to prevent compliance-related incidents from arising by maintaining an open working environment that is facilitated by transparent and open communication within the Mitsui community, and which reflects our management philosophy and values. Accordingly, we require that employees who have concerns about possible misconduct promptly raise those concerns with their supervisors or other managers, and duly seek their guidance, in an appropriate and timely manner. Mitsui offers eight channels for raising compliance concerns, including internal reporting lines and reporting routes involving external attorneys or third-party hotline service providers that promise anonymity. Mitsui has published Whistleblowing System Regulations clearly stipulating that no employee will suffer any form of retaliation or prejudice for raising any compliance concern. Furthermore, we have made it possible for Group companies in Japan to refer compliance reporting to Mitsui’s designated external attorneys and third-party hotline service providers as their own external reporting channels, and we are enhancing our system to allow employees of Group companies to raise concerns without fear of retaliation through providing guidance to Group companies on how to set up and manage internal whistleblowing channels. Overseas, our regional Compliance Supervising Officers are chiefly responsible for overseeing the implementation of reporting channels that make it possible for employees in overseas offices and affiliated Group companies in each region to report and seek guidance on compliance concerns in line with local laws and customs. Effective Education and Training Mitsui & Co. provides employees with a wide range of compliance training programs to promote a high degree of awareness of business ethics throughout Mitsui and to ensure that all employees have the necessary skills and information available to them to ensure that work practices remain in compliance. In the fiscal year ended March 2017, we provided such training for employees at all levels, including new employees and line managers, as well as for Mitsui employees moving overseas or being seconded to Group companies. Mitsui also provides an extensive program of compliance training for executives and employees of Group companies. In November 2016, we conducted the “Compliance Review Week”, in which we held a seminar about compliance issues that everyone may come across, in addition to sharing information and exchanging opinions. In addition, during the fiscal year ended March 2017, we provided lessons involving the Compliance Handbook for Mitsui employees which explains the contents of the “Business Conduct Guidelines for Employees and Officers of Mitsui & Co., Ltd.”, and also conducted online testing to ensure that employees in Japan who had not taken the testing last year understood the Handbook content. Through such activities, we are working to ensure that all management and employees have adequate knowledge related to compliance that they need to conduct of day-to-day business activities. Moreover, we newly prepared “Compliance Handbook for Mitsui Group companies” and distributed it to domestic Group companies upon request. We also provide overseas operations and Group companies specifically-tailored compliance training that takes into account particularities of the regions in which they are located. Sustainability Report 2017 71 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Compliance & Risk Management Compliance Awareness Survey Protecting Personal Information and Information Risk Management System In order to understand and monitor the level of compliance awareness among executives and employees, we have conducted Compliance Awareness Surveys as appropriate not only in Mitsui & Co., Ltd., but also in our oversea offices Protecting Personal Information and major subsidiaries. We use the survey results to address issues and implement a variety of measures to promote We appointed a Chief Privacy Officer (CPO) and established a CPO office to work for heightening awareness among all further compliance awareness and to reduce compliance problems. management and staff of the importance of personal information protection in accordance with our Personal Information Protection Guideline and Regulations on the Protection of Personal Information. Other Initiatives As we have a broad spectrum of involvement in diverse commodities and services, we handle a large amount of In addition to the previously mentioned initiatives, we also visit individual key subsidiaries and associated companies to personal information, particularly in B-to-C (business to consumer) business fields. Accordingly, we take extreme care to ensure adherence to best compliance practices at the Group level. In so doing, we gain a better understanding of ensure that all data is protected. From the perspective of accident prevention, in addition to our education and training compliance issues facing each company, thereby enabling us to offer advice geared toward helping those companies system, we appoint Personal Information Management Officers in each division. The Officers regularly review the status design and implement compliance programs that can be run autonomously and independently. of personal information management in the daily course of business and enhance it as needed. Throughout the fiscal year ending March 2018, we will continue initiatives that call for even better communication needed to support more effective and more fully-instilled compliance program design and implementation in order to Information Risk Management further make compliance an integral part of daily Group-wide operations. Based on the understanding that the proper management of information, which is an important business resource, is indispensable to us, we established the Information Risk Management Subcommittee under the Information Strategy Global Tax Management Policy Committee, which the Chief Information Officer (CIO) chairs. In accordance with our Information Security Policy, we We are committed to meeting our tax compliance and simultaneously managing our global tax expenses. Our Global have streamlined our Rules on Information System Management and the same on IT Security, so that we could maintain Tax Management Policy is available below. and keep enhancing Information Risk Management Systems. Global Tax Management Policy Cyber Security With the advancement of ICT in business, both of our own and our affiliates, we established a dedicated department for cyber security dealing with cyber risks. It implements countermeasures and reviews consolidation of emergency systems. Information Security Policy Sustainability Report 2017 72 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Human Resources to Translate into Assets Human Resources Approach Policy Key Elements of Mitsui & Co.’s Human Resources System Policy We regard our employees as one of our most important stakeholders. Our human resources are Mitsui & Co’s most Mitsui & Co. has long maintained its belief that “human resources are our greatest asset” (focusing on human resources) important asset. We have developed a variety of human resources development programs with the aim of training and embraced the values of “Focus on Human Resources”, “Open-mindedness”, and “Challenge and Innovation”. Mitsui’s highly creative people not only with business skills and know-how but also with essential qualities such as integrity, human resources system emphasizes such philosophy and values as it strives to be a company where employees are ambition, humility, gratitude, and diligence to contribute to a better society. We are also promoting diversity further, motivated to work with vitality. Mitsui positions its human resources system as a “means for fulfilling its corporate including expanding opportunities for female employees. mission and realizing its management philosophy” and focuses on the following three key policies. Our goal is to create an environment in which all employees are motivated to work with vitality and achieve growth as the company grows. Three key policies of human resources system Basic Policy Policy 1. Dissemination of Mitsui’s Through introducing an appraisal standard that does not focus simply on Management Philosophy short-term quantifiable performance, but places importance on how an Mitsui & Co., with its long history and traditions, has held the belief that human resources are its greatest asset and has Comprising Its Mission, Vision employee’s work contributes to achieving our management philosophy always maintained its objective of training and developing human resources who can contribute to society. This is and Values (MVV) over the medium-to-long term in the personnel system, we will ensure where the phrase “Mitsui is people” came from. To implement its management philosophy and to realize one of its thorough dissemination and sharing of our MVV broadly among employees. mission statements, “We’re building a better future for people and planet”, Mitsui considers it most important to 2. Development of Human We will develop human resources who can take the leadership in continue to raise the quality of individual personnel through human resources training and development activities. Resources implementing our management philosophy. 3. Appropriate Appointment We appoint and allocate human resources effectively from a company-wide and Allocation of Personnel perspective, based on appropriate human resources management. Sustainability Report 2017 73 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Human Resources Development Mitsui & Co.’s View on Human Resources Development Policy Main Human Resources Training Programs and the Number of Participants/Dispatched Employees System Activity From its initial stages, employee training at Mitsui & Co. is designed to foster human resources that are capable of global Number of Category Training Programs Outline participants group management. FY2016 Throughout its long tradition, Mitsui has always focused on human resources. Our approach to human resources Compulsory training Management Tr, Line Manager Tr, The aim is to foster global group management 2,129 development is represented in the company’s saying, “The individual builds the business, and the business cultivates Leadership Tr, Managerial Staff resources. Participants acquire the management the individual”. As the words signify, the company’s priority mission is to develop talented human resources by Preparation Tr, Administrative Staff Tr, approach, business skills, and mindset required for encouraging each individual to create business. Indeed, it would be no exaggeration to say that this is the company’s Female Business Staff Tr, New Hire each milestone, such as new grades and bands. ultimate raison d’etre. For this reason, we regard on-the-job training (OJT) as the cornerstone of human resources Induction Tr, Mid-career Hire Tr development. We also implement comprehensive off-the-job-training by various forms of training to support and Bussan Academy Marketing, Management Strategy, Professional training with the aim of improving 2,507 Finance, Logical Thinking, Mindset, self-development and specialist knowledge. This is supplement human resources development through OJT. Communication, Philosophy, History optional training that can be taken as needed from options in a broad range of fields. Subject to Career Design Tr Training programs for senior employees, which are 368 selection criteria designed to support them in devising the direction of Human Resources Development Programs System their career autonomously and to adapt to the change of environment and their roles. To achieve the goal of fostering human resourced capable of global group management, we have built a wide variety of Optional/ Project Manager Development Academy, A variety of training programs, including a cross4,875 by invitation training Cross-industrial Exchange Program, MOC industrial exchange program (which aims to promote human resources development program for every job grade and band, from new employees through to leadership (Mitsui Open College) understanding of different corporate cultures, expand level employees, including milestone training, optional training, and training by invitation. While deepening these horizons, and build human networks). grade-rank based training programs, we are also working to expand and enhance business skills training and Mitsui Global Foreign Language & Business Culture Tr, This is a practical program operated on an invitation/ 173 professional training programs with the aim of increasing our employees’ specialist knowledge in various fields. An Leadership Program Business School Dispatch, Overseas optional basis. Program participants are sent overseas introduction to each training program can be found on the company’s intranet, along with an explanation and Developmental Dispatch, GMA, EE and are surrounded by talented people from around the world, with the aim of developing the mindset and overview of our human resources training philosophy, and we encourage our employees’ self-motivated participation. skills needed to become next-generation leaders in We have numerous overseas dispatch programs that are designed to enable employees to conduct business on a global group management. global basis. Programs include Foreign Language & Business Culture Training and Business School Dispatch. We also dispatch young employees under the Overseas Developmental Dispatch system, enroll promising employees in the Harvard Business School Global Management Academy (GMA), which is designed to foster next-generation leaders with P.82 Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) the capacity for global management, and Executive Education (EE), which is a short-term program for dispatching managerial-level employees to business schools in Europe and the US. Human Resources Development Program (FY17/3) Sustainability Report 2017 74 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Human Resources Development Development of Human Resources Capable of Global Group Management System Activity Appraisal System We also focus on the development of human resources capable of taking responsibility for global group management, We have given a boost from a personnel affairs aspect, in order to rouse our employees’ tenacity and willingness to take which is a key pillar of Mitsui & Co.’s consolidated management. on challenges, so that each of them can work with vitality and high motivation. The objectives of conducting the Since 2002, we have offered employees of our overseas trading subsidiaries a well-developed program of both appraisal process are not only to enhance employee understanding of Mitsui’s management philosophy and motivate short-term and medium to long-term training at the Mitsui Headquarters. Short-term programs include JTP (Japan employees to meet management objectives, or to provide input for fixing compensation or assigning new positions, Trainee Program), GMP (Global Managers Program), and GLP (Global Leaders Program), which are offered as milestone but also to promote human resources development through the appraisal process. Employees meet periodically with training in three stages: the first few years after joining the company; prior to appointment as a manager; and after their managers for appraisal meetings and receive comprehensive feedback on their performance and specific appointment as a manager. Medium to long-term programs are held for a period of one to three years, and include LBP contributions. These meetings create an effective framework for human resources development. (Japan Language and Business Program), which provides Japanese language lessons and practical business training, and BIP (Business Integration Program), which provides strictly practical business training. In order to support human resources development at each group company, and the building of human networks, Japanese group employees are given milestone training, such as Division General Manager Training, Department Manager Training, and New Hire Induction Training, in addition to the optional training offered through the Bussan Academy as described above. Since 2011, in partnership with the Harvard Business School, we have held the Harvard Business School Global Management Academy (GMA) described above, with the goal of integrating employees of the Headquarters, overseas offices, and group companies, and a diverse program has been implemented. Participants have included global group employees, as well as the employees of overseas partner companies. Sustainability Report 2017 75 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Promoting Diversity Management Mitsui & Co.’s Diversity Management Vision Policy System These diversity management initiatives are coordinated by the Diversity Management Department, which was established in October 2005. The Diversity Promotion Committee, which was formed in April 2006 to advise the People who work for Mitsui & Co. come from a wide variety of backgrounds in terms of gender, nationality, values and Corporate Management Committee, regularly deliberates and makes decisions on diversity management policies and other attributes. We carry out diversity management initiatives to enhance Mitsui’s competitiveness through its measures. continued evolution as a company within which people can generate new value in business and create innovations by stimulating one another, with mutual understanding and respect for diversity. We strive to build a foundation on which we can realize this vision, primarily through the sharing of our Work Style Innovation Policy management philosophy, by fostering a corporate culture within which diverse individuals can reach their full potential, by reforming employee mind-set, and by creating and continually reviewing work-related systems to support diversity, In order to continue evolving our diversity management initiatives, we review our traditional work styles from the while training and deploying diverse human resources and working to enhance our corporate competitiveness by perspectives of productivity and efficiency, and where necessary we introduce innovations based on new policies realizing the full strategic mobilization of our diverse workforce. implemented across our entire corporate organization. By implementing Work Style Innovations, we aim to create workplace environments in which diverse individuals for can reach their full potential and are strongly motivated about their own work. The ultimate goal is to strengthen our overall competitiveness as a company. Employee Opinion Surveys on Work Style Activity We conducted an employee opinion survey on work styles in October 2016. The objective was to first gain an accurate understanding of the actual practices implemented in workplaces and individual employees’ views on work styles. In this survey, we placed a greater focus on work styles, while referring to the contents of previous regular employee surveys aimed at enhancing our management and organizational strengths. The questions and responses in the employee opinion survey cover a variety of topics, including individual employees’ view on work styles in general, work styles trends in workplaces, as well as factors that could hinder highly efficient and productive ways of working. The responses were then analyzed. Sustainability Report 2017 76 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Promoting Diversity Management Initiatives Based on Employee Opinion Survey Results on Work Style System Activity As a result of the first employee opinion survey conducted in October 2015, we identified two company issues. One is the need to improve efficiency in terms of working place and working hours, and the other is the need to increase business process efficiency. In response to the former issue, we introduced new company-wide systems of “annual paid leaves on an hourly basis” and “mobile work”, and also implemented on a trial basis an individual-based staggered working hour scheme in the fiscal year ended March 2017. For the latter issue, practical improvement measures were implemented as required in each workplace, after discussions and reviews on business process among employees at respective units. New company-wide measures that were introduced Measures Time of introduction Description of measures Effect and Aim Annual paid leave on From April 2016 Employees can choose to take hourlyBeing able to take leave for just the hours an hourly basis based paid leave up to the accumulated needed allows employees to better number of such hours equivalent to 5 concentrate on their work. days per fiscal year as part of their annual 80% of employees used this hourly leave paid leave. (For nursing care for a child system in the fiscal year ended March and family leave, employees can take 2017. them in units of one hour for 10 days per fiscal year.) Career Development Initiatives for Female Policy System Mobile work From June 2016 Employees are permitted to take their By eliminating unproductive time, such company computers with them after as unnecessary travel time, employees We regard career advancement for female as a particularly urgent priority under our diversity management policy, the regular working hours or for customer can work with high levels of efficiency visits, in order to work outside the and productivity. aim of which is to enhance corporate competitiveness by realizing the full strategic mobilization of its diverse workforce. company (including at their homes). 70% of users of this scheme appreciated We strive to develop an environment in which female employees can reach their full potential, implementing initiatives the improvement in efficiency and for human resources development and their career advancement. Under “Voluntary Action Plan on promotion of productivity in their work. women to managerial and board position”, we set a target to increase the number of female managerial staff from 67 as Individual-based • From June 2016: While maintaining the prescribed daily By urging each individual employee to staggered working Trial done with working hours, employees can seriously consider the working hours that of July, 2014 to 201 (more than three times) by the fiscal year ending March 2021. These activities have won Mitsui hours 1,400 employees individually choose on a daily basis to maximize not only their own recognition as a company that has achieved outstanding performance in promoting the career development of female • From June 2017: start working anytime between 90 performance, but also that of the employees; Mitsui has been selected as a “Nadeshiko Brand” and “Semi-Nadeshiko Brand” company by the Japanese Officially minutes before and 90 minutes after the organization, we aim to develop implemented normal work starting time. organizational units that achieve the best Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), and has also been awarded performance. “Eruboshi” status by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. These initiatives are gradually showing some targeted results. In the second employee opinion survey on work styles P.82 Performance Data Related to Diversity conducted in 2016, there was an increased individual consciousness toward business process efficiency and productivity as well as an improvement in excessive internal reporting, which in the previous survey was considered to P.84 Evaluation by Society be one of the main factors reducing productivity. As shows in the diagram below, with continual focus on the results of employee opinion surveys, we will implement a plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle aimed at improving productivity and accelerating our pursuit of measures and implementation of work style innovations that contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of the company as a whole. Sustainability Report 2017 77 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Promoting Diversity Management Initiatives Activity Childcare and Family Care Support System Activity Training for female business staff (career-vision training) We support the concept of “Work-Life Management” in which individual employees fulfill their responsibilities in their This training is provided for female business staff during their 5th through 7th years after entering Mitsui & Co. The most personal lives and maximize their potential and play a greater role in their work. As part of our support system, in important aim of the training is to help participants to prepare for the diversification of options in anticipation of life addition to the existing leave system, we have introduced systems of shortened and staggered working hours to help events and other factors by developing specific ideas about their future career paths through dialogue with senior employees balance their work life with childcare and family care needs. From 2007, we started to provide partial pay for executives and discussions with colleagues working in the same environment, so that they can build long-term careers childcare leave, thereby creating an environment that has encouraged male employees to take childcare leave. with Mitsui. Furthermore, to support a smooth return to work, we have contracted with an outside nursery school located near the office and offer childcare services to employees. Before returning to work, a three-party meeting is arranged between Female mentor system the employee, his or her supervisor, and staff from the Human Resources & General Affairs Div. This way, the employee The female mentor system has been introduced to provide a venue for helping female employees learn about the receives advice about career planning and learns about the support systems available to facilitate the balancing of work significance of working for Mitsui, and discover new ideas about career formation, through communication with more and caring for children. From fiscal year ended March 2017, in addition to existing measures, in the area of childcare we experienced female coworkers. The system provides a way to seek advice about matters ranging from minor problems started providing partial support for the expense of a baby-sitter. In the area of family care, we conducted a relating to day-to-day activities to career planning. A wide range of female employees are selected as mentors from questionnaire on the balancing of work and family care. Based on strong request form employees, we also distributed a those who have worked overseas, have experienced various life events, and are active in frontlines in the sales divisions handbook aimed at assisting employees in balancing work and family care and held explanatory sessions on the or as secondees. Employees can choose their mentor depending on the type of advice that they need (Mitsui has also company’s family care system, as well as seminars on family care to provide information to help employees establish the established mentor systems for non-Japanese employees and young employees). balance between work and family care. As a result of this series of policies and initiatives, we have been recognized three times (for fiscal years 2008, 2011, and 2015) by Japan’s Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as a company that is Diversity Cafe actively providing childcare support with respect to caring for children. Accompanying changes in the social milieu, such as a greater diversity in people’s sense of values, the number of dual income households where husbands and wives both hold jobs, and the demographic aging of the population, there Kurumin logo has been an increase in the number of employees seeking new kinds of career paths and wanting to maintain a balance The “Kurumin” logo may be placed on the products of businesses that have been officially recognized by Japan’s between their work and their private lives. We provide venues such as the Diversity Cafe for employees to come Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare as actively providing childcare support. The logo shows an infant safe and together and have the opportunity to learn from each other’s experiences and to discuss and share information on sound, wrapped in a protective blanket, which represents the concern and care of the workplace and society. matters of common interest. The theme for discussion in 2016, mainly for our female employees, was “The experience of Administrative Overseas Trainees”. P.83 Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support (Non-consolidated)★ The 21st session of Diversity Cafe in progress Sustainability Report 2017 78 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Promoting Diversity Management Work-life Management Support Systems System Re-employment system for ex-employees who had to resign due to the transfer of their spouse System Name of System A re-employment system was introduced in 2007 that enables employees who had to resign from Mitsui & Co. due to the transfer of their spouse to become re-employed. Pregnancy Leave Late arrival at work or early departure from work Pregnancy Year of Retirement/Registration FY2007 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Exemption from overtime work Re-assignment other job duties that are less strenuous Business staff 1 3 2 3 2 4 3 3 7 5 Number of registered Administrative staff 6 3 4 1 1 5 7 16 11 11 Maternity Leave ex-employees Childbirth Total 7 6 6 4 3 9 10 19 18 16 Childbirth Attendance Leave Childcare Leave Nursing Care for Child Leave (a full-day basis, a half-day basis, an hourly basis) Supporting the Active Participation of Senior Personnel System Short-time working for childcare Childcare Exemption from overtime work Restrictions on overtime work Mitsui & Co. has introduced a “re-employment system” that provides employees who wish to continue working after Exemption from late night work reaching the mandatory retirement age of 60 the opportunity to continue working up to a maximum age of 65. We are working to build an environment that enables active participation of senior personnel by continuing to make use of Family Care Leave Nursing Care for Family Leave (a full-day basis, a half-day basis, an hourly basis) their work experience, knowledge, and skills even after reaching the mandatory retirement age. Short-time working for family care Furthermore, we offer training, including career design training, and one-to-one interviews, etc., to our senior Family Care Exemption from overtime work personnel aged over 50 in order to support their more active participation and promote self-directed career-building. Restrictions on overtime work Exemption from late night work Re-employment system for ex-employees who had to resign due to the transfer of Hiring of disabled persons System Career Support their spouse In 1981, in accordance with the then Law for the Employment Promotion of the Disabled, we established Mitsui Bussan Long-term leave for self-development Business Partners Co., Ltd. (formerly Bussan Service Co., Ltd.), a trailblazing special-purpose subsidiary for the Volunteer Activity Leave employment of people with disabilities. A large number of disabled persons are currently employed and posted in Jury Duty Leave Others Special Support Leave (a full-day basis, a half-day basis, an hourly basis) (From April accordance with the “normalization” policy, co-working with non-handicapped persons in a variety of personnel and 2017) administrative capacities including printing, mailing, various kinds of data processing, business travel arrangement and Mobile work settlement, personnel, payroll and benefits administration and office layout management. Employees with disabilities Individual-based staggered working hours (From June 2017) represented 2.48% of our workforce as of March 2017. For over 20 years we have exceeded the statutory employment rate for people with disabilities. We will continue to promote hiring disabled persons with the objective to exceed the legally mandated level. P.83 Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities (As of June 1) Sustainability Report 2017 79 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Occupational Health, Safety and Work Environment Initiatives Core Principles Policy E.N.T. and radiology, and is equipped to provide medical consultations for employees. It also provides comprehensive medical examination and medical check-ups for employees who are about to travel overseas or have returned from Employee is the most important asset for Mitsui & Co. We implement measures to ensure a work environment where overseas assignments, as well as inoculations. In addition, managerial dieticians help employees to avoid lifestyle our employees can exercise their abilities to the full and work in safety and good health, unaffected by changes in the diseases and metabolic syndrome by providing nutritional guidance. We have also enhanced support for female social and business environment. We will implement initiatives to firmly establish a structure to promote health employees through the establishment of women’s and motherhood health advisory service allowing access to management of our employees and respond to emergencies, such as accidents and disasters, as well as to energize the individual consultation with female doctors. work environment. We provide useful health-related information as well as guidance on access to various types of health advice via the intranet. Employees can also view their own health check histories. Also, for the sake of the health preservation of employees, we hold a monthly Hygiene Committee composed of Basic Policy on Health Management Policy members recommended by management and labor, and discuss ways to improve working environment, ways to develop an appropriate framework, and other related matters based on the advice provided by qualified industrial 1. We promote health and productivity management. We place great importance on the maintenance and physicians and hygiene experts. enhancement of employee health, and position health management as a management priority. By putting this We also place great importance on health management for both employees stationed overseas and their families. commitment into practice, we aim to maintain and enhance employee health and improve corporate productivity. Consultation services are available at any time if employees on overseas assignment or members of their family 2. We create workplace environments in which employees can work safely, healthily, and energetically. experience physical or mental health issues. 3. We build an organization with high health literacy, in which individual employees are aware of the need to protect Inoculations and medical check-ups are provided for employees and their families before they leave for overseas their own health themselves, and take the initiative to maintain and enhance their own mental and physical health. assignments. They also participate in training programs about health management while overseas, including the 4. We ensure that personal health information is handled in compliance with the laws and regulations and appropriately prevention of infectious diseases and the maintenance of physical and mental health. These programs are designed to used and managed. raise each individual’s awareness of health management, and to provide information about access to medical services and support systems while overseas. We also support health management for employees working overseas, and their families, in partnership with Health Promotion Committee System emergency health care service companies. In February 2017, Mitsui & Co. launched the Health Promotion Committee under the basic policy of (1) promoting “Health and Productivity Management”, which regards health management as a management priority and (2) Mental Health Policy System maintaining and enhancing the employees’ health through implementation of “Health and Productivity Management”; and (3) improving the company’s productivity. As part of our “collaborative health” program, through which we aim to Under Mitsui & Co.’s Mental Health Promotion Plan, employees are able to obtain advice easily and at any time via a implement effective measures in enhancing employees’ health under a partnership between the health insurance dedicated consultation service. Through consultations with health nurses and industrial physicians, employees can union and the company, Mitsui & Co. and Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society will work together to plan and decide receive support that meets their individual needs. Employees also have access to counseling by specialists at the policies aimed at maintaining and enhancing employees’ health, and execute these policies. company clinic. In addition, we have established outside advice lines through which not only employees, but also their families can seek advice anonymously via telephone and email, or arrange consultations. In addition, we carry out stress checks with the following aims: (1) measuring the level of employees’ stress in order Employee Health Management System Activity to raise employees’ awareness of their own stress levels, (2) linking this to improvements in the workplace environment, and (3) preventing mental health problems (primary prevention). We have established a clinic in our Tokyo Head Office and a medical treatment room in the Osaka Office. The clinic in the Tokyo Head Office covers a diverse range of specialist areas, including internal medicine, surgery, ophthalmology, Sustainability Report 2017 80 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Occupational Health, Safety and Work Environment Initiatives Mental Health Promotion Plan (formulated on May 1, 2016) Working Hours Management System Activity Mitsui recognizes that the mental health of its employees is an important priority issue in order to promote happy lives for its employees and their family members, to increase productivity at the company, and to develop lively To reduce total working hours, we have periodically created and distributed status reports of each division on overtime workplaces. working hours and remaining annual paid leave so as to reduce overtime hours and encourage taking annual paid Accordingly, we will promote mental health initiatives, not only in terms of dealing with mental health leaves, including use of the planned leave system. We set a target of achieving the acquisition rate of annual paid leave problems, but also in a broader sense, including measures to revitalize workplace communication, etc. as 70% or higher by the fiscal year ending March 2021. Further, we provide guidance about proper labor management We have set the following targets to be achieved in the five-year period to FY March 2020. and raise awareness, especially to managers through training session. We also provide access to on-site medical advisors 1. All employees, including managers, shall understand mental health issues, and become able to fill his or her own for employees whose overtime working hours exceeds a specific limit and develop proposals for improving the role in promoting mental health. situation, based on the Occupational Health and Safety Law of Japan, which leads to reduce total working hours and 2. Fully establish and permeate the stress check system. prevent health problems. 3. Achieve a ratio of 100% of employees undergoing regular health consultations. P.83 Paid Leave Taken Days and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated)★ Health-related Training and Seminars System Activity Security Management System Activity In addition to mental health training for line managers, as well as training for health management overseas, and health Mitsui & Co. promotes various kinds of businesses through its 137 points of global operations (as of April 1, 2017), and a management training for new-graduate employees as they become independent business persons for the first time, we large number of employees go on a business trip to many parts of the world almost every day. It is one of the most also hold other health-related seminars as part of our efforts to build an organization with a high level of health literacy. important tasks for the company to ensure the security of employees and families home and abroad. In cooperation with domestic and foreign offices, and security companies concerned, Mitsui obtains and analyzes Results in the fiscal year ended March 2017 (number of attendees in parentheses): Mental Health Training for Line Managers (159); Managing Health Overseas (369); Health Management as Business Persons (187); A Paradigm Shift in Nutritional Science – The Truth Behind Sugar Restriction (100); Having a Good the latest situation about politics, the peace and order of each place changing every day, and shares such information Relationship with Alcohol (58) with the related staff, in order for the employees to raise awareness of the security. Mitsui has also prepared the system corresponding to the situations such as accidents, injuries, and diseases, in cooperation with emergency health care service companies. Medical Examinations System Activity For the employees, as well as families, who will be dispatched to the overseas, the company has the programs for security measures. Regular medical examinations are implemented in-house at multiple times to make it easier for employees to take such Assuming a large-scale disaster, Mitsui regularly performs trainings for Business Continue Plan placing human life as medical examinations. We are working to ensure the prevention or early discovery of lifestyle diseases and other a first priority, and the company makes efforts to raises the crisis response capabilities by solving problems extracted conditions, and to provide enhanced advisory services through a fine-tuned approach that includes comprehensive through the training. medical exam at outside medical institutions for employees aged 35 and older under a program operated collaboratively with Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society. Also in collaboration with Mitsui Bussan Health Insurance Society, we provide special health maintenance advice to employees aged 40 and older. Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization 2017 The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has established a system to recognize large enterprises and SMEs that carry out particularly outstanding health and productivity management. Under the system, Mitsui & Co. received accreditation in 2017 as a Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization. Sustainability Report 2017 81 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Occupational Health, Safety and Work Environment Initiatives Data of Personnel Affairs Joint Efforts with Labor Unions System Activity Figures Concerning Employees (As of March 31) ★ Non-consolidated To create an environment in which each and every employee is able to work energetically and in which the employees Average age of Average number of and company can continue to grow together, we actively discuss a variety of common issues with the Mitsui & Co. Total employees Male Female employees years of service (persons) (persons) (persons) Labor Union. Mitsui & Co. also holds labor-management dialogue to confer on, business activities and plan, various (years old) (years) personnel-related systems and human resources development, and provides a venue for exchanging views on a variety 2015 6,085 4,447 1,638 42.4 19.0 of matters with managements in each Branch and each Business Unit (in total 12 times in 2016), with the aim of 2016 6,006 4,377 1,629 42.4 18.9 maintaining a healthy and cooperative relationship between management and labor. 2017 5,971 4,337 1,634 42.4 18.9 Promoting Internal Communication Activity Number of Employees by Operating Segments (As of March 31, 2017) With the aim of making Mitsui & Co. an even more vibrant, dynamic, and vigorous company, we actively create (Unit: persons) opportunities for dialogue between the management and employees. For some time, we were regularly holding Non-consolidated Consolidated so-called Active Talk Wednesday (ATW) sessions as employee gatherings, with the aim of stimulating internal Iron & Steel Products 321 1,374 communication. The way in which ATW is conducted was partially changed in 2016, and “New ATW” dialogue sessions, Mineral & Metal Resources 245 440 with a greater focus on stimulating communication between management and employees, were held at the Head Machinery & Infrastructure 791 15,497 Office 7 times in the fiscal year ended March 2017. In addition, Kurumaza (roundtable meetings), where the president Chemicals 598 2,658 meets with employees for open discussions, was held on 30 occasions at the Head Office and also took place at 6 domestic offices and branches and at overseas offices in a total of 26 countries and regions. By sharing management’s Energy 378 724 thoughts and ideas from a variety of perspectives and bringing together the opinions and thoughts of employees Lifestyle 824 10,466 through face-to-face meetings, we will endeavor to create an organization with an atmosphere of openness. Innovation & Corporate Development 398 3,398 Americas 217 2,457 Europe, the Middle East and Africa 164 964 Asia Pacific 226 1,271 Others 1,809 3,067 Total 5,971 42,316 Sustainability Report 2017 82 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Number of Employees by Region (As of March 31, 2017) Performance Data Related to Diversity (Unit: persons) Headquarter-hired staff Non-Headquarter-hired staff Proportion of Female Permanent Staff and Managers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1) ★ (Unit: persons) (HS) ★ (NS) Administrative Permanent staff Managerial staff Business staff Japan 4,766 — staff Americas 322 596 Total Female Percentage Percentage Percentage Total Female Total Female Total of Female of Female of Female Europe, the Middle East and Africa 230 772 Asia Pacific 488 1,733 2015 6,021 1,648 27.4% 3,353 126 3.8% 4,841 468 9.7% 1,180 Others 165 — 2016 5,952 1,653 27.8% 3,472 168 4.8% 4,791 492 10.3% 1,161 Total 5,971 3,101 2017 5,917 1,674 28.3% 3,514 200 5.7% 4,748 505 10.6% 1,169 * Includes 1 female General Manager (M1). NS Dispatched to the Head Office (As of March 31, 2017) Proportion of Female and Non-resident Executive Officers (Non-consolidated) (As of July 1) ★ (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) Director Corporate Auditor Japan Business Integration Program trainees (BIP) 10 Percentage NonPercentage of Percentage Japan Language & Business Program trainees (LBP) 1 Total Female Total Female of Female resident Non-resident of Female Intra-company transferees 9 2015 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% Total 20 2016 14 2 14.3% 1 7.1% 5 1 20.0% 2017 14 2 14.3% 2 14.3% 5 1 20.0% Number of Hires by Gender (Non-consolidated) ★ (Unit: persons) Actual Status of Promoting Career Advancement for Female (Non-consolidated) New-graduates Mid-career Total Female Managerial Staff Female Employees Dispatched Overseas (As of April 1) Male Female Total Male Female Total (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) FY2015 94 57 151 35 6 41 192 FY2016 113 78 191 29 1 30 221 250 75 FY2017 *1 103 80 183*2 — *1 Figures as of April 1, 2017 200 200 201 60 60 61 58 *2 Includes employees who will join us on October 1, 2017 (Male: 2, Female: 1) 54 168 150 45 47 45 43 44 126 Hours of Training and Expenditure on Training (Non-consolidated) 100 30 31 76 24 Average hours of training per employee Average training expenditure per employee 67 50 15 FY2016 15.7 hours JPY 339,915 38 27 32 19 20 23 0 0 08/4 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/4 14/7 15/7 16/7 17/7 .... 20/7 08/4 09/4 10/4 11/4 12/4 13/4 14/4 15/4 16/4 17/4 Average Personnel Turnover (Non-consolidated) (Over the last three years) Average personnel turnover 4.72% Sustainability Report 2017 83 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Corporate Governance & Human Resources Average Age and Average Length of Service of Full Time Employees (Non-consolidated) (As of March 31) Employment Ratio of People with Disabilities (As of June 1) Average age (years old) Average length of service (yy-mm) Employment ratio of people with disabilities Legally stipulated ratio Male Female Total Male Female Total 2015 2.45% 2.00% 2015 42.6 40.6 42.1 19-2 17-10 18-9 2016 2.51% 2.00% 2016 42.5 40.6 42.0 18-11 17-10 18-7 2017 2.53% 2.00% 2017 42.5 40.5 41.9 18-10 17-7 18-6 Concerning the data marked with ★, an independent practitioner’s assurance report prepared in accordance with the international standard ISAE 3000 was given by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. Please refer to independent practitioner’s assurance report at the link below for details. Employees Taking Childcare or Family Care Support (Non-consolidated) ★ (Unit: persons) FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 P.86 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Child care Childcare Leave 12 40 52 13 49 62 13 50 63 Nursing Care for Child 47 111 158 42 107 149 64 138 202 Leave Short-time Working for 13 135 148 11 137 148 7 162 169 Childcare Staggered Working Hours 4 1 5 7 1 8 5 0 5 for Childcare Childbirth Attendance 91 — 91 93 — 93 102 — 102 Leave Family Care Family Care Leave 0 1 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 Nursing Care for Family 31 52 83 42 59 101 50 74 124 Leave Short-time Working for 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Family Care Staggered Working Hours 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 for Family Care Paid Leave Taken Days and Usage Ratio (Non-consolidated) ★ FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 Average paid leaves taken (day) 11.2 11.0 11.2 11.8 12.8 Average paid leave usage ratio (%) 58.2 57.3 58.3 61.4 66.6 Sustainability Report 2017 84 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Evaluation by Society External Recognition ESG (environmental, social, and governance) investment involves, in addition to conventional financial analyses, the FTSE Blossom Japan Index evaluation of corporations from the environmental, social, and governance aspects, whereby the level of fulfillment of The FTSE Blossom Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of Japanese companies that corporations’ social responsibilities is regarded as an integral part of investment standards. Mitsui & Co. has been demonstrate strong environmental, social and governance (ESG) practices. The index uses FTSE Russell’s ESG Ratings data model, which draws on existing international ESG standards such as the UN Sustainable selected for inclusion in major world ESG investment indices ̶ the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices and the Development Goals (SDGs), and is adopted by the Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) of Japan as a FTSE4Good Index Series. Mitsui has also earned recognition under the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), in which core ESG benchmark for its passive investments. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in companies are assessed in relation to climate change and the environment. In addition, we were selected in the the FTSE Blossom Japan Index in 2017. Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection, and as a Semi-Nadeshiko Brand and Eruboshi (L Star) company for being exceptional in encouraging women’s success in the workplace. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) CDP is a London-based non-profit organization operated collaboratively by institutional investors. Its purpose is to urge leading companies (in terms of aggregate value) in major countries to disclose their environmental Dow Jones Sustainability Indices strategies and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2016, Mitsui was granted the top-level rating, “Leadership Level The Dow Jones Sustainability Indices is a global stock index developed jointly by Dow Jones & Company in A-”, in relation to climate change. the U.S. and RobecoSAM AG in Switzerland. Major corporations around the world are evaluated in terms of their economic, environmental, and social performance. In 2016, 316 companies (which included 26 Japanese companies) were selected for the World Index and 146 companies (which included 68 Japanese companies) Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection were selected for the Asia Pacific Index. Mitsui was selected for both the World Index and Asia Pacific Index in The Competitive IT Strategy Company Stock Selection is designated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and 2016. Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) for companies that undertake outstanding strategic IT utilization initiatives, from among all the enterprises listed on the TSE. In assessments for year 2017, increased emphasis is being placed on initiatives to create value through new business models based on the use of advanced RobecoSAM Sustainability Award technologies, such as AI and IoT. Mitsui has been selected for inclusion for three consecutive years, since year RobecoSAM carries out surveys and analyses for the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. From each industry, it 2015. recommends companies that have undertaken outstanding environmental, social, and economic initiatives. A total of 466 companies (including 53 Japanese companies) were selected worldwide for the RobecoSAM Sustainability Awards 2017. In the Trading Companies & Distributors category, Mitsui was selected as one of Nadeshiko Brand the companies to be ranked Silver Class, which is awarded to companies that are within a 1%–5% range of the The Nadeshiko Brand is a designation jointly awarded by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the score of the industry leaders. Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) to companies listed in all TSE sections that have shown excellence in promoting career advancement for women. Mitsui was awarded this status in the fiscal years ended March 2015 and March 2016, and in the fiscal year ended March 2017 it was selected under the newly established category of FTSE4Good Index Series Semi-Nadeshiko Brand. The FTSE4Good Index Series is a stock index developed by FTSE Russell, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of the London Stock Exchange. FTSE Russell evaluates major corporations around the world from the aspects of environmental, social, and governance criteria, including the labor standards applied throughout their supply Eruboshi (L Star) chains, as well as on the basis of corporate sustainability. It selects companies that satisfy its standards as Eruboshi status is awarded to companies that have submitted notifications under the Act on Promotion of constituents of the index. Mitsui fulfilled the criteria of the index and was selected in the FTSE4 Good Index Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Promotion of Women’s Career Activities Act) Series. promulgated on April 1, 2016. Requirements for certification include the fulfillment of specific standards, and the implementation of outstanding initiatives to promote the advancement of women in the workplace. In September 2016, the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare certified Mitsui as having achieved the second of three levels under the Eruboshi system. Sustainability Report 2017 85 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources Awards Received in Past Five Years Fiscal Year Ended March 2017 • Hiroko Koshino Prize and Hiroshi Yagyu Prize in the 22nd National Geographic Japan Advertising Awards (Mitsui & Co. Environment Fund) • Japan Association for Human and Environmental Symbiosis Award for Environmental Activities (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) • Judging Panel’s Incentive Prize in the Corporate Youth Experience Promotion Awards of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (Mitsui SASUGAKU Academy) Fiscal Year Ended March 2016 • Ranked second in the 18th Nikkei Annual Report Awards (2015) by Nikkei, Inc. Fiscal Year Ended March 2015 • Ranked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. • Ranked first in the “18th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. • Ranked first in the “2014 Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure” (Commerce industry category) by the Securities Analysts Association of Japan • Received the “2014 IR Special Award” by the Japan Investor Relations Association • Received the 20th Nikkei BP Advertising Award’s Excellent Business Expert Award (2014) by Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. (Mitsui’s Forests) Fiscal Year Ended March 2014 • Ranked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. • Ranked first in the “17th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. • Received the Award for Special Merit in the 48th Industrial Advertising Award (2013) in the Newspaper Category by Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd. (Mitsui’s Forests) • Received the 19th Nikkei BP Advertising Award’s National Geographic Japan Award (2013) by Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. (Mitsui’s Forests) Fiscal Year Ended March 2013 • Ranked first in the “Toyo Keizai CSR Ranking” Wholesale Category by Toyo Keizai Inc. • Ranked first in the “16th Environmental Management Survey” Trading Company category by Nikkei, Inc. Sustainability Report 2017 86 Independent Practitioner’s Contents Company Message from Our CEO Sustainability at Mitsui & Co. Mitsui & Co.’s Materiality Evaluation by Society Assurance Report Protection of the Global Enhancement of Local Industrial Stable Supply of Corporate Governance Activity Reports by Materiality Respect for Human Rights Environment Bases & Quality of Life Resources & Materials & Human Resources MITSUI & CO., LTD.
