Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Contents Introduction Business integrity 27 Responsible sourcing Tokmanni in brief 2 Key achievements 2016 and products 47 An interview with the CEO and and targets 2017 28 Key achievements 2016 the Head of Corporate Responsibility 4 Ethical guidelines 29 and targets 2017 48 Highlights 2016 7 Generating and distributing Responsible sourcing 49 Megatrends, risks and direct added financial value 31 Product responsibility 54 opportunities for ­Tokmanni 8 Tax footprint 32 Tokmanni's vision and strategy 11 Privacy protection 33 Ethical marketing 34 Efficient use of resources 57 Key achievements 2016 Responsibility at T ­ okmanni 13 and targets 2017 58 Human rights as a starting point Fair treatment 35 Energy efficient business 59 for responsibility 14 Key achievements 2016 Environmentally sound logistics 63 Values as basis and targets 2017 36 Resource efficiency 65 for the responsibility work 15 Committed personnel 37 Stakeholder engagement 16 Equal treatment and diversity 39 Materiality analysis 18 Employee training and development 43 Responsibility in figures 69 Material responsibility themes 19 Occupational health and safety 45 Description of the Report 69 UN’s Sustainable Information used in calculations 70 Development Goals and T ­ okmanni 20 Data 73 Management approach 24 GRI-index 81 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 1 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Tokmanni in brief Tokmanni Group Corporation Revenue, MEUR Six product categories: Share of branded products is the only discount retailer with and PLNL* products, % 775.8 a nationwide store network  roceries •G in Finland. It is also Finland’s  ome cleaning and •H biggest discount retailer measpersonal care 34 ured both in number of stores and revenue. ­Tokmanni offers its •C  lothing customers a wide assortment Adj. EBITDA •H  ome, decoration and garden of Finnish and international 8.1% brands and other products at • T ools and electrical equipment 66 affordable prices. • L eisure and home electronics Branded products PLNL products * Private Labels, Non-branded and Licensed products 162 Employees Tokmanni's assortment stores across the country + consists approximately online store 3,224 25,000 active SKUs (Shelf Keeping Unit) Updated list of the stores: ir.tokmanni.fi/en/tokmannias-an-investment/new_stores CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 2 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Finland’s leading general discount chain Tokmanni offers its customers a wide sourcing organisation is responsible Key figures 2016 2015 and attractive assortment, affordable for product purchases. ­Tokmanni is prices and a pleasant shopping excommitted to responsible sourcing, Revenue, MEUR 775.8 755.3 perience. ­Tokmanni’s product assortand it seeks to buy products only from Opeating profit, MEUR 49.2 39.1 ment consists of leading international responsible suppliers. In 2016 prodbrands, the company’s own private ucts were supplied to ­Tokmanni di% of revenue 6.3 5.2 label products, licensed brands and rectly from the following risk countries Employment non-branded products. defined by the Business Compliance Our private labels are: Auto plus, Initiative (BCSI): Bangladesh, Bulgaria, All employment 3,224 3,293 BBQ King, Energy plus, Future Sport, China, India, Pakistan, Romania, ThaiIdéale, Iisi, Kotikulta, Kraft, Prima, Real, land, Turkey and Vietnam. Permanent employees 2,440 2,424 Tok ­Garden and Vaeltaja. Tokmanni was listed on the main Full time employees 1,137 1,203 The corporate head office is in list of the Nasdaq Helsinki stock exMäntsälä. Besides its operations in change in May 2016. At the end of Sourcing Finland, ­Tokmanni also has a sourc2016 the company had approximatePurchases from constant supplier factories ing joint venture in Shanghai with the ly 6,000 shareholders. The biggest committed to ­BSCI Code of Conduct 95% 81% Norwegian company Europris ASA. shareholders were funds managed by Environment ­Tokmanni owns 50 per cent of the Nordic Capital (30.50%), Rockers Tukjoint venture. ku Oy (15.01%), Elo Pension Company Total energy consumption, MWh* 118,411 107,039 Tokmanni does not have its own (4.59%) and Varma Mutual Pension production facilities but acquires its Waste utilisation, % 99.8 94 Insurance Company (4.54%). products directly from Finnish and international manufacturers, importers * The figures include both measured and estimated consumption. and agents. ­Tokmanni buys about 70 per cent of its products from Finnish suppliers, 18 per cent from Asia and 12 per cent from Europe. ­Tokmanni’s CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 3 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index An interview with the CEO and the Head of Corporate Responsibility Tokmanni’s CEO Heikki Väänänen and Outi Mikkonen, Head of Corporate Responsibility, talk about the company’s responsibility work, the achievements in 2016 and future challenges and opportunities. What role does responsibility play at ­Tokmanni and in the company’s strategy? Heikki:  Responsibility is a prerequisite for ­Tokmanni’s success and a strategic focus area from the Executive Group level all the way to the stores. We act responsibly towards our customers, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 4 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index What are ­Tokmanni’s employees, and other stakeholders. Responsibility is part of the  most important strategic Outi: The most important issues in our responsibility work are respectResponsibility is daily work of every member of achievements during the ing human rights and reducing clia prerequisite for ­Tokmanni’s personnel. The aim of past year? mate change impacts. The biggest ­Tokmanni’s success responsibility work is to minimise Heikki: 2016 was a good year for achievements in our responsibility the business risks, make use of ­Tokmanni. Our sales grew 2.7% work in 2016 were the assessand a strategic opportunities, and produce added value for stakeholders. and profitability (adjusted EBITDA) improved to 8.1%. We continued ment of our human rights impacts, our new climate strategy and the focus area from the Outi: We observe for instance our systematic development of publication of our first corporate Executive Group relevant legislative requirements ­Tokmanni: We increased the share of responsibility report. The work has level all the way to and collective agreements and the our private labels, developed direct also focused on the internal impleprinciples of good governance in imports and sourcing, and launched mentation of responsibility themes the stores. everything we do. Our operations a new marketing concept during the and training in these themes. The accord with the provisions of the second half of the year. We are really offering circular published in conwithout compromising product safeUN’s International Bill of Human pleased that our customer volumes nection with the initial public offering ty, quality or responsibility. Rights, the International Labour have grown 3.4% to 44.7 million, provided information on the compaOuti: ­Tokmanni is a member of the Organization's Declaration on Funand that the smart shopping trend ny’s responsibility perspectives and Business Social Compliance Initiadamental Principles and Rights at has reached Finland and is here to risks. In the listing process, an extertive (BSCI), which is a development Work, and the UN Global Compact. stay. Our vision is to be the smartest nal party carried out a responsibility programme directed at companies Our operations are also governed by shopping choice for our customers. evaluation of T ­ okmanni. with the aim of improving workour ethical guidelines, which consist ­Tokmanni is Finland’s largest general ing conditions at the factories and up of T ­ okmanni’s Code of Conduct discount retailer and our target is to Which  corporate farms in a company’s supply chain. and the related principles, policies continue our profitable growth by ofresponsibility themes Producers' factories of T ­ okmanni’s and instructions. These provide the fering customers a better perceived have particular private label products and products framework for our corporate responprice image than our competitors, importance in ­Tokmanni’s in the standard selection imported sibility work and guide our operaa comprehensive assortment and responsibility work? by T­ okmanni must be B ­ SCI memtions. We assess responsibility risks good in-store experience. In May we Heikki: Responsible sourcing and bers or become so within a reaas part of the process of managing were listed on the Nasdaq Helsinki products are an essential part of our sonable time frame. T ­ okmanni also business risks and aim to make stock exchange, which increased strategy. We will continue to improve requires its brand suppliers to give responsibility part of our value creaawareness of ­Tokmanni and brought our sourcing operations by, for exan undertaking that their production in all of our operations. many new shareholders. ample, increasing direct imports tion is in accordance with the ­BSCI CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 5 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index requirements. In addition to ­BSCI phase onwards. During 2015 we Outi: In 2016 the Jämsä store was audits ­Tokmanni also carries out its own audits at its suppliers’ factories. strengthened our diversity work by joining the FIBS Diversity Charter. the first T ­ okmanni store to take a solar power plant into use and now The most signifiProduct safety is also key in responIn 2016 ­Tokmanni participated in produces part of its electricity with cant issues in our sible operations. We want to be certain that all the products we sell FIBS’s work to develop the assessment of responsibility and diits own solar power. We are seeking similar opportunities at our logistics responsibility work are safe to use. Heikki: Fair treatversity management. Our customcentre in Mäntsälä and at other are respecting ment of people is another important er base is becoming more diverse, stores. The majority of transport human rights and theme in our responsibility work. We so we need to make sure that our service providers are setting emisare building an operating culture that employees can understand their sions reduction targets and moving reducing climate is fair and based on trust and supneeds. It is also very important to over to more environmentally friendchange impacts. ports the wellbeing of all employees. ensure our employees’ wellbeing ly technology. In our waste manThe aim is to have a motivated and at work and career development. agement we are working towards a committed personnel. On account Heikki: Efficient resource use is reduction in food waste and in 2016 of our growth and new stores, we an important part of our responwe committed to reducing the numhave a significant role as an employsibility work. T ­ okmanni’s bigber of plastic bags. er in Finland. We have announced gest environmental impacts are that we intend to open at least 11 caused by energy use, logistics What  are the biggest image of responsibility and its new stores across Finland in 2017. and waste. Our goal is to reduce challenges for ­Tokmanni’s impact on our reputation are very Over the long term the store network energy consumption, to prioritise responsibility work? important. We need to earn the is expected to grow approximately renewable energy and minimise Heikki: Taking care of human trust of our customers every day. to 200 stores. We are constantly in the amount of disposed waste. rights throughout the value Outi: At the beginning of 2016 we need of skilled and capable employThe work is becoming more chalchain is of utmost importance at tightened our responsible purees, and we are known particularly lenging as ­Tokmanni’s goal is to ­Tokmanni and we constantly work chasing principles and operating as an employer of young people. In increase its retail space by about towards the achievement of this. guidelines and trained our buyers 2016 ­Tokmanni employed hundreds 12,000 square metres a year, Supply chains until finished prodin these updated principles and of young people. which will increase energy conucts are long and it takes a lot of guidelines. We also take measOuti: Our target is to have a disumption and waste volumes. The time to make changes. Therefore ures to combat climate change. verse work community in which company will have to focus on responsible sourcing will continue We primarily aim to reduce energy equal treatment is ensured for improving resource efficiency in to be one of our main challengconsumption, but we also focus everyone from the recruitment the future as well. es also in the future. Customers’ on renewable energy. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 6 Rehti Responsibility Reilu Business Fair Vastuullinen hankinta Responsible Viisas resurssien Efficient use Tokmanni Responsibility GRIGRIJohdanto Introduction kohtelu ja tuotteet sourcing and productskäyttö of resources lukuina indeksi atliiketoiminta Tokmanni integrity treatment in figures index Highlights 2016 11/2016 ­Tokmanni completes 02/2016 ­Tokmanni joins FIBS’s its first assessment of its project for developing the human rights impacts. 10/2016 ­Tokmanni joins the assessment of responsibility and Read more on p. 14. Green Deal agreement to diversity management. restrict the use of plastic bags. 05/2016 ­Tokmanni is introduced on Read more on p. 66. the Nasdaq Helsinki stock exchange. 12/2016 At the end of the year 95% of ­Tokmanni’s Corporate Responsibility Report 2015 purchases from risk 10/2016 ­Tokmanni’s store in countries come from 05/2016 ­Tokmanni Jämsä installs solar panels on its suppliers' factories 04/2016 ­Tokmanni organises a publishes its first Corporate responsibility day for its personnel its roof and produces part of that are ­BSCI members. Responsibility Report. its electricity with solar power. Read more on p. 49. at Mäntsälä. Read more on p. 16. Read more on p. 62. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 7 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Megatrends, risks and opportunities for T ­ okmanni Tokmanni has identified several megatrends that affect the company’s business and its responsibility perspectives. Megatrends and the opportunities and challenges presented by them are assessed every year as part of the company’s strategic planning. ­Tokmanni assesses the responsibility risks as part of the general risk management process. OPPORTUNITY FOR ­TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR T ­ OKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE Financial challenges • Conservative spending attitudes and the aim • Consumers have become less loyal to • Maintaining a good price image of getting the best value for money have for stores and brands, which has created • Extensive and appealing product continue some time created opportunities for discount pressure on operators in the retail selection retailers, who have now established a firm sector, and price competition in the • Offering a pleasant shopping experience Challenging finanfoothold in the market. market has tightened. cial conditions and • Responsible products Finland’s prolonged • Structural changes in the discount retailers’ • Efficient and ethical marketing economic downcustomer base have taken place as “smart turn have led to a shopping” has expanded. change in Finnish • The smart shopping trend has made Finnish consumer habits. consumers more price aware, and active comparison of prices has become more common. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 8 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index OPPORTUNITY FOR ­TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR T ­ OKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE Demographic changes • Urbanisation and busy consumers who want • Urbanisation continues and the number • Tokmanni’s store concept, ease of to minimise the time spent in shops, and at the of inhabitants in small locations decrease. moving in stores and accessibility Urbanisation, an same time want to purchase things from the • The decline in family size and the • Continuous development of the ageing population, minimum number of stores, has led to “one-stop ageing of the population affect product selection taking customers’ needs into elderly people beshopping” and the increase in the importance of selections and product package sizes. account coming a significant easily achievable and compact store formats. • The right products at the right price consumer group • One-stop shopping reduces car use as unneces• Optimisation of store locations and decline in family sary driving is avoided, and thus environmental • Multi-channeling size affect consumer impacts are also reduced. habits and shopping • The emergence of a price aware elderly populaexperience requiretion as a substantial consumer company. ments. OPPORTUNITY FOR ­TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR T ­ OKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE Digitalisation • Digital channels enable companies to distrib• The online store and digital channels • Multi-channel strategy Technology becomute product and price information efficiently, have become more popular in consum• Development and optimisation of online ing more mobile, regardless of time and place, supporting sales ers’ purchasing behaviour, and at the store digitalisation and in both the online store and physical stores. same time they have broadened the • Continuous development of data growth of online • Digital services enable people with reduced competitive field of the retail sector. protection and IT systems retailing. Purchasing mobility to be reached. • Digital services and the online store lead behaviour that is to broader and easier price comparison, independent of time which leads to tighter price competition and place. and creates pressure on profitability. • The growth of the online store has a limited impact on ­Tokmanni’s competitiveness, as customers’ average purchase is usually relatively small. Moreover, the product segments that are increasingly moving over to online sales are a relatively small part of the product selection offered by T­ okmanni. • Digital services increase data protection risks and the risk of breaches of privacy protection. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 9 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index OPPORTUNITY FOR ­TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR T ­ OKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE Limitation of resources and • Developing an environmentally friendly • Increased energy consumption caused • Reduction of energy consumption in all global warming product selection by increased number of stores, also in operations • Decreasing environmental impact in the logistics, growing waste volumes and • More efficient use of resources, Focus on environsupply chain related costs. reduction of waste, reuse and recycling mental impacts of • Opportunities provided by the circular • Limited availability of raw materials for • Selection of suppliers and supplier whole production economy products affects the availability and requirements chain and product life price of ­Tokmanni’s products in the cycle is increasing. long run. • The operations of factories especially in coastal regions and on the emerging markets may be interrupted due to floods, storms or other natural phenomena. OPPORTUNITY FOR ­TOKMANNI CHALLENGE FOR T ­ OKMANNI TOKMANNI’S RESPONSE Increase in importance of • Tokmanni’s responsible and environmentally • Shortcomings in the responsibility of • Further development of responsible responsibility and friendly operations strengthen the company’s the supply chain and partners. sourcing competitiveness. • Deterioration of employer image and • Developing the responsibility of own customers’ prod• Careful management of product safety, difficulty of obtaining a competent operations and training the personnel in uct awareness quality control and a strong price-quality workforce due to loss of reputation. responsibility matters image enhance the company’s competitive • Shortcomings in product safety and • Continuous development of product The origin of prodadvantage. quality control. safety and self-supervision ucts and responsibility in the whole com• Responsibility communications support • Continuous development of responsipany’s value chain openness and transparency throughout the bility communications are increasingly value chain. important selection criteria for consumers. The transparency requirements of selections, prices and product origins are growing alongside product safety. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 10 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Tokmanni's vision and strategy Our vision is to be the We target stable and profitable long-term growth smartest shopping Efficient Use of choice for its customers. Resources The target is to be a profitably growing nationwide discount retailer that offers a wide assortment high-quality products. We want that our customers can trust Strategy in a nutshell safety and responsibility Long term profitable growth is sought: • by making better use of a consistent brand image, an improved store of our products. concept and category management as well as increasing focus on digitalization and a multi-channel approach to support Like-for-Like revenue growth Responsible Business • by adding approximately 12,000 m2 new selling space annually • by improving profitability and of working capital Sourcing and Integrity management with better processes and tools used in Products sourcing and in supply chain and category management. Fair Treatment CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 11 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Profitable growth as a The company takes product safety strategic objective into account in its operations and enTokmanni’s strategic objective is to sures that by, for example, conducting CA be a profitably growing, modern reself-supervision and carrying out prodSE tailer providing a strong price image, uct testing itself and commissioning an attractive assortment, and a good this from third parties. customer experience. Tokmanni is seeking growth also Corporate responsibility is one of the through the expansion of its store netcompany’s strategic focus areas. Its work, and increases its store area by aim is to minimise business risks, make about 12,000 square metres per year. use of opportunities related to this and This will lead to increases in the comproduce added value for stakeholders. pany’s energy consumption and waste Tokmanni seeks low single digit generation, and means that work to growth in like-for-like sales by further improve energy efficiency and material leveraging its unified brand image and efficiency will continue in the future. Corporate responsibility is important for shareholders the company’s enhanced store conTokmanni is a significant employer in Emma Englén, Sustainability Manager, Nordic Capital cept. ­Tokmanni markets its products, Finland, and the expansion of the store (Nordic Capital was ­Tokmanni’s largest shareholder 31.12.2016) truthfully, in an easily understandable network will also clearly have a positive manner and in compliance with its ethimpact on employment. ­Tokmanni’s tar hat does corporate responsibility W  ow do you rate ­Tokmanni’s H ical guidelines. In accordance with the get is to have a motivated and commitmean for Nordic Capital? responsibility work? company’s data protection principles, ted personnel who contribute responsiNordic Capital is committed to reTokmanni takes sustainability issues personal data is used only as provided bly to the company’s performance. sponsibility and is clear about what it seriously. The keys to this have been by data protection legislation. Tokmanni’s aim is to improve its expects from its portfolio companies. expertise and the commitment of the Tokmanni’s renewed, efficient catprofitability and working capital efThe companies are expected to provide management. The future challenges egory management combined with ficiency by increasing the efficiency a report each year on their sustainable for retail and the consumer business its attractive assortment supports the of the processes and tools used in development activities. Nordic Capital will be to introduce sustainable decompany’s growth. More effective sourcing, the supply chain and catesupports responsibility work by providvelopment into business models and sourcing will continue, for example by gory management. At the same time, ing training and expertise in responsithe growing requirement for transincreasing direct importing. the company aims to ensure that rebility. We understand that focusing on parency. Sourcing from developing Product safety is vital for the comsponsibility perspectives and ethical sustainable development will offer a markets requires constant work in pany’s success, and ­Tokmanni wants guidelines are taken into account in all positive differentiating factor in the future the areas of social and environmento ensure that the products it sells are stages of the processes. for us as an investor, for our portfolio tal matters. safe to use, responsibly sourced and companies and for our partners. the production conditions are good. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 12 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Responsibility at ­Tokmanni Corporate responsibility is an integral part of ­Tokmanni’s day-to-day business. The company aims to minimise business risks, make use of the opportunities associated with this, and produce added value for stakeholders. The materiality analysis has allowed ­Tokmanni to identify the responsibility themes most relevant to its stakeholders and business. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 13 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Human rights as a starting point for responsibility The company’s operations accord with corrective measures and communiIn purchasing, we work towards: neighbouring communities and organthe provisions of the UN’s International cates them as far as possible within its • further developing a strategy and izations that have good insight from Bill of Human Rights, the International degree of participation, possibility and action plan for responsible purchasing the ground. Labour Organization’s Declaration on power of influence. T ­ okmanni has pub• further developing a supplier Tokmanni will update its human Fundamental Principles and Rights at lished its Human rights principles and management system rights assessment annually based Work, and the UN Global Compact. a summary of its Human rights report • developing a complaint and on the results of ­BSCI audits and its The basis of corporate responsibil2016 on its website. remedy process to meet the effecown audits, as well as complaints filed ity work at ­Tokmanni is composed of Based on the evaluation, the salitiveness principles for grievance via various channels. The goal is to the company’s values and its Code of ent potential human rights impacts in mechanisms that are contained in continuously reduce potential human Conduct, including the complemen­Tokmanni’s operations relates to health the UN Guiding Principles rights impacts. tary principles, policies and instrucand safety, safety of buildings, exces• digging deeper in the supply chain Tokmanni expects its business tions. T ­ okmanni’s Code of Conduct sive overtime, lack of living wage, child partners to respect human rights as and related principles are approved labour and forced labour. The negative A higher degree of freedom of associawell in line with supplier requirements. by the Board of Directors. The policies impacts identified can impact upon a tion and collective bargaining would asand instructions are approved by the range of human rights, including the sist in preventing or minimizing a numExecutive Group and the heads of right to work, the right to health, the ber of significant human rights impacts department, respectively. right to life and the right to a family life. in risk countries. They are ways to ensure adequate wages and appropriate We aim to respect We act for human rights working hours, for example. Existence human rights The most important measures for elimof trade unions at suppliers’ factories is Also the UN Guiding Principles on inating or mitigating human rights imcurrently monitored through audits. Business and Human Rights guides pact in ­Tokmanni’s own operations are: In 2017, T ­ okmanni will be seeking to ­Tokmanni in respecting human rights. • Improving occupational health test the results of the evaluation with In line with the due diligence principle, and safety potentially impacted stakeholders. We ­Tokmanni has evaluated the effects of • Improving the safety of are planning to set up a process to its operations on human rights, monibusiness travel liaise with workers or worker groups tors these effects, takes any necessary • Increasing flexibility of work in our higher-risk countries as well as CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 14 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Values as the basis for responsibility work Tokmanni's core values define the value framework within which the company operates and on which it bases its decision-making. Tokmanni's values Customer focus Respect Renewal Profitability Corporate social responsibility Customer focus is Respect is evident Renewal means boldness, Profitability is sought ensured by having a in the openness of the encouraging creativity prothrough clear objectives, efCorporate social professional staff and by operating culture, in a willcesses, reciprocity of feedficient and economical operresponsibility at emphasising reliability, ingness to help, support back and fast reaction to ating models and processTokmanni is based on safety, taking responsibility and encourage, in good needs for change. es, and open and correctly fairness, respect for and mutual respect. team spirit and in long-term timed communications. equality and concern for cooperation with various environmental values. stakeholders. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 15 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Stakeholder engagement Tokmanni wants to The company keeps in touch with the tives participate in the Board of Direcits Diversity Network, and ­Tokmanni most important stakeholders daily tors, retail trade group, product safety participated FIBS’ evaluation of dipromote responsibility through various channels, and with group and self-supervision group. versity management project in 2016. work together with others when necessary. After the The company is also closely involved ­Tokmanni also participates the UN its stakeholders. The stock exchange listing in May 2016, in many local communities at its store Global Compact. ­Tokmanni has communicated with inlocations and in Mäntsälä where its head Tokmanni organised its first Corpocompany’s most imporvestors for instance through the weboffice is located. In Mäntsälä, T­ okmanni rate responsibility day for its employtant stakeholders are sites, reports and one-on-one meethas a representative at Mäntsälän Yrees in Mäntsälä in March 2016. The customers, personnel, ings. The engagement channels with ityskehitys Oy, where local business program included presentations on other stakeholders have been listed operations are promoted. ­Tokmanni ­Tokmanni’s corporate responsibility acowners, investors in ­Tokmanni’s Corporate responsibility cooperates with local and national autivities, children’s rights, environmental and suppliers. report 2015 p. 24. thorities from an early stage, during the issues and responsible marketing. The development and planning stages of feedback was positive, and the day will Active involvement in various projects. be organised again in 2017. associations and initiatives In October 2016, T­ okmanni joined the Tokmanni’s approach to implementTokmanni participates actively in the Ministry of Environment’s and Federation ing corporate social responsibility also operations of various national orof Finnish Commerce’s Society’s Comincludes supporting various chariganisations including the Federation mitment to Sustainable Development’s table organisations. In 2016, Veikko of Finnish Commerce, the Finnish Green deal initiative in order to reduce and Lahja Hursti’s Laupeudentyö ry Grocery Trade Association (PTY), the the use of plastic bags in the stores. and Finnish Red Cross (Hunger day Finnish Cosmetic, Toiletry and De­Tokmanni aims to halve the use of plastic fundraising) were among the parties tergent Association and the Finnish self-service bags per customer by the supported by T ­ okmanni. Support was Council of Shopping Centers. In the year 2026 and reduce the use of plastic given also via Brother Christmas for Federation of Finnish Commerce, bags by offering bags made of alternathose who needed help. ­Tokmanni is represented on the Board tive materials. of Directors and the training commitTokmanni is also a member of cortee. At PTY, T ­ okmanni’s representaporate responsibility network FIBS and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 16 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Main Main Tokmanni's answer concerns Stakeholder Stakeholder concerns Tokmanni's answer Diversity of affordable Product selecCustomers Decision Obtaining inforWebsites, discussions, products, ensuring quality tion, availability makers mation, opportucommunications and safety independently and price of pronities to influence and using external help, ducts, product matters membership of ­BSCI and safety and qualirequirements for supplier ty, responsibility Industry Active participatiTokmanni employees in factories, internal audits, of sourcing associations on in operations, different working groups, communications distribution of communications information Compliance with laws and Labour rights, Personnel regulations, ethical guidelitraining proAcademia Cooperation, Joint projects, reporting, nes, labour policies, pringrammes obtaining lectures, communications ciples and instructions, traiinformation ning and communications Non-governResponsibility in Ethical quidelines, ­BSCI Vision and strategy and Financial Owners and mental the entire value membership and requireacting in accordance with performance, Investors chain, transparenments for supplier facorganisations cy, distribution of tories, audits, meetings, these, ethical guidelines, responsible opeinvestor communications rations information replies to questionnaires, communications Agreements, ­BSCI Matters related Suppliers requirements, to purchases, Media Active offering Websites, social media, communications fair treatment, of information, other communications requirements for answering quesuppliers ries quickly and honestly Compliance with laws and Compliance Authorities regulations, ethical guideliwith regulations nes, communications Channels for stakeholder engagement are available at ­Tokmanni’s Corporate responsibility report 2015 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 17 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Materiality analysis Tokmanni’s material The themes have arisen from ­Tokmanni’s materiality analysis and corporate responsibility their selection is based on the instructhemes are business CA tions in the GRI G4 guidelines on deSE integrity, fair treatment, fining material aspects. The materiality analysis was carried responsible sourcing and out in spring 2015 using telephone products and efficient interviews and an online survey, to use of resources. which there were 565 responses. The respondents to the questionnaire represented suppliers, personnel, consumers, authorities and decision makers, industry organisations, investors and non-governmental organisations. The majority of respondents belonged to the personnel, consumers Nordea's ESG analyst's comment or suppliers groups. T­ okmanni’s top management answered the questionWe see a positive trend in T ­ okmanni’s sustainability work as T­ okmanni has since naire from the point of view of effects the IPO introduced several initiatives to improve management of key risks and opon business. portunities including a sustainability report. However, there are also development The results were discussed and areas to consider: more transparency in supplier audits both regarding process, confirmed in the company’s Executive amount and location of suppliers as well as number of supplier exclusions due Group. The criteria used were financial to lack of compliance with Code of Conduct. More transparency with regards to impacts including risks and opportunimonitoring environmental impact, in particular when it comes to chemicals would ties, environmental impacts and effects also be recommended. on people. The material issues are presented on the following page. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 18 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Material responsibility themes Business Fair Responsible Sourcing Efficient Use Integrity Treatment and Products of Resources Economic performance Occupational health Responsible sourcing Efficient use of materials and safety Employment Responsible products and Energy efficiency Employee training and packaging Anti-corruption Efficient logistics development Product safety Privacy protection Efficient waste recycling Equality in work and Appropriate markings on Ethical marketing remuneration products Non-discrimination CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 19 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index UN’s Sustainable Development Goals and ­Tokmanni In September 2015 the UN published new Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), which will guide its member states’ operations until 2030. The aim is to achieve global sustainability, and the task of companies is to support states in reaching the goals. Companies can have an impact on all the goals at least indirectly. T ­ okmanni takes into consideration the following goals, which are the most relevant for the company: Sustainable Further information in development Explanation Tokmanni’s measures the report goal End poverty in all its • Employment Strategy forms everywhere • Endeavouring to pay a living wage throughout the supply chain Responsible sourcing and • Reliable and predictable purchasing agreements products • Offering affordable products to customers Ensure healthy lives and • Occupational health and safety requirements and monitoring their Values and Code of Conduct promote well-being for all at implementation throughout the value chain, with special attention to Fair treatment all ages women Efficient use of resources • Environmental requirements and monitoring of these in the supply chain Responsible sourcing and • Offering employees exercise vouchers and discounts for fitness products services Ethical marketing • Offering customers healthy and safe foods • Offering customers safe products CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 20 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Sustainable Further information in development Explanation Tokmanni’s measures the report goal Ensure inclusive and quality • No child labour Fair treatment education opportunities for all • Training and development of suppliers Responsible sourcing and and promote lifelong learning • Continuous training and development of employees products Achieve gender equality and • No discrimination Values and Code of Conduct empower all women and girls • Ban on modern slavery Fair treatment • Increasing the number of women in management positions Responsible sourcing and products • Enabling the promotion of women in the company Ensure access to afforda• Using renewable energy in own operations Efficient use of resources ble, reliable, sustainable and • Recommending the use of renewable energy to logistics service modern energy for all providers • Offering customers energy efficient products • Using final food waste in energy production Promote inclusive and • No forced labour or child labour Strategy sustainable economic growth, • Ensuring trade union activities in the private label supply chains Efficient use of resources employment and decent work • Protecting risk groups in the private label supply chains Responsible sourcing and for all products • Development of business • Employment • Employment of young people and people with partial work capacity • Decoupling business growth from material and energy consumption, and contamination of the environment CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 21 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Sustainable Further information in development Explanation Tokmanni’s measures the report goal Reduce inequality within and • Endeavouring to pay a living wage throughout the supply chain Strategy among countries • Preventing discrimination throughout the value chain Fair treatment • Allowing trade unions in private label supply chains Responsible sourcing and products • Training of own employees • Offering affordable products Ensure sustainable consump• Responsible sourcing (incl. eg. traceability) Efficient use of resources tion and production patterns • Special requirements of risk products Responsible sourcing and • Use of standards and certifications products Ethical marketing • Energy and material efficiency of products • Reduction of packaging materials • Ending the use of HFCs • Reduction, reuse and recycling of waste • Increasing consumers’ knowledge of responsibility Take urgent action to com• Reducing climate change risks in the supply chain Efficient use of resources bat climate change and its • Reducing energy consumption impacts • Improving energy efficiency • Using renewable energy • Obtaining renewable energy certificates • Offering customers energy efficient products CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 22 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Sustainable Further information in development Explanation Tokmanni’s measures the report goal Conserve and sustainably use • Responsible sourcing Efficient use of resources the oceans, seas and marine • Sourcing responsible sea transport services Responsible sourcing and resources • Offering fewer plastic bags to customers products Sustainably manage forests, • Sourcing of certified products Responsible sourcing and combat desertification, halt • Improving packaging efficiency products and reverse land degradation, Ethical marketing halt biodiversity loss Promote just, peaceful and • Improving the traceability of products and ensuring the responsibility of Values and Code of Conduct inclusive societies the supply chain Fair treatment • Publicising human rights principles Responsible sourcing and • No discrimination products • Preventing crime (eg. shoplifting) • Preventing corruption throughout the value chain Revitalise the global part• Foreign trade Strategy nership for sustainable • Integration of responsibility into business Cooperation with stakeholders development • Cooperation with various parties to improve responsibility • Development of indicators CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 23 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Management approach Corporate responsibility Compliance with legislative requirements and the principles of good govserve as support for the decision making. Responsibility for the operational The responsibility is an integral part of ernance are minimum requirements management of the work lies with the goals and actions are ­Tokmanni’s day-to-day for all of T­ okmanni’s responsibility company’s CFO and Deputy CEO, who defined and achievebusiness. The compawork. The operations accord with the is a member of the Executive Group. ments reported. provisions of the UN’s International The Head of Corporate Responsibility ny’s aim is to minimise Bill of Human Rights, the International reports to the CFO and Deputy CEO. business risks, make Labour Organization's Declaration on The Head of Corporate Responsibility use of the opportunities Fundamental Principles and Rights at leads the working group that consists in the material aspects for responsibilWork and the UN Global Compact. of representatives of departments and ity and measures to reach these goals associated with these, The basis of corporate responsibility the personnel, whose duty is to be rehave been defined. The results conand produce added value work at T ­ okmanni are the company’s valsponsible for reaching the company’s cerning these goals will then be reues and Code of Conduct, including the corporate responsibility targets in the ported once a year and the operationfor stakeholders. complementary principles, policies and departments. It is the responsibility of al indicators are monitored quarterly instructions. ­Tokmanni’s Code of Coneveryone at T­ okmanni to comply with in the meetings of the steering groups. duct and related principles have been the company’s ethical guidelines and to Targets are reported separately for approved by the Board of Directors. The minimise negative impacts on the envieach material area in this report. policies and instructions have been apronment and society in their own work. Tokamnni's management systems proved by the Executive Group and the In ­Tokmanni’s responsibility work, are further described in T ­ okmanni’s heads of department, respectively. material matters are themes that are Corporate Governance Statement. The CEO is ultimately responsible important for stakeholders’ decision Corporate responsibility risk manfor ­Tokmanni’s corporate responsibility making and business performance. agement is part of the company’s risk matters. He reports these to the Board These themes are business integrity, management process. ­Tokmanni aims of Directors regularly. The Board of fair treatment, responsible sourcing to follow precautionary principle in its Directors deals with corporate responand products, and efficient use of operations. Management is constantly sibility matters if necessary, and the resources. Operational work is carried assessed at ­Tokmanni, and targets, presentations and information produced out in the company’s various departresourcing and business practices are by T­ okmanni’s responsibility experts ments, for which goals have been set modified if necessary. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 24 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Managing material aspects Material aspect Main steering principles and policies Targets 2017 Economic performance Accounting principles International Financial Reporting Standards Financial targets G4-EC1 (IFRS), Governance Employment Personnel policy Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA1, G4-LA2 Anti-corruption Code of Conduct, Anti-bribery principles, Governance Targets of Business integrity G4-SO4, G4-SO5 Privacy protection Code of Conduct, Data protection principles, Human rights principles Targets of Business integrity G4-PR8 Occupational health and safety Code of Conduct, Personnel policy, Operating plan for occupational Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA5, G4-LA6 health care cooperation, Human rights principles Employee training and development Training plan Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA11 Equality in work and remuneration Code of Conduct, Personnel plan, Personnel policy, Equality plan, Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA4, G4-LA13 Human rights principles Non-discrimination Code of Conduct, Equality plan, Human rights principles Targets of Fair treatment G4-LA12, G4-HR3 Efficient use of materials Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN1 Energy efficiency and emissions Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN15–G4-EN18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 25 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Material aspect Main steering principles and policies Targets 2017 Efficient waste recycling Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN23 Efficient logistics Code of Conduct, Environmental policy Targets of Efficient use of resources G4-EN30 Responsible sourcing Code of Conduct, ­BSCI’s Code of Conduct, Principles of responsible Targets of Responsible sourcing G4-LA14–G4-LA15, G4-HR11, G4-SO9 sourcing, Guidelines for responsible sourcing, Human rights principles Product safety Instructions of quality and packaging, Human rights principles Targets of Responsible products G4-PR1–G4-PR2 Appropriate labeling on products Instructions of quality and packaging Targets of Responsible products G4-PR3, G4-PR9 Responsible marketing Code of Conduct Targets of Responsible products G4-PR7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 26 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Business integrity Responsibility towards customers, employees, investors and other stakeholders is a core principle in our business operations. We observe the relevant legislative requirements and the principles of good governance in everything we do. The company’s operations are also governed by its ethical guidelines incorporating ­Tokmanni’s Code of Conduct and the related principles, policies and instructions. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 27 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Key achievements 2016 and targets 2017 Key achievements 2016 Targets 2017 The company’s Code of Conduct is trained The company’s Code of Conduct is trained to to ­Tokmanni employees. ­Tokmanni employees. Tokmanni has no cases of corruption. All messages sent to T ­ okmanni’s grievance channel are managed properly. Tokmanni has no privacy violations. Tokmanni will not have any cases of corruption. Tokmanni enhances consumers’ ability to Tokmanni will be not have privacy violations. make educated buying decisions. Key issues: There will be no remarks from authorities related to • Business integrity marketing in ­Tokmanni. • Anti-corruption • Value adding • Tax footprint • Privacy • Ethical marketing CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 28 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Ethical guidelines Tokmanni’s ethical guidelines are built programme. Everyone at T ­ okmanni on three levels. The Code of Conis obliged to observe the guidelines, Code of Conduct tells the duct guides everyone at T ­ okmanni in ask questions and report violations of rules of the game, e.g. their daily work and decision-making. the guidelines. • We treat everyone equally Under the key elements of the Code Everyone is also obliged to inform and without discrimination of Conduct are more detailed princitheir supervisors or the Compliance ples, which deal with topics such as unit of good practices. The Compli• We minimise accidents at work prevention of corruption and human ance unit can be informed via the rights. In addition, T ­ okmanni has ‘whistleblowing channel’, which is • We obey laws and regulations instructions for conducting everyday presented as part of the training on • We do not bribe matters. These guidelines must be the Code of Conduct. The channel complied with in all operations. The is continuously open for ­Tokmanni’s • We protect sensitive business guidelines are available in Finnish stakeholders, too, and notifications information and company assets and English in ­Tokmanni’s intranet. can also be made anonymously. NoThe Code of Conduct is also avail• We respect privacy tifications received in the channel are able on the external website, and processed confidentially as required • We support fair competition as a printed version in Finnish for in data protection legislation. ­Tokmanni’s employees. • We minimise environmental impact Tokmanni employees and the Compliance unit • We require responsible production members of the Board of Directors The Compliance unit is responsible of our products have received training on ­Tokmanni’s for ­Tokmanni’s compliance function. Code of Conduct and have commitThe Compliance unit is headed by the • We communicate transparently ted to comply with it. New employees Chief Compliance Officer, who reports and reliably and those returning from longer pedirectly to the Chief Executive Officer riods of leave participate in the trainand also regularly informs the Board ing as part of their own orientation of Directors. In addition to the Chief CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 29 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index CA SE Compliance Officer, the Compliance sanctions. The Compliance unit conunit includes three Compliance Ofvenes monthly but handles pressing ficers, each of whom has a specific matters immediately. area of responsibility. The Compliance The whistleblowing channel was Officers answer queries concerning opened in September 2015. In 2016, their area of responsibility and update there have been 12 notifications rethe principles and instructions that are ceived of which one is still in process. their responsibility. Half of the notifications are related to The Compliance unit handles ill-treatment. Users’ satisfaction with notifications concerning financial the channel has not been studied yet. Anti-corruption campaign intensifying in China wrongdoings received via the whisLeo Ding, Purchasing Manager, T ­ okmanni’s office in Shanghai tleblowing channel or otherwise, and actions that violate ­Tokmanni’s Code  How is corruption regarded in  How does ­Tokmanni combat of Conduct, and imposes potential China? corruption? There has been a considerable Tokmanni has a zero tolerance polincrease in anti-corruption legislation icy regarding corruption and strict and activities during Zhu Rongji’s anti-corruption principles which its time as Prime Minister. Civil servants employees are trained in. T ­ okmanni’s have been dismissed and severely sourcing tool prevents bribery, and punished for corruption, misconduct checks are made on suppliers’ backand for providing relatives and friends grounds with risk assessments and with privileges. Several multinational due diligence. Lack of transparency businesses have been taken to court makes it harder to prevent corruption. Read more: for corruption, especially pharmaceuIt is often difficult to extract information yritys.tokmanni.fi/business-integrity tical companies. from the supply chain, and challenges are posed by cultural differences in the giving of gifts. Clear tools and processes help to solve challenges. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 30 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Generating and distributing direct added financial value Tokmanni is committed Generating and distributing direct added financial value to profitable growth and developing competiStakeholder group Added financial value 2016 2015 tiveness. The company develops its business in a Customers Sales 779 MEUR 759 MEUR responsible manner, which supports its ability to care Suppliers and Purchasing 507 MEUR -498 MEUR for its employees, assets service providers and customers’ needs Added value produced 272 MEUR 261 MEUR responsibly. ­Tokmanni reports transparently on Personnel Wages and benefits -96 MEUR -92 MEUR its business operations, financial development, Public sector Taxes -7 MEUR -3 MEUR and direct and indirect economic influencers. Creditors Financial items -15 MEUR -21 MEUR Business Expenses related to the 127 MEUR -132 MEUR development development of operations Earnings retained 27 MEUR 15 MEUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 31 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Tax footprint Indirect taxes 52.9 MEUR Withholdings and employer contributions 38.7 MEUR Value added tax 45.5 Excise duty 2.0 -R emitted witholdings from salaries 14.0 Import customs duties 3.3 -E mployer pension insurance payments 23.1 Electricity tax 2.0 Employer social security payments 1.6 Insurance premium tax 0.1 Total 100.1 MEUR Income and capital taxes 8.5 MEUR Corporate income tax 7.3 Property tax 1.2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 32 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Privacy protection The company’s aim Tokmanni complies with all laws and regulations related to privacy protec0 complaints about is that its systems tion. In order to ensure its systems breaches of privacy and registers have no and registers have no actual or susor of lost customer actual or suspected pected cases of infringement of pridata in 2016. vacy protection, compliance with data cases of infringement protection principles is monitored at of privacy protection. ­Tokmanni, and technical systems are kept up to date. The personnel are also informed about and trained in information security matters. Tokmanni is a PCI DSS audited company and meets the requirements of the International Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard. PCI DSS applies to all people who process payment card data. As a result of the audit, T ­ okmanni has received a Report on Compliance and an Attestation of Compliance. Tokmanni did not receive any complaints about breaches of privacy protection or of lost customer data in 2016. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 33 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Ethical marketing Tokmanni wants Tokmanni complies with the relevant legislation and regulations in its marand informed the Consumer Ombudsman that it would change the Goal for 2017: its marketing to be keting. The goal is also to present methods that it uses in the marketing zero complaints for ethical, clear and product prices clearly, unambiguously of store openings to conform with unethical marketing. easy-to-understand. and in a way that is easy for consumChapter 2 Section 11 of the Consumers to understand. er Protection Act, and that it would No submissions were made to the no longer use the discount percentCouncil of Ethics in Advertising in 2016 age in adverts publicising the openconcerning T ­ okmanni’s advertising. ing of a new store. ­Tokmanni received seven complaints In March 2016 T­ okmanni organised from Regional State Administrative a responsibility day for its personAgencies in its stores. Three of this nel. Ethical marketing was part of conserned price labelling, two disthe programme and a representative counts and two visibility of permits. of the Consumers’ Union of FinThe complaints concerned inadequate land gave a talk on the subject. The or incorrect price labelling in stores sourcing, marketing and sales organand this has now been corrected. isations participated in the responsiIn September 2016 T ­ okmanni bility day. opened a new store in Ruoholahti Tokmanni aims to cooperate only in Helsinki. At the store’s opening with responsible partners. During event, special offers were advertised the second half of 2016, all marketby stating the product’s normal price ing partners committed to observing together with the offer price. This ­Tokmanni’s Code of Conduct. From caught the attention of the Consumnow on these guidelines will be ater Ombudsman and T ­ okmanni was tached to all cooperation agreements. asked to provide an explanation. ­Tokmanni provided an explanation CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 34 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Fair treatment Tokmanni generates enterprise value by engaging in responsible operations, utilising the diversity of its personnel and enhancing their expertise. An open and fair corporate culture that respects all personnel is essential for conducting successful and sustainable business activities. With fair and effective personnel management T ­ okmanni is able to reduce its business risks, exploit business opportunities, increase its enterprise value and generate added value for its stakeholders. The company continuously monitors the standard of supervision, the implementation of good management practices and the quality of working atmosphere and equal treatment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 35 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Key achievements 2016 and targets 2017 Key achievements 2016 Targets 2017 Tokmanni builds an operating culture that Tokmanni has an equality and diversity programme is fair, based on trust and supports the to monitor the development of a diverse work wellbeing of all employees. community. The programme ensures that personnel are treated equally and respectfully Tokmanni has motivated and committed throughout their employment. personnel that value the customer, and also value their own work, their employer All employees receive the appropriate induction to and are responsible performers. their work and they are all ensured the coaching or Key issues: training required for their duties. Tokmanni is a diverse company in which equal treatment is ensured for everyone. • Committed personnel Tokmanni looks after the occupational wellbeing • Equal treatment of its employees with coaching-based supervisory Tokmanni’s supervisors are trained in work and working capacity management based and diversity a long-term coaching programme that on common procedures.The aim is for work to incorporates tools and practices for fair • Employee training be carried out safely at the workplace and to management and leadership. and development ensure that personnel are healthy when they reach • Occupational health retirement age. and safety CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 36 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Committed personnel Tokmanni employs At the end of 2016 ­Tokmanni had a more than 3,200 total of 3,224 employees. The averPermanent and fixed-term Full-time and part-time age number of ­Tokmanni personnel in employments, % employees, % people across Finland. 2016 was 3,209. The figure reported 100 The personnel is motiincludes those who were on periods 100 of absence from the workplace (e.g. vated and committed on maternity, paternity, parental, child80 80 32 32 and forms the basis of care, study and job alternation leave). 69 70 55 49 ­Tokmanni’s business. On average, the number of people on 60 75 77 60 periods of absence at any one time was 180. 40 40 68 68 45 51 Permanent and 20 20 long-lasting employments 25 31 23 30 At the end of 2016, 76 per cent of 0 0 ­Tokmanni’s total workforce were in Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male permanent employment and 24 per 2015 2016 2015 2016 cent in fixed-term employment. Fulltime employees accounted for 35 per Permanent employments Full-time employments cent, and part-time employees for 65 Fixed-term employments Part-time employments per cent, of all personnel. Due to the requirements of the busiest periods Total permanent 2,440 (2,424) Total full-time 1,137 (1,203) in the retail sector, the majority of the Total fixed-term 784 (869) Total part-time 2,087 (2,090) part-time employees are cashiers. The number of permanent employAll employments at the end of year included. All employments at the end of year included. ees starting at ­Tokmanni was 235, and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 37 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index the number of permanent employees salaries paid in 2016. The numbers departing the company during the of agency workers used are not reNew permanent employments and terminated permanent year was 199. The turnover of perported. Extra work is always offered employments by gender and age, persons manent employee arrivals during the first to the company’s own part-time persons reporting period was ten per cent, and employees. Each year, ­Tokmanni the corresponding departure turnover also employs about 1,000 fixed-term 160 was eight per cent. The turnover figseasonal helpers for the needs of the ures do not include employees leaving store network during the summer and 120 because of retirement. 132 employees Christmas periods. 111 were rewarded for 10, 20 and 30 years 80 93 of service in T ­ okmanni in 2016. In the Collective agreements 84 57 end of the year the average service Tokmanni observes all the provisions 77 39 60 40 48 years of the permanent employees of the code termination legislation (the 45 24 32 15 13 26 28 was 9.2 years and the share of emAct on Co-operation within Undertak0 19 14 4 6 21 11 2 11 9 ployees with more than 10 service ings) and those set out in collective 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 years 36 per cent. agreements (the Finnish retail sector –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– collective agreement), including the New permanent employments Terminated permanent employments Minor use of agency workers legal provisions and notification times Tokmanni’s use of agency workers is concerning reorganisations. All perFemale minor. In 2016 ­Tokmanni started clossonnel groups except for the manageMale er cooperation with Barona Logistics, ment and senior salaried employees and in order to optimise the use of are covered by the Finnish retail secTotal new permanent employments 235 and total terminated permanent resources, 35 dispatch function emtor collective agreement. ­Tokmanni’s ployees were outsourced to Barona management and senior salaried ememployments 199. logistics. Almost all of this employployees accounted for 1.6 per cent of The figures do not include retired people. ees continued to work in ­Tokmanni the company’s personnel at the end Mäntsälä logistics center. The costs of 2016. These two personnel groups of using agency workers accountnormally also follow the terms of the ed for 3.4 per cent of all wages and retail sector collective agreement. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 38 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Equal treatment and diversity Tokmanni aims to Equitable benefits Tokmanni’s personnel enjoy extensive Incentives for work Tokmanni operates an incentive pay Tokmanni’s aim ensure diversity personnel benefits, and the same scheme for all personnel, with the is a diverse work and equal treatment benefits apply to both permanent and exception of the warehouse, where a community in which in all tasks and fixed-term employees, regardless of productivity bonus system is applied. equal treatment is the nature of the employment relationThe incentive bonus is given if there remuneration, and ship and the hours contracted. The is an improvement in ­Tokmanni’s ensured for everyone to guarantee non-disExecutive Group determines the perEBITDA. The bonus is determined from the recruitment crimination in all of the sonnel benefits each year. on the basis of the net result and the In addition to the statutory beneorganisational or personal indicators phase onwards. company’s workplaces. fits, other benefits include a diversity that have been established. The reof purchasing benefits, funding for view and payment are made every six Christmas parties and recreational months. The amount of the producactivities, and fitness and culture tivity bonus paid is determined by the vouchers partially paid by the emproductivity of the warehouse and by ployer. ­Tokmanni also gives its staff personal performance. The productivigifts at Christmas and on significant ty bonus is paid monthly. birthdays (50th and 60th), rewards for long service (10, 20 and 30 years of service) and a thank-you for those retiring. The occupational health service provided to staff is also more extensive than the statutory minimum, as it includes a general practitioner service. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 39 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Age and gender distribution, Age and gender distribution, employees Board of Directors and Executive Group persons persons 5 1,500 1 1,288 1,298 4 1,200 1 877 3 2 900 784 5 503 535 2 4 4 600 3 3 3 39 60 3 303 290 237 233 1 2 300 26 76 76 21 0 0 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– Female Male Female Male Female Male Board of Directors Executive Group –30 years 30–50 years 50 years– Female Female Senior salaried personnel Male Male Office personnel Employees Total permanent 235 The figures do not include retired people. Total 3 224 (3,293) persons. The calculations include all employments at the end of year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 40 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index The amount paid in incentive cash The average age of the company’s tasks. A competence classification for When employees are unsure of how rewards and productivity bonus for personnel at the end of 2016 was 38 duties was launched in 2016. The aim to interpret ­Tokmanni’s Code of Con2016 was approximately EUR 960,000. years. The Board of Directors had sevof this is to determine whether there is duct or about personnel matters, they A few members of T ­ okmanni manen members in 2016, out of whom two equality in remuneration and to ensure can contact the Compliance unit. agement and senior salaried personwere females. In 2016, two members equality in remuneration. There were no discrimination cases nel also have employer-paid volunleft the Executive Group and one memat ­Tokmannin in 2016. tary insurance arrangements, most ber was replaced due to retirement. The Improving job satisfaction of which have been transferred to number of members of the Executive Job satisfaction among ­Tokmanni’s ­Tokmanni in association with the corGroup in the end of 2016 was eight, one personnel is surveyed annually. The porate acquisitions made. of whom was female. survey focuses on factors such as Tokmanni is not reporting minority equality, working atmosphere, superviDiversity and equal groups or other diversity factors (e.g. sion and development of fair manageopportunity origin, ethnic background, religion). ment. Areas for improvement are seTokmanni aims to establish operating The majority, about 85 per cent, lected each year in the different parts of practices and conditions in which of T ­ okmanni’s personnel are directly the company, and these are monitored all employees see that they are in an covered by the pay schedule of the on a regular basis. The next survey will equal and comparable position in relaFinnish retail sector collective agreebe carried out at the beginning of 2017. tion to colleagues. ment, which has equality-based pay schedules. The basic pay and other Discrimination prohibited Tokmanni’s personnel groups are remuneration of the management and Tokmanni’s aim is a diverse work as follows: senior salaried personnel are detercommunity in which equal treatment is • Management: members of the mined by the post and the nature of ensured for everyone from the recruitExecutive Group the work, and also on the basis of ment phase onwards. The company • Senior salaried personnel: separately experience, skills and performance. has established procedures for handesignated experts So far, differences in the pay and othdling cases of inappropriate treatment • Office personnel: head office staff er remuneration received by females and for preventing such occurrences. and store managers and by males cannot be compared The guidelines state that intervention • Employees: store and because of the extent of the tasks, the must be made immediately in cases of warehouse employees different demands and the diversity of inappropriate treatment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 41 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index CA Diverse personnel is a strength SE Sirpa Huuskonen, HR Director, T ­ okmanni What is diversity?  diverse is ­Tokmanni’s personnel? How The diversity of personnel means individual difAccording to an assessment carried out in a FIBS ferences that result from sex, age, ethnic backproject, expertise forms the basis of recruitment ground, skills, training, social status, disability, and career development at T ­ okmanni. Other factors sexual orientation and life situation, for example. do not have a conscious impact. Women currently make up the majority of T ­ okmanni’s employees. The  ow is diversity developed at T­ okmanni? H average age of an employee is about 38 years and Tokmanni aims to ensure that personnel processemployees are of different ages. T ­ okmanni employs es and management practices support the divera large number of young people, particularly for sity of personnel, equal opportunities and equality. summer jobs and internships. T ­ okmanni aims to ­Tokmanni is a signatory of the FIBS Diversity make it possible for employees to work until they Charter, and in 2016 it participated in FIBS’s work reach retirement age. T ­ okmanni has a multicultural to develop responsibility and diversity managecustomer base so it pays increasing attention to ment evaluation practices. We aim to actively employing a multicultural customer service staff. encourage different types of people to work for the company. We believe that a diverse personnel  How do you lead diverse teams? produces business benefits, such as increased At T­ okmanni, Insight analyses are used to support innovativeness and the ability to serve an increasleadership of diverse teams. These analyses show ingly diverse customer base. We improve our supervisors what kind of leadership each team management of occupational wellbeing in close member values, how team members’ ways of workcooperation with the employee pension company ing differ and whether the team is balanced in terms and occupational health service. The strengths of of its strengths or whether certain characteristics are personnel change during the employment relaoveremphasised. When leading diverse teams, it is tionship, so job descriptions must be adapted, if important to remember that irrespective of differencnecessary, as employees grow older. es, all members have a need to be heard and feel like a valuable member of the working community. The team leader needs to focus also on on the team’s similar needs, not just their differences. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 42 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Employee training and development Tokmanni’s operations Constant development of expertise regularly throughout the year as conventional training, and the online ethTokmanni employees are based on a motivated Tokmanni focuses on the systematic ical guidelines training is taken at the were the first in and committed personnel development of the expertise of its start of employment. Finland to complete who value the customer, personnel. The objective is to ensure Tokmanni offers its personnel regthe further qualifithe personnel’s skills and the compaular training in employment legislation their colleagues, their ny’s competitiveness. and collective agreement matters. cation in immediate own work, their employer Development opportunities and Office personnel have the opportunity supervision. and contribute respontraining are offered to the entire perto improve their language skills during sonnel. T ­ okmanni’s in-house experts their working hours in conversation sibly to the company’s participate in the training developgroups for people with different levels performance. ment and improving personnel skills of language skills. in collaboration with external training Sales skills were improved in 2016 partners. Customer feedback and by developing customer service skills the needs discussed during personal and sales skills in particular. appraisals have an impact on the emphasis of the training options. All supervisors The professional expertise of receive training ­Tokmanni’s personnel are developed All supervisors are provided with through conventional and online traintraining and coaching to enhance ing and in-service training, in all tasks. supervisory skills, focusing on coachThe personnel’s online training opporing-based management, principles tunities are extended all the time. of supervision, employment contract Safety training and ­Tokmanni’s matters and managing working caonline ethical guidelines training are pacity. New supervisors are also compulsory for all of the company’s given training in small groups. The personnel. Safety training is organised company’s Executive Group has been CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 43 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index also given training in the principles of The Specialist Qualification in CA coaching-based management. Management, a management develSE In recent years, all supervisors have opment programme lasting 1.5 years, been trained in a long-term coaching was completed in spring 2016. In the programme that incorporates tools autumn, those employees studying and practices for the fair management for their vocational qualification in of employees. The management modsales and immediate supervision el emphasises the supervisor’s role completed their studies. ­Tokmanni in producing results, building cooperemployees were the first in Finland to ation and managing change. In 2016 complete the Further Qualification in the coaching series was extended immediate supervision. with a section on providing feedback, managing the customer experience Personal appraisals and Working in a shop and a great work atmosphere and the atmosphere in the work comperformance assessments Tina Stenman, Store Manager, T ­ okmanni munity. About one third of supervisors Personal appraisals are held once a have completed this training. year at T­ okmanni and all employees  How has your career developed  hat type of coaching have you W receive a personal appraisal. In fixed at ­Tokmanni? been given most recently? Vocational qualifications term contracts of less than 12 months, I have worked in a shop for almost I participated in Vema 2, T­ okmanni’s At T­ okmanni, training leading to a vothere is not always time to perform a 40 years, and 20 of these have been own development programme for cational qualification is a popular way personal appraisal, so a feedback disat ­Tokmanni. During my career I supervisors, which was fantastic. The to develop expertise in the retail and cussion at the job orientation phase have had several opportunities to Insights tool has stuck in my mind, logistics fields. Development of vocacan be useful in these cases. develop. My most recent opportunity among other things. The tool helps tional skills is constantly supported The personal appraisal focuses on was being able to transfer to a store when giving feedback to various at ­Tokmanni with the aid of various the employee’s work performance where I could select the employees. people. Vema has given us a great apprenticeship training programmes. over the preceding period and sets We have an amazing team spirit here. atmosphere at work again. You learn Every year around 100 T ­ okmanni emgoals for the coming period. It also ­Tokmanni focuses on training its new things all the time in this job, even ployees study for a vocational qualificaincludes a personal skills development personnel. The regional managers’ after 40 years. I get a great feeling tion in business and administration and plan and an assessment of supervicoaching-based management style of achievement when we succeed vocational or specialist qualifications in sion and team working. helps us in our daily work. together as a team. I am a T ­ okmanni sales, logistics, immediate supervision, employee through and through, and I store management or management. wouldn’t change this job for anything. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 44 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Occupational health and safety Tokmanni will be T ­ okmanni were created based on an internal assessment of risks and model was developed with various organisational levels. The aim of the In 2017 ­Tokmanni successful when its needs, and the development of standmodel is to make it easier for perintends to healthy and satisfied ardised working capacity managesonnel with partial work capacity to test out the online personnel conduct their ment practices was launched togethkeep working. The model specifies doctor services. er with personnel and T­ okmanni’s the tasks in various organisations work tasks safely. occupational health care and that are suitable for personnel with insurance partners. partial work capacity. In cooperation Towards better health with the occupational health service, 2017 these activities will be introduced and job satisfaction Flexible work for personnel these can be used to create tempothroughout Finland and the meeting The purpose of working capacity with partial work capacity rary job descriptions for personnel agendas will be standardised to include management is to ensure the health, Clear procedures were specified with with partial work capacity. ­Tokmanni’s working capacity manageworking capacity and safety of peroccupational health care and insurment goals and themes for the coming sonnel. The goal of T ­ okmanni’s workance companies, targets were set Improving supervisors’ year: supporting the work of personnel ing capacity management is to anticand more accurate indicators were working capacity with partial work capacity, ergonomics at ipate the occupational health risks of created for controlling expenditure management skills work and occupational safety. personnel, improve job satisfaction on sickness absences and pensions. Supervisors’ working capacity manDuring the autumn a separate and lengthen careers. The average The aim of the cooperation is to reagement skills were improved during supervisor training was started for age of retirement at ­Tokmanni is 63.24 fer T ­ okmanni employees with partial 2016. ­Tokmanni holds regional small the logistics centre warehouse’s imyears. The average age of retirement work capacity to rehabilitation at an group meetings attended by occupamediate supervisors in cooperation in Finland was 61.1 years in 2015. even earlier stage than currently and tional health service representatives with the occupational health service. Industrial safety at T­ okmanni is then back to work. This will prevent and store managers. The aim of these The warehouse’s immediate superorganised in compliance with the legpremature applications for employmeetings is to improve store managvisors, T ­ okmanni’s working capacity islation. All of T ­ okmanni’s personnel ment disability pensions. ers’ working capacity management manager and a team from the occugroups are represented on its industriThe return to work of personnel skills, increase cooperation between pational health service meet once al safety committee. with partial work capacity was also the occupational health service and a month to discuss the challenges In 2016 new operating models developed within the Group. From supervisors, and use peer support to of working capacity management at for managing working capacity at autumn 2016, a new Flexible Work enhance supervisors’ ability to cope. In the warehouse. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 45 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Working towards better the occupational safety organisaoccupational safety and tion. The aim is to raise the entire Accident types ergonomics personnel’s awareness of near ac200 At T ­ okmanni, most of the long-term cidents and learn about dangerous sickness absences and applications situations together. 150 for premature employment disability pensions are due to musculoskelTesting the online doctor 100 etal disorders. Therefore, in 2017 in 2017 ­Tokmanni’s aim is to improve occupaIn 2017 T­ okmanni intends to modern50 tional ergonomics and safety practicise sickness absence practices by es. The goal is to work together with testing out the online doctor services 0 the occupational health service to provided by the occupational health train at the most of the store a memservices. The new forms of service 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 ber of staff who will be responsible aim to provide health care that is more Accidents when Accidents on Occupational Total for ergonomics and will include ergouser friendly and to cut costs. commuting workplace diseases nomics in the orientation of new emIn 2017 the aim is to acquire an ployees and the everyday work of the online working capacity management Accidents when commuting includes only accidents recorded in workplace safety insurance, meaning most commonly commuting between home and the workplace. entire personnel. Tools that improve system for the Group. The system ergonomics will also be assessed will provide a better overall picture and developed. of sickness absences and working In 2016 the internal working cacapacity risks. This will improve the 2015 2016 pacity management risk assessidentification of individual working Injury rate (IR) 42 38 ment showed that T ­ okmanni still has capacity risks, the planning of wellroom for improvement in its control timed treatment and rehabilitation Occupational diseases rate (ODR) 0 0 of occupational accidents and near measures and the monitoring of the Absentee rate (AR) 5.6% 6% accidents. Occupational safety is an return to work. important focus area. Work related fatalities 0 0 In 2017 T ­ okmanni will increase its cooperation between HR and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 46 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Responsible sourcing and products Responsible sourcing ensures that employees’ basic rights are respected. These rights are based on, for example, the UN’s International Bill of Human Rights and Convention on the Rights of the Child, the International Labour Organization's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Global Compact. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 47 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Key achievements 2016 and targets 2017 Key achievements 2016 Targets 2017 Tokmanni purchases products only from Over 95% of purchases come from factories that responsible suppliers, and in its sourcing have joined the ­BSCI initiative. agreements it requires the supply chain to be committed to responsible operations. No serious human rights violations have been found in ­Tokmanni’s supply chains. All products sold by ­Tokmanni are safe to use. No serious faults/accidents related to products sold by T ­ okmanni have been found. All products in T ­ okmanni’s selection, Key issues: and the labelling of these products, meet the legal requirements. • Responsible sourcing • Product responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 48 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Responsible sourcing Member of the B ­ SCI initiative on suppliers within T ­ okmanni’s more Tokmanni's sourcing Responsibility is a key element of immediate sphere of influence, i.e. ­Tokmanni’s sourcing process. Reprivate label and exclusive distribution sponsibility work is supported by product suppliers. T ­ okmanni requires Direct sourcing ­Tokmanni’s principles and guidelines factories manufacturing these prodfor responsible sourcing that were ucts in risk countries to be B­ SCI or completed in 2015. The implementaSA8000 audited. Brand supplier faction of these principles and guidelines tories are also required to give a comwas confirmed during 2016. mitment in their sourcing agreements As a member of the Business Social that their production accords with the MANUFACTURERS Compliance Initiative (BSCI), T ­ okmanni is ­BSCI requirements. The assessment committed to complying with the ­BSCI of responsibility begins at the suppliCode of Conduct. The company also reer tendering stage, as responsibility quires that its supplier factories are comissues are taken into account in the mitted to operating in accordance with competetive bidding. the ­BSCI Code of Conduct, and these suppliers must also demand the same 95% of risk country from their own suppliers and producers. purchases from WHOLESALERS audited factories Responsibility work focuses Tokmanni’s target during 2016 was on risk countries to direct all direct sourcing from risk The supervision of responsibility countries to suppliers using factofocuses in particular on so-called ries audited by ­BSCI or SA8000. risk countries, which according to ­Tokmanni succeeded well in this MANUFACTURERS the World Bank’s classification have target: 95% of risk country purchases the greatest risk of labor and human were made from audited factories. rights violations. The primary focus is The challenge was that at some of Third party sourcing CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 49 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index the suppliers' factories auditing is Country of origin of the products* sold by ­Tokmanni in 2016: not renewed in time or at all if the cooperation is not continued for other •1  7% of the purchases from risk countries commercial reasons. For this reason, •9  5% of purchases from B­ SCI member factories the share of purchases from ­BSCI or SA8000 audited factories in risk countries is not likely to reach 100% in the reporting. T ­ okmanni constantly distributes information to its supplier factories on the B­ SCI initiative’s principles, training and auditing, to encourage factories to renew their audits and to understand the benefits of responsibility from the perspective of the company and its employees. Tokmanni continues to learn which countries its products come from Another of ­Tokmanni’s targets is to increase transparency in the supply chain by finding out which countries factories are located in also for suppliers outside risk countries and how the suppliers in these countries take responsibility issues into consideration in their production. 136 suppliers have responded to T ­ okmanni’s enquiries and the investigation work will continue in 2017. Own audits in 2016 * Includes also other than private label products. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 50 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index As part of the development of reuated on a five-step scale from A to management systems, working hours, sponsible sourcing, ­Tokmanni’s proceE. If the score is C, D or E, T ­ okmanni employee participation and awarePrinciples of responsible dures have been changed so that inforsends the supplier comments on the ness building. sourcing: mation regarding a products’ country observed problems and asks the Tokmanni also carries out its own • NO child labour of origin is mandatory at the product supplier to ensure that the problems audits at factories in risk countries and • NO forced labour establishment stage. This means that are resolved. Some of the supplier other countries of manufacture. The • NO discrimination supervision of responsible sourcing factories in the B ­ SCI database are company’s own audits are carried out • NO bribery can be better targeted on those prod­Tokmanni’s responsibility (Tokmanni particularly at the factories of potential • Fair renumeration ucts and suppliers with a greater risk of is a RSP, i.e. a responsible companew suppliers, and at any factories human rights violations in their manuny for suppliers). T ­ okmanni also rewhere B ­ SCI audits have discovered • Decent working hours facturing. Development of systems and quests concrete action plans including significant problems. The audits focus • Occupational health and safety processes will continue during 2017. schedules for the resolving of obon the problem areas described in the • Special protection for young served problems from suppliers that ­BSCI reports and investigate whether workers Monitoring responsibility are its responsibility. corrective measures have been taken. • Compliance with laws and with audits In 2016, 452 B­ SCI audits were carThe audits also focus in particular on collective agreement The responsibility of ­Tokmanni’s ried out at factories manufacturing occupational safety and quality assur• The rights of freedom of associsourcing is monitored and developed ­Tokmanni’s products. The majority of ance. In 2016 T ­ okmanni carried out 113 ation and collective bargaining with B­ SCI audits and T­ okmanni’s factories received the score “C acceptown audits in Bangladesh, Bulgaria, • Ethical business behaviour own audits. ­Tokmanni also approves able”. The validity period of the audit China, Denmark, Finland, Germany, SA8000 auditing. and the timetable for renewing the audit India, Italy, Latvia, Netherland, Poland • Protection of the environment Tokmanni receives a report of depend on the factory’s score, so the and Sweden. factories located in risk countries figures only include the factories where Suppliers must require any of their compiled by an auditing company audits were renewed during 2016. own subcontractors to comply with approved by the B ­ SCI, and a person SA8000 auditing was also carried out at ­Tokmanni’s ethical principles. In its in charge of responsible sourcing at seven factories, and in these cases the sourcing agreements ­Tokmanni retains ­Tokmanni discusses this report with a score in ­BSCI systems is “Good”. the right to examine a supplier’s entire buyer and purchasing manager. The In the ­BSCI audits most of the subcontracting chain if necessary. results of the B ­ SCI audits are evalproblems were found in the areas of CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 51 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Developing responsible sourcing BSCI full audits 15.5.2015–5.1.2017 BSCI and SA8000 Tokmanni’s employees that are in audits 2016, % charge of responsible sourcing conDecent Working Hours Outstanding stantly participate in training and Good Ethical Business Behaviour 0.2 events arranged by the B ­ SCI and Acceptable Fair Remuneration 7.0 other partners, such as the FIBS and Insufficient No Bonded Labour Unacceptable TMA’s responsibility working group, to No Child Labour further develop ­Tokmanni’s responsiNo Discrimination ble sourcing. No Precarious Employment Total In 2016 T­ okmanni increased its Occupational Health and Safety 459 (210) resources for monitoring the producProtection of the Environment Social Management System and Cascade Effect audits tion chain in Bangladesh in particular. Special protection for young workers ­Tokmanni has drawn up a plan to The rights of Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining reinforce monitoring of product qualWorkers Involvement and Protection 92.8 ity, logistics and the supply chain, 0 100 200 300 400 500 responsibility, and has also drawn up BSCI CoC 2.0 audits a third-party auditing company an Good/A-B agreement where these factors will be taken into account fully. T­ okmanni BSCI follow-up audits 15.5.2015–5.1.2017 Improvements will also continue to carry out its needed/C-D own audits. Decent Working Hours Non-Compliant/E Outstanding Good Ethical Business Behaviour Acceptable Fair Remuneration Insufficient No Bonded Labour Unacceptable No Child Labour No Discrimination No Precarious Employment Occupational Health and Safety Protection of the Environment Social Management System and Cascade Effect Special protection for young workers The rights of Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Workers Involvement and Protection 0 20 40 60 80 100 BSCI CoC 2.0 audits CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 52 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index CA Cheap is not the opposite of responsible SE Karri Pulli, Sourcing Director, ­Tokmanni  an cheap also be responsible? C have the product specification we Low prices are often associated with look for potential suppliers. When the lack of responsibility in sourcing chains. interested suppliers are registered in However, cheap is not synonymous ­Tokmanni’s system, we launch various with irresponsibility. Low prices can be background checks which naturally also achieved with many factors. For examcover responsibility. ­Tokmanni requires ple, it can be achieved by reasonable all of its private label supplier factories prices with direct sourcing without to be members of the B ­ SCI and brand intermediaries and large sourcing suppliers must display its required level volumes. We have increased volumes, in responsibility matters. for example, with combined sourcing with the Norwegian company Europris.  What is the purpose We can also keep prices low by selectof responsible sourcing? ing the best deal from those offered by Responsibility is part of a careful buyer’s similar suppliers, by creating long-term procedures and T ­ okmanni’s smart purrelationships with suppliers, with efficient chasing. In addition to price and responcategory management, and, of course, sibility, the sourcing criteria are quality with the negotiating skills of our buyers. and delivery reliability and also that a Efficient category management also product meets T ­ okmanni’s requirements. reduces waste. In long supply chains, the price paid for a product must be shared between many  How is responsibility ensured participants, e.g. in the form of taxes. in sourcing? ­Tokmanni’s aim is to ensure that the emTokmanni ensures responsibility with ployees at the beginning of supply chains a six-step sourcing model. Once we also have a good life and employment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 53 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Product responsibility Product safety is one of Tokmanni is responsible for the safety and quality of the outside the EU. For these products ­Tokmanni bears the importer’s reAll the non-conformi­Tokmanni’s main responproducts it sells sponsibilities, which include various ties in product safety sibility themes. T­ okmanni From a product safety view point, requirements that are comparable and quality of expeaims to ensure that the ­Tokmanni not only sells products but to the manufacturer’s obligations. rience are sought to is also a product distributor, importer ­Tokmanni demands a high standard of products it sells are safe and manufacturer. T ­ okmanni acts in product safety, security documents in be prevented. to use. The company the capacity of manufacturer for prodaccordance with the type of product ensures product safety, ucts placed on the market under its and the product label in accordance private labels, even though the prodwith Finnish laws from all the products responsibility and duty ucts may be manufactured by other it imports. ­Tokmanni ensures the fulfilof care by conducting parties. The company is responsible ment of its obligations by for example for the product safety including regucontractual means and product and self-supervision, visiting latory compliance, documentation and documentation inspections. suppliers and by carrying labelling of its private label products. out product testing itself Product safety is ensured by checking Responsibility or commissioning this documentation, manufacturing qualof the distributor ity controls, by inspecting consignTokmanni also acts as distribufrom third parties. ments prior to delivery, and through tor for a large number of products. third-party testing and self-superviThese products include all consumer sion inspections in Finland. goods imported from the EU, except ­Tokmanni’s private label products. Responsibility ­Tokmanni must comply with the relof the importer evant due diligence principle and be Besides its private label products, able to identify the different prod­Tokmanni imports various goods and uct group requirements in regard to branded products from manufacturers product labelling and compliance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 54 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index requirements, for example. CorreNow group packaging is calculated by ­ okmanni imported or private label T spondingly, ­Tokmanni imposes resingle products. products are introduced. Non-conPurchases by risk level (received quirements on its suppliers concernformities are prevented with product purchases in 2016), % ing the need for a high standard of Inspected, controlled quality and documentation inspecproduct safety, and through contracand safe products tions, where compliance and aptual means and random self-superviTokmanni does risk-based self-superpropriateness for the Finnish market sion inspections the company ensures vision for its private labels and importare ensured. 29 that it fulfils its obligations. ed products. The risk classification of self-supervision is done by product Prohibition on the sale of Product safety as a goal type taking into account each product products, self-supervision The aim in 2016 has been to improve group’s requirements. and product testing 48 the product safety and product and For products subject to special In 2016 ­Tokmanni imposed a prohiquality of experience of private lalegislation risk assessment has been bition on the sale of two of its private bel products, licensed products and done product by product by extenlabel products. Deficiencies were 23 products imported by the company. sion. The supervision is done in the detected in the splash guarding of The indicator used in this assesscountry of origin, logistics centre and one product, and in another product ment is the number of instancin stores. Products are put through the frost resistance was not at the es of non-compliance for these technical product inspections, constatutory level. The products were not High risk product types. signment inspections and risk based recalled from consumers because no Medium risk The number of non-compliances self-supervision inspections. These direct danger was posed to their life, Low risk in 2016 was 27. The most significant tests and measures are aimed at health or property. In addition, in 2016, cases were due to the quality of the ensuring consumer safety and idenas a Finnish retailer, ­Tokmanni also The risk rating of Tokmanni’s self control is done by risk evaluation of every product or product product in use deviating from the tifying non-conformities at the earliimposed a national prohibition on the type. Risk evaluation of a certain product or a product specification. The number est possible stage. sale of two products. A sales prohibiproduct type is based on the amount of special demands, special legal requirements, safety of cases has increased compared to All the non-conformities in prodtion was issued for one of these prodstandards, packaging label requirements and the previous year primarily because uct safety and quality of experience ucts as its transformer did not fulfil the product safety exceptions found to this product from registers of domestic or international market of the changed method of calculation. are sought to be prevented before set requirements, and for another as surveillance. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 55 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index the strength of its seams was insuffinational Market Surveillance RegAfter 13 December 2016, a nutrition cient for an inflatable product. ister (Marek) and the EU’s RAPEX declaration will be required for almost During 2016 ­Tokmanni reviewed or rapid alert system for product defect all packaged foods. The only foods renewed the labelling of 1,394 private notifications. Any non-conformities that are not required to have a declalabel products. 922 products were that are revealed in national or EU ration are, for example, unprocessed inspected in ­Tokmanni’s self-supervimonitoring are taken into account in products made from one ingredient, sion, and third-party product testing ­Tokmanni’s self-supervision. and flavourings and drinking water. was carried out on 95 products in 2016. Application of the new Low VoltThe changes in legislation in 2016 A total of 135 titles were subject to a age, EMC, and Radio and Tele Teralso included a new regulation on recall or prohibition on sale at T ­ okmanni minal Equipment Directives was personal protective equipment that in 2016. In 29 of these cases, the sales started in 2016. ­Tokmanni has enreplaces the old personal protective prohibition or recall was due to defecsured that the required documents equipment directive. The application tive package labelling. Two of the above are updated in accordance with the of the regulation will begin in 2018. mentioned were ­Tokmanni’s private new directives. label products. No financial penalties The changes to food packaging were imposed on ­Tokmanni in 2016 for labelling required by the EU regulation violations of legislation and regulations on the provision of food information concerning products and services. to consumers were continued. A new national regulation regarding new Legislative amendments levels of salt content for certain foods improve product safety entered into force. These foods must Tokmanni is constantly monitoring now be labelled as having a high the changing legislation to ensure salt content. The package labelling product safety. Its quality assurof some of T­ okmanni’s private label ance routines also include keeping products was updated on account of up-to-date with information in the these changes in regulations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 56 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Efficient use of resources Tokmanni implements a range of measures that aim to achieve more resource-efficient business. The company is constantly examining new opportunities to make use of alternative energy forms and energy-­saving equipment, and it is working towards a more environmentally sound logistics system. The company also continuously monitors the amount of waste generated at its warehouse and in its stores, and is actively improving its waste recycling. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 57 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Key achievements 2016 and targets 2017 Key achievements 2016 Targets 2017 Tokmanni will strive for optimum energy Reduction of properties’ location based carbon and materials efficiency. dioxide emissions (Scope 1 and 2) by eight per cent. Tokmanni will increase its use of renewable energy. Greenhouse gas emissions from transport at 2015 level in relation to net sales. Tokmanni will reduce its landfill waste (waste for incineration). Increasing the waste recovery rate to 100 per cent. Key issues: • Energy efficient business • Environmentally sound logistics • Resource efficiency CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 58 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Energy efficient business The main focus of Aiming for reduction in Carbon footprint ­Tokmanni’s climate carbon dioxide emissions Mitigation of climate change and restrategy is to reduce duction of climate impacts are among 27,638 the energy consumpthe most important areas of corporate tion and carbon responsibility at T­ okmanni. Reduction of 20,314 energy consumption and carbon dioxide dioxide emissions of emissions support ­Tokmanni’s business its properties. The strategy objectives and improves profit-26.5% ability, as reducing energy consumption target is to achieve lowers costs. The use of renewable carbon neutrality regarding its propenergy can have a positive impact on ­Tokmanni’s reputation and improve energy self-sufficiency. Climate mattonnes CO2 tonnes CO2 = erties, air travel and ters are also associated with business Market based greenhouse gas emissions leasing cars by 2030. risks, such as interruption of operations caused by weather conditions and risk 2015 2016 to reputation, which ­Tokmanni seeks to minimise. The majority of the climate impacts The main focus of ­Tokmanni’s cliThe goal will be achieved by during the lifecycle of T­ okmanni’s mate strategy in the coming year is to • reducing energy consumption products arise during the manufacreduce the energy consumption and and improving energy efficiency turing and use of the products. The carbon dioxide emissions of its proper• using renewable energy company has limited opportunities to ties. ­Tokmanni’s goal is to achieve car• acquiring renewable energy affect these impacts and their measbon neutrality regarding the emissions certificates urement is challenging. This is also of its properties, air travel and leasing • offsetting the emissions caused by partly the case for transport. cars by 2030. air travel CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 59 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Monitoring and remote management reduce Total energy consumption, MWh Consumption of purchased energy, MWh electricity consumption 140,000 80,000 77,133 Electricity consumption and heating 8,880 118,411 70,000 are T­ okmanni’s main climate impact 120,000 104,014 107,039 60,000 50,728 factors. Thus, T ­ okmanni’s measures 33,022 100,000 50,000 42,280 taken to curb energy consumption 35,932 focus particularly on its real estates 31,605 31,956 40,000 21,204 30,965 68,253 30,941 80,000 21,804 8,432 27,107 of which energy solutions it has con30,000 20,246 22,677 trol over. The energy solutions at the 60,000 20,000 8,302 27,500 27,107 29,524 20,476 30,941 8,848 logistics centre are under ­Tokmanni’s 85,389 10,000 11,944 40,000 75,083 8,288 8,848 control. In addition to Mäntsälä, about 72,409 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 43 per cent of the number of store 20,000 properties and about 69 per cent of Non-renewable Renewable Nuclear power the Group’s total energy consumption 0 2014 2015 2016 are under ­Tokmanni’s control. The other stores are located in commercial Heating or shopping centres, and ­Tokmanni Heating Electricity has no direct influence over the enerElectricity gy solutions at these stores. The figures include both measured and estimated consumption. The figures include both measured and estimated The biggest consumers of elecconsumption. tricity in the properties are lighting, ventilation and cooling. Measures taken to reduce energy consumption and the associated emissions focus particularly on remote management of automation systems in properties, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 60 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index control of optimum use and monitorRenewable energy solutions Air travel emissions in 2016 will ing arrangements. The company has Besides reducing energy consumpbe offset by investing in renewan action plan to extend the use of tion, CO2 emissions are reduced able energy projects through a LED lighting in its store network and through the use of renewable enselected partner. it also constantly monitors developergy. In October 2016, solar panels ments in cost and energy efficiency of were installed at ­Tokmanni’s store in New alternatives for other new technologies. LED lighting Jämsä. The solar power plant is exreducing emissions and new technologies considerably pected to produce about 75–80 MWh Regarding greenhouse gas emissions, reduce electricity consumption in of energy per year, which corresponds several large development projects the long term. Remote management to about 10–15 per cent of the store’s are being carried out internationally, updates, control of optimum use and total annual electricity consumption. such as increasing the use of the cirtraining will also reduce energy con­Tokmanni has an action plan to excular economy, new technologies in sumption, though the largest savings tend the use of solar energy to stores logistics, administration, marketing and have already been achieved with around Finland and its logistics centre stores, and the development of envithese measures. in Mäntsälä. ronmentally friendly products. These In 2016, T ­ okmanni launched the Carbon dioxide emissions were will have an impact on ­Tokmanni’s Deep Green project with the aim of also covered by renewable energy actions in the coming years and will reducing the environmental impacts, certificates. In 2016, renewable enerprovide the opportunity to extend the including energy consumption of gy certificates equalling 66,065 MWh reduction of emissions into new areas. ­Tokmanni's office in Mäntsälä. The were used at ­Tokmanni, which was measures include for instance in77.4 per cent of T ­ okmanni’s total elecstructing personnel how to save enertricity consumption. Power consumpgy at the office and encouraging the tion at the Mäntsälä logistics centre, use of carpooling when commuting to and at the stores that were using work. The aim is to extend the project electricity purchased by ­Tokmanni, to stores. was covered in full by the certificates. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 61 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index CA SE CO2 emissions, ton CO2-eq 30,000 24,208 25,000 18,474 20,000 Clean energy from the sun 15,000 Seppo Tokola, Manager, Security and Real Estates, T ­ okmanni 11,044 10,000 8,349 8,818 8,955 5,000 How much renewable energy is 95.4 kW. The solar power plant is 445 346 315 does ­Tokmanni use? estimated to produce about 75– 0 Tokmanni’s goal is to be using 100% 80 MWh of energy per year, in other 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 renewable energy by 2030. In 2016, words 10–15% of the store’s annual Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 all the CO2 emissions of T ­ okmanni’s electricity consumption. The panels own stores and the logistics centre produce energy throughout the day, Scope 1: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were covered with renewable energy even on cloudy days. The energy Scope 2: Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions certificates, and the first solar panels produced is used by ­Tokmanni’s Scope 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions were installed. store in Jämsä, for example for lighting and for the electricity of Scope 2 includes market based greenhouse gas emissions that take into account renewable energy certificates.  How does T­ okmanni invest in cold-storage rooms and equipsolar power? ment. In exceptional situations, the Scope 3 includes domestic and international transportation of goods and air travel. Tokmanni installed its first solar electricity can be fed into the utility power plant on the roof of its store grid and sold. We are evaluating the in Jämsä. The power plant has 367 construction of new solar power solar panels and their total output plants in several locations next year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 62 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Environmentally sound logistics Though ­Tokmanni is In spite of its growth and the expanfrom 2015 to 2016. However, the JOT vessels all the time, and the latest sion of its store network, T ­ okmanni is (just-on-time) approach sets challengships are larger and more efficient, growing and expanding aiming to keep the greenhouse gas es for achieving the maximum load helping to reduce the emissions per its store network, it aims emissions from transport at the 2015 capacity utilisation rate for transport transport unit. to keep the greenhouse level in relation to net sales. units. ­Tokmanni works together with Tokmanni strives to concentrate its partners to avoid empty kilometres Concentration of delivery gas emissions from transits transport needs with long-term in round-trip transportation. cycle lowers carbon dioxide port at the 2015 level by contractors and, with these partners, emissions seeking environmentally looks for ways to reduce carbon dioxTarget is to increase rail and In 2016, T ­ okmanni created an annual ide emissions and other environmental container transport plan based on delivery peaks which friendly solutions. impacts from transport. ­Tokmanni’s Import consignments from Europe are regulates the amount of delivery days contractors have modern fleets which now collected by lorry or by containat different times on a store-specific are constantly updated to increase ers that can travel by rail for some of basis. The annual plan increased the environmental efficiency. Over half of the journey. ­Tokmanni’s target is to load size of deliveries on average by ­Tokmanni’s partners also have a certitransfer even more of its European 6% on the previous year, which refied environmental management sysconsignments to the railways or conduced the number of kilometres driven tem. Drivers are trained to drive in a tainers, which produce lower emiseach week by about 10,000. way that is environmentally aware and sions than trailer transport. On a large By 2020 ­Tokmanni’s target is to economically efficient. container ship, the emissions per confurther concentrate the delivery cycle, Concentration provides a better tainer are considerably lower than the which will also include deliveries outopportunity to combine consignemissions per trailer on a so-called side of quieter periods. By doing this ments, improve the load capacity ro-ro vessel, where trailers are loaded ­Tokmanni is aiming to compensate for utilisation rate of transport units and and unloaded at the sides, stern or the rise in carbon dioxide emissions optimise transport routes to reduce bow of the vessel by being rolled on resulting from the increase in the numthe environment impact of transport. or off without a crane. Products from ber of stores. ­Tokmanni has improved the load caoutside of Europe are shipped to Eupacity utilisation rate for its containers rope. Shipping companies renew their CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 63 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index CA SE Cleaner transport with liquefied natural gas Antti Laukkanen, Group Land Operations Director, Containerships What benefits are offered by transport emissions and a reduction in fuel costs in using liquefied natural gas? the future. From the environmental perspective, liquefied natural gas (LNG) is cleaner than the diesel  How does Containerships use its fuel usually used in transport, and its energy LNG transportation? content is clearly higher than that of diesel Containerships, which is one of T ­ okmanni’s fuel, which makes it an important fuel in partners, has committed to lowering its the logistics sector. LNG has higher energy environmental impact in its entire transport efficiency than diesel, though the low price of chain. The use of LNG is a significant part of diesel is currently reducing the competitivethe selected strategy. During 2018, Conness of LNG. tainerships will acquire four new container ships running on LNG, and these will be  What are the challenges of the first container ships in the world to run ransport using LNG? on LNG. We already have lorries with LNG It is not an entirely straightforward matter as their fuel: around 40 in England, three to start using LNG. The technology is in the Netherlands and one in Finland. This already in existence, but it is not yet used enables us to offer our customers a cleaner extensively in lorries and ships, so acquirtransport chain from door to door. ing an LNG fleet requires considerable investments. An LNG lorry currently costs about EUR 25–30,000 more than the same lorry running on traditional fuel. However, in return for this investment you get lower CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 64 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Resource efficiency Tokmanni seeks to Excellent results in minimise the amount waste recovery Waste by disposal method, % Tokmanni recycles waste very effiof waste transferred ciently. In 2016, the waste recovery 50 44 43 37 to landfills by reducing rate was 99.8 per cent for the com40 33 pany as a whole, and at the Mäntsälä 30 waste, reusing logistics centre it reached 100 per 30 25 30 23 and recycling. cent. The aim is that after 2020 there 20 22 will be no more waste to be transport7 6 ed to the incinerators. 10 Waste recovery can still be improved 0.2 somewhat by more careful sorting in 0 the stores, at the logistics centre and 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 in the offices, and by monitoring the Reuse Recycling Recovery Landfill waste use of waste components and providing guidance for employees. The amount of food waste in the stores can Total 2014: 13,708 tn be reduced especially by issuing inTotal 2015: 13,572 tn Total 2016: 12,924 tn structions and monitoring results, and through retail sector campaigns and by Recovery consists of the energy from incineration and reuse consists of reused pallets at donating unsold food to charity. the logistic centre.The data has been obtained from the service providers. In 2016, T­ okmanni joined the Ministry of Environment’s and the Federation of Finnish Commerce’s Society’s Commitment to Sustainable Development’s Green deal and aims to halve the use of plastic self-service bags (fruit bags) CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 65 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index CA SE per customer by the year 2026. At the same time, ­Tokmanni will reduce the Waste by type, % use of plastic bags by offering bags made of alternative materials. 2 Recycling packaging materials As ­Tokmanni does not itself manufacTotal Reducing the amount of plastic rubbish ture any of its products, it is not possible to report on the materials used in 12 924 tn Sami Purhonen, Sales Process Manager, Sales Support, T ­ okmanni products. Most of ­Tokmanni’s waste (13,572) Why do we need to get rid of aims to halve the number of plastic consists of packaging materials. The plastic bags? bags for fruits and vegetables used company endeavors to reduce the Plastic waste is a huge environmenby each customer by 2026. The sale amount of packaging materials, ac98 tal problem. According to the World of lightweight plastic carrier bags will tively monitors the volume of waste Economic Forum, there will be more be reduced and customers will be generated in its warehouse and stores plastic than fish in the oceans by offered bags made from alternative and is continuously improving its 2050, unless something is done materials. The work will start at the waste recycling. ­Tokmanni is responOther waste 98% (98) about it. beginning of 2017, when the small sible for the recycling and other waste Hazardous waste 2% (2) What is ­Tokmanni doing about the bags that are available on a self-ser management of its imported products plastic bag problem? vice basis will be removed from The data has been obtained from the service proviand packaging. T ­ okmanni fulfils its ders, and it covers stores and logistics centre. Tokmanni has committed to the checkouts. The availability of these producer responsibility through varMinistry of the Environment and the self-service bags will also be reious producer communities and by Finnish Commerce Federation’s duced elsewhere in the stores during actively developing with them ways to Green Deal that aims to reduce the the Spring 2017. Paper bags and ensure sustainable development. use of plastic bags from 55 to 40 per plastic reusable bags will be offered In the recycling of packaging, person by 2026 in Finland. T­ okmanni as an alternative at checkouts. ­Tokmanni notifies Finnish Packaging CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 66 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Recycling Rinki Ltd of the overall quantities of packaging materials T ­ okmanni has also signed a cooperation agreement with Finnish Tyre Also the amount of price posters in the stores have been optimized and In 2016, the waste imported. The materials are paper Recycling Ltd for collecting and recovhence significantly decreased (30 recovery rate was fibre, plastic, glass, metal and wood. The non-renewables among these are ering tyres. posters/store/week). This translates to saving 8 tns of poster paper annually. 99.8 per cent for the plastic, glass and metal, but these Digital advertising channels In the autumn 2016, ­Tokmanni orcompany as a whole. can be recycled efficiently. All the reduce paper waste ganized competitive bidding for printmaterials mentioned are included in One of ­Tokmanni’s goals is to deing houses. One of the criteria was the revised Waste Act and became in crease paper based direct marketing environmental responsibility. the national recycling scheme in 2016. by increasing digital advertising. In 2017, T ­ okmanni aims to decrease The plan is to begin reporting packIn summer 2016, T ­ okmanni pubthe amount of printed material per aging materials in the 2017 corporate lished two Tarjoussanomat, a direct revenue by optimizing the delivery responsibility report. marketing leaflet, only in digital format of Tarjoussanomat further, and by Tokmanni collaborates for instance on its website. Earlier all leaflets have increasing communication in digital with Rinki Ltd and others in striving to been published on paper and delivchannels. increase the recovery rate for packered to consumers. ­Tokmanni aims to aging. ­Tokmanni engages in electrical increase the amount of digital versions Effective prevention and electronic equipment recycling in the future. of food waste via SELT Association and Stena Oy. Tokmanni seeks to optimize the disThe amount of food waste in the food For portable and storage batteries tribution areas of Tarjoussanomat and products chain as a whole, including ­Tokmanni has an agreement with in 2016, the distribution in the Pohjanhouseholds, is approximately 400 Recser Ltd and Akkukierrätys Pb Oy. maa area was decreased by 25 000 million kilos annually, which equates Recser has a nationwide collection pieces/week. Summer and Christmas to 10–15 per cent of all the food fit for network for portable and storage catalogs were not distributed directly consumption. batteries, and Akkukierrätys Pb is a in 2016, but they were published in For the retail sector, expired food producer organisation that specialisdigital format and only a small edition is always a loss. As a responsible es in recycling lead-based batteries. was printed to be delivered in stores. operator, ­Tokmanni aims to achieve a CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 67 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index 15 per cent reduction in expired food for these stores in conjunction with This work has begun in several stores waste by 2020. Food waste has been process advisers and others, and their already. The idea is that in the future, one of the key indicators in the sales food waste is monitored weekly by the ­Tokmanni will be able to give away all organisation since the start of 2015, regional organisation. unsold food products from stores to and the company has actively sought With the measures taken in 2016, local operators for their use. to reduce it. The tools for achieving ­Tokmanni has already succeeded in rethis are the new management system ducing expired food waste in the stores and more diligent food waste monitorby 3.9 per cent from the 2014 level, ing in every store. The most important and active monitoring and prevention way of reducing the loss from expired of food waste are included in the sales food waste is to ensure the basic oporganisation’s action plan for 2017. eration of the stores is as it should be. Although expired food waste has The right selection of food prodbeen reduced, stores will inevitably ucts, appropriate order and delivery always have a certain amount of quantities and dates, store-specific unsold food that is still fit for use. monitoring of demand, and reduced In October 2015, T ­ okmanni began prices for products near their expiry giving away food products whose date, are all effective ways of prevent'best before' date had expired, for ing food waste at the stores. Meascharitable purposes. This is always ures have been taken at all stores to done locally through agreement beprevent and reduce food waste. In tween the store and a local charity addition, 30 stores with the greatest organisation. The agreement states challenges in terms of expired food the purpose for which the food will be waste have been included in a special used and the handling arrangements, monitoring process as part of a wastso as to make sure the products are age prevention project. A store-spefor charitable purposes and safe for cific action plan has been drawn up the eventual consumers of the food. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 68 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Responsibility in figures Description of the Report Tokmanni’s Corporate Responsibility corporate responsibility information Report concentrates on matters that annually, either in a separate Corporate are completely within the control of Responsibility Report or as part of the ­Tokmanni apart from logistics and annual report. The previous Corporate sourcing. In the area of sourcing and Responsibility Report was published in product responsibility, the Shanghai May 2015. The information in this report office is included in the reporting, has not been assured externally. while from transport, the emissions The reporting complies with the figures are from transport services core option of the GRI G4 guidelines, suppliers and air travel emission data which means that at least one indifrom the travel agency. cator is reported for every material The Shanghai sourcing office is a aspect. The indicators have been joint venture in which ­Tokmanni and selected so as to form as comprehenthe Norwegian company Europris ASA sive a picture of ­Tokmanni’s corporate each have a fifty per cent holding. With responsibility matters as possible. the exception of responsible sourcing At the same time it was necessary and product safety, the joint venture’s to assess the readiness to report impact on corporate responsibility mateach indicator. ters is marginal, because its personnel Further information from amount to less than one per cent of corporateresponsibility@tokmanni.fi ­Tokmanni’s total workforce, and its environmental impact is generated only by the office and staff travel. The information in the report is for 2016, although some indicators also More information: present historical data where this is ir.tokmanni.fi/en available. T ­ okmanni plans to publish CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 69 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Information used in calculations The company’s calculation of the en• In the 2015 residual mix, non-republished by Motiva for Finland, • The information concerning the vironmental profile of the electricity it newable energy sources account for calculated as a five-year rolling division of district heating into consumes is based on the following: 42.89 per cent, renewable energy average, which is 209 g CO2/kWh3. renewable and non-renewable fuels is • The electricity is purchased from the sources account for 11.32 per cent from Finnish Energy’s district heating power market. The electricity purand nuclear power accounts for The calculation of the environmental statistics5. chased for the stores controlled by 45.79 per cent. The average specific profile for heating is based on the • The primary energy coefficient used ­Tokmanni and for the logistics centre emissions of carbon dioxide from following: in the calculation is 0.96. in Mäntsälä is covered by renewable power production are 277.78 g/kWh, • The market-based CO2 emissions • The fuel emissions coefficients pubenergy certificates. For these sites, and the amount of nuclear fuel used coefficient for district heating lished by Statistics Finland have been the market-based specific emissions is 1.26 mg/kWh. calculated for the ­Tokmanni sites is used as the emissions coefficients for coefficient is 0 g CO2/kWh. • The primary energy coefficients used 180 g/kWh. gas and oil.7 • The environmental profile of the in the calculations are: renewable • The location-based emissions residual mix calculation published by fuels 1, non-renewable fuels 1.75 and coefficient used is the average the Energy Authority for 20151 has nuclear power 3.032. CO2 coefficient of 183 g CO2/kWh4 been applied to of the consumption • The location-based emissions calculated using the benefit sharing of electricity not controlled by coefficient used for electricity is the method for Finnish district heating ­Tokmanni. average CO2 emissions coefficient CHP areas. 1) Energiavirasto. 2016. Jäännösjakauma vuodelta 2015 https://www.energiavirasto.fi/documents/10179/0/J%C3%A4%C3%A4nn%C3%B6sjakauma_2015_ julkaisu_23_6_2016_Allekirjoitettu+versio.pdf/ed235900-af00-47c6-8e4a-af943ca5b5a1 2) ja 6) Matias Keto. Energiamuotojen kerroin. Yleiset perusteet ja toteutuneen sähkönja lämmöntuotannon kertoimet, Raportti Ympäristöministeriölle http://www.ym.fi/download/noname/%7BA6ABCFF7-55FA-412C-A0C7-FEE5CC0A2F24%7D/30744 3) ja 4) Motiva. 2016. CO2-päästökertoimet http://www.motiva.fi/taustatietoa/energiankaytto_suomessa/co2-laskentaohje_energiankulutuksen_hiilidioksidipaastojen_laskentaan/co2-paastokertoimet 5) Energiateollisuus. Kaukolämpötilasto 2015. http://energia.fi/ajankohtaista_ja_materiaalipankki/materiaalipankki/kaukolampotilasto.html#material-view 7) Tilastokeskus, Polttoaineluokitus 2016. http://www.stat.fi/tup/khkinv/khkaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 70 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Emissions data for transport in Finland 34 per cent (35) of the transport contion by stores that are covered by gy company-specific and take renewhas been obtained from the service signments of purchases. Its reporting the consumption monitoring. In other able energy certificates into account. provider. The emissions calculacovers 99.99 per cent (99) of the imwords, specific consumption (kWh/m2 The location-based coefficients are tions have used averages for actual port consignments transported ungross floor area) has been calculated national averages and do not take transport movements and emissions der its own agreements and 100 per for the stores covered by consumption renewable energy certificates into values. The calculations use an avercent of the transport consignments monitoring. The specific consumption account. age consignment size (based on the from the warehouse to the stores. figure obtained is assumed to equate Calculation of the market-based ennumber and weight of consignments), An emissions report for air transto the average consumption level of vironmental effects of district heating distance travelled by consignments port has been obtained from the serthe stores, and has been used to caltakes the following factors into ac(invoiced kilometres, as opposed to vice provider. Energy consumption is culate the total consumption for those count: For sites where district heating actual kilometres that the cargo has not known. The year used for comstores not covered by the monitoring. consumption is recorded, the heating been in load space), and average parison is 2014. If the property’s heating method is production emissions coefficient (comconsumption and average emissions not known, it is assumed to be district bined or separate production) used is values per vehicle type as compiled Calculation basis and heating. This is because most sites that reported by Motiva for the locality by the transport operators. The year accuracy of data whose heating consumption is not concerned. Using this information, the used for comparison is 2015. The recorded consumption data obmeasured are located in shopping cenweighted average has been calculated Tokmanni has collected informatained in consumption monitoring is tres, the majority of which are included for the emissions coefficients, which tion about the emissions of transthe primary information used for asin local district heating networks. indicates the average CO2 coefficient port outside Finland from various certaining the consumption of power The 2015 update of the GHG Protofor the T ­ okmanni sites. operators. The basis for emissions and heating by ­Tokmanni’s logistics col advises that emissions from purFor sites where the consumption calculations and the energy concentre and its stores. However, such chased electricity and heating should and supplier of district heating are not sumption of the transport operation data is not available for all stores, and be reported in accordance with both known, the market-based emissions are not known. The year used for so the consumption by active stores market-based and location-based coefficient is 183 g CO2/kWh. This comparison is 2015. Through its own outside the monitoring system is escoefficients. With regard to the mardescribes the average CO2 coeffiagreements, ­Tokmanni manages timated on the basis of the consumpket-based coefficients, they are enercient calculated for Finnish district CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 71 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index heating CHP areas using the benefit Examining energy 79 per cent (81) of the total surface sharing method. consumption information area is covered by electricity conThe calculations are based on the At the end of 2016, T ­ okmanni had 162 sumption monitoring and 49 per cent latest information available. The inactive stores (156) and one logistics (43) by heating consumption moniformation from the Energy Authority, centre. Active stores are those which toring. Consumption by the properMotiva and Energy Finland is updated are in normal use. Active stores do not ties not included in the monitoring annually, and the information for 2016 include new stores that are not yet in has been estimated on the basis was not yet available when the calcuoperation, or stores that have been of the specific consumption of the lations were being made. The environdiscontinued by the month in quesmonitored properties. mental figures for previous years have tion. ­Tokmanni opened seven new not been recalculated. and relocated stores in total in 2016 The total greenhouse gas emisincreasing its and one store’s store sions for the company’s own heating space was reduced by 2,500 square production are estimated on the bameters with the target to optimize sis of the fuel emissions coefficients sales per square meter. published by Statistics Finland. At the end of 2016, in terms of the The emissions coefficient for gas is total surface area, 76 per cent of the 199.08 g CO2/kWh, and for oil 264.6 g active stores (67) were covered by CO2/kWh7. electricity consumption monitoring, The waste data is mainly from the and 41 per cent (29) were covered statistics compiled by Paperinkeräys by heating consumption monitoring Oy, but the data on electrical and (district heating, gas and oil). If the electronic waste was obtained from logistics centre is also taken into acfigures gathered by Stena Oy. count in the consumption monitoring, 7) Tilastokeskus, Polttoaineluokitus 2016. http://www.stat.fi/tup/khkinv/khkaasut_polttoaineluokitus.html CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 72 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Data G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization A. Total energy consumption, MWh C. Consumption of own energy production, MWh Change, %, Change, %, 2016 2015 2014 2015–2016 2016 2015 2014 2015–2016 Electricity, total 85,389 75,083 72,409 13.7 Non-renewable (oil) 360 96 461 275.0 District heat, total 31,557 30,236 29,506 4.4 Non-renewable (gas) 1,104 1,623 1,637 -32.0 Gas 1,104 1,623 1,637 -32.0 The increase in oil consumption is due to the change in the number of measuring points. Oil 360 96 461 275.0 Heating, total 33,022 31,956 31,605 3.3 At the end of 2016, in terms of the total surface area, 76 per cent of the active stores (67) were covered by electricity consumption monitoring, and 41 per cent (29) were covered by heating consumption monitoring (district heating, gas and oil). If the logistics centre is also taken into account in the consumption monitoring, 79 per cent (81) of the total surface area is covered by electricity consumption monitoring and 49 per cent (43) by heating consumption monitoring. Consumption by the properties not included in the monitoring has been estimated on the basis of the specific consumption of the monitored properties. B. Consumption of purchased energy, MWh 2016 2015 2014 Change, %, 2015–2016 Unit Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Total Electricity Heat Purchased energy MWh 85,389 31,557 116,946 75,083 30,236 105,319 72,409 29,506 101,915 13.7 4.4 11.0 Non-renewable MWh 8,288 22,677 30,965 20,476 21,804 42,280 29,524 21,204 50,728 -59.5 4.0 -26.8 Renewable MWh 68,253 8,880 77,133 27,500 8,432 35,932 11,944 8,302 20,246 148.2 5.3 114.7 Nuclear power MWh 8,848 0 8,848 27,107 0 27,107 30,941 0 30,941 -67.4 0 -67.4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 73 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index B. Consumption of purchased energy, primary energy, GJ 2016 2015 2014 Change, %, 2015–2016 Unit Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Purchased energy MWh 85,389 31,557 116,946 75,083 30,236 105,319 72,409 29,506 101,915 13.7 4.4 11.0 Primary energy GJ 394,439 102,245 496,684 523,682 97,964 621,646 566,504 95,599 662,103 -24.7 4.4 -20.1 Non-renewable GJ 52,214 73,473 125,688 128,999 70,644 199,643 186,001 68,701 254,702 -59.5 4.0 -37.0 Renewable GJ 245,711 28,771 274,482 99,000 27,320 126,320 42,998 26,898 69,897 148.2 5.3 117.3 Nuclear power GJ 96,514 0 96,514 295,683 0 295,683 337,504 0 337,504 -67.4 0 -67.4 C. Consumption of own energy production, primary energy, GJ In ­Tokmanni’s GRI report, energy consumption is given/measured in terms of usable Change, %, secondary and primary energy. Primary energy refers to energy contained within energy Unit 2016 2015 2014 2015–2016 sources in their unprocessed form, prior to the transformation process into usable secondary energy. Primary energy is used to describe the energy available from various sources, as well as the amount of natural resources used as such sources and the Primary energy GJ 4,743 5,570 6,798 -14.9 effect this has on the natural resource. Transforming energy from one form to another inevitably results in waste, and thus the amount of primary energy is always higher than Non-renewable (oil) GJ 1,166 311 1,494 274.9 the secondary. The use of renewable energy has resulted in ­Tokmanni's primary energy consumption decreasing, since its Primary Energy Ratio (PER) is lower compared to Non-renewable (gas) GJ 3,577 5,259 5,304 -32.0 non-renewable energy and nuclear power. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 74 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index G4-EN5 Energy intensity Energy intensity by energy type 2016 2015 2014 Intensity Consumption Consumption Total area Consumption Total area Consumption Total area change, %, change, %, Stores MWh m2 KWh/m2 MWh m2 KWh/m2 MWh m2 KWh/m2 2015–2016 2015–2016 Electricity 66,065 457,928 144 59,525 444,287 134 58,538 432,967 135 7.7 11.0 District 13,502 256,375 53 10,613 214,283 50 11,191 214,354 52 6.3 27.2 heating Gas 1,104 17,880 62 1,623 18,927 86 1,637 18,927 87 -28.0 -32.0 Oil 360 4,034 89 96 1,551 62 461 5,807 79 44.1 274.8 Includes only measured consumption and own energy consumption. Increased property area, longer opening hours, unloading during night and brand changes have increased energy consumption. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) Consumption of own energy production and CO2-emissions Change, %, Unit 2016 2015 2014 2015–2016 Non-renewable (oil) MWh 359.8 96 461 275.0 Non-renewable (gas) MWh 1,104.4 1,623 1,637 -32.0 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2-eq 315.1 346 445 -8.9 Direct greenhouse gas emissions include own heat production’s emissions (in T ­ okmanni heat is produced by gas and oil). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 75 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) Consumption of purchased energy and CO2-emissions 2016 2015 2014 Change, %, 2015–2016 ElectriUnit Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Electricity Heat Total Heat Total city Purchased energy MWh 85,389 31,557 116,946 75,083 30,236 105,319 72,409 29,506 101,915 13.7 4.4 11.0 (G4-EN3: Purchase) Non-renewable MWh 8,288 22,677 30,965 20,476 21,804 42,280 29,524 21,204 50,728 -59.5 4.0 -26.8 Renewable MWh 68,253 8,880 77,133 27,500 8,432 35,932 11,944 8,302 20,246 148.2 5.3 114.7 Nuclear power MWh 8,848 0 8,848 27,107 0 27,107 30,941 0 30,941 -67.4 0 -67.4 Environmental impacts Greenhouse gas emiston CO2sions (market based) 5,368 5,676 11,044 13,309 5,165 18,474 19,101 5,107 24,209 -59.7 9.9 -40.2 eq Greenhouse gas emiston CO217,846 5,775 23,621 17,553 5,553 23,105 20,719 5,488 26,207 1.7 4.0 2.2 sions (location based) eq Radioactive waste tonnes 0.1 0 0.1 0.1 0 0.1 0.1 0 0.1 -51.4 0 -51.4 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions include purchased electricity and heating. Increased property area, longer opening hours, unloading during night and brand changes have increased energy consumption. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 76 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) CO2-emissions of transportation and air travel, ton CO2-eq Change, %, 2016 2015 2014 2015–2016 Transportation 8,760 8,702 8,177 0.7 Air travel 195 116 172 68.1 Greenhouse gas emissions 8,955 8,818 8,349 1.6 G4-EN17 includes inbound and outbound logistics (to and from the logistic center) and air travel. The data is from service providers. In inbound logistics, 2015 data covers 99.99% (99% in 2015 and 93% in 2014) of service providers proportioned to freight value. The greenhouse gas emissions of the logistics have been stable altough the volumes have increased slightly. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity Greenhouse gas emission intensity in proportion to net sales and number on employees Change, %, Unit 2016 2015 2014 2015–2016 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2-eq 11,359 18,820 24,654 -39.6 (Scope 1 and 2) Net sales MEUR 776 755 734 2.8 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2-eq/MEUR 14.6 25 34 -41.3 intensity Employees empl 3,224 3,293 3,119 -2.1 Greenhouse gas emissions ton CO2-eq/empl 3.5 6 8 -38.5 intensity Greenhouse gas intensity has been calculated by proportioning Scope 1 and 2 emissions (market based) to T ­ okmanni’s netsales and number of employees. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 77 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type A. Waste by waste type, t Change, %, Waste type 2016 (%) 2015 (%) 2014 (%) 2015–2016 Hazardous waste 295 2.3 318 2.3 84 0.6 -7.3 Other waste 12,629 97.7 13,254 97.7 13,624 99.4 -4.7 Total 12,924 100 13,572 100 13,708 100 -4.8 The data has been obtained from the service providers, and it covers stores and logistics centre. B. Waste by disposal method, t Change, %, Method 2016 % 2015 (%) 2014 (%) 2015–2016 Reuse 4,236 32.8 5,766 43.0 6,072 44.0 -26.5 Recycling 3,850 29.8 4,015 30.0 3,467 25.0 -4.1 Recovery 4,818 37.3 2,958 22.0 3,146 23.0 62.9 Landfill waste 21 0.2 833 6.0 1,023 7.0 -97.5 Total 12,924 100 13,572 100 13,708 100 -4.8 Recovery consists of the energy from incineration, recycling includes recycable waste and reuse consists of reused pallets at the logistic centre. The data has been obtained form the service providers. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 78 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region A. New permanent employments in 2016 Under 30 years 30–50 years Over 50 years Total employees % employees % employees % employees % Women 93 74.4 77 84.6 13 68.4 183 77.9 Men 32 25.6 14 15.4 6 31.6 52 22.1 Total 125 53.2 91 38.7 19 8.1 235 100 Percentage has been calculated from new permanent employments. B. Terminated permanent employments in 2016 Under 30 years 30–50 years Over 50 years Total employees % employees % employees % employees % Women 60 74.1 57 67.1 24 72.7 141 70.9 Men 21 25.9 28 32.9 9 27.3 58 29.1 Total 81 40.7 85 42.7 33 16.6 199 100 Turnover rate has been calculated at the end of year from permanent employments. The figures do not include retired employees. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 79 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Age and gender distribution by employee category at the end of year Under 30 years 30–50 years Over 50 years Total employees % employees % employees % employees % Management, female 0 0 0 0 1 0.2 1 0 Management, male 0 0 4 0.3 3 0.5 7 0.2 Senior salaried personnel, 0 0 10 0.7 9 1.5 19 0.6 female Senior salaried personnel, 1 0.1 12 0.8 10 1.6 23 0.7 male Office personnel, female 15 1.4 189 12.3 78 12.7 282 8.7 Office personnel, male 15 1.4 56 3.6 13 2.1 84 2.6 Employees, female 769 71.6 1,099 71.6 448 72.8 2316 71.8 Employees, male 274 25.5 165 10.7 53 8.6 492 15.3 Total 1,074 1,535 615 3,224 100 The calculations include all employments at the end of year. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 80 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index GRI Index General standard disclosures Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO statement 4 Commitment to GC ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Name of the reporting organization 2 G4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 3 G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 3 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 3 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 2 beneficiaries) G4-9 Scale of the reporting organizatoin 3 G4-10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender, permanent employees by employment 37 Principle 6 8 type and gender, total workforce by employees, supervised workers and by gender, total workforce by region and gender, portion of work by self-employees or contractors, significant variations in employment numbers (seasonal variations) G4-11 Percentage of total employees coverd by collective bargaining agreements 38 Principle 3 8 G4-12 Organization's supply chain 3, 49 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership or supply chain 3 G4-14 Addressing of precautionary approach or principle by the organization 24 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to 14, 16 which the organization subcribes or endorses G4-16 Memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 81 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG INDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included int he organization's consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents and 69 if any of these are not covered in the report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and Aspect boundaries 18 G4-19 Material aspects identified in the process for defining report content 19 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization each material aspect 69 G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization for each material aspect 69 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports and the reasons for such restatements 69, no changes G4-23 Significant changes from the previous reporting period in the scope and Aspect Boundaries 69, no changes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 17 G4-25 The basis for indentification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 G4-26 The organization's approach to stakeholder engagement 16 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and organization's reponse to 17 them REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 69 G4-29 Date of the most recent previous report 69 G4-30 Reporting cycle 69 G4-31 Contact point 69 G4-32 GRI Content Index 81 G4-33 Assurance 69, The report has not been assured externally CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 82 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure 24, Corporate Governance ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Organization's values, principles, standards and norms 15 Principle 1, 4, 5, 10 16 G4-57 Internal and external mechanism for seeking advice 29, Ethical guidelines Principle 1, 4, 5, 10 16 G4-58 Internal and external mechanism for reporting concerns 29, Ethical guidelines Principle 1, 4, 5, 10 16 CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA Generic Disclosure of Management Approach (DMA) 24 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 31 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: MATERIALS G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 66, there are no exact Principle 7, 8 8, 12 figures from 2016 MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 60, 73 Principle 7, 8, 9 7, 8, 12, 13 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 75 Principle 8 7, 8, 12, 13 MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 62, 75 Principle 7, 8, 9 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 83 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 62, 76 Principle 7, 8, 9 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) 62, 77 Principle 7, 8, 9 3, 12, 13, 14, 15 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 77 Principle 8 13, 14, 15 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 65, 78 Principle 8 3, 6, 12 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRANSPORT G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the 63, 77 Principles 8 11, 12, 13 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and 38, 80 Principle 6 5, 8 region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, 39 8 by significant locations of operations MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in 38 Principle 3 8 collective agreements CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 84 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety 45 8 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total 46 3, 8 number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender 44 Principle 6 5, 8 and by employee category MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to 40, 80 Principle 6 5, 8 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity MATERIAL ASPECT: EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant 41 Principle 6 5, 8, 10 locations of operation MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practice criteria 49, ­BSCI, SA8000 and 5, 8, 16 Tokmanni's audits CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 85 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions 51 5, 8, 16 taken SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATRIAL ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 30, 41 Principle 6 5, 8, 16 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 49, ­BSCI, SA8000 and Principle 2 Tokmanni's audits SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-SO4 Communications and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 29 Principle 10 16 G4-SO5 Confirmend incindents of corruption and actions taken 28 Principle 10 16 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 49, ­BSCI, SA8000 and ­Tokmanni's audits SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are 55 assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the 55 16 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 86 Responsibility Business Fair Responsible Efficient use Responsibility GRIIntroduction at Tokmanni integrity treatment sourcing and products of resources in figures index Location, comments Indicator and omissions UN Global Compact SDG MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and 56 12 service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 34 16 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes MATERIAL ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of 33 16 customer data MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA DMA 24 G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the 56 16 provision and use of products and services CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2016 87
