ELECTROANNUAL MAGNETICS MATTERS REPORT 2016 2 WHY ELECTROMAGNETICS MATTERS Annual Report 2016 Electromagnetic control valves help to reduce emissions Our coils and valves ensure the perfect flavour/water ratio Sound actuators create a specific engine sound for hybrid and improve energy consumption. to make your beverage taste great – every time. and electric cars to ensure a safer environment. Electromechanical latches provide passenger safety for cabin Kendrion high torque brakes are used in wind turbines to adjust Smart electromagnetic systems and components for commercial oxygen systems. and hold the rotor blades in the right position. This ensures vehicles to increase mileage and reduce Total Cost of Ownership a continuous energy yield throughout the day. (TCO). WHY ELECTROMAGNETICS MATTER Annual Report 2016 3 Customised solenoids for construction and agricultural vehicles Pneumatic seat valves for massage ensure comfortable driving Longer service life, higher safety and no maintenance due for precise and reliable control of hydraulic circuits. for drivers and passengers on long journeys. to permanent magnet brakes in robot applications. Our electromagnetic actuators trigger switching processes fast Solutions for reliable and safe clamping units with low energy Electromagnetic control systems for knitting machines must have to increase the safety of the power grid. consumption. maximum precision to achieve the highest quality. 4 CONTENTS Annual Report 2016 5 Profile 19 Members of the Supervisory Board 62 Risks and risk management 71 Corporate governance 5 Organisation 21 Report of the Supervisory Board 75 Remuneration policy 78 Outlook 6 Preface Executive Board 26 Case Industrial SLM at the heart of 3D metal printing 79 Financial statements 8 Facts and figures 27 Members of the Executive Board 151 Other information 10 Strategy and financial objectives 151 Provisions in the Articles of Association 28 Report of the Executive Board governing the appropriation of profit 12 World map 28 Integrated reporting framework and added value 152 Independent auditor’s report financial statements model 159 Independent auditor’s report CSR information 13 Highlights 2016 29 Industrial activities 31 Automotive activities 162 Five year summary 15 Information on Kendrion N.V. shares 34 Innovation 35 Financial review 163 Principal subsidiaries 18 Case Industrial Teaming up globally to benefit Schindler 42 Case Industrial 165 Glossary Revolutionary domestic heating 166 About the CSR Review 43 Corporate Social Responsibility review 168 GRI index 52 Case Automotive Strategic piston-cooling valve for the automotive market 61 Case Automotive Damper systems Kendrion’s corner stone for sustainable growth PROFILE Annual Report 2016 5 Kendrion develops, manufactures and markets high-quality electromagnetic systems and We are committed to the engineering challenges of tomorrow, and taking responsibility components for industrial and automotive applications. For over a century, we have been for how we source, manufacture and conduct business is embedded into our culture of engineering precision parts for the world's leading innovators in passenger cars, commercial innovation. Rooted in Germany, headquartered in the Netherlands and listed on the vehicles and industrial applications. As a leading technology pioneer, Kendrion invents, Amsterdam stock exchange, Kendrion's expertise extends across Europe to the Americas designs and manufactures complex components and customised systems as well as local and Asia. Created with passion and engineered with precision. solutions on demand. Kendrion – we magnetise the world. ORGANISATION KENDRION N.V. INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL INDUSTRIAL PASSENGER COMMERCIAL MAGNETIC CONTROL DRIVE CARS VEHICLES SYSTEMS SYSTEMS SYSTEMS Electromagnetic Industrial automation, Full-line provider Electromagnetic and electronic Individual systems for commercial components and modular, safety, of electro­magnetic components and systems for vehicles and off-highway solutions for locking and fluid brakes and clutches specific customer applications applications as well as advanced control systems for industrial in the automotive industry the hydraulic industry technologies applications 6 PREFACE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 CEO Joep van Beurden Strategy in progress Simplify first, then focus and grow Famous Dutch football player Johan Cruyff once said, STRONG FINANCIAL POSITION ‘Playing football is simple, but there is nothing more The biggest organisational changes have been elimination difficult than playing simple football’. Kendrion CEO of the division management layer and a reduction in the Joep van Beurden and CFO Frank Sonnemans agree number of business units from seven to five. Restructuring and are therefore pleased to witness that Kendrion’s the organisation in this way has considerably reduced ‘Simplify, Focus and Grow’ strategy, which they complexity and ensures that top-level management is introduced in May 2016, is beginning to take effect. much closer to the business and the other way around. Frank Sonnemans: ‘We are working through the long list Over and over again and in all kinds of organisations, of additional measures we have drawn up at a faster pace implementing change appears to be a long and than expected. This has inevitably led to higher one-off troublesome journey. Bringing about change in a market costs but also to substantially greater savings this year. environment which attaches great importance to reliability All in all, we can close 2016 with a good step forward in and quality makes such implementation even more critical. profitability. We are heading towards our strategic target ‘All the more reason to be satisfied with the results so far,’ of a 10% EBITA margin with solid cash flow generation in say Joep van Beurden and Frank Sonnemans. ‘We are spite of significant investments in new projects, well above impressed with the flexibility, manoeuvrability and speed depreciation levels. This further enhanced our strong with which the company has embraced, adopted and financial position in support of our expectation of an implemented the reforms and changes. Everybody involved average organic growth of 5% per year.’ deserves a huge compliment.’ PREFACE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 7 CFO Frank Sonnemans FAVOURABLE MARKET CONDITIONS For Kendrion, developments such as robotisation (holding Joep van Beurden: ‘In our business, results like these magnets, brakes and sensors) and urbanisation (safety contribute to our reputation and credibility and therefore and lifts, for instance) are promising. In both Automotive to our market position, which in turn supports our and Industrial we have a market share of approximately development and future growth. From this perspective, we 15% of our focus markets. That makes us one of the see favourable market circumstances and promising trends leading companies in the segments we are active in.’ and developments. Two of our five business units focus on Joep van Beurden concludes, ‘By further focusing on the Automotive segment and three on serving customers the markets with the biggest growth potential and by in the Industrial markets. Take Passenger Cars. differentiating our approach to the opportunities that occur, We see three important trends here: alternative engines, we make sure every single Kendrion location worldwide safety & comfort and optimisation of the existing internal contributes to the overall result, each in its own optimised combustion technology. We are involved in all three and way. This is the crucial step towards realising our two main are optimistic about the role we can play here. Commercial mid-term strategic, transparent targets: expected 5% Vehicles is a different market with its own dynamics and organic revenue growth per year and a 10% EBITA margin here too we see further opportunity for differentiation as of the end of 2018. and growth.’ Equally, Kendrion’s commitment to sustainability and POTENTIAL FOR GROWTH corporate social responsibility is important to us. Our first ‘Our industrial markets are more diverse,’ adds Frank integrated annual report is testimony to the efforts we are Sonnemans. ‘Many are local and fragmented. There is making to fully integrate our corporate social responsibility definitely potential for growth but scale and pace depend into all aspects of our business.’ on where you are geographically and in what segments. 8 FACTS AND FIGURES Annual Report 2016 443.4 0.0 0.3% 31.1 21% 19.6 17% 22.3 5% Revenue EBITA1 Net profit1 Free cash flow1 (EUR million) (EUR million) (EUR million) (EUR million) 2015 442.1 2015 25.8 2015 16.8 2015 21.2 9.3% 0.5% 12.4% 2.2% 51.3% 1.5% 1.1 31% Working capital1 ROI1,2 Solvency Net debt / (as % of revenue) (in %) EBITDA1 2015 9.8% 2015 10.2% 2015 49.8% 2015 1.5 1 Excluding one-off costs relating to simplifying measures. The bridge from reported to normalised figures can be found on page 35. 2 Total invested capital is property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, other investments and current assets less cash and non-interest bearing debts. FACTS AND FIGURES Annual Report 2016 9 2,578 -3.0% 50% / 50% 2.6% 37 418 Total number Total number of employees Illness rate Accidents Lost Time of employees by gender (in %) Injuries (FTE) (in % M vs F) (in days) (at 31 December) 2015 2,658 2015 51% / 49% 2015 2.5% 2015 41 2015 863 190.1 5.7% 36.0 42.3% 669 37 Relative energy Relative Number of accepted Supplier Number consumption CO2 emission Codes of Conduct of CSR (in tonnes kWh/ (in tonnes kWh/million supplier million added value) added value) audits 2015 201.6 2015 62.4 2015 368 2015 36 See for reporting periods, definitions, scope and external assurance pages 166 and 167 of this report. 10 STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES Annual Report 2016 SIMPLIFY THREE YEAR PLAN – SPECIFIC FOCUS Kendrion develops, manufactures, markets and 2016 2017 2018 sells high-quality electromagnetic systems ■ Cost reduction and components for industrial and automotive applications. The company utilises its know-how, ■ Organisational structure Kendrion has decided it needs to Industrial Magnetic Systems track record in innovation capacity, global footprint Industrial Control Systems simplify the way it does business. and strong commercial relationships to offer Complexity drives cost and slows Industrial Drive Systems solutions to a wide range of customers. down decision-making and Kendrion Passenger Cars The company expects to achieve organic growth in is reducing costs in order to improve Commercial Vehicles operating margin and profitability. revenue averaging 5% per annum in the three year period ending 2018 and aspires to accelerate this growth in the years thereafter. Kendrion has FOCUS THREE YEAR PLAN – SPECIFIC FOCUS committed to deliver an EBITA margin of 10% 2016 2017 2018 as from the end of 2018. ■ China Kendrion aims to deliver these targets by simplifying the ■ Passenger Cars Kendrion will focus its resources and way it does business and by focussing investments in capital on those areas which have ■ Capital allocation innovation in areas in which Kendrion sees the greatest the most opportunities for profitable opportunity for growth. Kendrion is committed to being growth. a transparent company that is aware of the importance of sustainability and its social responsibility. GROW THREE YEAR PLAN – SPECIFIC FOCUS 2016 2017 2018 ■ Automotive market SIMPLIFY, FOCUS, GROW Fuel systems, engine management, sound systems, fuel cell valves, chassis Kendrion announced its updated strategy on 3 May 2016. The clarity Kendrion will gain through suspension, seat comfort, haptic pedals It is founded on three pillars: Simplify, Focus, Grow. the first two pillars of the plan is intended to allow growth in revenue ■ Industrial market in a way which will ultimately provide Drive systems, conveyor systems, the opportunity to grow faster than energy generation and distribution, the historical average of 5%. Due to elevator systems, door access and the project lead time in Kendrion’s control for machinery, oxygen systems business, Kendrion expects organic growth to accelerate in the years beyond 2018. STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES Annual Report 2016 11 Targeted add-on acquisitions Strategic financial targets Kendrion has a strong financial position and has delivered excellent rates of cash conversion which have contributed Expected average organic growth EBITA margin Dividend policy to a healthy balance sheet. Kendrion endeavours to acquire per annum until 2018 as from the end of 2018 pay out ratio of the net profit companies that enhance the company’s leading position Average last 3 years Actual Actual in its automotive and industrial markets. Acquisition targets 3.7% 7.0% 53% need to offer good returns in terms of their EBIT and ROI, preferably at levels similar to or above Kendrion’s returns and that leads to an improvement in earnings per share. Target Target Target 5% 10% 35 to 50% Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability Pursuant to Kendrion’s mission, CSR and sustainability Kendrion stated its medium-term financial objectives on are intrinsic and integral elements of the company’s culture 3 May 2016. The three-year targets are to deliver an EBITA and operations. Sustainability is at the core of many of the margin of 10% as from the end of 2018, to grow organically company’s products. Kendrion intends to contribute actively until 2018 broadly in line with Kendrion’s average historical to a sustainable and ‘green’ environment for the communities organic growth of an average of 5% per annum and to in which the company is active. Kendrion strives to integrate maintain the dividend policy of paying out 35 to 50% of its CSR efforts into all elements of its value chain and this is the net profit. reflected clearly in this integrated annual report. Kendrion’s product portfolios include many products that meet customer requirements for energy savings, lower emissions and safety. They can in the longer term make an essential contribution to creating value for all Kendrion’s stakeholders and attracting motivated employees. 12 WORLD MAP Annual Report 2016 Revenue (in EUR million) segmented by customer location Headcount segmented by region EUROPE 1,119 1,143 2,262 327.5 THE AMERICAS 73% ASIA 74.0 39.4 77 72 136 121 17% 9% 149 257  Kendrion business location FINANCIAL RESULTS EUR million Revenue EBITA* Net profit* EBITA %* ROI* Total FTE 443.4 31.1 19.6 7.0% 12.4% 2,578 • Before one-off costs for simplifying measures. HIGHLIGHTS 2016 Annual Report 2016 13 KENDRION ENTERS NEW DAMPING BUSINESS OM654 RAMP-UP CHINESE SKIES SIMPLIFIED ORGANISATION Kendrion Passenger Cars started the PASSENGER CARS NEW PRODUCTION HALL In 2016 Kendrion Industrial Kendrion has removed the ramp-up of a major order for new Automation of the assembly line IN ENGELSWIES Control Systems started divisional management layer and damping business in 2016. Kendrion for the OM654 oil-cooling valve in Kendrion Industrial Magnetic series deliveries of latches has reduced the number of Eibiswald produced and delivered the Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany Systems opened its newlyused for the first passenger business units from seven to five. first valves and will more than double supports the ramp-up to a capacity built production facility and jet built in China. In 2016 two new Business Unit production in 2017. In the context of of 800,000 pieces per year. administration building in Managers were appointed: this order Kendrion Eibiswald passed Engelswies, Germany. Ralf Wieland (IDS) and Manfred an important external audit and Schlett (CV). received the Achievement Award, covering areas such as labour conditions, health and safety, management system and environmental impact. JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE NEW ORGANISATION ESTABLISHMENT OF NEW SHOP FLOOR MANAGEMENT TEAM STRATEGY UPDATE: The renovation of the shop KENDRION The Executive Board SIMPLIFY, FOCUS, GROW TOP 100 floor of Passenger Cars ON RADIO AND TV introduced the new At the Press and Analysts’ INNOVATOR AWARD in Villingen-Schwenningen, German radio station and Management Team, sharing meeting CEO Joep van In June 2016 Kendrion Germany enables the television channel NDR responsibility for the Beurden and CFO Frank received a TOP 100 Award optimisation of the production published news on a new law company’s overall Sonnemans introduced from German-based facilities and logistics, and requiring electric and hybrid performance. Kendrion’s strategic update: Compamedia for special a further increase of the cars to generate exterior Simplify, Focus, Grow. innovation power and aboveefficiency and capacity. sound and on Kendrion average innovation results. Kuhnke’s sound systems for this purpose. HIGHLIGHTS 2016 14 Annual Report 2016 NEW PRESIDENT FOR ISO 50001 IN LONG-TERM BUSINESS KENDRION ASIA ENERGY MANAGEMENT AWARD MOOG INDIA KENDRION’S EXECUTIVE Kendrion appointed Telly Kuo The energy-conscious At its annual supplier meeting PROGRAMME as the President of Kendrion Asia. commitment of Kendrion Indian servomotor The sixth and final module of the The Executive Board sees the Kuhnke in Malente, Germany manufacturer Moog presented Kendrion Executive Programme building of a local team, led by is underpinned by an energy Kendrion Industrial Drive took place at the Rotterdam School Telly Kuo, as the key to the management system, certified Systems with a special award, START OF WATER VALVE of Management in the Netherlands development of Kendrion’s Chinese to the ISO 50001 standard. celebrating the long-term LINE IN SIBIU, ROMANIA and 13 employees graduated. IR AWARD FOR BEST operation to its full potential. business relationship and Start of the production (SOP) The third module of the High COMPANY close cooperation with of the new water valve line at Potential Programme also took In January 2017 Kendrion Kendrion. the Kendrion location in Sibiu, place in 2016. won the NEVIR (the Romania which is a multiNetherlands Association for location project between Investor Relations) IR Award Germany (Malente) and for Best Company AscX/Local Romania (Sibiu). in 2016. AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER JANUARY 2017 ESG (ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE) RATING A Kendrion received an A rating for ENTERING MEDICAL MORE THAN 100 MILLION ESG (Environmental, Social and TECHNOLOGY MARKET SOLENOIDS! Governance) by MSCI. The rating IN THE USA Since 1995 Kendrion Passenger is driven by Kendrion’s improved Based on its fluid and solenoid Cars produced and sold over efforts to implement comprehensive applications for the medical 70 million of the NAG1+EUV programmes and policies in these market, Kendrion Industrial solenoids; all other types and areas. Control Systems entered into versions of solenoids included, a successful relationship Kendrion produced over in the USA with 12th Man 100 million pieces in VillingenTechnologies for pressure Schwenningen, Germany. regulators and small pneumatic valves for oxygen use in an electronic blender application. INFORMATION ON KENDRION N.V. SHARES Annual Report 2016 15 Share capital Shares entitled Shares owned Total number of The authorised share capital amounts to EUR 80,000,000 Movements in the number of outstanding shares to dividend by Kendrion issued shares and is comprised of 40,000,000 ordinary shares with At 1 January 2016 13,188,154 – 13,188,154 a nominal value of EUR 2.00. On 31 December 2016, Issued shares (share dividend) 199,706 – 199,706 13,396,034 shares had been issued. On the balance sheet Issued registered shares (share plan) 8,174 – 8,174 date the company owned no shares in its own capital. Delivered shares 1,044 (1,044) – Kendrion’s shares are listed on Euronext’s Amsterdam Repurchased shares (1,044) 1,044 – market. At 31 December 2016 13,396,034 – 13,396,034 Movements in the share price Other information from 4 January 2016 to 30 December 2016 EUR, unless otherwise stated 2016 2015 2014 Kendrion N.V. share AEX Number of shares x 1,000 at 31 December 13,396 13,188 13,031 ASCX AMX Market capitalisation at 31 December (EUR million) 358.3 319.7 281.7 Enterprise value (EV) (EUR million) 412.3 388.8 364.7 30 Index Highest share price in the financial year 27.87 30.39 26.22 4 January 2016 30 December 2016 Lowest share price in the financial year 19.00 19.18 19.00 Share price on 31 December 26.75 24.24 21.62 20 Average daily ordinary share volume 13,352 37,123 21,704 EBITDA multiple (over EV)1 8.02 8.59 7.40 Result per share 1.13 1.28 1.56 Normalised result per share1 1.47 1.28 1.56 10 Share price earnings ratio1 18.18 19.01 13.86 Major shareholders Interest in % Date of AFM report 0 Delta Lloyd Deelnemingen Fonds N.V. 9.89% 11 May 2016 Kempen Capital Management N.V. 5.98% 23 November 2015 Janivo Beleggingen B.V. 5.88% 4 October 2011 -10 Darlin N.V. 5.09% 1 November 2006 T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc. 5.04% 29 June 2015 Total 31.88% -20 1 Excluding one-off costs relating to simplifying measures. The bridge from reported to normalised figures can be found on page 35. INFORMATION ON KENDRION N.V. SHARES 16 Annual Report 2016 (Former) major shareholders The Executive Board, with the approval of the Supervisory Participation Kendrion is aware, on the basis of the information in the Board, will submit a proposal to the shareholders for the The share plan for the top management provided for the registers of the Netherlands Authority for the Financial payment of a dividend of 53% of the net profit of 2016. issue of shares in Kendrion as payment in kind. After the Markets (AFM), that the shareholders as shown in the table The dividend is equivalent to an amount of EUR 10.4 million. General Meeting of Shareholders each year the number of on page 15, possessed an interest of more than 3% on The number of outstanding shares entitled to dividend shares to be awarded to the top management of Kendrion in 31 December 2016. at 31 December 2016 was 13,396,034 and, consequently, that year was determined by the Supervisory Board on the the dividend amounts to EUR 0.78 per ordinary share. basis of the Executive Board’s recommendations. The plan Other movements in the size of the interests of Kendrion’s did not extend to the Executive Board. In addition, the major shareholders may have taken place during the course A proposal will be submitted to the shareholders during the Business Unit Managers and a number of other officers were of 2016 or in previous years. These changes fall within General Meeting of Shareholders on 10 April 2017 for the offered an opportunity to apply for the conversion of a the disclosure thresholds as stipulated in the Financial payment of the dividend, at the shareholder’s discretion, maximum of half of their annual net cash bonus into shares. Supervision Act and, consequently, do not need to in cash and/or in ordinary shares, charged to the share Kendrion doubled the number of shares after three years be disclosed by the major shareholders. premium reserve. The share dividend will be set on 3 May when officers are still employed by Kendrion and still 2017 (before start of trading), on the basis of the volumepossess the shares. Pursuant to these share plans a total Dividend weighted average price of all ordinary shares in Kendrion of 8,174 shares were issued in 2016. For central Kendrion’s dividend policy takes account of both the traded on 25, 26, 27 and 28 April and 2 May 2017, at a level administration and handling purposes it has been decided interests of the shareholders and the expected further whereby the value of the dividend in shares is virtually equal to issue new – registered – shares. Kendrion is considering development of the company. to the cash dividend. The dividend will be made available the introduction of a revised share plan for the senior on 5 May 2017. management (excluding the Executive Board) as of 2017. Kendrion endeavours to realise an attractive return for shareholders, supported by a suitable dividend policy. Share buyback programme A bonus scheme in shares was granted to the members of However, to provide the necessary assurances for its With the approval of the Supervisory Board, the Executive the Executive Board for 2016. More information about the continuity the company needs to retain a healthy financial Board intends to launch a programme for buying back shares granted to the members of the Executive Board is position. When the dividend to be distributed to shareholders shares that are necessary for distributing stock dividends enclosed on pages 138-140 and 149. A comprehensive is determined, consideration also needs to be given to the and for the share plan for management. This programme description of the bonus scheme is included in the amount of profit to be retained to support the medium and will commence after the distribution of dividend in 2017. remuneration policy section on pages 75-77. long-term strategic plans of the company and to maintain a The details will be published later in the prescribed press minimum solvency ratio of 35%. Kendrion strives to distribute releases and updates via the website. an annual dividend of between 35% and 50% of the net profit. In principle, Kendrion offers shareholders an opportunity to opt for dividend in cash and/or in the form of ordinary shares in Kendrion N.V.’s capital. INFORMATION ON KENDRION N.V. SHARES Annual Report 2016 17 Regulations to prevent insider trading Analysts Kendrion has implemented internal regulations to prevent The following stock exchange analysts actively monitor the Kendrion share: insider trading and to comply with the new rules of the ABN AMRO Bank N.V. Maarten Bakker Market Abuse Directive and related regulation. These internal ING Bank N.V. Tijs Hollestelle regulations govern the Supervisory Board, Executive Board, Kepler Cheuvreux Guido Nunes the Leadership Team and a number of other employees and NIBC Markets N.V. Johan van den Hooven officers. Kendrion’s Compliance Officer is entrusted with the The Idea-Driven Equities Analyses company Maarten Verbeek supervision of compliance with the regulations. Theodoor Gilissen Bankiers N.V. Joost van Beek Investor relations Financial calendar Kendrion attaches great importance to appropriate Wednesday, 22 February 2017 Publication of the 2016 full-year figures communications with financial stakeholders and other Monday, 13 March 2017 Record date General Meeting of Shareholders interested parties such as investors, capital providers Monday, 10 April 2017 General Meeting of Shareholders and analysts to provide them with a good insight into the Wednesday, 12 April 2017 Ex-dividend date developments at Kendrion. Price-sensitive information is Thursday, 13 April 2017 Dividend record date disclosed in public announcements. Transparency should Friday, 14 April – Tuesday, 2 May 2017, 3 pm Dividend election period (stock and/or cash) lead to healthy pricing, and must support sufficient liquidity. Wednesday, 3 May 2017 Determination stock dividend exchange ratio Wednesday, 3 May 2017 Publication of the results for the first quarter of 2017 Liquidity providing Friday, 5 May 2017 Cash dividend made payable and delivery stock dividend In 2016, SNS Securities N.V. acted as a liquidity provider Wednesday, 16 August 2017 Publication of the results for the first six months of 2017 for Kendrion N.V. As such, SNS Securities acts as the Wednesday, 8 November 2017 Publication of the results for the third quarter of 2017 counterparty for buy or sell orders of which the bid and ask Wednesday, 21 February 2018 Publication of the 2017 full-year figures prices are set within a range around the last executed price. Monday, 9 April 2018 General Meeting of Shareholders Relatively small (retail) buy and sell orders can then be conducted via the liquidity provider, which results in a fairer and more orderly market. WHY ELECTROMAGNETICS MATTERS 18 CASE INDUSTRIAL Annual Report 2016 Teaming up globally to benefit Schindler A growing number of OEMs recognise the importance of the international presence of their main suppliers. With fully equipped, state-of-the-art R&D and production facilities close to the major global markets, Kendrion serves customers where they are needed the most. Take for example the recent developments within Kendrion’s business unit Industrial Magnetic Systems (IMS), whose R&D and production specialists worked closely together in developing two successful brake solenoid projects for Schindler, a global player in elevators and escalators. Physical distance and geographical determinacy are no longer limiting factors. Design, technicalities and electronic schematics were worked out in Germany, while selection and quality assessment of suppliers, industrialisation and realisation were the responsibility of Kendrion. Close collaboration between the two teams ensured a smooth, efficient and cost-effective transition from the development to the production phase. ‘Teaming up globally, deploying our strengths worldwide and applying best practices for Schindler exemplify our strategic approach and form a sound basis for more successful projects,’ say IMS R&D Manager Gerald Puchner and Project Leader Sabine Krause. SIMPLIFY Modern means of communication, which Kendrion uses extensively in its international project management, facilitate and enable smooth cooperation between R&D and production teams. FOCUS Emphasis on the interests of Schindler and anticipating and adapting to this customer’s needs and demands contribute to long-term mutually beneficial relationships. GROW Steady and sustainable growth is enhanced both by knowledge, facilities, competences and abilities and especially by successful global cooperation projects with customers such as Schindler. MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Annual Report 2016 19 H. ten Hove J.T.M. van der Meijs T.J. Wünsche R.L. de Bakker M.J.G. Mestrom H. ten Hove (64) owns the shares of BDR Thermea. He is the former CEO Mr De Bakker is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Mr Ten Hove was appointed Chairman of the Supervisory of Wavin N.V. WCC B.V. and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Board as of December 2013. The Extraordinary General Mr Ten Hove is a Dutch national. He does not possess any Bergman Clinics B.V. He is also a member of the Board of a Meeting of Shareholders appointed Mr Ten Hove as shares in Kendrion. number of investment companies based in the Netherlands, a member of the Supervisory Board for a four-year term a member of the Board of the Tom-Tom Continuity from 19 August 2013 until 2017. Mr Ten Hove is a member R.L. de Bakker (66) Foundation, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the of the Remuneration Committee of Kendrion N.V. He was Mr De Bakker was appointed a member of the Supervisory Florence Zorg Foundation and Vice-Chairman of the Board an acting member of the Audit Committee during 2016. Board during the Extraordinary General Meeting of of the Save the Children Nederland Foundation. He was The Supervisory Board recommends that the General Shareholders held in June 2005. He was reappointed in 2015 formerly CFO and member of the Executive Board of Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 April 2017 for a period of two years until 2017. He is Vice-Chairman of ASM International N.V. reappoint Mr Ten Hove for a further four-year term. the Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee Mr De Bakker is a Dutch national. He does not Mr Ten Hove is a member of the Supervisory Board of of Kendrion. Mr De Bakker will step down as a member of possess any shares in Kendrion. SPG Prints B.V. and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Supervisory Board during the General Meeting of Unica Groep B.V. He is Chairman of the Economic Board of Shareholders to be held on 10 April 2017. the Zwolle region and Chairman of the foundation which MEMBERS OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 20 Annual Report 2016 M.J.G. Mestrom (55) Mrs Van der Meijs is a Dutch national. She does not possess Mrs Mestrom was appointed a member of the Supervisory any shares in Kendrion. Board for a term of four years during the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 16 April 2016. She is Chair of T.J. Wünsche (53) the Remuneration Committee of Kendrion N.V. Mr Wünsche was appointed a member of the Supervisory Mrs Mestrom has broad experience in global senior HR roles Board for a term of four years during the Extraordinary and is currently Head of global Human Resources at General Meeting of Shareholders held on 31 October 2016. Brenntag AG, a German listed company. She previously He is also a member of the Audit Committee of Kendrion N.V. headed global Human Resources for the Siegwerk Mr Wünsche has more than twenty years’ automotive Druckfarben Group also located in Germany. Before joining experience, including more than ten years’ experience in Siegwerk, she held several global Human Resources North America. He is Global CEO of the Chassis Brakes positions within Royal Philips and was also based in Asia International Group in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. for almost five years. He previously served as CEO of Benteler Automotive Mrs Mestrom is a Dutch national. She does not possess from 2012 to 2014 and as CEO of Eberspächer Exhaust any shares in Kendrion. Technology from 2006 to 2012. Mr Wünsche is also a member of the Supervisory Board of the Altenloh, J.T.M. van der Meijs (51) Brinck & Co. Group, based in Germany. Mrs Van der Meijs was appointed a member of the Mr Wünsche is a German national. He does not possess Supervisory Board for a term of three years during the any shares in Kendrion. Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 31 October 2016. She is a member of the Audit Committee In accordance with the schedule of rotation, Mrs Sanders of Kendrion N.V. When Mr De Bakker steps down as retired as a member of the Supervisory Board during the a member of the Supervisory Board during the General General Meeting of Shareholders held on 11 April 2016. Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 April 2017, Mr Kayser decided to step down as a member of the Mrs Van der Meijs will become the Chair of the Audit Supervisory Board with effect from 7 January 2016. Committee. Mrs Van der Meijs has broad experience in international senior finance roles. In the period from 2009 to October 2016, she was Vice-President Finance (Capital Projects) at Shell Global Solutions in Rijswijk, the Netherlands. She previously served as Finance Director at Shell Australia from 2007 to 2009 and as Financial Controller/Deputy Finance Director at the Brunei Shell Companies from 2002 to 2007. She is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Koole Terminals. REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Annual Report 2016 21 Introduction Final term Current number In May 2016, our Executive Board presented an update Name 1st appointment Year of reappointment expiration 1 of SB positions 2 of Kendrion’s strategy entitled: ‘Simplify, Focus and Grow’. R.L. de Bakker 2005 2017 2017 3 (2 Chair) The plan must ensure that the revenue growth delivered over H. ten Hove (Chairman) 2013 2017 2021/2025 3 (1 Chair) the last few years will be sufficiently translated to the bottom M.J.G. Mestrom 2016 2020 2024/2028 1 line. In line with the announced strategy, the focus in 2016 J.T.M. van der Meijs 2016 2019 2023/2028 2 has been on complexity reduction and cost efficiency. T.J. Wünsche 2016 2020 2024/2028 1 The first results are clearly visible in the 2016 figures. Parallel to this, Kendrion experienced the successful ramp-up in the International production of damper valves for Bilstein which we expect to Name Year of birth Nationality business expertise Specific experience Gender be a significant driver of the revenue line for the Passenger R.L. de Bakker 1950 Dutch Yes Finance Male Cars business unit. H. ten Hove (Chairman) 1952 Dutch Yes Manufacturing/industry Male M.J.G. Mestrom 1961 Dutch Yes HR/org.design Female In 2017, we expect further benefits from simplification J.T.M. van der Meijs 1966 Dutch Yes Finance Female and focus activities which will drive growth over the coming T.J. Wünsche 1964 German Yes Automotive Male years. The overall goal of this process is an ambitious growth path for Kendrion beyond 2018. Composition of the Supervisory Board Later in the year Mr Thomas Wünsche succeeded Mr Horst The final term of Mr Robert de Bakker, our esteemed In 2016, the Supervisory Board was almost completely Kayser who, for agenda-related reasons, stepped down Chairman of the Audit Committee, will expire in April 2017. renewed as we welcomed three new members. Mrs Maja in January 2016. He is the CEO of a large international We therefore started the search for his successor in 2016. Sanders stepped down in April after being a member for company which produces brakes for the automotive industry. We are happy that we were able to interest Mrs Jabine van more than eleven years. She had been part of Kendrion’s In addition to strategic management and experience in der Meijs for this position. She has a very broad international transition from a diversified into a more focused company. the USA and Asia, he brings with him significant expertise experience mainly at Shell, where she held various senior In the last two years she had been instrumental in the search in the automotive sector. He also joined the Audit Committee. financial management positions. As such her special process for a new CEO and the new Supervisory Board expertise is in the financial area. members. We are grateful for her collaboration and contribution. Mrs Marion Mestrom was appointed as her successor at the General Meeting of Shareholders of 11 April 2016. She has a wealth of international business experience and special expertise in Human Resource management, organisational design and change management. She is also appointed as Chair of the Remuneration Committee. 1 According to the revised Netherlands Corporate Governance Code which stipulates a maximum term of eight years that can be prolonged twice for a period of two years. 2 ‘Supervisory Board positions’ means the positions that qualify for calculation of the maximum number of positions according to the Netherlands Management and Supervision Act. REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 22 Annual Report 2016 The nomination of Thomas Wünsche and the nomination of transparency, composition and profile, competences, performance of their business units. In 2016, we chose to Jabine van der Meijs were approved during the Extraordinary effectiveness of individual members, quality of information, combine this in a two-day strategic session in June, where General Meeting of Shareholders held on 31 October 2016. relationship with the Executive Board and relationship with we discussed trends in the market, Kendrion’s market We were supported by two prominent executive search other stakeholders. The main conclusion was that most of the position and risks, as well as the Mid-Term Plan jointly with companies in the search process. items were assessed positively, taking into account that it is the Management Team, consisting of the Executive Board, early days for some of the new members. We will organise a the Business Unit Managers and a number of senior All members of the Supervisory Board comply with the special training session for the full Supervisory Board in the corporate officers. independence requirements, the conflict of interest rules and first half of 2017 with a view to working continually towards the rules with regard to the maximum number of positions the board’s further professionalisation. In addition to Besides the Supervisory Board meetings, the Chairman of laid down in the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code compliance and governance issues, the training will also the Supervisory Board had monthly meetings with the CEO and Dutch law. address roles and responsibilities as well as ways of working and sometimes the CFO. The main conclusions were shared together. We will ensure that we utilise the special expertise with the other Supervisory Board members. The Chairman In 2017, the first term for both our CFO, Mr Frank of the new board members, whilst maintaining a proper of the Supervisory Board also meets with other members Sonnemans, and our Chairman of the Supervisory Board, balance between distance and involvement. of the Management Team from time to time. The Chair Mr Henk ten Hove, will expire. They are both available of the Remuneration Committee meets the Group HR for reappointment. After careful consideration by the The Supervisory Board also met to discuss the performance Director at least once a year. The Chairman of the Audit Remuneration Committee and the Supervisory Board, at the of the Executive Board and its members. The Executive Committee maintains informal contact with the CFO and General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 April 2017 Board did not attend this meeting. speaks with other financial officers in or outside the Audit the Supervisory Board will propose the reappointment of Committee meetings. both for a period of four years. Supervisory Board activities The Supervisory Board met with the Executive Board seven The Chairman and other members of the Supervisory Board The composition of the Supervisory Board is in line with times face to face. Every meeting started with a session also visited a number of larger shareholders, partly to the partly renewed profile of the Supervisory Board, without the Executive Board to discuss specific Supervisory introduce the new members. which profile is available on the company’s website. Board issues. Evaluations, self-assessment and training The agenda for the meetings included a number of standard In 2016, the new Supervisory Board members went through issues, such as financial and operational performance, an internal introduction programme, addressing corporate governance and progress of implementation of the key plans governance issues and introduction to the business in and targets. At each meeting we also discussed one or two a number of Kendrion locations in Germany. specific topics in the presence of the responsible manager. We covered the following specifics in 2016: Corporate Social The Supervisory Board also did an internal self-assessment Responsibility, cybersecurity/IT, risk management, of the Supervisory Board, its committees and its individual management development and the China and US strategy. members using a written individual questionnaire which Normally, at least once a year, one or more of the Business covered issues such as team effectiveness, interaction, Unit Managers are invited to report on the progress and REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Annual Report 2016 23 The Supervisory Board earmarked a number of points ■■ Post-acquisition evaluation Kuhnke The special topics the Supervisory Board earmarked for of attention in 2016: The Executive Board made a detailed review of the 2017 are as follows: ■■ Review of the Mid-Term Plan with more emphasis acquisition of Kuhnke in May 2013 which was discussed ■■ Revenue growth beyond 2018; on profitability extensively at the meeting of the Supervisory Board in ■■ The introduction of the revised Netherlands Corporate The Mid-Term Plan 2016-2018 has been discussed August. The overall conclusion is that the acquisition Governance Code and its focus on long-term value extensively with specific emphasis on the 2018 targets went well in terms of the acquisition process and creation, risk management, culture and remuneration; for growth and profitability. The updated strategy, organisational and cultural integration. The agreed ■■ The new long-term Corporate Social Responsibility as presented in May 2016, has the full support of the structure was implemented and the planned cost savings programme for beyond 2017, also taking into account Supervisory Board and has and will continue to reduce were higher than anticipated and delivered ahead of the effects relating to the Paris Agreement on climate complexity and enhance cost effectiveness, leading schedule. Less positive was the fact that the commercial change; to a significant improvement in profitability. It is expected pipeline was more vulnerable than anticipated, leading to ■■ Management development and succession planning; to focus investments and resources to enable further a lower level of revenues especially in 2015 and 2016. and revenue growth, taking into account the regular project Consequential actions for further cost measures were ■■ Team effectiveness of the Supervisory Board in its new lead time of around three years between the start partially taken in 2015, with further measures being composition. of a customer project and revenue generation. initiated as part of Kendrion’s simplification programme. ■■ Growth outside Europe Committees In 2016, Kendrion’s China strategy and organisation The Supervisory Board recognises the importance of The Supervisory Board has two committees, an Audit was revised and translated into a plan with promising Kendrion’s corporate social responsibility. It advocates Committee and a Remuneration Committee. Both prospects. We are hopeful that after a slow start in Asia, focusing strongly on the company’s social and environmental Committees have been assigned the work of preparing the Kendrion will accelerate in this important region. standards with regard to its processes and on the groundwork for the Supervisory Board’s decision-making The USA has shown good growth over the past few years relationship between the overall strategy and sustainability. process. The regulations of both committees have been but revenue development in 2016 was held back by a The Supervisory Board is pleased that this year an published on the Kendrion website. weak heavy truck market. We will continue to push hard Integrated Annual Report, covering both financial, to continue growth in 2017 and beyond. environmental and social issues, has been published for the Audit Committee ■■ Management development programme first time. The Supervisory Board reviewed the achievements In 2016, the Audit Committee was comprised of Robert de Further progress is expected to be made in 2017, of 2015 and endorsed the CSR plan ‘Taking Responsibility’ Bakker (Chairman and financial expert as defined by the based on a new concept that has been introduced for which covers the years 2015 to 2017. More information about Netherlands Corporate Governance Code) and Henk ten management/succession reviews. See also page 58 Kendrion’s CSR activities can be found on pages 43-60 of Hove as acting member during 2016. Jabine van der Meijs of this Report. this Report. and Thomas Wünsche were also appointed as members of the Audit Committee and will participate in its meetings The Supervisory Board receives regular updates on the as of 2017. Jabine van der Meijs will take over the role of latest developments concerning relevant legislation and Chair when Robert de Bakker steps down at the General corporate governance regulations. Meeting of Shareholders on 10 April 2017. REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD 24 Annual Report 2016 The Audit Committee held four meetings with the CFO and discussed. The Supervisory Board expressed its satisfaction remuneration for the members of the Supervisory Board his staff during the year. The issues that were discussed that the Management Letter of the company’s auditor once and developed a proposal for adoption by the Annual included the development of the results, the control again revealed only a limited number of findings and no General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on environment, the tax strategy and position, transfer pricing, findings which qualified as significant. The Supervisory 10 April 2017. See also page 77 for more information risk management, IT/cyber security, contingency planning, Board closely monitors follow-up actions regarding any in this respect. compliance, treasury activities, the dividend policy, the ERP issues that are reported. More information on this is environment, hedging, goodwill impairment evaluation and contained in the risk management section on pages 62-70 The Remuneration Committee furthermore initiated the insurances. The Audit Committee devoted extensive attention of this Annual Report. discussions relating to and, after careful consideration, to the Management Letter and internal audit findings and the proposals for the respective reappointment of the also to the way in which the limited number of small issues Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Supervisory Board Mr Ten Hove and of the can be solved. The external auditor joined the meetings at Until April 2016, the Remuneration Committee was CFO Mr Sonnemans at the General Meeting of Shareholders which the full-year figures for 2015 and the half-yearly figures comprised of Mrs Sanders (Chair) and Mr Ten Hove. on 10 April 2017. for 2016 were discussed. At this meeting, the auditor’s report After Mrs Sanders stepped down at the General Meeting (including among others the key findings regarding goodwill, of Shareholders on 11 April 2016, Mrs Mestrom took over The Remuneration Committee will be renamed HR the tax position, internal control and the draft auditor opinion) the position of Chair. Committee as of 2017. was discussed extensively. The members of the Committee attended all meetings. The Remuneration Committee held two meetings. All Remuneration policy meetings were attended by the CEO. The bonus systems The remuneration policy is designed to offer a package that The Audit Committee once again reviewed the need for a were discussed as well as the expected outcome of the attracts managers who are qualified to manage an separate internal audit department. The Supervisory Board variable remuneration for 2015 and the target setting for international company of the nature and character of recommends that the Executive Board maintains the current 2016. The Remuneration Committee also discussed the Kendrion. situation in line with the Audit Committee’s proposal. The organisational changes and the need for a more explicit Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the internal control performance culture, including reinforcement of the The policy is also designed to be sufficiently challenging to procedures described in more detail on pages 64 and management teams in some of the business units. motivate managers and, if they perform well, to retain them following of this Annual Report fulfil Kendrion’s needs, The Remuneration Committee set some milestones for further in the longer term. The composition of the remuneration without internal audit department. implementation of the management development policy package supports Kendrion’s short and long-term and tools. The Remuneration Committee held performance objectives. The package is performance oriented in design, The Audit Committee and the Supervisory Board devoted meetings with the CEO and the CFO. the results being used to determine a variable income which comprehensive attention to the organisation’s internal risk is of a challenging level but not excessive. management and control systems. The auditor’s overview of The Committee took the lead and was extensively involved internal control issues was discussed together with the in the search for the succession for retiring members status of the internal tests on the financial reporting systems. of the Supervisory Board in 2016 and 2017. The members The external auditor also attended the meeting of the of the Committee attended all meetings. Supervisory Board at which the Management Letter was The Remuneration Committee benchmarked the REPORT OF THE SUPERVISORY BOARD Annual Report 2016 25 The Supervisory Board adopted the remuneration package The Supervisory Board has received confirmation from the The members of the Supervisory Board have signed the after taking account of the movement in results, movement auditor that the figures on which the 2016 bonus for the financial statements to comply with their statutory obligation in the share price and non-financial indicators also relevant Executive Board is based, are derived from the audited pursuant to Article 2:101, paragraph 2, of the Netherlands to the long-term creation of company value. financial statements and that the calculation of the bonus Civil Code. has been checked. Consideration was also given to the effect of the total In summary remuneration of the Executive Board on the overall Financial statements and auditor’s opinions 2016 has been a year with many changes on the back of an remuneration rates within the company. The Supervisory The financial statements 2016 included in this Annual Report ambitious strategic plan presented in May of 2016. Kendrion Board has analysed the potential outcomes of the proposed have been audited and provided with the unqualified opinion simplified its organisation, abandoned its divisional structure, variable remuneration components of the policy. of Deloitte Accountants B.V. They were extensively discussed closed several smaller manufacturing facilities and made with the Supervisory Board, the Audit Committee in the changes in three of its five business unit management teams. The Supervisory Board periodically benchmarks the presence of the external auditor, CEO and CFO. Going forward, much work lies ahead. The Supervisory remuneration package (including pensions) against The Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the financial Board supports the strategic plan and the management who information supplied by external experts to verify that it is in statements meet all requirements for transparency and have committed to deliver it. line with the company’s objectives and growth, as well as the correctness. As such the Supervisory Board recommends market and legislation. the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 April We would like to thank our business partners for their often 2017 to adopt the financial statements and the appropriation long-standing business relationship, our shareholders for Further explanation of the remuneration policy is provided of net income. their trust and our employees for their flexibility, dedication on pages 75-77 and can also be found in the Remuneration and contribution. Report of the Supervisory Board published on Kendrion’s This Annual Report furthermore contains a limited assurance website. report of Deloitte Accountants B.V. on the defined Key Supervisory Board Performance Indicators of our Corporate Social Henk ten Hove, Chairman Remuneration of the Executive Board Responsibility Programme ‘Taking Responsibility‘. Robert de Bakker, Vice-Chairman The Supervisory Board determined the remuneration for the Marion Mestrom individual members of the Executive Board in accordance Profit appropriation Jabine van der Meijs with the remuneration policy approved by the General Kendrion realised a net profit of EUR 14.9 million in 2016. Thomas Wünsche Meeting of Shareholders. Normalised net profit, which is profit before the one-off costs for the simplification programme, amounted to Zeist, 21 February 2017 A specification for the remuneration of the Executive Board EUR 19.6 million. and the Supervisory Board is enclosed in the notes to the financial statements (pages 138-140 and 149). The Supervisory Board approved the proposal of the Executive Board to pay out 53% of normalised net profit as dividend. We also support the proposal to buy back shares required to pay dividend in stocks. WHY ELECTRONICS MATTERS 26 CASE INDUSTRIAL Annual Report 2016 SLM at the heart of 3D metal printing 3D printing is hot and ignites the imagination. Developments are staggering and contain the promise of completely blowing apart our traditional concepts of production and supply chains. Take the huge progress in 3D metal printing, which has become increasingly popular in recent years. SLM Solutions Group AG from Lübeck, Germany, is a leading provider of metal-based additive manufacturing technology and specialises in selective laser melting. In traditional manufacturing, making metal and plastic objects can be a wasteful process. In some cases more than 90% of the material is cut away. Printing metal parts in 3D uses less energy and reduces waste to a minimum. A finished 3D printed product can be up to 60% lighter when compared to the machined part. 3D printed parts are already just as good, if not better, as those manufactured in a traditional way. Kendrion supports the future of 3D printing and supplies Panel PLCs and modular FIO I/O systems for controlling the machinery part of SLM’s metal 3D laser machines. ‘SLM’s selective laser melting systems are very innovative, high-performance devices,’ says Kendrion ICS Sales Manager Jörg Pöhls. ‘This is, last but not least, thanks to Kendrion ICS control technology.’ SIMPLIFY 3D printing technology will disrupt and confuse existing structures, but will also open up huge new opportunities and markets. FOCUS Kendrion’s focus is on supporting its customers in the field of 3D printing, contributing specific know-how and experience and concentrating on aspects such as efficiency and miniaturisation. GROW Being active in pioneering industrial segments, focusing on developments such as robotics, energy systems and 3D printing will help Kendrion secure a solid position in major growth markets. MEMBERS OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 27 F.J. Sonnemans J.A.J. van Beurden J.A.J. van Beurden (56) F.J. Sonnemans (55) Position: Chief Executive Officer Position: Chief Financial Officer Nationality: Dutch Nationality: Dutch Joined Kendrion: 1 December 2015 Joined Kendrion: 15 February 2013 Appointment to current position: 1 December 2015 Appointment to current position: 15 April 2013 Additional positions: Non-Executive Director Antenna Company, member of the Supervisory Board of Adyen, member of the Supervisory Board of the Twente University 28 REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 Integrated reporting framework and added value model Kendrion approaches the strategic targets, both financial In the combined integrated reporting framework and value and non-financial, on an integrated basis whenever possible. creation model, Kendrion illustrates how and by what means The environmental, social and other sustainability targets it creates value for its stakeholders, financially and otherwise, are treated as part of its ordinary business processes. including its impact to society. Input Added Value Output Outcome STRATEGY AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES SIMPLIFY FOCUS GROW INCREASED SAFETY, KNOW HOW, INNOVATIVE MOBILITY, MANUFACTURED ELECTROMAGNETIC COMFORT, CAPITAL PRODUCTS, CONNECTIVITY PATENTS INNOVATION AND HEALTH FINANCIAL PROFIT & WEALTH & FINANCIAL RESULTS AND REVIEW RESOURCES INCOME INCOME CSR RESULTS AND REVIEW MATERIALS REDUCED EMISSIONS CLEANER & WASTE ENVIRONMENT ENERGY Supply Sustainable Energy & Business ethics Communities Chain Management Operations CO2 Reduction & Compliance ENGAGED & EMPLOYEES OUR PEOPLE HEALTH & SAFETY HEALTHY WELFARE EMPLOYEES ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 29 INDUSTRIAL MAGNETIC SYSTEMS Industrial activities INDUSTRIAL CONTROL SYSTEMS Profile based on electromagnetic actuator technology. Industrial INDUSTRIAL DRIVE SYSTEMS The Industrial activities focus on the development and Control Systems focuses on the development and assembly manufacturing of electromagnetic systems and components of gas and fluid control valves and systems and control for many industrial applications in markets such as process technology. Industrial Drive Systems specialises in the WHAT WE DO automation, energy generation and distribution, medical and development and manufacture of electromagnetic brakes We develop and manufacture innovative, high-quality analytical equipment, transportation and aerospace. and clutches. electromagnetic components and subsystems for industrial markets. The main technologies include electromagnetic brakes and In Industrial, the main focus is on customer-specific and clutches, electromagnetic actuators for switching, locking sophisticated systems and components for large and midWHERE OUR PRODUCTS ARE USED and positioning, special fluid valves and control technology. size OEMs of industrial or professional equipment. The main Access control systems The activities are carried out in three business units: differentiators are application expertise and engineering Aircraft interiors Industrial Magnetic Systems, Industrial Control Systems skills to design high-performance products and the Elevator systems and Industrial Drive Systems. Industrial Magnetic Systems production facilities specialise in low-volume and high-variety Energy generation and distribution specialises in the development and production of production. Besides the customer-specific systems and Industrial appliances customised solutions for switching, locking and positioning components, the industrial portfolio comprises standard and Industrial automation / robotics application-specific components. Industrial safety systems Medical equipment The largest industrial production facilities are located in Textile machinery Germany, with further facilities in China, the USA and Romania. Products are marketed via an own sales WHO WE DO IT FOR organisation with sales offices in Germany, the UK, Austria, B/E Aerospace Switzerland, Italy, Sweden, China and the USA. A worldwide Bosch Rexroth sales distribution network is mainly dedicated to the standard Dräger and application specific components. Euchner Fresenius Market and market position Schindler The total market size for electromagnetic systems and Siemens components in which the industrial business units operate is Stoll estimated at EUR 3 billion fragmented across many different Oerlikon end-markets. Approximately 30% of the end markets Perkin Elmer are in Europe, 30% in the USA and 40% in Asia and the rest of the world. INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 30 The Industrial focus areas are process automation and slightly lower revenue but a strong increase in profitability of the new projects will be in the Chinese operations in robotics, energy generation and distribution, medical and with cost measures taking effect and growth in high margin Suzhou. The project portfolio furthermore consists of several analytical equipment, industrial appliances, logistics (mail categories. Besides the contribution from new projects, key projects for the energy distribution markets. Industrial and parcel sorting), transportation, locking and safety and Industrial Drive Systems benefited from demand growth for Magnetic Systems will further continue and expand its sales aerospace. These end-markets have sufficient size and offer its electromagnetic brakes (PE brakes) in the OEM servo activities in the main markets in Europe, Asia and the USA. attractive opportunities in which Kendrion is able to deliver motor industry and the continuous deployment of robots into superior value and achieve an above-average return. Based further application fields. Industrial Control Systems expects to launch new projects on a market survey carried out in 2015, Kendrion estimates in the aircraft industry. A significant proportion of the R&D the accessible size of the chosen focus markets to be Total revenue was adversely impacted by a year of zero activities of Industrial Control Systems has been invested in EUR 0.9 billion, with low to mid-single-digit growth over market growth in the German machine building sector, the development of a new integrated safety FIO module (Fast the next years. caused mainly by lower exports, and the phase-out Input Output) for process automation customers and new of a large customer project in Industrial Control Systems. customers in the control and drive industry. Kendrion expects Kendrion competes in a market with many small and midthe FIO product line to contribute to the revenue sized producers, which often have a regional focus. The main Industrial Magnetic Systems completed the expansion of Industrial Control Systems in 2017 and beyond. market for the industrial activities continues to be Germany, and improvement of its production facility in Engelswies, with its advanced and globally leading mechanical Germany in 2016. The closure of the Swiss manufacturing Industrial Drive Systems anticipates a year with steady engineering and automation industries. Other key markets facility was announced, with the majority of production being demand from existing customers and growth from new are Asia, the USA, Switzerland, Austria, Italy, France and transferred to Germany in early 2017. customer projects around market trends as increasing Sweden. automation/robotics, urbanisation and safety. The strongest The relocation of production from the Industrial plants in market will remain the application of electromagnetic brakes Customer concentration is relatively low, only a few Germany to Sibiu, Romania continued in 2016. This included in the OEM servo motor industry. The investment in a new customers represent an annual revenue of several million the selective in-sourcing from coil winding. The use of the production line to meet the increasing demand for PE brakes euros. Large customers include B/E Aerospace, Bosch Romanian production facilities will be increased further if this will decrease complexity and increase production Rexroth, Dräger, Euchner, Fresenius, Oerlikon, Perkin Elmer, is deemed economically and technologically feasible. efficiencies. Schindler, Siemens and Stoll. Outlook Developments in 2016 Several new product launches are planned for 2017 Industrial revenue totalled EUR 152.3 million (2015: and the business units have a healthy project portfolio with EUR 150.8 million). a significant number of promising projects. In addition, the various simplification measurements across all Kendrion’s Several successful product launches in all business units industrial activities will contribute to an increase in contributed to revenue in 2016, although the revenue profitability. contribution from new projects was lower than expected as some customers delayed the launch of their products. Industrial Magnetic Systems will start production for a Industrial Magnetic Systems successfully further expanded number of new projects mainly in the process automation its business in China. Industrial Control Systems saw a and locking and safety markets. A significant proportion REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 31 PASSENGER CARS Automotive activities COMMERCIAL VEHICLES Profile the USA, Mexico, India and China. All products are Kendrion’s automotive business develops, manufactures and developed and designed in accordance with the customer’s markets innovative high-quality electromagnetic components, specific needs, placing great emphasis on performance, WHAT WE DO solutions and applications for customers in the automotive quality and reliability. Kendrion has been awarded the We develop and manufacture innovative high-quality industry worldwide. They include major OEMs and Tier One ISO/TS 16949 certification and supports environmentally electromagnetic components and subsystems for suppliers in the global markets for passenger cars, light friendly working methods in accordance with ISO 14001 and customer-specific applications in the automotive and commercial vehicles, buses, heavy trucks, construction and ISO 50001 for several plants. The Automotive organisation off-highway vehicle industry. agricultural vehicles and engines and industrial equipment was further streamlined in early 2016 by combining the manufacturers and aftermarket service providers. existing four business units into two new business units: WHERE OUR PRODUCTS ARE USED Passenger Cars and Commercial Vehicles. Belt damping systems Hydraulics Kendrion is well-known as a competent development and Chassis suspension Sound systems engineering partner with active project teams, in-depth The automotive activities of the business units Passenger Engine management Thermal management technical knowledge and access to development, testing Cars and Commercial Vehicles have similar economic Fuel systems Transmission and production facilities, with an international network and characteristics and display a number of similarities with Human machine interface (HMI) facilities in Germany, Austria, Romania, the Czech Republic, respect to their products, production processes and customers. Machines, techniques and employees are largely WHO WE DO IT FOR interchangeable between both business units. Automotive Lighting Continental Passenger Cars provides innovative technological solutions Daimler including advanced valve technology for common rail and Delphi Europe gasoline valves, active damping systems, engine Eaton management, hydraulic and pneumatic solenoids (on/off or EvoBus proportional), stroke solenoids, sound actuators for internal Fiat Chrysler and external sound applications and electrodynamic Hyundai KIA actuators and electronics. The highly reliable production Navistar processes are carried out partially in clean-room conditions Stanadyne and are entirely or partially automated depending on the ThyssenKrupp Bilstein annual production volume. Passenger Cars complies with Volkswagen stringent quality standards through the use of end-of-line Wabco control units for complete systems or individual Yutong functions. ZF Friedrichshafen AUTOMOTIVE ACTIVITIES REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 32 Annual Report 2016 Commercial Vehicles’ main focus is on electromagnetic also create new market opportunities. Commercial Vehicles Developments in 2016 clutches for front-engine cooling, angle gear box systems for has a leading position in the international market for thermal Revenue for the Automotive activities amounted to rear engine cooling, clutches for switching auxiliary units, management, damping, electrical components and EUR 291.1 million (2015: EUR 291.3 million). custom control flow valves and coils, vibration absorbers, actuators. pressure switches, standard/mobile hydraulics and lighting Passenger Cars further strengthened its position with new applications. Intelligent electronic systems and their Based on a market survey carried out in 2015, Kendrion business in fuel systems, thermal management, sound integration are provided in customer-specific applications. estimates the accessible size of the chosen focus markets systems, electronics and the next generation of the piston There will be an increasing focus on products for thermal to grow by 4% to EUR 2 billion. cooling valve in 2016. The ramp-up of the new active management, decoupling power trains and electrical damping valve continued successfully. The highly automated engines and fluid control for increasing environmental Kendrion’s largest automotive market remains Europe and, and complex production lines are running at a high protection. within that market, Germany, where Kendrion expanded its productivity level. New product developments for alternative market position. Passenger Cars’ position in the North drive systems such as hybrid and electric cars and thermal Market and market position American and Chinese markets improved as several new management applications were acquired. The business unit The total size of the market for electromagnetic systems and projects both for transmission and fuel systems and thermal intensified its sales activities in China, at local OEMs for fuel components in which the automotive business units operate management applications were won. Kendrion’s sound systems, engine management, seating comfort and sound is estimated to be EUR 9 billion. Approximately 25% of the design systems enjoyed strong interest from different system applications. end markets are in Europe, 25% in the USA and 50% in Asia customers, which was also supported by anticipated new and the rest of the world. legal requirements for hybrid and electric cars. Uncertainties In the USA, the development of the next generation of the in the diesel market remain, but the outlook remains intact gasoline valves has been finalised and the preparations for Kendrion is focusing on a number of important global trends mainly due to further valve projects. serial production have started. The production for the park towards improved performance and efficiency of traditional lock solenoid remained stable throughout the year with combustion engines, the increasing importance of Major customers include Automotive Lighting, Continental, strong sales realised for the rear wheel and 4-wheel drive alternative engines and the demand for safety and comfort. Daimler, Delphi Europe, Eaton, EvoBus, Fiat Chrysler, vehicles. The sales team has furthermore extended its Kendrion, as a niche player in environmental, safety and Hyundai KIA, Navistar, Stanadyne, ThyssenKrupp, activities into Detroit, near to the local OEMs, and has comfort applications, is well-positioned to capitalise on these Volkswagen, WABCO, Yutong and ZF Friedrichshafen. achieved its first successes. trends. A number of focus areas have been selected in core markets that have sufficient size, offer attractive growth potential in which Kendrion is able to deliver superior value and achieve an above-average return. Kendrion expects further growth due to new applications in human machine interface, sound design systems, enhanced valve technology, environmental protection, on/off and common rail gasoline technology that minimises emissions. New hybrid, electric and fuel cell cars AUTOMOTIVE ACTIVITIES REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 33 Development focus in 2016 was on fuel efficiency and Outlook emission reduction with several applications in both engine Automotive has a healthy project portfolio and will expand and thermal management and hydrogen fuel cell valves. In its position with further product launches, especially in the field of Human Machine Interfaces, Kendrion succeeded Passenger Cars. in the further development of active gas pedal actuators and seating comfort valves. The production capacity for higher As the trend towards hybrid and electric vehicles further volumes has now also been put in place. develops, clear changes in the market will arise in future years. This is why the activities regarding the sales Kendrion’s sound design systems enjoyed strong interest campaigns launched in 2016 will be intensified in 2017. from customers around the world and this was also driven The related focus will be on complex systems or subby new legal requirements for hybrid and electric cars that systems that are applied in vehicles, independent from the stipulate that these vehicles must emit an external sound type of drive train. ARTIFICIAL CAR SOUND at low speeds. Passenger Cars expects a further increase in revenue and Commercial Vehicles experienced a challenging year in 2016 efficiency in 2017 due to its strong technical competences with a downturn in the North American heavy truck market in the range of complex and customised product solutions. Product: Sound generator for exterior sound systems in electric and a weak local Chinese bus market that placed revenues and hybrid cars. under pressure. Kendrion’s position in Chinese buses for the Commercial Vehicles is focusing on restoring its performance export market remains strong. In response to the reduction after a tough 2016. The Nanjing facility will be integrated into Customer: OEMs of electric and hybrid vehicles. in revenue, the business unit took decisive action to reduce the main Kendrion facility in Suzhou, China. costs. As part of its focus strategy it was decided to close Efforts to modernise the product portfolio and focus on Kendrion solution: Our sound system solution consists of our the small facility in Brazil after several years of economic evolving customer needs will be intensified in order to further sound actuator including a newly developed membrane that downturn with limited progress. The business in Mexico maintain and initiate new growth. Kendrion expects new comes in a compact package and provides a voluminous exterior developed well with several new projects contributing to projects within fluid controls and thermal management to be sound. Due to the bending-wave-transducer used, it has a much revenue growth. initiated in 2017. It also foresees new business opportunities wider directivity than regular speaker systems. It provides a total in valve projects. sound system solution, including the required electronic control unit and software. Added value: Our system complies with the Acoustic Vehicle Alerting System (AVAS) regulation issued by the UNECE. It furthermore contributes to a safer traffic environment, especially where cars and pedestrians meet in traffic. Development focus in 2016 was on fuel efficiency and emission reduction with several applications in both engine and thermal management and hydrogen fuel cell valves. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 34 Annual Report 2016 Innovation One of Kendrion’s key strengths is its capacity for innovation. Kendrion also discerns three main themes in Industrial. Innovation is at the heart of the many new products Kendrion First, the trend towards increasing automation in industrial is developing, in many cases in close cooperation with its applications, for example robotics in factory production lines. customers. As outlined in Kendrion’s strategic update Kendrion’s expertise in drive and conveyor systems is an released on 3 May 2016, Kendrion is keen to position itself important differentiator in relation to this trend. Secondly, at the forefront of a series of important megatrends that the trend of urbanisation. As more and more people move provide substantial opportunities for growth in the coming to urban areas, energy generation and power distribution years. become ever more complex, which in turn drives demand for Kendrion’s power switches and best-in-class circuit breakers. Kendrion has identified three such trends in Automotive. More high-rise buildings will create added demand for ACCURACY OF SURGERY IMPROVES The first area is driven by the desire for automotive Kendrion’s skills in elevator systems. And finally, safety THE OUTCOME FOR PATIENTS companies to improve the performance and efficiency of remains a critical area for the industrial market. This creates traditional combustion engines. With respect to this trend, opportunities for Kendrion’s access and door locking Kendrion sees its products helping fuel efficiency and engine systems. Product: Permanent magnet brakes in servomotors for management systems being fundamental because both help surgical robots. reduce CO2 emissions. The second area is alternative Further enhancing the innovative capability is an important engines. Kendrion envisions good opportunities through its strategic goal for Kendrion. Customers: Suppliers that specialise in medical equipment patented sound actuators. Also its technology in fuel cell in which accurate positioning and fast response times are valves is equally important to this rapidly evolving market. of the utmost importance. The third area is safety and comfort in which Kendrion sees its longstanding skills in suspension, seat comfort and haptic Kendrion solution: Surgical robots are driving innovation in gas pedal technology as being highly relevant. the non-invasive operation processes in the medical industry. The precise positioning of the operating instruments that follow every movement of the surgeon’s hand is key. The instruments must be held precisely in their position during pauses. Kendrion’s permanent magnet brakes are positioned along the axes of the operating stative and ensure that the application holds its exact position. Added value: Allows for precise control in any angular or linear position. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 35 Financial review made in the results. The one-off costs for the simplifying operating result before amortisation (EBITA) to Normalisation impact measures already initiated in 2016 amount to EUR 5.7 million EUR 31.1 million (2015: EUR 25.8 million). Normalised net On 3 May 2016 Kendrion announced its updated strategy (EUR 4.7 million after tax), with corresponding savings on an profit improved to EUR 19.6 million (2015: EUR 16.8 million). Simplify, Focus, Grow, which included a simplifying annualised basis of EUR 7.0 million, of which EUR 3.5 million programme that will take place over the period 2016 – 2018. already contributed to this year’s results. Further simplifying The normalised operating result before amortisation (EBITA) The one-off costs of the programme are significant and have measures are expected to be implemented during the as a percentage of revenue increased to 7.0% (2015: 5.8%), been excluded from the results in order to better show the remaining part of the programme. driven mainly by the company’s simplifying measures. underlying profit development. In prior years Kendrion has Industrial Control Systems and Passenger Cars showed also presented normalised (recurring) results in the annual Financial results the greatest improvement in profitability. report when the results were significantly impacted by non2016 was a steady year for Kendrion. Profitability improved recurring events, for example as a result of acquisitions. significantly as the company’s simplifying measures took In 2014 and 2015 no normalisation adjustments were effect, resulting in a 21% increase in the normalised Normalised financial results Financial results 2016 2016 2015 EUR million 2016 EUR million Normalised Reported Reported Reported operating result before amortisation (EBITA) 25.4 Revenue 443.4 443.4 442.1 Operating result before amortisation (EBITA) 31.1 25.4 25.8 One-off costs related to simplifying measures in raw materials 0.6 Return on sales (ROS) 7.0% 5.7% 5.8% One-off costs related to simplifying measures in staff costs 3.4 Net profit 19.6 14.9 16.8 One-off costs related to simplifying measures in other operating expenses 1.7 Net return as % 4.4% 3.4% 3.8% Normalised EBITA 31.1 EBITA return on investments 12.4% 10.2% 10.2% Reported amortisation (3.7) Normalised result before net finance costs 27.4 Reported net finance costs (3.1) One-off costs related to simplifying measures in finance expense 0.4 Normalised net finance costs (2.7) Normalised profit before income tax 24.7 Reported income tax expense (3.7) Impact one-off costs on income tax expense (1.4) Normalised profit for the period 19.6 FINANCIAL REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 36 Annual Report 2016 Revenue Despite the modest revenue development and inflationary Industrial Drive Systems had a steady year with modest In 2016, revenue increased by 0.3% from EUR 442.1 million pressure on staff costs, profitability improved compared to organic growth of 1%. The business unit benefited from high to EUR 443.4 million. At constant rates of exchange, revenue 2015 due to the simplifying measures implemented in 2016, demand for its permanent magnet lines and from several growth was 0.6%. resulting in a decrease in staff costs of EUR 1.3 million. new orders offsetting the start of an expected phase-out Other operating expenses also decreased as a result of a high-volume customer project in Germany. As a result The Industrial activities achieved organic growth of 1.0% of simplifying measures. of the simplifying measures taken by the business unit, driven mainly by Industrial Magnetic Systems. Revenue in the profitability improved compared to 2015. Automotive activities was flat compared to 2015. The organic Industrial Magnetic Systems started the year slowly. As from growth of Passenger Cars, with a strong contribution from the second quarter, sales picked up resulting in an increase Overall, Industrial succeeded in achieving modest growth the ramp-up of its project in Austria, was offset by a decline of 3% in total revenue for the whole year. Demand in in a flat German machine-building market, with an increase in revenue in Commercial Vehicles, which was impacted by Germany was mixed. Revenue in China increased in momentum towards the end of the year, while improving the weak heavy truck market in the USA. significantly mainly due to a new customer project that its profitability as a result of the simplifying measures. ramped up at the end of 2015. Revenue in Switzerland partly The measures taken in 2016 and simplifying measures Developments per segment recovered in 2016 from the decline in 2015 when the Swiss scheduled for 2017 are expected to have a further positive Industrial industrial market was hurt by the strong Swiss franc. impact on profitability in future years. Industrial – which accounts for 34% of Kendrion’s total Production in Switzerland ended by the end of the year revenue – reported revenue of EUR 152 million, which with most production being moved to Germany. Industrial Automotive is a slight increase of 1% compared to last year. The Magnetic Systems will continue to relocate certain Automotive – which accounts for 66% of Kendrion’s total normalised operating result before amortisation increased to production lines to the plant in Sibiu, Romania. This will revenue – realised revenue of EUR 291 million, in line with EUR 11.6 million, compared to EUR 10.1 million in 2015. This improve cost efficiency. last year. The normalised operating result before amortisation resulted in a normalised EBITA margin of 7.6% (2015: 6.7%). increased to EUR 19.9 million, compared to EUR 17.7 million Industrial Control Systems had a mixed year with a revenue in 2015. This resulted in a normalised EBITA margin of 6.8% The main industrial markets were flat. The German machine decline of 1%. The revenue decline was mainly attributable (2015: 6.1%). building market, which is the main indicator for the Industrial to the further ramp-down of one of its larger customer activities, remained flat for the whole year. projects, which had already started in 2015. Industrial The Automotive activities show a mixed picture. On the one Control Systems did start new customer projects and saw hand, Passenger Cars achieved substantial organic growth High demand in Industrial Magnetic Systems, mostly in higher demand towards the end of the year. The aerospace on the back of the further ramp-up of customer projects. China and Switzerland, and the successful launch of new market in particular performed well. The business unit was On the other hand, Commercial Vehicles recorded a projects offset the impact from lower revenues at some successful in significantly reducing costs in Germany which substantial decrease in revenue mostly as a result of the industrial customers, leading to a modest revenue increase resulted in improved profitability. The simplifying measures weak heavy truck market in the USA. of 1%. taken in 2016 will further improve profitability in 2017. Industrial Control Systems is continuing to relocate production activities to its plant in Sibiu, Romania, which will help to lower the cost base of the business unit. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 37 The general market circumstances for Automotive are good, helped to mitigate the impact on profitability. The production although the heavy truck market in the USA is expected to facilities in Germany, the Czech Republic and Mexico remain weak for some time. achieved steady revenues and improved profitability. It was a difficult year in the USA, mainly due to lower demand from all Despite the flat revenue development and inflationary the heavy truck customers. In India, operations focus mainly pressure on staff costs, profitability improved compared to on the production of fan clutches for the local truck market. 2015 due to the simplifying measures implemented in 2016, In 2016 revenues decreased as customers are moving away resulting in a decrease in staff costs of EUR 1.9 million and from electromagnetic clutches towards cheaper but less a EUR 1.2 million decrease in other operating expenses. efficient technologies. In 2017 Kendrion decided to close manufacturing in Pune. The business unit closed its Passenger Cars reported the highest organic growth of all production plant in Brazil before year-end 2016, as business units, up 4% compared to last year and as much scheduled. A UNIQUE PNEUMATIC APPLICATION as 9% in the second half year. This growth was mainly attributable to the further ramp-up of the production of The improvement in the normalised operating result before solenoid valves for active damping systems in Austria. amortisation of Automotive to EUR 19.9 million (2015: Revenue for this project is expected to increase further in EUR 17.7 million) was driven largely by the organic growth Product: Engine cooling clutch for the Oshkosh Striker, 2017 and thereafter. The total revenue during this project’s in Passenger Cars and the simplifying measures taken a specialised aircraft rescue and firefighting (ARFF) vehicle. lifetime is expected to be at least EUR 300 million with further during the year. Additional simplifying measures scheduled potential in both Europe and the USA. These projects will for 2017 are expected to have a further positive impact on Customer: Oshkosh Corporation, Wisconsin, USA. support revenue development going forward. Furthermore profitability in future years. new projects in the area of sound-design technology have Kendrion solution: The clutch is a unique pneumatic significant potential for future growth. As a result of the The main future growth markets for Automotive are application and is located at the back of the vehicle where simplifying measures taken by the business unit, profitability suspension (damper) systems, driver assistance systems, the engine is situated. This clutch drives a 42 (over 1 metre) improved compared to 2015. valve and camshaft adjustments, fuel systems, thermal fan at up to 2,250 rpm. management, sound systems and hydrogen valves. Although Commercial Vehicles had a disappointing year, resulting uncertainty regarding the longer-term future of combustion Added value: High torque up to 7,000 in/lbs. capability, in a revenue decline of 9% compared to last year. engines remains, the current project portfolio, the current smooth engagement, increased engagement capability, improved new project opportunities and actions taken in 2016 to friction surface of 168 cm², rapid heat dissipation and reduced The revenue decrease is attributable to the weak heavy truck improve future profitability are reasons for optimism about heat sink. market in the USA, lower sales into the bus market in China. the prospects for Automotive in the future. Despite the significant revenue decline, cost reductions FINANCIAL REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 38 Annual Report 2016 Added value Staff costs in relation to revenue and added value evolved In 2016, added value amounted to EUR 212.9 million, which as follows: is in line with last year (2015: EUR 214.0 million). Added value as a percentage of revenue remained stable Staff costs 2016 2015 compared to last year at 48%. Staff costs (EUR million) 129.2 133.1 % of revenue 29.1% 30.1% Pre-agreed annual discounts, customary for automotive % of added value 60.5% 62.2% projects, are usually compensated for by purchase discounts and by new projects that are ramping up. FTEs (at 31 December) 2016 2015 Direct staff 1,320 1,360 Staff costs and other operating expenses Indirect staff 1,180 1,213 MOVING FORWARD WITH Normalised staff costs, including costs for temporary Temporary staff 78 85 PROSTHETICS employees, amounted to EUR 129.2 million, compared Total FTEs 2,578 2,658 to EUR 133.1 million in 2015. Normalised other operating expenses for 2016 amounted The lower staff costs were mainly the result of the simplifying to EUR 32.9 million (2015: EUR 35.7 million). The decrease Product: Swing phase control in a prosthetic knee joint. measures taken during 2016, partly offset by the yearly compared to last year is mainly the result of the simplifying increase in annual salaries, mostly related to the tariff measures taken in 2016. In addition, other operating Customer: Ottobock, a German company that specialises in increase in Germany. Consequently, total staff costs as expenses had been negatively impacted in 2015 by improving the mobility of people with disabilities through a percentage of revenue decreased by 1.0%. The most additional warranty expenses of EUR 1.3 million. As a result, innovative products and advanced orthopaedic technologies. significant simplifying measures taken regarding staff costs the overall ratio of operating expenses as a percentage were the elimination of the divisional management layer, the of revenue decreased to 7.4% (2015: 8.1%). Kendrion solution: Kendrion uses a throttle valve in a fourreduction of the number of business units from seven to five axis prosthetic knee joint to control the extension movement of and several efficiency improvement measures taken at the Total Research & Development expenses (including staff and the leg independently of the flexion movement. The extremely operating company level. The effects of the simplifying other operating expenses) for 2016 totalled EUR 27.6 million small valve has defined stops in both directions, which can be measures are also clearly visible in the reduction of the (2015: EUR 26.4 million). precisely adjusted by the orthopaedic technician. It also provides number of FTEs (direct and indirect), which was reduced a guaranteed comfortable terminal impact in the direction of the by 80 FTEs. extension at different walking speeds. Added value: Improving the mobility of disabled people by providing exact flow control, defined end positions and easy and safe installation and operation. FINANCIAL REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 39 Net financing costs a relatively high corporate income tax rate (40%). More Condensed consolidated statement of financial Normalised net financing costs decreased to EUR 2.7 million information on the effective tax rate can be found on position (2015: EUR 3.3 million), in spite of unfavourable currency page 138 of the financial statements. Assets 31 December 31 December exchange results of EUR 0.1 million (2015: negative EUR million 2016 2015 EUR 0.5 million). Excluding currency results, financing costs Normalised tax paid in 2016 amounted to EUR 5.1 million, Property, plant and decreased by EUR 0.2 million compared to 2015 mainly due which is in line with the normalised income tax expense. equipment 85.5 82.7 to the continued reduction in debt levels. Intangible assets Net income ■■ Goodwill 94.3 93.4 Average (gross) debt levels, before deduction of cash Normalised net income attributable to equity ■■ Acquisition related 19.7 23.3 and deposits, amounted to EUR 84 million in 2016. holders of the company (EUR million) 19.6 ■■ Software 8.9 9.9 The average interest charge on borrowings in 2016 was Normalised earnings per share (EPS) (EUR) 1.47 ■■ Development costs 1.6 1.0 2.0% (2015: 1.9%). Other 0.4 0.6 Kendrion proposes an optional dividend of 53% of the Deferred income tax 16.0 15.9 More information on the revolving credit facility, available normalised net result (2015: 61%), equivalent to EUR 0.78 Non-current assets 226.4 226.8 credit lines and conditions can be found on pages 118-120 per share entitled to dividend. of the financial statements. Inventories 52.6 52.5 Financial position and working capital Income tax 1.2 2.7 Income tax Total assets increased to EUR 347.1 million (2015: Trade and other receivables 54.5 48.7 The normalised income tax expense in 2016 amounted EUR 340.9 million). Trade and other receivables increased Cash 12.4 10.2 to EUR 5.1 million (2015 normalised: EUR 4.7 million). by EUR 5.8 million, mainly as a result of higher revenue in Current assets 120.7 114.1 The effective income tax rate for 2016 was 21% (2015 the last two months of the year compared to 2015. Cash and Balance sheet total 347.1 340.9 normalised: 24%). cash equivalents increased by EUR 2.2 million. This was caused mainly by an increase of cash positions in China and Working capital The effective tax rate in 2016 was positively influenced India, which are not part of the EUR and USD cash pools. Net working capital as a percentage of revenue improved as a result of the country mix, with a lower relative portion compared to the previous year to 8.6% of revenue of the taxable profit in the USA in particular, which has (2015: 9.8%). Excluding the effect of the provisions and payables related to the simplifying measures, net working Net working capital at 31 December capital improved to 9.3% of revenue. Receivables and EUR million 2016 2015 payables both increased as a result of the higher activity Inventories 52.6 52.5 level in the last two months compared to 2015. Trade and other receivables, tax receivable 55.7 51.4 The year-end provision for trade receivables Less: Trade and other payables, tax payables, current provisions 70.3 60.5 amounted to EUR 0.1 million (2015: Net working capital 38.0 43.4 EUR 0.4 million). As % of revenue 8.6% 9.8% FINANCIAL REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 40 Annual Report 2016 Intangible assets Net interest-bearing debt at 31 December Free cash flow Goodwill payments were made for the Linnig Group in 2007, EUR million 2016 2015 In 2016, the normalised free cash flow generated, before Kendrion (Mishawaka) LLC in 2008, Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH Non-current borrowings 59.3 65.2 payments related to the simplifying measures, was again in 2010, Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. at the end of 2011, and Non-current mortgage loan 3.7 4.4 strong at EUR 22.3 million (2015: EUR 21.2 million), Kendrion Kuhnke Automation and Kendrion Kuhnke Current borrowings 3.4 9.7 compared to EUR 19.6 million normalised net profit. Automotive in 2013. Less: cash and cash The main reasons for the higher free cash flow compared equivalents 12.4 10.2 to normalised net profit were the annual EUR 3.7 million nonIntangible assets relating to these acquisitions consisted cash amortisation charges on the intangibles arising from largely of the calculated fair value of customer relations Net bank debt acquisitions and the improvement in working capital, and technology. The annual amortisation charge relating at 31 December 54.0 69.1 which were partly offset by the investments exceeding to these intangibles amounted to EUR 3.7 million in 2016. depreciation. More information can be found on pages 109-112 and 12 months EBITDA (normalised) 51.4 45.2 following. Debt cover 1.05 1.53 Net investments in property, plant and equipment and software amounted to EUR 22.9 million, which was Detailed information regarding the deferred tax positions Invested capital at 31 December EUR 2.6 million higher than depreciation. Capital expenditure can be found on pages 112-114 of the financial statements. EUR million 2016 2015 on plant and equipment relates mostly to investments in Balance sheet total 347.1 340.9 production lines for new projects. Solvency ratio Less: non-interest The year-end solvency ratio increased to 51.3% (year-end bearing debt 70.3 60.5 Normalised free cash flow 2015: 49.8%), mainly due to the net profit development Less: freely available cash 12.4 10.2 EUR million 2016 2015 and a lower debt level. Less: deferred income tax 16.0 15.9 Reported free cash flow 21.3 20.2 Invested capital 248.4 254.3 Simplifying measures Net debt (cash out) 1.0 – Net debt decreased by EUR 15.1 million during 2016 Acquisition of subsidiaries – 1.0 to EUR 54.0 million. Normalised free cash flow, before Normalised free cash flow 22.3 21.2 payments related to the simplifying measures, amounted to EUR 22.3 million in 2016. This was partly offset by the Contingent liabilities cash portion of the optional dividend which amounted Information about contingent liabilities is provided to EUR 6.1 million (approximately 60% of total dividend). on page 133 of the notes to the financial statements. The future activities will be financed via Kendrion’s current revolving credit facility (EUR 150.0 million) with a syndicate of three banks and via free cash flow of the Group. A revision of the current financing structure is not foreseen in the near future. Further information is provided in note 10 to the financial statements. FINANCIAL REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 41 Directors’ declaration The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and the annual report in accordance with Dutch law and International Financing Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (EU-IFRS). As prescribed in Article 5-25 C of paragraph 2 of the Financial Supervision Act, and with due regard for the above, the Executive Board declares that to its knowledge (i) the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Kendrion N.V. and the companies jointly included in the consolidation; (ii) the report of the Executive Board gives a true and fair view of the situation REPLACING A COMPLICATED SYSTEM at balance sheet date, the situation during the financial year at Kendrion N.V. and the companies affiliated with Kendrion, whose figures are incorporated in the financial statements, and (iii) that the report of the Executive Board describes Product: Wrap spring clutch for the agricultural industry. the significant risks which Kendrion faces. Customer: Manufacturer that specialises in agricultural and The members of the Executive Board have signed the municipal machinery. financial statements to comply with their statutory obligation pursuant to Article 2:101, paragraph 2 of the Netherlands Kendrion solution: The wrap spring clutch is a compact Civil Code and Article 5-25 C, paragraph 2, under C, electromagnetic system based on a holding magnet and a wrap of the Financial Supervision Act. spring. It has been developed especially for the customer in order to replace a complicated mechanical system. Due to the heavy use in the agricultural market, the solution is fully dust and dirt resistant. Added value: The wrap spring clutch is used in seed drill machines to ensure efficient and effective tramlining control, which stops seeding in areas where it is not needed. WHY ELECTROMAGNETICS MATTERS 42 CASE INDUSTRIAL Annual Report 2016 Revolutionary domestic heating Reductions in energy consumption and CO2 emissions are high-priority issues worldwide. Equally widespread is the constant search for environmentally friendly and affordable alternative solutions. One spectacular innovation is the fuel cell system for domestic use developed by Elcore, a German company based in Munich, Bavaria. Elcore develops, manufactures and markets components for revolutionary fuel cell systems and key innovative product solutions for highly efficient energy consumption and CO2 reduction (an average of 2 tonnes per household!). The company’s fuel cell technology replaces conventional heating systems and transforms natural gas into power and heating. The central gas block of Elcore’s system is equipped with certified, customised Kendrion valves for gas and water flow regulation. Kendrion’s high-precision fluid valves are a major contributor to lowering the energy consumption. Jörg Pöhls, Kendrion ICS Sales Manager, emphasises the specific features of the Kendrion valves: ‘We provide Elcore with certified valve technologies, but we have also been selected as their supplier due to our systems know-how.’ SIMPLIFY Simplicity can be highly complex. This is the case with the hightech Kendrion valves systems for the Elcore fuel cell systems. The major benefits for Elcore system end users are obvious and straightforward. FOCUS The focus has always been on the most important customer requirements: efficiency resulting in reductions in energy consumption and CO2 emissions. GROW The world is ready to embrace alternative solutions for the generation of power and heat. With its specific products and its early adoption of reductions in energy consumption and CO2 emissions as core activities, Kendrion plays a significant role in this technological turnaround. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 43 Corporate Social Responsibility review Integrated thinking, integrated reporting Some of the megatrends relevant to Kendrion are: Commitment top management Kendrion approaches the strategic targets, both financial ■■ A rapid growth of the world population, especially The CSR strategy, key issues and objectives are adopted and non-financial, on an integrated basis whenever possible. in emerging markets; by the Executive Board and Management Team. The CSR The environmental, social and other sustainability targets are ■■ Urbanisation; programme, Taking Responsibility, is also discussed during treated as part of the ordinary business processes. Kendrion ■■ Increased mobility, safety and connectivity needs Kendrion’s annual Top Management Meeting. Each of the is seeing a growing interest among stakeholders in receiving of people and goods; business units is requested to prepare an own CSR plan, transparent information on social and environmental aspects ■■ An increasing scarcity of natural resources; closely related to their own business and processes. CSR as well. Kendrion is responding to these developments by ■■ The transition to more sustainable energy due also and sustainability objectives are included in the performance publishing this first integrated report, highlighting how to climate change. criteria governing the variable remuneration awarded to top Kendrion aims to create long-term value, financially and management, including the Management Team. otherwise, for all its stakeholders. Some of these megatrends, such as the scarcity of natural resources and the reduced availability of energy sources, The Supervisory Board recognises the importance of Taking responsibility could in the longer term become a threat to the growth of Kendrion’s CSR programme and advocates a strong focus on For Kendrion, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) means: Kendrion’s business and therefore need to be addressed the company’s social and environmental standards governing The responsibility of an organisation for the impact of its in a timely manner. These trends, however, also offer its processes, health & safety and the relationship between decisions and activities on society and the environment, opportunities for Kendrion. Utilising such opportunities the overall strategy and sustainability. The Supervisory Board through transparent and ethical behaviour. To us, social and using scarce energy and other natural resources in reviewed the achievements and endorsed the CSR responsibility is not a separate pillar in our organisation, but a responsible way will, in the long run, make an essential programme. an ambition integrated into our everyday decision-making. contribution to the creation of value for all Kendrion’s At Kendrion, CSR is not just about being responsible; stakeholders. Therefore, Kendrion has included sustainability CSR Board and ambassadors it is about taking responsibility. and CSR as spearheads in the company’s general strategic A CSR Board gives further shape to Kendrion’s CSR policy. This report includes several examples of responses activities. The Board’s members are representatives of the CSR programme 2015 – 2017 ‘Taking Responsibility’ to the megatrends referred to earlier. business units and departments and come from Austria, Kendrion adopted a CSR programme entitled ‘Taking the Czech Republic, Germany and the Netherlands. Board Responsibility’ for the period 2015 – 2017. The programme Kendrion endeavours to reduce waste and make efficient members do their CSR work in addition to their regular not only aims to anchor further CSR and sustainability in use of energy, and encourages the company's employees Kendrion duties. In addition to the CSR Board, there are the company’s business processes but also to increase to make ongoing organisational and technical ‘ambassadors’ in all operating companies who support CSR the commitment to more sustainable products and services improvements to environmental procedures. During the activities locally. in line with the way customers respond to so-called design and technical planning stages, Kendrion takes due ‘megatrends’. account of the consequences for the environment. This not only enables the company to lower harmful emissions and reduce its environmental footprint, but also ensures that it can maintain its good reputation. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 44 Annual Report 2016 Beyond 2017 Applicable international codes and guidelines; A new long-term CSR strategy will be developed in Code of Conduct consultation with relevant stakeholders and management Kendrion joined the UN Global Compact in 2009. The UN in the course of 2017. There will also be further attention Global Compact is the world's largest network initiative, devoted to how Kendrion can contribute to the objectives bringing together businesses, UN organisations and civil of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change and the society in support of ten principles encompassing human UN Sustainable Development Goals. rights, labour, the environment and sound business practices. Kendrion fully endorses these principles. The Kendrion Code of Conduct is based on this. Kendrion also endorses the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. RELIABLE HOSPITAL POWER Stakeholders dialogue General Kendrion aspires to engage in transparent communication Product: Stroke solenoid for automatically moving the lever Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships regarding the manner in which the company carries out its of the switch in electrical networks. with its stakeholders. The selection of relevant stakeholders activities to create long-term value. is based on questions such as who might be positively or Customer: Socomec, a French company with Chinese negatively affected by the organisation’s decisions or Customers production locations, specialised in the availability, control activities and who can affect the organisation’s ability A substantial number of Kendrion’s customers are major and safety of low-voltage electrical networks. to meet its responsibilities? Tier 1 suppliers and OEMs in the automotive sector or other large industrial companies. An increasing number of these Kendrion solution: A fast remote disconnection for Kendrion’s relevant stakeholders are its customers, customers have implemented CSR and sustainability on-demand shutdown and de-energisation is placed in the suppliers, employees, investors and the communities in requirements for suppliers. Kendrion complies with their Transfer Switch ATyS M of Socomec. In the event of energy which Kendrion is active. requirements. Kendrion also provides insight into the disconnection – in a hospital for instance – the switch transfers company’s CSR efforts to its customers. Based on an annual to a generator, guaranteeing a safe solution. selection, various business units engage in constructive dialogue with important customers. An online CSR survey Strategic relevance: Series production at Kendrion China is also used. will begin in March 2017 based on close co-operation with the customer in combining German R&D and quality assurance and Chinese production facilities. To us, social responsibility is not a separate pillar in our organisation, but an ambition integrated into our everyday decision-making. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 45 Suppliers Local communities The materiality analysis is partly carried out based on Kendrion has successfully introduced a Supplier Code of Kendrion is active in a number of countries in which, in a number of material aspects as described in the Conduct. A substantial number of main suppliers have a general sense, the standard of living, working conditions G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the GRI. signed this Code of Conduct in recent years. 37 CSR audits and human rights have room for improvement. Kendrion The pre-selection of these material aspects by the have also been performed. The aim is to continue Kendrion’s endeavours to make a modest contribution to these CSR Board has been made with due regard for: dialogue with suppliers on their performance in this area with improvements by including (mostly small-scale) local ■■ The nature of Kendrion’s activities and business a view to jointly pursuing improvements in the supply chain. community investment programmes. processes; In addition, various important suppliers have received an ■■ The demands made on Kendrion and its products by online CSR survey. Transparency; Benchmarks its customers in connection with sustainability in the Kendrion won the 2017 Dutch IR Award of The Netherlands short and long term (the urgency); Management and employees Association for Investor Relations (NEVIR). This was awarded ■■ Kendrion’s potential impact and influence in the chain Kendrion regards its employees as the company’s greatest to Kendrion for being the ‘Best Company in the field of in the short and long term; resource. The support of Kendrion’s social policy by the Investor Relations’ in the category AScX/other. According ■■ The potential benefit for Kendrion; company’s employees is of essential importance. In 2016 to the NEVIR, the company excelled in investor relations ■■ The effort it takes to implement measures in Kendrion’s Kendrion continuously devoted attention to social issues and financial communication in 2016. business processes and activities, with a view to the (including health & safety) in the international staff other strategic spearheads; magazine Magnetised and will continue to do so in 2017. Kendrion participates in the Dutch Ministry of Economic ■■ The relevance to stakeholders and the possible effect To increase awareness and commitment, Kendrion uses Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation’s Transparency on them. poster campaigns and idea boxes. Groups of employees Benchmark which monitors the Netherlands’ 500 largest have also been given the opportunity to complete the online companies. Kendrion has improved its ranking in five out A list of potential material aspects from the perspective CSR survey. of the last six years. Kendrion is currently ranked number 60. of stakeholders is included in an online survey. The survey has been disseminated to certain groups of employees Investors In 2016, Kendrion was awarded the no. 2 ranking in (including the CSR Ambassadors in each of the operating ESG (Environment, Social and Governance) is becoming the Dutch Tax Transparency Benchmark for small cap companies), the CSR Board members and a selection of an increasingly important issue for Kendrion’s investors. companies and was ranked no. 7 out of all the 68 listed clients and suppliers. A selection of the key issues for Kendrion holds annual personal discussions with some of its companies included in the benchmark. Kendrion has been created on this basis, and on the basis major shareholders and banks, in which Kendrion presents of their relevance for Kendrion’s business processes as its strategy and objectives, and also discusses the investors’ Materiality analysis assessed by the CSR Board and the Management Team. ESG and compliance policies within the context of their This Review focuses as much as possible on the issues In addition, individual interviews have also been held with investments. In various roadshows, management also shows which are most important to Kendrion, its employees and a major shareholder and a bank, and the effectiveness potential investors the relevance of sustainability for stakeholders; the key issues. The selection of these key of the sustainability programme was discussed at the annual Kendrion. issues is based on a materiality analysis. Top Management Meeting in September. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 46 Annual Report 2016 The results and the key issues identified were also discussed achieved and are adjusted where necessary. These with and endorsed by the Supervisory Board. Based on evaluations also make use of the feedback Kendrion receives the outcome of this process, Kendrion will decide in 2017 from its stakeholders. The specific targets and KPIs can be to what extent it will adjust the key issues. The materiality found in the various chapters of this Report. Some material analysis will be repeated and evaluated annually on the aspects have been combined under an overarching key basis of the results obtained and will be adjusted where issue. The material aspects mentioned in the GRI G4 necessary. guidelines can be found in the GRI Index section at the end of this Report. The materiality analysis has not (only) been Outcome of the materiality analysis carried out on the basis of the material GRI aspects and Specific targets and KPIs and relevant GRI indicators were associated indicators. Accordingly, GRI indicators have not formulated for most of those key issues. The key issues, KPIs (yet) been selected for all material issues. For further details REDUCING CO2 AND NOX EMISSIONS and targets are evaluated annually on the basis of the results on indicators and future steps, see pages 166 and 167. Materiality matrix RELEVANCY TO STAKEHOLDERS Occupational Safety Economic Product: Hydrogen valves for innovative fuel cell drive. and Health Performance Material Consumption Customer: OEMs of fuel cell vehicles. Non-Discrimination Anti-Corruption Kendrion solution: The H2 valves operate in the fuel cell Procurement system with different functions. They are partially equipped Practices Employee Energy Efficiency satisfaction with electronics to heat and defrost the valves. Due to the gaseous medium, the demand on the denseness of the valves Training and Involvement Market is very high. of Supply Chain Education Presence in CSR Issues Forced and Compulsory Energy Added value: Different OEMs in Germany will offer fuel cell Labour Biodiversity Consumption car models starting in 2018. These models could change the Emissions Renewable automotive markets. Kendrion supports future technologies Energy Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Effluents for alternative drives to reduce CO2 and NOx emissions. and Waste Public Policy Local Customer Privacy Communities Anti-Competitive Transport Behaviour Diversity and Equal Equal Remuneration Opportunity for Women and Men INFLUENCE ON KENDRION'S BUSINESS OPERATIONS CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 47 Supply chain management For 2016, the aim was to conduct at least three CSR supplier audits for each plant with more than eighty employees and Target 2016 Result Target 2017 at least one for each other operating company. In total this 100% of top 20 material suppliers sign Supplier Code 100% of top 30 of suppliers sign Supplier Code would lead to 41 audits. The number of audits in 2016 was of Conduct of Conduct 37, which means that the target was nearly achieved (90%). 0% 100% The audits outside Gemany were extended, audits took also At least 3 CSR supplier audits per plant with more than At least 3 CSR supplier audits per plant with more place in, among others, the USA, India, China, Mexico, the 80 employees and at least 1 CSR supplier per each than 80 employees and at least 1 CSR supplier audit Czech Republic and Austria. The results of supplier CSR other plant per each other plant audits have in general been positive. Further stress will be 0% 90% laid on the willingness of suppliers to take CSR initiatives in relation to their own suppliers and human rights issues, or to join the UN Global Compact. Kendrion's supply chain Supplier selection and audits The supply chains in which Kendrion is active have an The extent to which a potential supplier addresses Conflict minerals impact on people, the environment and society. In general environmental and social issues and business ethics plays Kendrion does not add any conflict minerals from the Congo Kendrion’s production processes are not polluting, in the an important role, in addition to standard criteria such region to its products during its own production process. sense that they do not result in large quantities of residual as product quality, in the ultimate selection of suppliers. In the event that it were reported that suppliers of Kendrion products with a great impact on the environment and which use such conflict minerals, Kendrion would undertake cannot be recycled. Nor do they result in large emissions of Kendrion conducts CSR supplier audits to review whether commercially reasonable efforts to gradually replace them in substances with an environmental impact. the suppliers continue to comply with the required standards. the supply chain and would ask its suppliers to do the same. Supplier Code of Conduct Audits that result in unsatisfactory assessments and Kendrion uses a Supplier Code of Conduct. This Code that reveal that the relevant supplier does not meet the requires suppliers to assume their responsibility for issues requirements for compliance with the Supplier Code including the environment, human rights, working conditions of Conduct are followed by a meeting to prepare a plan and fair trade. The suppliers are also requested to introduce and review means of achieving rapid improvements. rules of this nature further in the supply chain. Kendrion has Failure to follow up the improvement plan or follow up the set a target stipulating that the Kendrion Supplier Code of plan to an adequate extent can result in the termination Conduct shall be accepted by all its main materials suppliers of the relationship with the relevant supplier. in all business units. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 48 Annual Report 2016 Signed Supplier Code Signed Supplier Code CSR supplier audits of Conduct of Conduct by supplier top 20 2014 214 2014 15 2014 23 2015 368 2015 14 2015 36 2016 669 2016 20 2016 37 Rare earth metals torque. As a result, less material is required and the product Kendrion mostly applies a local sourcing strategy. The most In some of Kendrion’s products, permanent magnets are is lighter – which in turn reduces energy consumption and frequently-used materials are steel, aluminium, copper used. A category of permanent magnets contains a number emissions. The volumes of the permanent magnets used and plastics. In many cases, semi-finished products are of rare earth metals, which are also used in products such by Kendrion are comparatively limited but Kendrion cannot purchased on the basis of specifications provided by as mobile telephones, rechargeable batteries and wind avoid the use of permanent magnets. Kendrion or its customers, and only the final assembly turbines. China is currently still the biggest producer of takes place in Kendrion’s plants. the world’s rare earth metals. Other materials In 2016, Kendrion used 1,860 tonnes of copper (best Few critical materials are used other than those referred estimate) in the manufacture of the company’s products Mining and refining rare earth metals is highly energyto in this chapter. A number of ideas were developed on the (2015: 1,893 tonnes). intensive. Moreover, the mining and refining by-products feasibility of reducing the use of certain potentially critical cause environmental pollution. The recycling of rare earth materials, or materials with a relatively high environmental or metals is still in its infancy. The use of permanent magnets health impact. This led to the decision to dismantle a ‘plating in products increases their functionality, for example the area’ at one of Kendrion’s operating companies in 2016. Simplified supply chain overview Kendrion Customers (Tier 1/OEM Industrial Sourcing parts markets & materials Design & (machined Manufacturing/ Sales & R&D Engineering Assembly Distribution and after markets) parts, copper, steel, aluminium, Automotive plastics) markets CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 49 Sustainable operations Target 2016 Result Target 2017 Kendrion has worked hard on streamlining the data of waste Waste data plan and subtargets implemented Waste data plan and subtargets implemented and hazardous substances in recent years. As a result, the for major plants for major plants data for most of the largest US and European plants are 0% 80% internally reported on a similar basis. Several sub-targets for plastics, liquids & oil, metals, commercial waste and carton CSR integrated in major business processes; CSR is part of all important business processes annual CSR plans on business unit level board & paper have been developed and these will be 0% 100% tested in 2017. 80% of the target (best estimate) is achieved. ISO certification Within Kendrion, the quality, environmental and safety A circular economy Kendrion, however, is convinced that circular business systems are usually combined in one system that forms the Most current business models are based on a linear models represent a meaningful contribution to creating value basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all economy (take-make-dispose). Models involving a circular and to reducing the production of waste and the exhaustion of Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most economy build and retain value because they involve for of natural resources. In this context, Kendrion considers it stringent quality and safety requirements. example refurbishment, remanufacturing or re-use. best to focus on the end product. Kendrion is ready to join its partners in fleshing out this idea and intends to launch ISO certification overview The regulations governing the automotive industry mean a suitable pilot projects in this area. 20 production plants (of which 12 automotive) large amount of recycling of cars and parts already takes Plants ISO 9001 ISO/TS 16949 ISO 14001 ISO 50001 place in the sector. While Kendrion's products only account Waste & recycling 2015 20 11 15 2 for a small part of an entire vehicle, they do often form Kendrion aims to minimise waste, with a view to its 2016 20 11 16 7 part of a larger (sub)-system and the products themselves environmental and cost impact. All Kendrion companies Planned for 2017 20 12 17 11 are made up of a number of materials. The logistical which have been awarded ISO 14001 certification keep consequences and costs of retrieving parts are outweighed records of their production and processing of waste. Internal ISO 9001 lays down general requirements for the company’s by the potential advantages. The same applies to a certain instructions at these companies are issued for the safe use of quality management system, while ISO/TS 16949 has been extent to products manufactured by the Industrial business materials and the separated collection and disposal of waste. developed specifically for the automotive industry and units. There are however a couple of instances of circular The companies work solely with certified waste processers. imposes stringent requirements on suppliers. ISO 14001 economy initiatives within Kendrion’s business at the As part of the certification process, each year new waste is an environmental management system certification. moment, but it is not opportune at present to set targets reduction measures must be implemented, and measures independently in this area. that reduce the use of dangerous goods are externally audited. Those measures can differ from plant to plant. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 50 The ISO 50001 standard is focused on the reduction of Integrated business processes the regular budget and midterm business plan. A proportion organisations’ energy consumption on the basis of a detailed A number of measures to integrate CSR into daily business of the variable remuneration of top managers which relates insight into their energy consumption and use of energy. processes have been introduced. Requirements in the areas to CSR objectives has been linked to the business units’ Five plants gained the ISO 50001 certificate in 2016 in of sustainability, safety and ergonomics being laid down in individual CSR plans. In 2017, the business units will include accordance with the EU Directive on Energy Saving. relation to machines and production equipment ordered by a description of sustainability and/or CSR consequences Kendrion. Furthermore, the business units draw up their own when they submit investment proposals to the Executive CSR plans which will be integrated as much as possible in Board. Energy & CO2 reduction Energy consumption Target 2016 Result Target 2017 The consumption of power, fuel oil and natural gas of Kendrion’s main operational plants in Europe, the USA 10% reduction of relative CO2 emission compared 25% reduction of relative CO2 emission compared and China (representing approximately 93% of the group to 2014 to 2014 revenue) in recent years can be presented as shown 0% 100% in the tables on page 51. 10% reduction of relative energy consumption 25% reduction of relative energy consumption compared to 2014 compared to 2014 The tables show that the consumption of power, fuel oil 0% 67% and natural gas, both absolute and relative, decreased substantially due to all the measures and activities described hereinafter. The 10% reduction target compared to 2014 for Ambition Reduction targets relative energy consumption was however only partly Kendrion endeavours to make efficient use of energy and After the realisation of a 15% reduction of the total CO2 achieved (for two of the three energy types). There are aspires to use less of it in an effort to help combat climate emissions, in both absolute and relative terms, of the largest several reasons for this. Firstly, the winter months were colder change and the exhaustion of fossil fuels. The measures European plants by the end of 2014 (as compared to 2012), by several degrees Celsius in 2016 than in 2014, and more Kendrion takes also lead to direct financial savings. Energy the objective now is to achieve a further 25% reduction by heating was required as a result. In addition, several & CO2 emission reduction therefore play an important role in the end of 2017 in both relative energy use and CO2 production lines commenced operations in the past few Kendrion’s sustainability programme. Kendrion has emissions compared to the end of 2014. The relative years that unavoidably consume more energy (cleanrooms) formulated ambitious targets. objective is based on the added value. Emissions of on a comparative basis. A further contributing factor was that various substances besides CO2 are limited. the added value in December 2015 was lower than that in December 2016. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 51 Lastly, new more energy-efficient systems in a few plants, The emission of CO2 substantially decreased in both Plans for further investments have been made in the area for which large investments and extensive preparations are absolute and relative terms in 2016 compared with 2015. of energy efficiency, especially at the Shelby plant in the required, will commence operations somewhat later than This was attributable to all activities described hereinafter. USA and the Malente plant in Germany. In addition, the rolloriginally planned. The fact that gas consumption and power In 2016, also new contracts were entered into with gas out of ISO 50001 certification and the LED projects to other consumption are moving in the opposite direction is due to suppliers that are aimed at ensuring supplies of CO2-neutral plants over the next few years should result in further the start-up of a number of heating and power systems that gas. improvements. On this basis, Kendrion expects to achieve use more gas on a comparative basis. further substantial reductions in energy consumption and Activities and investments CO2 emissions in 2017; however, achieving the 3-year target Emissions Kendrion has invested more than EUR 2.5 million in energyof a relative reduction of 25% compared to 2014 is still quite The CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas efficient systems for the largest plants in recent years, most a challenge. Protocol) from the company’s plants in Germany, Austria, with short payback periods. These investments include the the Czech Republic, Suzhou (China), Sibiu (Romania), installation of new combined heating and power systems in Alternative energy sources Shelby and Mishawaka (USA) can be presented as shown various plants, compressors and LED light projects. In 2016, In Austria, Kendrion’s plant in Eibiswald uses a district in the table below. Kendrion once again devoted a great deal of effort to the heating system based on biomass and/or solar heat. reduction of production-line energy consumption in and Kendrion will look for further opportunities in this area. around the workplace, for example by a more efficient use of air-conditioning systems. LED lighting projects were also Transport expanded to several more plants. Kendrion has decided to focus in its Taking Responsibility programme on Scope 1 and Scope 2 of the Greenhouse Δ% Δ% Gas Protocol relating to the direct production process. Energy consumption1 2016 2015 (2016/2015) (2016/2014) On the basis of current estimates, this comprises the vast Power kWh 25,562,201 27,558,646 (7.2) (12.8) majority of the CO2 emissions. In preparation for a new Fuel oil kWh2 758,093 888,687 (14.7) (46.7) programme containing targets for 2018 and beyond, Natural gas kWh 11,597,007 11,800,635 (1.7) 28.4 Kendrion will seek to identify and assess emissions connected with travel and transport. Δ% Δ% Energy consumption per EUR million added value 2016 2015 (2016/2015) (2016/2014) Power kWh 128,143 138,045 (7.2) (14.3) Fuel oil kWh 3,800 4,452 (14.6) (47.6) Natural gas kWh 58,135 59,111 (1.7) 26.3 Δ% Δ% CO2 emissions 2016 2015 (2016/2015) (2016/2014) Absolute emissions, tonnes 7,187 12,452 (42.3) (42.3) Relative emissions, tonnes / million EUR added value 36.0 62.4 (42.3) (43.2) 1 See for reporting periods, definitions, conversion factors and scope pages 166 and 167 of this Report. 2 Conversion 1 kWh=0.099 ltr. WHY ELECTROMAGNETICS MATTERS 52 CASE AUTOMOTIVE Annual Report 2016 Strategic piston-cooling valve for the automotive market One of Kendrion’s flagship products is the piston-cooling valve for the passenger car market. Unlike most of the company’s products, Kendrion developed this specific solution independently and can therefore offer it to a range of customers worldwide. The solenoid valve as such is generic and only needs small adaptations for smooth integration within the application of any OEM. Kendrion’s valve regulates the oil flow for cooling the piston. By generating the optimum temperature conditions, it enhances efficiency and consequently helps reduce energy consumption and CO2 emissions and extends the lifespan of the engine. The small outer dimensions of the product are combined with a very high oil flow and minimal pressure losses in the valve. Kendrion’s piston-cooling valve is compact and light but robust at the same time. ‘We have just acquired another project for a German OEM and many more are in the pipeline,’ says Passenger Cars Global Sales Director Thomas Brodbek. ‘Our market and product know-how have enabled us to design and develop an innovative and highly cost-effective product, which is relatively easy to assemble. The first valves will be manufactured here in Europe but, depending on demand, can also be produced in China or the USA.’ SIMPLIFY A number of metal parts have been replaced by plastic components in the generic design of the piston-cooling valve, which enhances efficiency and reduces weight and size. FOCUS By focusing on the piston-cooling valve for the automotive market – a crucial part of the engine – Kendrion strengthens its global market positions and attracts new customers. GROW The piston-cooling valve is a new and promising product for smooth integration into new types of engines or evolutions of existing types for many OEMs around the world. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 53 Business ethics and compliance Other internal regulations Kendrion has implemented internal regulations to prevent Target 2016 Result Target 2017 insider trading which were updated as a consequence of the introduction of the Market Abuse Directive mid 2016. Effective compliance programme implemented ■■ Complete and effective compliance programme In 2016, Kendrion further introduced a data protection and (including trainings, third party risk assessment functioning in each plant 0% 100% privacy policy in Germany. In the light of new regulations and external speak-up line) ■■ Updated privacy and data protection policy adopted in various jurisdictions, Kendrion will also review the need to introduce such internal regulations in other parts of the group in 2017. Ethical culture in corruption can result in damage to and the loss of the ‘CELEBRATING A LONG-TERM BUSINESS Kendrion believes it is important that all activities at the reputation of Kendrion, the management and employees. RELATIONSHIP WITH KENDRION INDUSTRIAL company are conducted with integrity and aims to foster and An AB&C policy was implemented, as well as further DRIVE SYSTEMS’ promote a culture in which this is a given. Besides the ‘tone at measures including the performance of risk analyses and Moog India and Kendrion: the top’, Kendrion has a set of internal policies and procedures due diligence on new business partners. in place which contribute to ensuring this ethical culture. Mr Kunder Janardhana (Senior Manager Supply Chain): ‘Our company Moog Competition compliance policy in Bangalore, India is an international producer of servomotors for wind Code of Conduct Infringement of competition regulations is detrimental to the energy systems. At our recent annual supplier meeting we honoured and Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its operation of the market and can lead to damage or losses celebrated the long-term partnership and close cooperation between Kendrion organisation that applies to all Kendrion staff. The principles for Kendrion and its employees. Kendrion introduced a and our company. With our unique high torque brake motors we are one of the and best practices established in this Code reflect the main competition compliance policy in 2015. It is aimed at making world’s leading suppliers in our field and continuously set new standards in values that need to guide Kendrion’s staff. The core themes employees aware of restrictions with a view to competition servomotors, servo controllers and backup systems. Kendrion produces our include market position, authorities, corporate social when dealing with suppliers, competitors and customers. high torque brakes and has been involved in thousands of our wind energy responsibility, accountability in general, and the obligation installations in cold climate and offshore areas. Kendrion, with its specialised for due care regarding safety and health, the environment, Training and awareness skills and expertise, is an essential part of our success and contributes to and social interests. Kendrion promotes compliance with the Online compliance training courses for AB&C and a more sustainable society.’ Code of Conduct by continually bringing the Code to the competition compliance are offered. Several hundred attention of (new) managers and staff in their own language. employees followed the course in recent years. From time to time, Kendrion organises additional workshops for Anti-Bribery & Corruption policy (AB&C) management to discuss developments or dilemmas. Kendrion is committed to combating corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Kendrion’s Code of Conduct also devotes specific attention to this issue. Corruption obstructs or impedes economic development and results in an unequal distribution of wealth. In addition, involvement CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 54 Annual Report 2016 Reporting mechanisms; speak-up procedure laid down in the Speak-Up Procedure. This None of the measures provide any guarantee that no cases procedure offers Kendrion’s employees an opportunity to of fraud or corruption will arise. If there is any case, or any report irregularities or suspicions without jeopardising their suspicion, then Kendrion will respond appropriately via the (legal) position. Any such report gives rise to an internal investigation protocol the company has developed for this investigation. In 2016, an external hotline was introduced. purpose. This will give employees an additional means of submitting such reports in their own language by phone or via Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are a computer. Kendrion has also appointed Confidential encouraged to enter into discussions with those directly Counsellors whom employees can contact to make involved or with their supervisor. When this is not feasible confidential reports of (suspicions of) irregularities. or fails to achieve results, then they may make use of the No irregularities were reported in 2016. SAFE WORKPLACES Best practice in Health & Safety (Passenger Cars, Austria) Communities Safety audits: New employees starting work are instructed Strong communities scholarships have been awarded to students of technical on safety and are tested on all safety aspects. A safety audit Kendrion intends to engage in community investment faculties in need of financial support. At least half of the is carried out every month. An external auditor comes in and initiatives. The right approach to community investment can selected students are female, as girls and women are checks all safety-related aspects on the basis of company-wide contribute to long-term improvements in the quality of life at an even bigger structural disadvantage. checklists. Adjustments and improvements are made when of local communities in a way that is both sustainable and necessary. supportive of the company's business objectives. Kendrion Kendrion Foundation Once a year we carry out safety evaluations and run checks on is convinced that economic activity especially can contribute In 2017 Kendrion expects to incorporate the Kendrion ergonomics, handling, the use and positioning of robots, etc. greatly to such improvement. Foundation. The Kendrion Foundation will reward community All results are monitored on a big display chart in the plant, investment initiatives by the operating companies in the form indicating the number of days without accidents or incidents. Charitable donations of practical and financial support based on specific criteria. Kendrion was responsible for more than 30 sponsoring Added value: Status as per 31 December 2016: 972 days activities and donations to charitable funds in 2016, without accidents or injuries. including local Red Cross organisations, support for a number of scientific activities and education for children. Corporate Community Investment Project India In 2012 Kendrion launched a project to enable deprived young people in India to follow a technical education together with the College of Engineering in Pune, the city where the Kendrion plant is located. Since then, eight CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 55 Our People Recruiting process Kendrion staff worldwide Kendrion operates in markets where there is a shortage of Kendrion's employees are the company's most valuable skilled engineers and other specialists. Kendrion’s operating resource. It is essential for Kendrion to attract and retain companies intensified their presence and marketing in the right people. The company aims to provide a motivating, schools, universities and HR fairs and increased their safe and attractive working environment for employees. PR activities. A new career opportunities website and This leads to improved performance and stability for an application tool were implemented. This was aimed at Kendrion. It offers employees a good income, a productive increasing the recognition of Kendrion’s employer brand. occupation and well-being. Flexibility of staffing The HR activities can be summarised as shown in Kendrion is convinced that companies which are most the diagram below. successful in adapting to rapidly changing circumstances QUICK AND RELIABLE ALCOHOL have the best prospects for the future. This is why Kendrion LIMITS Competitive and engaged workforce devotes a great deal of effort to incorporating flexibility in its It is of key importance to find the right people with the right staffing and staffing costs, which may include fixed-term capabilities. Further, Kendrion firmly believes that diversity contracts, temps, part-time solutions and shift models. Product: Miniaturised solenoid for an alcohol detector which improves the quality of collaboration and decision-making. Kendrion works closely with its works councils to discover quickly and reliably determines whether alcohol limits have been new ways to keep costs as flexible as possible. The company exceeded. actively monitors the flexibility of each business unit. Customer: Dräger, a leading international company in the fields of medical and safety technology. Kendrion solution: Human breath blown into the alcohol detector enters a magnetically operated bellows from where a Competitive and Attraction & Ready small amount is transported into a special chamber. A special engaged workforce Satisfaction for the future sensor in the chamber determines the ethanol (alcohol) content of the air. The bellows are actuated by a miniaturised solenoid which is extremely durable and optimised to allow efficient battery operation. Added value: High switching cycles, plunger with optimised geometry matching the bellows, extended temperature Professional HR Organisation range –45°C up to +80°C. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 56 Annual Report 2016 Diversity of equal importance. Kendrion promotes the formation Kendrion attaches importance to achieving diversity in of a workforce and management that reflects the various ways, for example with respect to nationalities, composition of the local population as closely as possible. cultures and gender. This diversity promotes better decisionThe company’s home market, Germany, and also the USA, making and the exchange of intercultural experience and have, in particular, implemented detailed and stringent antiideas. In 2016, Kendrion had employees of at least 40 discrimination legislation. Anti-discrimination officers have nationalities. 50% of all Kendrion’s employees are women. been appointed where necessary. No reports of incidents The percentage of women in key management positions of discrimination were made in 2016. in Kendrion’s operating companies is still relatively low. Kendrion advocates the appointment of more highly qualified Attraction & Satisfaction women to company management positions. When recruiting Motivated and satisfied employees are essential to ensure AAAAA AWARD CHINA staff for management positions, Kendrion expressly future success. That is why Kendrion focuses on competitive endeavours to search for highly qualified women by means remuneration, good labour conditions and staff satisfaction. which include intensive contact with universities. However, Kendrion expects this will also help to attract new employees the number of women who are following or have followed and students to work for Kendrion. Award: AAAAA status credible employer certification a technical education and are available for management positions in the company is low. Remuneration Company: Kendrion (Suzhou) Co. Ltd, China Kendrion offers its employees attractive remuneration In the Netherlands, legislation is in force to provide for the packages that are in line with the local market and based Background: In 2015 the Chinese Suzhou Labour Security balanced participation of men and women in the on job-specific requirements, without applying any Bureau awarded Kendrion in Suzhou, China the AAAA level management and supervision of ‘large’ public and private differentiation between men and women. A bonus scheme credible employer certification. Only a few companies in Suzhou limited liability companies. Balanced participation is deemed has been implemented for top management that is based on (which has more than 10 million inhabitants) have received this to exist when at least 30% of the seats are held by men the company’s performance and on individual performance certification. In 2016, the Suzhou plant was able to further improve and at least 30% by women. Kendrion’s Supervisory Board targets. These also include CSR targets. Kendrion has also and was awarded one more ‘A’, receiving the AAAAA status. reflects this gender balance; its Executive Board does not. implemented a share scheme for senior management. The imbalance in the Executive Board is partly due to Strategic relevance: The company received this standard for the limited number of members. In accordance with the Staff satisfaction being a harmonious and social company without employee Netherlands Corporate Governance Code 2016, Kendrion Kendrion has implemented a variety of staff loyalty measures complaints, no labour issues and positive employee survey results. will implement a diversity policy that includes the at all its plants worldwide. These measures range from The competitive advantage gained from this certification makes Management Team. individual support to specific programmes and opportunities it possible for Kendrion to become an employer of choice and to the benefit of all Kendrion employees. attract the best people. Kendrion does not tolerate discrimination by gender, race, religious denomination, remuneration or any other means when hiring new staff or in dealings with staff in positions CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 57 Target 2016 Result Target 2017 Staff satisfaction survey in at least 3 more major plants Staff satisfaction survey introduced in all plants (except for small locations) 0% 100% At least 70% score of survey for each plant At least 75% score of survey for each plant 0% 100% Review diversity policy Effective diversity policy implemented 0% 100% ‘A GREAT EXPERIENCE, PERSONALLY AND PROFESSIONALLY’ Mats-Ole Hansing, trainee at Kendrion Kuhnke Automotive: In order to measure the company’s staff satisfaction properly, Kendrion is endeavouring to ensure that employees do not ‘I am a trainee at Kendrion Kuhnke in Malente, Northern Germany. In an Kendrion launched a group-wide employee satisfaction need to choose between ‘family or Kendrion’ but rather can exciting cross-regional trainee exchange, I spent some time working at survey for the next few years. In recent years, at least 80% of focus on ‘family and Kendrion’. Kendrion Markdorf in the South of the country. It was a great experience the total workforce participated in staff satisfaction surveys. during which I could expand my expertise, especially in the field of The aim for 2017 is a further increase in the number of Employee representation mechanics. One of my jobs was to dismantle and refurbish angular participating group companies and to reach at least a 75% Works councils or employee representatives that have been gearboxes to make them fully functional again. My traineeship at Kendrion, group-wide satisfaction score. The three-year Taking installed at Kendrion’s largest operating companies in both in Malente and in Markdorf, has helped me to grow as a person and Responsibility plan aims at involving all operating companies Germany, Romania and Austria are, in accordance with as a professional. And as far as I am concerned, the exchange programme in the process and this will also create good benchmark the local labour legislation, involved in a wide range of is both a privilege and a really great opportunity for young people.’ opportunities. Appropriate action will be taken based on the employment, health & safety and social issues. About 60% outcome of the surveys. of all Kendrion employees are represented by these works councils and employee representatives. Approximately 1,400 Family and career of the contracts of employment in Germany and Austria are Kendrion continually strives to improve the compatibility of its governed by or follow the collective bargaining agreements employees’ work and family commitments. The company has, for the metal industry in the respective countries. In general, for example, introduced flexible working hours for employees Kendrion has a good relationship with the works councils who need to care for family members. As far as possible, and the trade unions. Kendrion offers individualised work schedule solutions to certain employees with young children who need day care. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 58 Annual Report 2016 Ready for the future The development of managers is supported by various Professional HR organisation Management development processes including annual performance appraisal Kendrion’s HR organisation is decentralised and local Kendrion assigns high priority to management development. interviews in which the managers’ targets and duties are management bears the responsibility for the local HR The corporate management development programme reviewed and they receive feedback on their performance. In activities within specified guidelines. A number of duties is supported by the Kendrion Executive Programme, addition, managers participate in an individual development are coordinated on a central level by the international HR a customised, international, modular programme in which assessment. department which is located in Villingen, Germany. the company collaborates with the Rotterdam School These duties relate primarily to the (development of) senior of Management. Two three-day modules are organised Kendrion has implemented a web-based tool that will management, succession planning and the improvement each year. The subjects covered by the programme are support top management succession planning. It includes, of opportunities for recruitment. communication and leadership, sales and marketing, among other things, a global database of the top 50 strategy, production and logistics, HR and project managers and the High Potential participants and describes The international HR department monitors developments management. The programme also constitutes an important personal development topics and needs. in trends and regulations and tries to translate these into platform for exchanges of experience between the (senior) policies and tools for the organisation as well as further management and for the further expansion of collaboration training for the HR officers in the operating companies. between the various operating companies. Personnel: key figures 2016 2015 It is also important for Kendrion to develop talented Total number of employees at 31 December 2,668 2,730 employees for future management roles. This is why the Number of women in permanent employment 1,154 1,192 company implemented the ‘Kendrion High Potential Number of men in permanent employment 1,199 1,239 Programme’ in 2012. This is a modular training programme Number of employees with a fixed-term contract 315 299 covering a period of three years. The first group of fifteen Number of permanent and temporary employees at 31 December (FTE) 2,578 2,658 selected high-potential employees graduated in 2015. The Number of direct employees (FTE) 1,320 1,360 second group will finish their training programme at the end Number of indirect employees (FTE) 1,180 1,213 of 2017. Number of temporary employees (FTE) 78 85 Average age of all employees 41.9 41.8 Almost every year a group of non-financial officers follows Average number of years’ service 11.1 10.8 a course in finance. This course, which is customised, Average rate of absenteeism per employee (%) 2.6% 2.5% covers issues that are important to Kendrion, such as Influx percentage (%) 15% 12% risk management, investment decisions, working capital Departure percentage (%) 17% 15% management and planning and control. In addition, Wage costs per FTE (EUR) 47,552 47,440 the various business units have implemented training Training costs (as a % of wage costs) 0.7% 0.8% programmes at all levels in the organisation. The average hours of training per employee was 20 in 2016. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 59 More and more web-based tools are used to collect data Kendrion devotes a great deal of attention to internal The importance Kendrion attaches to a good social policy and to measure improvements. communication of its strategy, corresponding plans of action is also demonstrated by the company’s accession to the and progress towards strategic goals. Kendrion’s corporate UN Global Compact that includes labour principles relating The HR department also focuses on closer cooperation magazine ‘Magnetised’ is published for all staff three times to the working conditions of employees. Labour standards, between the operating companies to improve exchanges a year. including health & safety promotion, education, absenteeism and enable colleagues to benefit from each other’s and staff satisfaction, are also key elements of the Corporate knowledge and skills. The progress of the CSR targets is monitored by the Social Responsibility programme 2015 2017 ‘Taking (HR representative in the) CSR Board together with Responsibility’. the international HR department. Health & safety Target 2016 Result Target 2017 Accidents/Lost Time Injuries Kendrion’s continuous attention to the safety of the Less accidents compared to 2015 10 per 1,000 FTE production processes has enabled the company to limit the number of accidents in recent years. The total number of 0% 100% accidents and Lost Time Injuries (LTI) at Kendrion in recent Absenteeism rate on comparable level and not above Absenteeism on comparable level and not above 4% years is shown in the table on page 60. 4% in each plant in each plant 0% 90% The total number of accidents was 37, which is a decrease of four accidents compared to the number in 2015 which was 41. Currently, Kendrion's number of accidents is below the relevant German industry benchmarks. There have been Kendrion’s approach Due to Kendrion’s decentralised organisation, responsibility no fatal accidents at work in recent years. Kendrion, however, Kendrion regards a healthy and safe working environment for health & safety is directly at company level, except for will maintain safety as a priority and will continue to pay as one of the basic rights of its employees. Virtually all of a few centrally-coordinated procedures. In addition, best considerable attention to reducing this figure. Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most practices are shared, for instance through workshops. stringent quality and safety requirements. The requirements The CSR Board provides further support to the companies. include the appointment of safety officers, the periodic training of employees in health & safety issues and the Accidents and absenteeism are monitored daily on a local conduct of safety audits. level and centrally on a monthly basis. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 60 Annual Report 2016 Total number of accidents* Lost Time Injury* Absenteeism rate (Days) (in %) On way Total At work to work 2013 2.8 2014 50 42 8 2014 506 2014 2.3 2015 41 29 12 2015 863 2015 2.5 2016 37 30 7 2016 418 2016 2.6 Analysis of the nature and circumstances of the accidents same level in future years, whereby the rate should not be smoking’ courses. Kendrion promotes the roll-out of this shows no indications of systemic shortcomings in the above 4% for each individual plant. This target was achieved to other plants in the coming years. This is also the case with employees’ safety or working conditions. Kendrion’s objective in 2016 in almost all plants. A low absenteeism rate is an initiative in which employees are offered an opportunity is to further reduce the total number of accidents at its plants indicative of healthier employees and an agreeable working to receive an influenza vaccination during working hours. to 10 per 1,000 FTE in 2017, ultimately bringing it down to environment. zero as a mindset. In 2016, employees at various plants were able to participate A lower rate also results in less stress for the colleagues of in an annual health day that offered them a general health Achievement of this objective is measured on a monthly employees on sick leave and lower costs for the company. check (blood pressure, diabetes, etc.). Other examples of basis and is followed by an evaluation of the cause of measures include training courses designed to avoid back every accident to review the feasibility of implementing Kendrion will also endeavour to achieve this objective complaints, ergonomic advice and grants to attend a gym at improvements in safety procedures, working methods and by adopting an individual approach. When the absenteeism various locations. In addition to the aforementioned initiatives, production lines. The work has included the implementation rate of specific departments or employees is relatively high, Kendrion also frequently organises social events such as of the 5S philosophy whose objective is clean and safely Kendrion will conduct individual discussions with those sports activities designed to strengthen the relationships with organised workplaces in substantially all plants, except directly involved and implement measures designed to and between its employees. These programmes will be for some smaller sales entities. ensure that the employees recover as quickly as possible continued and extended where needed in 2017. and return to work. The outcome of employee satisfaction The LTI (Lost Time Injury rate), which is time lost due to surveys of companies and their departments are also accidents, was substantially lower than in 2015. compared with the absenteeism rates in order to discover patterns that need to be addressed. Absenteeism Kendrion’s overall absenteeism rate was 2.6% in 2016, Health programmes which is relatively low for the company’s type of industrial Many Kendrion companies have implemented programmes operations and geographical spread, and comparable to last to promote their employees’ health. Examples of this are year. The objective is to retain the rate at approximately the the availability of fresh fruit and mineral water and free ‘stop * See for definitions and external assurance pages 166 and 167 of this Report. WHY ELECTROMAGNETICS MATTERS CASE AUTOMOTIVE Annual Report 2016 61 Damper systems Kendrion’s cornerstone for sustainable growth Kendrion developed its first damper systems for ThyssenKrupp Bilstein in 2002 in Villingen (Germany) and started manufacturing in Prostějov (Czech Republic) in 2003. Now, almost 15 years later, the strategic decision to go ahead with the damper business proves to have been an excellent choice. With production locations in Prostějov and since last year in Eibiswald, Kendrion’s innovative and powertrain-independent damper products have become a major cornerstone of the company’s success. In the case of petrol and diesel cars, the active damping system helps reduce CO2 emissions because of continuous, driving-behaviour-related damping adjustments. In this way Kendrion’s damper solutions contribute to attaining ever-stricter government-issued CO2 targets and maximising comfort and safety. The Kendrion plants already produce millions of damper systems for a growing number of global premium customers and the future looks bright. The local teams are preparing to raise the line capacity and to launch new damper projects in 2017 and 2018. Investments will be made to enhance automation and production process robustness to meet growing customer expectations. SIMPLIFY Kendrion’s damper systems are manufactured at two locations. Growing volumes make this an attractive product for other plants too. Kendrion Prostějov and Eibiswald have built up important assets for the further growth of this promising business. FOCUS Valuable engineering know-how, flexibility, deep product knowledge, a proven track record and constant focus on customer benefits secure a strong market position for Kendrion’s damper products. GROW Damper systems are needed in every car, whether it is diesel, petrol, electric, hybrid or fuel cell. Active damper technology helps reduce CO2 emissions and is therefore an important growth market for Kendrion. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 62 Annual Report 2016 Risks and risk management Background The risk-reward appetite can be specified in the following terms: Kendrion promotes local entrepreneurship at its companies and, consequently, offers scope to the management to Risk category Kendrion’s risk-reward appetite exercise the associated discretionary powers. Kendrion Strategic risks Moderate: strike appropriate balance between risk and reward actively conveys the essential need to maintain a healthy Operational risks Moderate: align targets and the related costs, focus on sustainable profit maximisation equilibrium between entrepreneurial spirit and the extent to Financial reporting risks Low: full compliance with financial reporting rules and regulations, transparency which risks are accepted. Adequate risk management is an Compliance and fraud risks Low: full compliance with the relevant legislation and regulations integral element of good business practice. When risks are made visible Kendrion’s managers can implement adequate measures in their everyday management that offer them Kendrion has a responsibility to put internal controls and Kendrion employs a structured risk management framework optimum control of the risks. Kendrion’s risk management is procedures into place and test them to verify their adequate that reveals the various elements of risk management and not intended to eliminate all risks entirely: seeking business performance. Local management is expected to be fully the relationship between the elements. Kendrion’s objective opportunities is not without risks. Kendrion’s objective is aware of the operating risks and the necessity for internal is to avoid duplication within separate systems whenever to adopt an approach to business risks that minimises control procedures. Kendrion has devoted structural possible. Links are made, when this is worthwhile, between surprises and the impact of any surprises that nevertheless attention to the optimisation of the risk management and systems where they interact. The factors that underpin the occur, while always taking into account the necessary control system as part of the everyday decision-making. quality of the risk management framework are integrity, balance between risk exposure and costs. Kendrion’s riskThe Executive Board wishes to emphasise that risk business ethics and the staff’s expertise, the management reward appetite is periodically evaluated by the Executive management and control systems – no matter how style and the manner in which authorisations and Board and shared and discussed with the Supervisory professional they may be – can neither offer absolute responsibilities are delegated and monitored by the Board, the Executive Board and the Management Team. guarantees that the company’s objectives shall be achieved management. The Executive Board balances business opportunities with nor entirely prevent material errors, loss, fraud, or violations the expectations of shareholders, employees, regulators of laws or regulations. and other stakeholders. RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 63 Enterprise Risk Management Kendrion’s approach to the company’s risk management is laid down in the Enterprise Risk Management Framework as shown in the following illustration: ■■ Quarterly evaluation per business unit STRATEGIC & OPERATIONAL ■■ Quality systems ■■ Risk management survey BUSINESS RISK RISK ■■ Safety & health; environment ■■ Yearly strategic update MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT ■■ Hedging against commodity price risk STRATEGY ■■ Monitoring & hedging financial market risk ■■ Insurance ■■ IT governance ■■ Quarterly evaluation per business unit SIMPLIFY FOCUS GROW ■■ Group Reporting Manuals ■■ Group Reporting Committee ■■ Compliance procedures ■■ Monthly closing procedures ■■ Reporting & disclosures ■■ Internal control procedures ■■ Legal counseling ■■ Audits (external & internal) FINANCIAL COMPLIANCE ■■ Internal audits ■■ Monthly review cycle with business unit REPORTING & REGULATORY ■■ Training management RISK MANAGEMENT ■■ Speak-up line RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 64 Annual Report 2016 Control environment and financial reporting risk Speak-Up Procedure Group Reporting Manual management in the year under review Kendrion offers employees an opportunity to report Kendrion has implemented a Group Reporting Manual Control environment irregularities or suspicions without jeopardising their (legal) governing all operating companies to provide for correct The Executive Board is responsible for the control position. Any such report gives cause to an internal financial reporting. The Manual is continually updated. To environment including internal risk management and control investigation. In 2016, an external hotline was introduced. this end the company has implemented measures including systems, and for the optimum management of the strategic, This gives employees an additional means of submitting the formation of the Kendrion Group Reporting Committee, operational, financial, tax and reporting risks confronting such reports in their own language by phone or via a with representatives from the operating companies. Kendrion. The internal risk management and control systems computer in a confidential manner if they so choose. Reporting sets are standardised based on a standard Chart extend to issues including culture, policy-making, processes, Kendrion also appointed Confidential Counsellors whom of Accounts. A Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting duties, influencing conduct and other aspects of the employees can contact if they wish to make confidential Manual has also been implemented to ensure correct nonorganisation that jointly provide for the achievement reports about (suspicions of) irregularities. No irregularities financial reporting. of targets and the prevention or timely identification of were reported in 2016. potentially material errors, loss, fraud, or infringement Planning and control cycle of legislation and regulations. Regulations to prevent insider trading Insight into Kendrion’s performance is obtained from the Kendrion has implemented regulations to prevent insider monthly reports of the current figures submitted by all the During the year under review the major elements and trading which were updated as a consequence of the operating companies, weekly cash forecasts and daily foundations of Kendrion’s internal risk management and introduction of the Market Abuse Directive in the summer consolidated revenue reports. In the summer of each year, control systems were as follows: of 2016. These regulations include a prohibition on dealing Kendrion starts preparing a Mid-term Plan which is finalised in Kendrion’s shares in the period prior to the publication in the fourth quarter. In 2016 the planning horizon of the MidCode of Conduct of the quarterly, half-yearly and annual figures. term Plan was extended from three to five years. This plan Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its provides insight into the strategic course of the companies organisation that applies to all Kendrion staff, including Rules and Regulations and Letters of Representation and business units. the Supervisory Board. The principles and best practices Kendrion employs Rules and Regulations and Letters of established in this Code reflect the main values that need Representation. The Rules and Regulations constitute rules The Mid-term Plan is accompanied by a more detailed to guide Kendrion’s staff in the performance of their duties. of behaviour governing all Kendrion Managing Directors. annual budget to provide a precise management tool. The core themes include market position, authorities, gifts, The Letters of Representation are submitted once a quarter, A complete forecast prepared each quarter offers insight anti-bribery, corporate social responsibility, accountability in a bottom-up procedure, ultimately to Kendrion’s CFO. into financial expectations until the end of the year, and in general, and the obligation for due care regarding safety All officers are required to sign the letter to confirm to their updates the expected performance against the budget. and health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion managers that the financial and non-financial information Assessment and follow-up on the progress, development of promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct by they have reported is correct and complete and no violations key performance indicators and deviations from shortand continually bringing the Code to the attention of (new) of regulations and the Kendrion Code of Conduct with long-term targets are held at various levels in the managers and staff. Kendrion also has a Supplier Code of material impact occurred. organisation. Kendrion has implemented a Conduct in place to address the above themes in the supply chain. RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 65 capital expenditure procedure which makes use of standard Supervisory Board gave its view and input on the potential Compliance & regulation investment request forms. Executive Board approval is risks and the final results of the risk management survey. Kendrion must comply with the local legislation and required for new projects with planned annual revenue in The risk assessment is evaluated at periodic intervals in regulations in all countries in which the company is active. excess of EUR 1 million to test return on investment, payback terms of relevance and mitigating actions. The responsibility for compliance rests with the local period and cash flows. Executive Board approval is also management. Kendrion introduced a Legal & Compliance required for capital investments in excess of EUR 100,000. Operational risk management framework in 2015. Transactions and affairs that could be Kendrion’s companies make active use of quality systems of influence on the legal structure of the Kendrion group Periodic reports and meetings designed to improve the processes. Virtually all companies companies and material claims should be addressed at Regular discussions in weekly conference calls between the have been awarded ISO certification, and possess the corporate level. Strict rules for the legal and insurance review Executive Board, the Management Team and similar reviews relevant safety and quality certificates. of material contracts are prescribed. Kendrion obtains within the business units address the risks and internal risk advice from external legal experts to acquire timely management system. Each business unit submits a Financial reporting risk management information about the latest developments in the legislation comprehensive written report at least once a quarter which The controllers’ regular duties include the structured and regulations. Kendrion has also arranged for liability provides details about the financial and operational situation management of financial reporting risks. Pursuant to this insurance at corporate level to protect the companies and (to which CSR has been added in 2016) and the status of duty the controllers periodically monitor the organisation’s their Managing Directors from possible claims. The Legal & any current claims and proceedings, where relevant. implementation of and compliance with control measures, Compliance framework includes internal legal & compliance i.e. monitor the use of control measures as an integrated audits conducted from time to time at the operating Strategic and business risk management element of the Group’s operations. Kendrion has also companies to investigate issues including compliance with In 2016, the Executive Board together with the senior implemented corporate guidelines that specify the monthly local legislation and regulations. management of the holding, business units and operating closing procedures and the controls to be performed. companies conducted a risk survey which reviewed over Kendrion has an internal audit programme (KiC: Kendrion-inKendrion has also adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption forty potential risks that Kendrion might be confronted with in Control) to determine the effectiveness of Kendrion’s control (AB&C) policy. This policy encompasses issues including the relation to the company’s strategic objectives. All participants framework. Companies with an annual revenue of more than periodic performance of risk assessments, due diligence, were also requested to add additional potential risks based EUR 15 million are audited at least once a year. Companies communication and training. Kendrion has introduced an on their own experience and expertise. Each risk was scored with annual revenue of less than EUR 15 million are audited online compliance training, which is compulsory for all staff on perceived likelihood, impact and vulnerability. Based on at least once every two years. The internal audits encompass working in purchasing, sales, management and for some a multiplication of the scores and an evaluation per risk, a the revenue and accounts receivable, the purchases and other specific officers. An additional policy for competition top ten of risks per participant was calculated. This initial accounts payable, inventories, fixed assets, human law compliance, including online training for relevant staff, result of the survey was discussed with business unit resources and (tax) compliance reporting cycles. The was introduced in 2016. Several sales teams within the Management Teams based on their experience and internal audits also include procedures relating to fraud risks. Kendrion Group had contract training during 2016. professional judgment in order to establish the main risks for Kendrion. The final results were extensively discussed with the Supervisory Board. During this discussion the RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 66 Annual Report 2016 Strategic and business risks moderate. In view of the pressure imposed on prices in this Pressure from large customers and customer dependency Kendrion’s strategic and business risks identified are competitive market, especially high technological solutions Kendrion has a wide range of customers in various markets reviewed below. The most important risks selected based are essential to realise opportunities for profitability. and, consequently, the company’s dependency on a small on the final outcome of the risk management survey are: number of large customers is relatively low. The customer 1. Increased competition; The company carries out innovative projects in close concentration in Automotive is higher than in Industrial. 2. Technological substitution; consultation with its customers, an approach which Kendrion Losing one of the large customers in Automotive would have 3.Pressure from large customers and customer also perceives as contributing to the company’s provision a high impact and, in the absence of compensatory dependency; of added value. However, new technologies and innovations measures, would be detrimental to Kendrion's growth 4. Non-performing Information Systems and data security; in the market environment could result in the imposition objective and profitability. The likelihood of this happening 5. Volatile economic conditions; of changed requirements on Kendrion’s products and is however low to moderate as Kendrion is a technologically 6. Attraction and retention of qualified staff. operations. Although this would offer the company advanced player which offers tailor-made customer solutions opportunities it could also result in the risk of being unable whose development times and costs are usually high. Increased competition and technological substitution to meet the requirements or lagging in developing new Kendrion endeavours to minimise its vulnerability by ensuring Kendrion faces competition from peers, in some cases from solutions. Kendrion uses a number of tools to strengthen that single customers do not normally generate more than competing technologies and on some occasions also from innovative development in its operations. 5% of Kendrion’s total revenues. Three customers (potential) customers. If Kendrion were to lose its competitive Kendrion’s strategy to localise production as much as is (Volkswagen Group, Thyssenkrupp Bilstein and Daimler) edge in relation to these parties and competing feasible reduces its vulnerability to risks from competitive each generate more than 5% of the consolidated revenues. technologies, it would lessen Kendrion’s ability to achieve its shifts resulting from exchange rate movements and changes Apart from the risks related to large customer accounts, profitability and growth targets. Furthermore, Kendrion could in export or import restrictions. Although Kendrion's main large customers provide opportunities for accelerating become unable to offer its markets or customers the focus is on technological leadership, it also actively manages (international) growth. It is also easier to justify R&D efforts solutions they need, due to the company’s inability to meet the cost price by exploiting low-cost production opportunities and investments for larger projects. customer requirements. This is a particularly important issue within the group as well as exploring alternative use of for Automotive. The impact on organic growth and materials and sources. profitability could be high: the likelihood and vulnerability are These risks are associated with Kendrion’s strategic objectives and could impact these objectives as follows: Expected organic EBITA margin 10% Dividend 30-50% Accelerate growth growth 5% as from end 2018 of net profit after 2018 Increased competition • • • Technological substitution • • • Pressure from large customers and customer dependency • • • Information Systems and data security • • Volatile economic conditions • • • • Attraction and retention of qualified staff • • RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 67 Kendrion’s main response to this risk is to actively pursue ■■ The development of solutions for customer requirements applications such as project management. The software is the reduction of single customer dependency by securing (such as EDI) and the integration of suppliers in the stable and Kendrion has the knowledge required for user projects from other large customers. Kendrion has been supply chain for Kendrion’s processes (supplier portals). support. In 2016, Kendrion’s Executive Board decided to successful in this respect during recent years which is implement an upgrade of the standardised ERP system. evidenced by the changes in the company’s large The implementation of new software, servers and network The migration to this upgrade is scheduled for the end customers’ share in consolidated revenue. systems can pose interruption risks that can in turn pose of the first quarter of 2017. major consequential risks (loss of orders, customers, or the Non-performing Information Systems (IS) and data security company’s reputation etc.). These implementations must be ERP implementations and upgrades are accompanied by Inadequate IS (including the infrastructure) could have based on best practice guidelines and common procedures high risks of business interruption. Kendrion has a big impact on the company’s business processes and, that include the following: implemented measures to minimise these risks by strict and consequently, the results. The likelihood and vulnerability are ■■ An adequate governance structure throughout the entire high-level governance that also extends to adequate project low to moderate as an adequate range of mitigating actions projects; management. has been taken. ■■ Thorough preparations; ■■ Balanced selection of financially strong suppliers; Volatile economic conditions The major IS risks include the risk of operation faults, ■■ Milestones and extensive cutover planning and reviews; A lack of adaptation to deteriorating economic conditions interruptions, loss of data, unauthorised system access and ■■ Audits for important go/no-go decisions; could be detrimental to Kendrion’s financial results and the cyber security. Information Systems are of importance to ■■ Business case analysis – internal and external company’s ability to achieve its strategic goals. The likelihood Kendrion, both in terms of the risks and business support. (benchmark against other companies); is high and vulnerability is moderate to low. Kendrion has Kendrion’s Executive Board and, in particular, the CFO bears ■■ End user acceptance and training. a flexible organisation to enable the company to ‘breathe’ the overall IS responsibility. Kendrion has implemented a with the economic tides. Flexibility not only relates to working corporate IS policy and strategy which extends to issues Infrastructure – Operating companies and Kendrion Group with temporary staff and focusing on the reduction of including: Services are supported by the group’s central IT department variable operating expenses, it also includes the ability ■■ The arrangements for IS decision-making and the in Villingen, Germany. This department sets and coordinates to communicate up-to-date financial information efficiently decisions that can be made at each level (central the service level agreements with suppliers such as to decision-makers throughout the organisation, make or local); application and network providers, security providers, justifiable insourcing and outsourcing decisions, adjust ■■ IT governance for system and data responsibility (master maintenance companies and suppliers of hardware and supplier contracts, implement performance-dependent data management); networks for the entire group. Kendrion works with highly employee benefits, work with flexible hour contracts and ■■ The arrangements for sourcing IS products and services skilled IT staff and reputable external and international IT make use of opportunities for the reduction of working hours for operating companies; suppliers. The servers are well protected against outsiders, in specific countries. ■■ The requirements to be met by the IS organisation in with firewall and unauthorised-access control. Appropriate serving the users as internal customers; procedures have also been implemented for regular backups Kendrion periodically carries out sensitivity analyses ■■ The performance of external information security audits; and disaster recovery of the data. to review the relationship between the decrease ■■ The measures that need to be implemented to mitigate in revenue and the operating result. risks, such as access security programmes, equipment Software application portfolio – Most operating companies backup and recovery, change management procedures, use a standardised ERP system, Microsoft Operating etc.; Systems (OS) and applications and software for specific RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 68 Annual Report 2016 These analyses are performed on the basis of a ‘top-down’ Other important risks approach with input from the business units. Strategic Operational Financial Project management Commodity markets Treasury Furthermore, Kendrion has a solid financial position and Intellectual property Product liability Tax sufficient financial resources to continue its investments in Environmental liabilities growth, both in terms of competent staff and appropriate production equipment. All accounts receivable departments and purchasing departments devote specific attention to the Strategic risks Intellectual Property (IP) financial position of the company’s customers and suppliers. Project management The high-grade technological know-how Kendrion has Adequate project management is essential if new products accrued regularly results in inventions that can be utilised Attraction and retention of qualified staff are to enter the production phase with success, and the risks to improve existing products or develop new high-quality People are Kendrion’s most important resource. A lack of associated with inadequate project management can exert products which in turn enable the company to obtain an skilled staff could have a high impact on most of the a significant effect on the results. edge on the competition. There is a risk of this know-how strategic objectives. The likelihood and vulnerability are leaking out or coming into the hands of the competition, moderate to high and, consequently, this is an important area Customers request the company to develop products which could ultimately put Kendrion’s leading position in for attention. Electromagnetic know-how is highly specific complying with specific functional requirements that can, jeopardy. and requires on-the-job-training. on occasion, come close to the limits of the technologically achievable. Project teams and the requisite disciplines Kendrion restricts this risk by the further development of Kendrion is making great efforts to mitigate this risk by taking assess the feasibility, since an incorrect estimation of the the company’s IP policy. Pursuant to one important element actions including the following: technical feasibility can result in the (potential) customer’s of this policy Kendrion applies for a patent for each of the ■■ The Kendrion Executive Programme for senior loss of confidence. For this reason the company is also company’s most important technological innovations. management at the Rotterdam School of Management, confronted with the risk that Kendrion’s engineers succeed Applications for patents of this nature may be submitted in which provides high-quality management training; in developing a technologically acceptable solution, but that the geographical areas in which the most important direct ■■ The HIPO programme for high potentials the customer nevertheless decides not to proceed with and indirect customers – and competitors – are located and (see page 58); Kendrion. In order to avoid such circumstances, Kendrion in which the applicable regulations and administration of ■■ Apprentice programmes at several companies; is continually aiming for sole suppliership. In general, justice offer an effective means of contesting patent ■■ Maintenance of good contacts with education institutes; the majority of the development costs are borne by the infringements. ■■ Various in house training programmes; customer, either in instalments during the development ■■ Health & safety programmes, good labour conditions and phase or as part of the selling price per unit. However, in In other instances the know-how acquired from projects staff satisfaction surveys, which are also part of the CSR spite of the compensation for the costs incurred, there is a for specific customers can be protected by concluding Programme ‘Taking Responsibility’. risk that engineering hours allocated to a customer do not generate new revenue when the customer ultimately decides Kendrion has additionally launched the implementation of not to select Kendrion’s product. a Succession Planning tool for Kendrion’s top management. The implementation of this tool will be finalised in the course of 2017. RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 69 confidentiality agreements with the relevant customers. As far as is feasible, Kendrion actively endeavours to Financial risks For this reason confidentiality agreements may also be increase the number of alternative sources for its most Treasury concluded with Kendrion developers. The development of important raw materials. Obviously, Kendrion aims to Please refer to pages 125 and following of the financial new products or submission of applications for patents is minimise the effects of price fluctuations on the group’s statements for an outline of Kendrion’s financial market risks accompanied by the risk of the infringement of third-party results. Whether or not this objective is feasible depends and the policy to mitigate these risks or their impact. IP rights. Any such infringement can result in the relevant on contractual clauses and on the market. Raw materials are third party claiming damages and filing a petition for an purchased separately by each business unit on the basis Tax injunction prohibiting the use of the technology in question. of their individual requirements but in accordance with the Kendrion’s operating companies have been granted a high Kendrion protects itself from this risk by cooperating with a group policy reviewed quarterly by the Strategic Purchasing degree of autonomy. In most countries the responsibility specialised patent agency. This agency carries out studies Board. This body was established to coordinate activities for accurate tax returns has been assigned to the local of potential infringements of Kendrion’s rights by third and exploit knowledge across business units and economies management, who receive assistance from reputable local parties and vice versa. of scale. tax consultants. Kendrion carries out an annual inventory at corporate level, in close collaboration with renowned Operational risks Product liability international tax consultants, to assess whether fiscal Commodity markets Claims under product liability can be detrimental to developments could have an effect on the company’s Kendrion’s results could suffer from the reduced availability Kendrion’s operations and operating results due to the subsidiaries. Corporate reviews of the tax expenses and tax of raw materials and fluctuations in their price. Steel and resultant damage to the company’s reputation. In addition positions of the company’s subsidiaries are carried out once copper are Kendrion’s most important raw materials, followed to all quality requirements and procedures, Kendrion has a quarter. Kendrion has developed and implemented a tax by permanent magnets. Raw materials are purchased from taken out liability insurance at group level for its operating compliance audit programme. This programme serves as reputable suppliers. Steel is Kendrion’s number-one raw companies to reduce the financial risks arising from possible the basis for reviews and assessments of the operating material, although a large proportion of it is contained in claims under product liability. The amount and scope of companies’ compliance with the regulations governing purchased components such as turning parts. Where the cover are comparable to those of other companies in a variety of taxes. The tax compliance audit programme feasible, Kendrion concludes fixed-price arrangements with Kendrion’s sectors: the cover is benchmarked periodically. has been incorporated in the internal audit programme. steel suppliers. These prices also govern a large number of Kendrion also aims to limit the group’s liability exposure Kendrion’s component suppliers. Regarding copper prices, by employing up-to-date general terms and conditions Kendrion strongly believes that pursuing a transparent when the copper price risk is not passed on to the customer, and mandatory reviews of material or long-term contracts and honest tax policy is a part of doing good business. Kendrion usually fixes the purchase price for the next by legal advisors. Kendrion’s aim is to manage risks effectively and comply quarters on a rolling basis. Kendrion closely monitors with all applicable rules, regulations and disclosure developments in prices for permanent magnets. The Environmental liabilities requirements. Kendrion’s tax position corresponds to the agreements Kendrion has concluded with the majority of The nature of Kendrion’s operations and business are such geographical spread of the operations and no aggressive customers who buy components containing permanent that they give cause to limited environmental risks. Most tax structures are employed involving the movement magnets provide for automatic price adjustments based on Kendrion companies have been awarded ISO 14001 of funds through tax havens. movements in the price of permanent magnets. certification. RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 70 Annual Report 2016 Results from and shortcomings revealed by the internal audit programme (KiC) The design of Kendrion’s internal audit programme, the transparent internal financial reporting system, a culture which promotes transparency and the involvement of Group Controllers at Zeist, the Netherlands, all facilitate Kendrion’s maintenance and improvement of the integrity and effectiveness of its internal control and financial reporting systems. Group companies were visited in 2016 to determine PARKING SAFETY FEATURE compliance with Kendrion’s control framework. All internal audits are supervised by the Group Controllers in Zeist, the Netherlands, to guarantee the independence of the audits conducted. The internal audit programme and audit scope Product: Gear box and parking lock solenoid. are reviewed at periodic intervals and improved on the basis of recent developments and new requirements. Customer: OEMs and tier-1 suppliers for automatic and shift-by-wire transmissions. In 2016, the internal audits encompassed more than 90% of the value of the relevant reporting cycles. The overall results Kendrion solution: The parking lock solenoids prevent cars of the audits conducted in 2016 were again satisfactory. The from moving while they are in parking position. These solenoids limited number of control deficiencies revealed by the 2015 can be mounted directly onto the automated transmission case audits had been addressed, with remediation completed or or outside the gear box. Kendrion’s engineers developed this in progress. This conclusion is in line with the Management innovation specifically to replace less advanced mechanical Letter, in which the external auditors reported a limited systems. number of findings and no findings which qualified as significant. Added value: Increasing the safety feature through an independent system from the gear shifter with short response In view of the above, the Executive Board is of the opinion time. that the design of the internal risk management and control systems provide a reasonable assurance that the financial reporting (including tax) does not contain any errors of material importance and that, with due regard for the aforementioned shortcomings, the risk management and control systems performed adequately in the year under review. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 71 Corporate governance Every year Kendrion states the outlines of the company’s Amsterdam market. Kendrion N.V. does not have a works Shareholders individually or jointly representing at least 3% corporate governance structure in the Annual Report, council. of the issued share capital are entitled to submit a request and submits all substantial changes, to the structure to the Executive Board or Supervisory Board for the inclusion to the General Meeting of Shareholders for discussion. Articles of Association of items on the agenda of the General Meeting of Information about corporate governance and applicable A resolution to amend the Articles of Association can be Shareholders. A request to include items on the agenda shall rules and regulations is available at Kendrion’s website passed by the General Meeting of Shareholders solely on be granted provided that the motivated request is submitted (www.kendrion.com), under ‘Corporate Governance’. the proposal of the Executive Board as approved by the in writing to the CEO or the Chairman of the Supervisory This section and the ‘Information on Kendrion N.V. shares’ Supervisory Board. Resolutions of this nature can be passed Board at least 60 days before the date of the General section incorporate the information referred to in Article 1 of by an absolute majority of the votes cast at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Resolutions relating to items the Decree of 5 April 2006 for the implementation of Article Meeting of Shareholders. The Articles of Association have placed on the agenda at the request of shareholders can 10 of the EU Takeover Directive. In addition, the information been published on Kendrion’s website. be passed by an absolute majority of the votes cast that contained in this section in combination with the information represents at least one third of the issued share capital. about the management and control systems for the financial General Meeting of Shareholders reporting contained in the risk management section can be A notice convening a General Meeting of Shareholders shall Unless indicated otherwise, there are no restrictions on the regarded as the Corporate Governance Statement be issued on behalf of the Executive Board or the transfer of shares, the exercising of voting rights or the term prescribed by the Decree establishing further instructions Supervisory Board by no later than the 42nd day prior to the for exercising those rights, and there are no special concerning the content of the Annual Report (Besluit tot day of the meeting. Parties who have the right to vote and controlling rights attached to shares. vaststelling van nadere voorschriften omtrent de inhoud attend the meeting and who are registered as such in a van het jaarverslag) as amended in December 2009. This designated (sub)register on the 28th day prior to the day of Shareholders representing 52.1% of the total issued share Corporate Governance Statement has also been published the meeting (registratiedatum) will be entitled to attend the capital attended or were represented at the General Meeting on the company’s website. meeting and vote, irrespective of the identity of the entitled of Shareholders held in the year under review on 11 April party with respect to those shares at the time of the meeting. 2016. Shareholders representing 46.7% of the total issued Kendrion prides itself on its transparent and efficient share capital attended or were represented at the corporate governance structure that lays down the Votes representing shares can be cast at the General Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held relationship between the shareholders, Supervisory Board, Meeting of Shareholders either personally or by proxy. on 31 October 2016. its Committees, and Executive Board. Each share grants an entitlement to one vote. All resolutions adopted by the General Meeting of Shareholders are passed Corporate governance structure by an absolute majority of the votes cast, unless the law or Kendrion N.V. is a public limited liability company under the Articles of Association prescribe a larger majority. The Netherlands law, with its registered offices in Zeist, the shareholders possess the rights conferred by Kendrion’s Netherlands. The company’s authorised share capital is Articles of Association and by law. divided into 40,000,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of EUR 2.00. At year-end 2016 13,396,034 ordinary shares had been issued. Kendrion’s shares are listed on Euronext’s CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 72 Annual Report 2016 Executive Board Board. The resolutions governed by this stipulation are In 2016, Kendrion was managed by an Executive Board specified in Kendrion’s Articles of Association. with two members (the CEO and CFO) and was supervised by the Supervisory Board. The General Meeting of The Executive Board has the authority, with the approval of Shareholders on 15 April 2013 appointed Mr Sonnemans the Supervisory Board, to decide to issue shares and to limit as CFO for a period of four years. A proposal to reappoint or exclude pre-emptive rights of existing shareholders in Mr Sonnemans for a period of four years will be submitted the period until 11 October 2017. This authority relates to the shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital at the time to be held on 10 April 2017. Mr Van Beurden was appointed of the General Meeting of Shareholders of 11 April 2016, as CEO as of 1 December 2015 by the Extraordinary augmented by the number of shares to be issued on the General Meeting of Shareholders held on 4 November 2015. basis of the existing share plan for key management. STANDSTILL WITHIN A SPLIT SECOND He was appointed for a period of four years. In addition, the Executive Board has the authority to arrange The Executive Board possesses the powers which the for the company to acquire shares in its capital. This relevant legislation and Articles of Association have not authority relates to a maximum of 10% of the issued share Product: Spring-applied brakes for conveyor belts. assigned to the Supervisory Board or the General Meeting capital, and runs until 11 October 2017. Each year, the of Shareholders. Executive Board places a request to be granted the authority Customer: A globally active producer of conveyor technology. for the issue and purchase of shares referred to above on The Executive Board has adopted regulations governing the the agenda of the General Meeting of Shareholders. Kendrion solution: An innovative brake with an emergency Executive Board’s procedures and decision-making. These stop function integrated into a roller within an installation space regulations have been approved by the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board that is less than 50 mm in diameter, which generates high The members of the Executive Board are appointed by the The Supervisory Board’s duty is to supervise the torques. In the event of a power cut, the braking performance General Meeting of Shareholders on the recommendation management of the Executive Board and the general of the conveyor roller should bring capacity loads of up of the Supervisory Board. Each member of the Executive developments within the company and its affiliated to 100 kilos to a standstill within a split second. Board can be dismissed by the General Meeting of companies, and to advise the Executive Board. Meetings of Shareholders at any time. the Supervisory Board are usually attended by the Executive Added value: The energy consumption of the brake is reduced Board. by 50% through a special electronic control module, which The Executive Board is currently supplemented by a realises substantial energy savings. Management Team, which is not mandated under the The Supervisory Board consists of five members. Dr Kayser Articles of Association, comprised of the Executive Board, decided to step down from the Board with effect from the Business Unit Managers, the General Counsel, the 7 January 2016. Mrs Sanders stepped down with Group HR Director and the Director Strategic Initiatives. The effect from the date of the General Meeting Management Team is a consultative body and the Executive Board always has the deciding vote. Important resolutions of the Executive Board require the approval of the Supervisory CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 73 of Shareholders of 11 April 2016. Mrs Mestrom is appointed The company reserves, however, the right, both now and in 2017 and will incorporate any changes that are required as a member of the Supervisory Board for a period of four the future, not to apply best practice on occasion, whereby or that Kendrion considers useful. The shareholders will years on 11 April 2016. Both Dr Wünsche and Mrs Van der the company shall always comply with the principle be informed or, if needed, further involved in these changes Meijs were appointed as a member at the Extraordinary formulated in the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code in a timely manner. General Meeting of Shareholders held on 31 October 2016 that the company shall explain why it has not applied the for a period of four years and three years respectively. best practice provision in question. The provision of the Taxes Netherlands Corporate Governance Code 2008 that have not Kendrion strongly believes that pursuing a transparent and The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the been applied are listed below. honest tax policy is a part of doing business. This is in line General Meeting of Shareholders on the recommendation of with the group’s Code of Conduct. In addition, there is a the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has adopted II.2 Remuneration of the Executive Board. Kendrion has need to balance the interests of all relevant stakeholders – regulations and a profile of the Supervisory Board. applied or will apply virtually all best practice provisions. including customers, local communities, governmental The Supervisory Board elects a Chairman from amongst The precise criteria for the variable remuneration are not institutions, shareholders – with this. its members. The members of the Supervisory Board step disclosed, since the company is of the opinion that the down by rotation pursuant to a schedule adopted by the disclosure of the (relevant) performance criteria is Tax payments can contribute to local development. In this Supervisory Board. Members of the Supervisory Board who undesirable from the perspective of the competitive respect, Kendrion not only pays a substantial amount of step down can be reappointed. These reappointments take and market positioning of the company. corporate income tax in the countries where it does business account of the manner in which the candidate performed his but is also subject to several other taxes such as VAT, payor her duties as a member of the Supervisory Board. Each Agreements in the meaning of Article 1.j. of the Decree as-you-earn tax deductions (withholding tax), payroll taxes member of the Supervisory Board can be dismissed by the of 5 April 2006 for the implementation of Article 10 of the and property taxes. Kendrion believes it has an obligation General Meeting of Shareholders. EU Takeover Directive (change of control) to pay the amount of tax legally due in any territory. The credit facility of Kendrion N.V. incorporates what is The Supervisory Board has established two Committees, referred to as a ‘change of control’ provision. Once a party At the same time, it is in the interest of the company’s an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. acquires more than half the company’s issued share capital continuity and its financial results to optimise its tax position. The Committees are responsible for preparing certain or voting rights then the company is governed by a This too is part of sound business operations. Kendrion also decisions for the Supervisory Board. The regulations for both repayment commitment. has a responsibility in this respect to its shareholders to Committees have been adopted by the Supervisory Board. enhance shareholder value. The commercial needs of The regulations have been published on Kendrion’s website. Revised Netherlands Corporate Governance Code 2016 Kendrion, however, remain paramount and all tax planning The revised provisions of the Netherlands Corporate is undertaken in this context. All transactions must have a Corporate governance structure in light of the Netherlands Governance Code 2016 were published on 8 December business purpose and/or commercial rationale: ‘tax follows Corporate Governance Code 2016. The revised Code focusses among others on longbusiness’. In addition, consideration is also given to The provisions of the Netherlands Corporate Governance term value creation, the interest of all stakeholders, Kendrion’s reputation and to its corporate and social Code 2008 were applicable to Kendrion until the end of strengthening risk management, enhancing more effective responsibilities. 2016. Kendrion has applied virtually all the principles and management and supervision, culture and remuneration best practice provisions – to the extent that they are issues. The Executive Board and Supervisory Board will applicable – laid down in the Code. carefully review the provisions of the revised Code during CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 74 Annual Report 2016 Another important aspect of Kendrion’s tax policy is to competitiveness, not to introduce this particular kind of effectively manage risk and to comply with all applicable tax reporting at this stage. laws, rules, regulations and disclosure requirements. The aim is to comply with the letter as well as the spirit of the law. In 2017, Kendrion will review its existing tax policy and tax Kendrion makes use of the services of accredited tax compliance and control framework again and will update it if advisers at both local and group levels and has included tax necessary. In this respect, Kendrion will also use any relevant compliance in its internal audit programme. It goes without feedback received during its existing stakeholder dialogue. saying that in cases where (the interpretation of) the tax law is unclear, the optimal and most legally defensible position is More information about taxes can be found on pages 39, taken. If necessary and feasible, tax authorities will be 112-114, 137 and 138 of this Report. consulted in advance for additional certainty. Kendrion’s aim DRIVING MASSAGE in this is to be open and transparent towards all authorities In 2016, Kendrion was given the no. 2 ranking in the Dutch and to act with total integrity. Compliance with all anti-bribery Tax Transparency benchmark for small cap companies and legislation is safeguarded and is part of internal trainings. ranked no. 7 among all 68 listed companies included in the Kendrion's tax policy is discussed with the Audit Committee benchmark. Product: Seating comfort system SiKom for pneumatic of the Supervisory Board from time to time. massage and lumbar support in vehicles. Transactions conducted between group companies located Customer: Seat manufacturers for passenger cars and in different countries are conducted in line with the OECD commercial vehicles. Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and other local transfer-pricing regulations. The company uses the Master Kendrion solution: A ready-to-install complete massage File concept for transfer-pricing purposes to ensure that system (valves, electronics, cushions and pump) in a compact coherent and up-to-date principles are applied. design, including fully pneumatic massage, flexible control software and stabilisation functions. It allows configurations Kendrion is aware of the ongoing OECD BEPS developments between one and twenty massage valves. Lumbar support is in areas including treaty abuse, transfer pricing and countryalso available as an additional option. by-country reporting. Given that Kendrion’s tax position corresponds to the geographical spread of the operations Added value: The seating comfort and ergonomic seating and that no aggressive tax structures are employed involving position of drivers and passengers increases tremendously the movement of funds through secrecy jurisdictions (tax thanks to this system. The integrated electronics provide havens), the company believes that the impact of these the possibility to adjust the comfort system completely developments is limited. Furthermore, even though Kendrion according to the driver’s needs. understands the tendency to use country-by-country reporting to gain more insight into local tax contributions, it has been decided, from the viewpoint of overall REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 75 Remuneration policy (financial) information. The Supervisory Board periodically CEO and 50% of the gross fixed remuneration for the CFO. General tests the package to verify that it is in line with the company’s 60% of the bonus criteria will be comprised of financial Kendrion’s current remuneration policy for the Executive objectives and the market on the basis of information performance criteria (net profit, ROS, ROI, organic growth Board was discussed by and adopted at the Extraordinary supplied by external experts. The current remuneration and free cash flow) and 40% will be comprised of individual General Meeting of Shareholders held on 4 November 2015. policy provides for a fixed component and a variable (non-financial) performance criteria. The remuneration report, which is published on the component, as well as a pension scheme and a number company’s website, explains the policy for the remuneration of additional benefits. One third of the amount to be determined by the of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board. Supervisory Board shall be paid in cash. Two thirds of the The remuneration report also provides information about the Fixed remuneration gross variable remuneration shall be comprised of a remuneration that was actually paid over 2016. Information The fixed remuneration is in line with the aforementioned conditional award of shares (the vesting scheme). The about the remuneration received by the individual members policy. At the beginning of 2016, the fixed component for the award of the shares becomes unconditional after three years of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board is also CFO was only adjusted pursuant to the indexation provision (including the relevant year in which the performance is enclosed in the financial statements (pages 138-140 of the remuneration policy. The fixed remuneration of the assessed) if the CEO and CFO are still in office and the and 149). CEO, who started in December 2015, was not adjusted at Supervisory Board is of the opinion that there are no the beginning of 2016. exceptional circumstances that would render the The policy for the remuneration of the members of the unconditional award unreasonable. The award of the shares Executive Board is based on the allocation of remuneration Variable remuneration is definitively withdrawn in the event that the relevant member of an amount and structure such that qualified and expert The variable remuneration is intended to promote the of the Executive Board leaves Kendrion as a ‘bad leaver’ executives can be recruited. The policy is also challenging Executive Board members’ attention to the development during the three-year vesting period. The Supervisory Board to such an extent that it motivates the members of the of the company and the value of the share. The variable possesses discretionary powers to refrain from the full issue Executive Board and, when they exhibit an appropriate remuneration is appropriate in relation to the fixed of the shares in the event that the relevant member of the performance, ensures they can be retained in the longer remuneration. Executive Board leaves the company as a ‘good leaver’ in term. The composition of the remuneration package The Supervisory Board determines the variable remuneration the vesting period (for example, on retirement or in the event promotes the achievement of Kendrion’s short and long-term for the individual members of the Executive Board on the of an occupational disability) when the full issue of the objectives. basis of their performance and results as compared to the shares would be unreasonable under the circumstances. agreed performance criteria. The Supervisory Board possesses discretionary powers for the downward or upward adjustment of the total A variable bonus for the Executive Board members shall remuneration should the variable remuneration system result be awarded each year that promotes the achievement of in unreasonable and inequitable remuneration. In addition, Kendrion’s short and long-term objectives. The annual when so requested by the Supervisory Board, the variable variable remuneration for an at-target performance will component of the remuneration adopted in the past two amount to 40% of the gross fixed remuneration of the CEO years must be repaid in part or in full should it transpire that and 35% of the gross fixed remuneration of the CFO, with this was unjustifiably awarded on the basis of incorrect a maximum of 60% of the gross fixed remuneration for the REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 76 Annual Report 2016 Once the award of the shares has become unconditional SDAX. The absolute TSR criterion will be achieved if the Severance pay after the expiry of the vesting period they must be retained increase in the share price together with the dividends in the In the event of termination of the contract on Kendrion’s for a minimum of two years (the holding period) unless the three-year period concerned, taking account of all initiative, the CEO and CFO will receive a severance payment relevant member of the Executive Board terminates his/her circumstances, is reasonable in the Supervisory Board’s of a maximum of one year’s fixed gross remuneration. They term of office or the term of office is terminated during this judgment. The sustainability criteria are (i) energy/CO2 have no right to the severance payment if the contract is period. The members of the Executive Board may sell such reduction, (ii) waste & recycling (sustainable business terminated due to urgent cause or serious culpability. a portion of the shares as it is needed to pay the personal processes), (iii) employee satisfaction and (iv) management income taxes as a consequence of the unconditional award development / succession planning. Each of these In the event of termination of the contract on the initiative of of shares (‘sell to cover’) within the holding period. sustainability criteria is assigned an equal weighting. the CEO or CFO within one year after control in Kendrion N.V. has changed on the grounds that continuation of the The aforementioned financial and individual performance The Supervisory Board has drawn up the scenario analyses agreement cannot reasonably be expected of him, he will criteria are determined for each full year at the beginning of prescribed by the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code. receive an amount to be determined by the Supervisory the relevant financial year. Board as a severance payment. The payment is capped Pensions and risk premium at a maximum of one year's gross fixed remuneration. The variable remuneration policy shall be supplemented with Pursuant to the policy, the company bears the cost of the a share match. As stated above, 2/3 of the gross annual contributions for the old-age pension and risk premiums for Remuneration of the Supervisory Board variable remuneration is invested in shares. Kendrion will, partner pension and disability of the members of the The remuneration received by the members of the depending on the long-term performance criteria, increase Executive Board and makes a maximum of EUR 75,000 Supervisory Board is comprised of a fixed remuneration that the number of shares awarded pursuant to the above by available annually for this. No schemes have been agreed for is independent of the results, whereby a distinction is made 100% net (a matching ratio of 1:1). The performance criteria the (voluntary) early retirement of the members of the between the remuneration received by the Chairman and the are the relative Total Shareholders Return (TSR), the absolute Executive Board. This amount includes compensation for the other members of the Supervisory Board. Pursuant to this TSR (dividend ratio and share price development) and a reduction of the maximum pension accrual pursuant to the distinction the remuneration received by the Chairman is group of sustainability criteria. The relative TSR and absolute Reduction of Maximum Pension Accrual and Contribution about one third higher than the remuneration received by the TSR will carry a weighting of 30% each, and the Rates and Maximum Pensionable Income Act (Wet verlaging other members. The General Meeting of Shareholders held sustainability criteria will carry a weighting of 40%. The maximumopbouwen premiepercentages pensioen on 16 April 2012 resolved that the fixed remuneration of the performance period shall be of a term of three years, which en maximering pensioengevend inkomen) (Witteveen Chairman of the Supervisory Board amounts to EUR 40,000 begins at the time of the award of the annual variable Framework 2015). and each of the other members EUR 30,000, besides the remuneration. Consequently the award, where relevant, is remuneration of EUR 5,000 for the membership of one of the made after a period of three years. The shares awarded Sundry Committees of the Supervisory Board. In addition to this pursuant to the share match are governed by a holding The company does not grant loans, advances or guarantees fixed remuneration, the members also receive a contribution period of two years, which begins at the time of the award. to the members of the Executive Board. No exceptional towards their expenses. remuneration was paid to the members or former members The relative TSR performance criterion for the share match is of the Executive Board in the year under review. achieved when Kendrion’s TSR score is higher than the average of the AScX and the German Small Cap Index, the REMUNERATION POLICY REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD Annual Report 2016 77 In 2016, the Supervisory Board benchmarked the annual basis, both as of 1 January 2017. It is further remuneration of its Chairman and its other members as proposed to increase the remuneration of the chairpersons adopted in 2012 with the assistance of a reputable HR of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee consultancy firm. The outcome was that, compared to a respectively from EUR 5,000 to EUR 6,000 on an annual Dutch cross-industry reference group of 16 companies, the basis. The remuneration for the other members of both remuneration is, generally speaking, in the 25th percentile. Committees will remain at EUR 5,000 on an annual basis. As a result, the remuneration will be in line with the median The Supervisory Board therefore proposes at the General of the peer group. The fixed cost allowance will be replaced Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 April 2017 to raise as of 1 January 2017. The out-of-pocket costs of the the remuneration of the Chairman from EUR 40,000 to Supervisory Board members will be reimbursed based EUR 45,000 on an annual basis and to raise the remuneration on actual expenses. of the other members from EUR 30,000 to EUR 35,000 on an Element Fixed Variable Base salary Annual incentive Long-term incentive Way of payment Cash Performance related restricted shares 3-year performance related restricted shares Performance measure Not applicable ■■ Net profit ■■ Relative Total Shareholders Return ■■ ROI (compared to the average of the AScX and SDAX) Total 30% ■■ Free cash flow ■■ ROS ■■ Absolute Total Shareholders Return ■■ Organic growth Total 60% (dividend and share price) Total 30% ■■ Non-financial individual performance, ■■ Sustainability including sustainability Total 40% (energy and CO2 reduction, waste & recycling, employee satisfaction and management development/succession planning) Total 40% Pay-out at minimum 100% 0% 0% performance Target pay-out 100% CEO: 40% as % of gross fixed remuneration CEO and CFO: 100% of number of shares awarded CFO: 35% as % of gross fixed remuneration based on annual incentive (net) Maximum pay-out 100% CEO: 60% as % of gross fixed remuneration CEO and CFO: 100% of number of shares awarded CFO: 50% as % of gross fixed remuneration based on annual incentive (net) REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE BOARD 78 Annual Report 2016 Outlook Kendrion has worked diligently and consistently over the past Simplify, Focus, Grow years focusing entirely on the market of electromagnetic Kendrion announced its midterm strategic plan entitled actuators for automotive and industrial applications. This has ‘Simplify, Focus, Grow’ in May 2016. Kendrion is in the resulted in Kendrion’s leading position as a technologically process of simplifying the way it does business. This will advanced and innovative company that has an excellent reduce costs and improve the decision-making speed, reputation for quality and reliability in Europe, the USA and which is in turn expected to improve the operating margin Asia. and profitability. Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility are Kendrion will focus its resources and capital on those areas important to Kendrion. This is reflected in the 2015 – 2017 in which it feels it can have the most opportunities for ‘Taking Responsibility’ programme that focused on topics profitable growth, rather than spreading its efforts equally HOW TO SEPARATE CHEMICALS including environmental protection and the responsible across its five business units. use of resources in the supply chain. A new long-term programme will be developed in 2017 that will continue The clarity Kendrion is gaining through simplifying and Product: Solenoid valve for gas chromatograph. to concentrate on long-term value creation for all our focussing its business is intended to allow organic growth stakeholders, closely aligned to the day-to-day operations. of the top line in a way that will ultimately enable growth Customer: GERSTEL, a German company that focuses on at a faster pace than Kendrion’s historical average of 5%. developing and producing systems and solutions for chemical The economic outlook for 2017 is mixed. Kendrion’s most Due to the long project lead times in Kendrion’s business, analysis, including automated sample preparation for gas important home market of Germany is expected to achieve the company expects organic growth to accelerate in the chromatography. slight economic growth. The Chairman of the German years beyond 2018. Machine Building Association (VDMA) called 2016 ‘the year Kendrion solution: Gas chromatography is an analytical of zero’. His outlook for 2017 is slightly better at 1% growth. Kendrion has set three clear, simple and ambitious financial method whereby a gaseous sample mixture is separated into The rest of the world remains highly uncertain, with goals. Kendrion aims to deliver an EBITA margin of 10% individual chemical compounds for analysis of the composition. continued low interest rates, a slow recovery in Europe, as from the end of 2018, with organic growth expected The Kendrion solenoid valve makes it possible to determine Brexit and the new US presidency all contributing to this. to remain broadly in line with the average historical organic precisely the flow paths of the gaseous sample inside the growth of 5% per annum until 2018 and a dividend policy injector. Due to its high tightness and very low dead space, Taking limited overall global economic growth as a starting of paying out 35 to 50% of the net profit. Kendrion has taken it is perfectly suited to analytic purposes. point, Kendrion expects its revenue to increase in 2017, a meaningful step towards this target in 2016 and is driven mostly by growth in the Passenger Cars business unit. committed to doing the same in 2017. Added value: Extremely reliable laboratory technology Kendrion expects that investments in 2017 will be in excess with high cleanliness standard. of depreciation charges. Most of these investments relate to new projects. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS Annual Report 2016 79 80 Consolidated statement of financial position 85 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 142 Company balance sheet at 31 December at 31 December 107 Property, plant and equipment 109 Intangible assets 143 Company income statement 81 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 112 Other investments, including derivatives 112 Deferred tax assets and liabilities 144 Notes to the company financial statements 82 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 115 Inventories 144 General 115 Trade and other receivables 144 Principles of valuation of assets and liabilities 84 Consolidated statement of cash flows 115 Cash and cash equivalents and determination of results 116 Capital and reserves 144 Financial fixed assets 117 Earnings per share 145 Receivables 118 Loans and borrowings 145 Equity 120 Employee benefits 146 Current liabilities 123 Share-based payments 147 Financial instruments 124 Provisions 147 Other income 124 Trade and other payables 147 Staff costs 125 Financial instruments 147 Profit appropriation 133 Operating lease agreements 148 Commitments not appearing on the balance sheet 133 Capital commitments 148 Post-balance sheet events 133 Contingent liabilities 148 Fees to the auditor 133 Operating segments 149 Remuneration of and share ownership 135 Business combinations and acquisitions by the Executive Board and Supervisory Board of non-controlling interests 135 Other income 136 Staff costs 136 Other operating expenses 137 Net finance costs 137 Income tax 138 Reconciliation of effective tax rate 138 Related parties 140 Accounting estimates and judgements by management 141 Post-balance sheet events FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 80 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION AT 31 DECEMBER Annual Report 2016 Note EUR million 2016 2015 Note EUR million 2016 2015 Assets Equity and liabilities Non-current assets 8, 9 Equity 1 Property, plant and equipment 85.5 82.7 Share capital 26.8 26.4 2 Intangible assets 124.5 127.6 Share premium 56.4 62.7 3 Other investments, including derivatives 0.4 0.6 Reserves 80.0 64.0 4 Deferred tax assets 16.0 15.9 Retained earnings 14.9 16.8 Total non-current assets 226.4 226.8 Total equity 178.1 169.9 Current assets Liabilities 5 Inventories 52.6 52.5 10 Loans and borrowings 63.0 69.6 Current tax assets 1.2 2.7 11 Employee benefits 21.4 19.8 6 Trade and other receivables 54.5 48.7 4 Deferred tax liabilities 10.9 11.4 7 Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 10.2 Total non-current liabilities 95.3 100.8 Total current assets 120.7 114.1 7 Bank overdraft 2.7 9.0 10 Loans and borrowings 0.7 0.7 13 Provisions 1.2 0.8 Current tax liabilities 0.7 1.8 14 Trade and other payables 68.4 57.9 Total current liabilities 73.7 70.2 Total liabilities 169.0 171.0 Total assets 347.1 340.9 Total equity and liabilities 347.1 340.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Annual Report 2016 81 Note EUR million 2016 2015 Note EUR million 2016 2015 19 Revenue 443.4 442.1 Other comprehensive income 21 Other income 0.1 0.1 Remeasurements of defined benefit plans* (1.9) (0.3) Total revenue and other income 443.5 442.2 Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations** 1.3 5.6 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges, in progress 0.5 (0.2) net of income tax** (0.2) 0.3 Raw materials and subcontracted work 230.0 228.4 Other comprehensive income for the period, 22 Staff costs 132.6 133.1 net of income tax (0.8) 5.6 Depreciation and amortisation 24.0 23.2 Total comprehensive income for the period 14.1 22.4 16, 23 Other operating expenses 34.7 35.7 Result before net finance costs 21.7 22.0 9 Basic earnings per share (EUR) 1.12 1.28 9 Diluted earnings per share (EUR) 1.12 1.28 Finance income 0.1 0.2 Finance expense (3.2) (3.5) 24 Net finance costs (3.1) (3.3) Profit before income tax 18.6 18.7 25, 26 Income tax expense (3.7) (1.9) Profit for the period 14.9 16.8 * This item will never be reclassified to profit or loss. ** These items may be reclassified to profit or loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 82 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Annual Report 2016 Share Share Translation Hedge Reserve for Other Retained Total EUR million capital premium reserve reserve own shares reserves earnings equity Balance at 1 January 2015 26.1 68.8 4.7 (0.4) (0.1) 33.9 20.2 153.2 Total comprehensive income for the period Profit or loss – – – – – – 16.8 16.8 Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – – – – (0.3) – (0.3) Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations – – 5.6 – – – – 5.6 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of income tax – – – 0.3 – – – 0.3 Total other comprehensive income for the period – – 5.6 0.3 – (0.3) – 5.6 Total comprehensive income for the period – – 5.6 0.3 – (0.3) 16.8 22.4 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to owners Issue of ordinary shares 0.3 3.8 – – – – – 4.1 Own shares sold – – – – 0.1 (0.1) – – Share-based payment transactions 0.0 0.3 – – – 0.1 – 0.4 Dividends to equity holders – (10.2) – – – – – (10.2) Appropriation of retained earnings – – – – – 20.2 (20.2) – Balance at 31 December 2015 26.4 62.7 10.3 (0.1) – 53.8 16.8 169.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (CONTINUED) Annual Report 2016 83 Share Share Translation Hedge Reserve for Other Retained Total EUR million capital premium reserve reserve own shares reserves earnings equity Balance at 1 January 2016 26.4 62.7 10.3 (0.1) – 53.8 16.8 169.9 Total comprehensive income for the period Profit or loss – – – – – – 14.9 14.9 Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans – – – – – (1.9) – (1.9) Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations – – 1.3 – – – – 1.3 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of income tax – – – (0.2) – – – (0.2) Total other comprehensive income for the period – – 1.3 (0.2) – (1.9) – (0.8) Total comprehensive income for the period – – 1.3 (0.2) – (1.9) 14.9 14.1 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Contributions by and distributions to owners Issue of ordinary shares 0.4 3.8 – – – – – 4.2 Share-based payment transactions 0.0 0.2 – – – 0.0 – 0.2 Dividends to equity holders – (10.3) – – – – – (10.3) Appropriation of retained earnings – – – – – 16.8 (16.8) – Balance at 31 December 2016 26.8 56.4 11.6 (0.3) – 68.7 14.9 178.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Annual Report 2016 Note EUR million 2016 2015 Note EUR million 2016 2015 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities Profit for the period 14.9 16.8 20 Acquisition of subsidiary, net of cash received – (1.0) Adjustments for: Investments in property, plant and equipment (20.9) (19.5) Net finance costs 3.1 3.3 Disinvestments of property, plant and equipment 0.6 2.0 Income tax expense 3.7 1.9 Investments in intangible fixed assets (2.9) (2.8) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment Disinvestments of intangible fixed assets 0.3 0.5 and software 20.3 19.4 (Dis)investments of other investments 0.0 0.1 Amortisation of other intangible assets 3.7 3.8 Net cash from investing activities (22.9) (20.7) Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.5 0.1 Share-based payments 0.2 0.4 Free cash flow 21.3 20.2 46.4 45.7 Cash flows from financing activities Change in trade and other receivables (5.7) 1.9 Repayment of borrowings (non current) (6.6) (17.0) Change in inventories (0.4) (2.5) Proceeds from borrowings (current) – 0.0 Change in trade and other payables 10.2 2.4 Repayment of borrowings (current) (0.0) Change in provisions 0.0 0.2 Proceeds from the issue of share capital 0.0 0.0 50.5 47.7 Dividends paid (6.1) (6.1) Change in treasury shares – 0.0 Interest paid (2.7) (3.2) Net cash from financing activities (12.7) (23.1) Interest received 0.2 0.1 Tax paid (3.8) (3.7) Change in cash and cash equivalents 8.6 (2.9) Net cash flows from operating activities 44.2 40.9 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 1.2 3.1 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held (0.1) 1.0 7 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9.7 1.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 85 Reporting entity Kendrion N.V. (the ‘Company’) is domiciled in the Netherlands. The Company’s registered office is at Utrechtseweg 33, 3704 HA Zeist. The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the year ended 31 December 2016 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together also referred to as the ‘Group’). The Group is involved in the design, manufacture and sale of high-quality electromagnetic systems and components. Basis of preparation (a) Statement of compliance The consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2016 have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations of the standards published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) as adopted by the European Union (hereinafter referred to as EU-IFRS). The Company financial statements are part of the 2016 financial statements of Kendrion N.V. The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Executive Board on 21 February 2017. (b) Basis of measurement The financial statements are presented in millions of euros, the euro also being the Group’s functional currency. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis except that: ■■ derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value; ■■ liabilities arising from cash-settled share-based payments arrangements are stated at fair value; ■■ the defined benefit liability is recognised as net total of plan assets and present value of the defined benefit obligations; ■■ the contingent consideration is stated at fair value. The methods used to measure the fair values are disclosed in note q. The preparation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS requires the Executive Board to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are considered reasonable in the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making the judgements about carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which an estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. Changes in estimation methods and the impact of such changes are outlined in the notes to the relevant item. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 Annual Report 2016 Judgements made by the Executive Board in the application of EU-IFRS that have a significant effect on the financial statements, and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next year are included in the following notes: ■■ note 2 – measurement of the recoverable amount of cash-generating units containing goodwill ■■ note 4 – utilisation of tax losses ■■ note 11 – measurement of defined benefit obligations ■■ note 13 – provisions ■■ note 15 – valuation of financial instruments ■■ note 18 – contingent liabilities ■■ note 20 – business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests Significant accounting policies The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated financial statements and by the Group entities. (a) Basis of consolidation (i) Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method at the acquisition date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group. Control refers to the authority to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity to obtain benefits from its activities. When assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting rights that are currently exercisable. The Group measures goodwill at the acquisition date as: ■■ the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus ■■ the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus ■■ if the business combination is realised in stages, the fair value of the pre-existing equity interest in the acquiree; less ■■ the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in comprehensive income (hereafter also referred to as ‘profit or loss’). The consideration transferred does not include amounts relating to the settlement of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts are generally recognised in profit or loss. Transactions costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 87 Any contingent consideration payable is measured at fair value at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured and settlement is accounted for within equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. When share-based payment awards (replacement awards) are required to be exchanged for awards held by the acquiree’s employees (acquiree’s awards) and relate to past services, then all or part of the amount of the acquirer’s replacement awards is included when measuring the consideration transferred in the business combination. This determination is based on the market-based value of the replacement awards as compared to the market-based value of the acquiree’s awards and the extent to which the replacement awards relate to past and/or future service. (ii) Subsidiaries Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. The Company controls an entity if it is exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences, until the date that control ceases. The shares of third parties in shareholders’ equity and results are stated separately. The accounting policies of subsidiaries are changed, where necessary, to align them with the policies adopted by the Company. (iii) Composition of the Group The Company reached an agreement with the owners of Steinbeis Mechatronik GmbH on the acquisition of the company on 23 December 2014. Completion of this transaction was on 5 January 2015. (iv) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Intragroup balances and transactions, as well as any unrealised gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions, are eliminated when preparing the consolidated financial statements. (b) Foreign currency (i) Foreign currency transactions Transactions expressed in non-euro zone currencies are translated into euros at exchange rates at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-euro zone currencies at the reporting date are translated into euros at the exchange rate at that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-euro zone currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated at the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in non-euro zone currencies that are measured at fair value are translated in euros at the exchange rates when the fair value was determined. Currency differences on foreign currency transactions are recognised in profit or loss, except loans considered to be part of the net investment, or qualifying cash flow hedges to the extent the hedges are effective. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 88 Annual Report 2016 (ii) Translation of foreign currency financial statements Translation of foreign currency financial statements depends on the functional currency of the company concerned. The closing rate method is applied if the functional currency of the company is other than the euro. With this method, assets and liabilities of non-euro zone operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising at the time of acquisition, are translated into euros at exchange rates at the reporting date. The income and expenses of non-euro zone operations are translated into euros at rates approximating the exchange rates at the date of the transaction. Foreign currency translation differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the translation reserve, which is a component of equity. On the partial or complete sale of a foreign operation, the related amount is transferred from the translation reserve to profit or loss. Foreign exchange gains and losses arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a non-euro zone operation, of which the settlement is neither planned nor likely in the foreseeable future, are considered to form part of a net investment in a non-euro zone operation and are recognised directly in equity, in the translation reserve. (c) Property, plant and equipment (i) Owned assets Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost or assumed cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses (see accounting policy g). The cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The cost of selfconstructed assets includes the cost of materials, direct labour, the initial estimate, where relevant, of the costs of dismantling and removing the items and reinstating the site on which they are located, a reasonable proportion of production overheads, and capitalised borrowing costs. Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items of property, plant and equipment. (ii) Leased assets Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Owner-occupied property acquired by way of a finance lease is stated at an amount equal to the lower of its fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation (see below) and impairment losses (see accounting policy g). (iii) Subsequent costs The cost of replacing part of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group, and its cost can be reliably measured. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised as an incurred charge in profit or loss. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 89 (iv) Depreciation Depreciation is charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of each component of property, plant and equipment. Land is not depreciated. Leased assets are depreciated over the shorter of their respective lease terms and useful lives unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually. (v) Recognition of transaction results Gains and losses on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are accounted for in other operating income/other expenses in the statement of comprehensive income. (d) Intangible assets (i) Goodwill Goodwill that arises upon acquisition of a subsidiary is included in intangible assets. For the measurement of goodwill at initial recognition, see note a. Goodwill is carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment (see note g). Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in profit or loss. (ii) Research and development Research and development expenses comprise expenditure on research and development and expenses for customer-specific applications, prototypes and testing. Reimbursements from customers are offset against expenses. In addition, the expenses are reduced by the amount relating to the application of research results in the development of new or substantially improved products if the related activity meets the recognition criteria for internally generated intangible assets as laid down in IAS 38. Expenditure on research activities undertaken with the prospect of gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding is recognised in profit or loss as incurred. Development activities involve a plan or design for the production of new or substantially improved products and processes. Development expenditure is capitalised only if the development costs can be measured reliably, the product or process is technically and commercially feasible, future economic benefits are probable, and the Group intends to and has sufficient resources to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 90 Annual Report 2016 complete the development and to use or sell the asset. The expenditure capitalised includes the cost of materials, direct labour, overhead costs that are directly attributable to preparing the asset for its intended use, and capitalised borrowing costs. Other development expenditure is recognised in profit or loss when incurred. Research and development expenses incurred by the Industrial activities primarily relate to pre-production prototypes or tests for products already being marketed (application engineering). These expenses do not qualify as development expenditure, but may be recognised as an intangible asset. Research and development expenses incurred by the Automotive activities are not recognised as marketable until Kendrion has been nominated as the supplier for the particular vehicle platform or model and has also successfully completed the pre-production release stages. These release stages also serve as the prerequisite for the demonstration of the technical feasibility of the product, especially in view of the stringent demands imposed on comfort and safety technology. For this reason, development costs are recognised as an asset solely on the date of Kendrion’s nomination as the supplier and the completion of a specific pre-production release stage. The development is deemed to have been completed once final approval for series production has been granted. As a result, only a very few of the Automotive research and development projects meet the recognition criteria. Capitalised development expenditure is measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. (iii) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group and have finite useful lives are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation (see below) and accumulated impairment losses (see note g). Based on the purchase price allocation of acquisitions, intangible assets that are part of the other intangible assets and relate to, for example, valued customer relations, trade names and technologies are also recognised. (iv) Subsequent expenditure Subsequent expenditure on capitalised intangible assets is capitalised only if it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is expensed when incurred. (v) Amortisation Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the intangible assets unless such lives are indefinite. Goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are systematically tested for impairment at each reporting date. Other intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use. Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted if appropriate. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 91 (e) Financial instruments and other investments Financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments Non-derivative financial instruments comprise trade and other receivables, recognised interest bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, cash and cash equivalents, and other non-derivative financial instruments. They are recognised as at the respective dates on which they originate. Non-derivative financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, less any directly attributable transaction costs. The Group derecognises a financial asset when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or if it transfers the rights to receive the contractual cash flows as part of a transaction in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred. Any interest in such transferred financial assets that is created or retained by the Group is recognised as a separate asset or liability. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position if, and only if, the Group has a legal right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle them on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Subsequent to initial recognition, non-derivative financial instruments are measured as described below. Trade and other receivables Trade and other receivables are carried at amortised cost, less impairment losses (see note g). Recognised interest-bearing loans and borrowings After initial recognition, interest-bearing loans and borrowings are carried at amortised cost with any difference between the initial carrying amount and the redemption amount, based on the effective interest method, taken to profit or loss over the respective terms of the loans. Trade and other payables Trade and other payables are carried at amortised cost. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and other call deposits payable on demand. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand, and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management, are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. They are measured at fair value. Other non-derivative financial instruments Other non-derivative financial instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 92 Annual Report 2016 Derivative financial instruments, including hedge accounting The Group holds derivative financial instruments to hedge its foreign currency and interest rate exposures. Derivatives are initially measured at fair value, with attributable transaction costs recognised in the statement of comprehensive income when they are incurred. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivatives are carried at fair value. Any changes are taken to profit or loss, unless the instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. Embedded derivatives are accounted for separately from the host contract. If the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the embedded derivative are not closely related, a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the definition of a derivative, and the combined instrument is not measured at fair value in profit or loss. Changes in the fair value of separated embedded derivatives are recognised immediately in profit or loss. At 31 December 2016, no embedded derivatives existed. Changes in the fair value of a derivative hedging instrument designated as a cash flow hedge are recognised in other comprehensive income and presented in the hedging reserve, a component of equity, to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes are recognised immediately in profit or loss. On initial designation of a derivative as a cash flow hedge, the Group formally documents the relationship between the hedging instrument, the hedged item and the hedged risk, including the risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction, together with the methods that are used to assess the effectiveness of the hedging relationship. The Group makes an assessment, both at the inception of the hedge relationship as well as on an ongoing basis, of whether the hedging instruments are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting of the changes in the cash flows for the hedged risks attributable to the respective hedged items, and whether the actual results of each hedge are within a range of 80-125%. Regarding a cash flow hedge for a forecasted transaction, the Group determines whether the hedged transactions are highly likely to occur and present an exposure to variations in cash flows that could ultimately affect profit or loss. If a hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for a cash flow hedge, expires or is sold, then hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative result previously included in equity is recognised in profit or loss unless it is expected that the original hedged transaction will still take place. (f) Inventories Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs to sell. The cost of inventories of the Group is based on the weighted average cost, and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs, and other costs incurred in bringing them to their current location and condition. The cost of inventories includes an appropriate share of overheads based on normal operating capacity. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 93 (g) Impairment (i) Financial assets A financial asset is assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. An impairment loss, in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount, and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted at the original effective interest rate. Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis. The remaining financial assets are assessed collectively in groups of assets that have similar credit risk characteristics. All impairment losses are recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the reversal is recognised in profit or loss. (ii) Non-financial assets The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at each reporting date. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the ‘cash-generating unit’). For the purpose of impairment testing, the goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are first allocated to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 94 Annual Report 2016 (iii) Reversal of impairment losses An impairment in respect of a receivable carried at amortised cost is reversed, if the subsequent increase in the recoverable amount can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised. Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. Impairment losses in respect of other assets are reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. (iv) Calculation of recoverable amount The recoverable amount of the Group’s receivables carried at amortised cost is calculated as the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate (i.e. the effective interest rate computed on initial recognition of these financial assets). Receivables with a short remaining term are not discounted. The recoverable amount of other assets is the greater of their net selling price and value in use. In determining value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For an asset that does not generate largely independent cash inflows, the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. (h) Share capital (i) Ordinary shares Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares are recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effect. (ii) Repurchase, disposal and reissue of share capital (treasury shares) When own shares recognised as equity are repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid, including directly attributable costs and net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total equity. If treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred respectively to or from other reserves. (iii) Dividends The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as determined from time to time by the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Executive Board has the authority to decide, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, what portion of the profit will be allocated to the reserves. If applicable, the declared but unpaid dividends are recognised as a liability. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 95 (i) Employee benefits (i) Defined contribution plans A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an employee benefit expense in profit or loss when incurred. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or reduction in future payments will occur. (ii) Defined benefit plans A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. The Group’s net obligation in respect of defined benefit plans is calculated separately for each plan by estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value. The fair value of any plan assets is deducted. The Group determines the net interest expense (income) on the net defined benefit liability (asset) for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability (asset). The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on AA credit-rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations and that are denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid. The calculation is performed annually by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the Group, the recognised asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. In order to calculate the present value of economic benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding requirements that apply to any plan in the Group. An economic benefit is available to the Group if it is realisable during the life of the plan, or on settlement of the plan liabilities. Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest). The Group recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income, and all other expenses related to defined benefit plans as employee benefit expenses in profit or loss. When the benefits of a plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the portion of the changed benefit relating to past service by employees, or the gain or loss on curtailment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss when the plan amendment or curtailment occurs. The Group recognises gains and losses on the settlement of a defined benefit plan when the settlement occurs. The gain or loss on a settlement is the difference between the present value of the defined benefit obligation being settled as determined on the date of settlement and the settlement price, including any plan assets transferred and any payments made directly by the Group in connection with the settlement. (iii) Other long-term service benefits The Group’s net obligation in respect of long-term service benefits other than pension plans is the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods. The obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method, discounted to its present value and net of the fair value of any related assets. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 96 Annual Report 2016 The discount rate is the yield at the financial position date on AA-credit rated bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Group’s obligations. Any actuarial gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. (iv) Share-based payment transactions The fair value on the grant date of share-based payment awards made to employees and the Executive Board is recognised as an employee expense, with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees unconditionally become entitled to the awards. The amount recognised as an expense is adjusted to reflect the number of awards for which the related service and non-market vesting conditions are expected to be met, so that the amount ultimately recognised as an expense is based on the number of awards that meet the related service and non-market performance conditions at the vesting date. For share-based payment awards with non vesting conditions, the fair value on the grant date of the share-based payment is measured to reflect such conditions, with no true-up for differences between expected and actual outcomes. (v) Short-term employee benefits A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably. Short-term employee benefits are expensed as the related service is provided. (vi) Termination benefits Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier of when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits and when the Group recongised costs for a restructuring. If benefits are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months of the reporting date, then they are discounted. (j) Provisions A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, that can be measured reliably and it is probable that settlement of the obligation will involve an outflow of funds. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as finance cost. (k) Revenue (i) Goods sold and services rendered Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in profit or loss if the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred to the customer. No revenues are recognised if there are significant uncertainties about the collectability of the consideration due, the associated costs on the possible return of goods and if there is no continuing management involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue cannot be measured reliably. The transfer of risks and rewards varies depending on the terms of the individual sales contract. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 97 (ii) Government grants Unconditional government grants are recognised in profit or loss as operating income when they become receivable. Other government grants are recognised in the statement of financial position initially as deferred income if there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are recognised as other income in profit or loss in the periods in which the expenses are incurred. Grants for the cost of an asset that compensate the Group are recognised in profit or loss as other operating income over the useful life of the asset. (l) Expenses (i) Operating lease payments Payments made under operating leases are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. (ii) Financial lease payments Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance expense and the reduction in the outstanding liability. The finance expense is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. (iii) Net finance costs Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested, and financial assets held to maturity. Interest income is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method. Finance expense comprises interest expense on borrowings, commitment fees, accrued interest on provisions, interest on pension liabilities, impairment losses recognised on financial assets and losses on interest rate hedge instruments to the extent they are recognised in profit or loss. All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. Realised and unrealised foreign currency gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities, including changes in fair value of currency hedge instruments that are not qualified as cash flow hedges, are reported on a net basis. (m) Income tax Income tax for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognised in profit or loss unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity. Current tax is the expected tax, payable or receivable, on the taxable income for the year, using applicable tax rates enacted or substantially enacted by the financial position date, and any adjustment to tax calculated in respect of previous years. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 98 Annual Report 2016 Deferred tax is recognised using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: ■■ the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit; ■■ relating to investments in subsidiaries and jointly controlled entities to the extent that it is probable that they will not be reversed in the foreseeable future; ■■ arising on the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they are reversed, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same taxable entity; or on different tax entities, but the intention is to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously. A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be applied. Deferred tax assets are reduced if it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised. Additional income taxes that arise from the distribution of a dividend are recognised at the same time as the liability to pay the related dividend is recognised. (n) Earnings per share The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the reporting period. Diluted earnings per share is determined by adjusting profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. (o) Segment reporting The Group defines and presents operating segments based on the information that is provided internally to the Executive Board, the Group’s chief operating decision-maker. This is in conformity with IFRS 8 – Operating segments. On the basis of the criteria of IFRS 8, Kendrion’s business units are the Group’s operating segments. An operating segment is a part of the Group engaging in business activities that may result in revenue and expenses, including the revenue and expenses relating to FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 99 transactions with any of the Group’s other segments. The Executive Board conducts regular reviews of the operating segment’s results to reach decisions on the resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, whereby separate financial information for each operating segment is available. However, and on the basis of the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8, these operating segments have been aggregated into two reportable segments: Automotive and Industrial. In accordance with IFRS 8, the Company also discloses general and entity-wide information, including information about geographical areas and major customers of the Group as a whole. More information on the reportable segments is provided in note 19. (p) New standards and interpretations A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are effective, and have been endorsed by the European Union, for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2016 and therefore apply to the year ended 31 December 2016: ■■ IFRS Annual Improvements: 2012–2014. The standards IFRS 5, IFRS 7, IAS 19 and IAS 34 were amended as part of the Annual Improvements project. The amendments address details of changes in methods of disposals (IFRS 5), servicing contracts and offsetting (IFRS 7), disount rate (IAS 19) and interim financial reporting diclosures references (IAS 34). These changes have no material impact on the consolidated financial statements. The standards or interpretations published by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) that are not effective at 31 December 2016 but may be relevant are as follows: ■■ IFRS 9: Financial instruments. IFRS 9, endorsed by the European Union on 22 November 2016, replaces the existing guidance in IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and Measurement. IFRS 9 contains new guidance on: – Classification and measurement of financial instruments. For financial liabilities designated as accounted for at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL) using the fair value option (FVO), the amount of the change in the fair value of such financial liabilities that is attributable to changes in credit risk must be presented in other comprehensive income (OCI). The remainder of the change in fair value is presented in profit or loss, unless presentation in OCI of the fair value change in respect of the liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. All other IAS 39 requirements for financial liabilities have been carried forward into IFRS 9; – Key change in terms of recognition and measurement of impairment losses on financial assets. IAS 39 only allows impairment losses based on losses already incurred. Whereas the IFRS 9 model is based on an expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on financial assets. For certain financial instruments such as trade accounts receivable, simplifications for recognising impairment losses apply; and – New general hedge accounting requirements that aim for a closer alignment of hedge accounting with the entity’s risk management strategy. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 100 Annual Report 2016 IFRS 9 applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018 (early application is permitted). The impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group will be analysed and the standard will be adopted for the fiscal year beginning as of 1 January 2018. ■■ IFRS 15: Revenue from contracts with Customers. The new standard does not differentiate between different types of contracts and services, but rather introduces uniform criteria for the timing of revenue recognition. According to IFRS 15, an entity can recognise revenue at any time so that it reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The transfer of major risks and rewards of ownership of the goods is no longer the deciding factor. The new model involves five steps for recognition of revenue with the first steps being the identification of the contract with the customer (I) and the separate performance obligations it contains (II). The transaction price is then determined (III) and allocated to the performance obligations in the contract (IV). Finally (V), sales are recognised for each performance obligation in the amount of the allocated portion of the transaction price as soon as the agreed-upon good or service has been provided or the customer receives control over it. Principles are set out for determining whether the good or service has been provided over time or at one point in time. The rules and definitions of IFRS 15 supersede the content of IAS 11, IAS 18, IFRIC 13, IFRIC 15, IFRIC 18 and SIC 31. Consequently, it also amends IAS 16, IAS 38 and IAS 40 requiring entities to use the requirements of IFRS 15 for the recognition and measurement of gains and losses on disposal of non-financial assets that are not an output of an entity’s ordinary activities. In November 2016 the European Union has endorsed this standard for annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard will be adopted for the fiscal year beginning 1 January 2018 applying the modified retrospective approach meaning that the impact on the profit for the period 2017 will be adjusted in equity on 1 January 2018. The timing and amount of revenue that the Group recognises under IFRS 15 may be affacted compared to Kendrion's current accounting policy. Certain type of contracts with customers contain variable considerations as e.g discounts for early payments. These variable considerations will have an impact on the transaction price to be allocated to the performance obligation(s). However the majority of our contracts with customers will be accounted for at a 'point in time'. IFRS 15 also gives more guidance on how to account for contract modifications than current revenue standard IAS 18. For contract modifications it needs to be assessed whether the change must be accounted for either as a retrospective change, prospectively with a reallocation of revenues amongst identified performance obligations, or prospectively as separate contracts. Currently it is expected that changes in the total amount of revenue to be recognised for a customer contract will be very limited and this standard has no significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The corresponding positions in the Statement of Financial Position will change accordingly (e.g. receivables from contracts with customer, contract assets and contract liabilities (if any)) and disclosures will be amended. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 101 ■■ IFRS 16 Leases: On 13 January 2016, the IASB issued a new accounting standard, IFRS 16 Leases. This standard will eliminate the current accounting model for lessees: on-balance sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating leases. In their place, IFRS 16 introduces a single on-balance sheet accounting model similar to current finance lease accounting, unless the lease terms is 12 months or less or the underlying asset has a low value. Lessor accounting remains similar to current accounting practice, which means that lessors continue to classify leases as finance and operating leases. Under IFRS 16 the balance sheet of lessees will be impacted by recognising the corresponding asset (‘right to use the asset’) of the lease arrangement. On the other hand, a liability is recognised with regard to the obligation to make lease payments. This new standard will bring off balance leases on the balance sheet. The statement of comprehensive income is impacted by depreciation of the lease asset and corresponding interest component, which is not necessarily similar to the cash rental previously recognised in the statement of comprehensive income. The new standard is expected to impact financial metrics such as solvency, EBIT(DA), earnings per share and return on equity. This standard applies to annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019, with early adoption permitted. Endorsement by the European Union is still pending, but is expected to be given in the course of 2017. Transition options to apply are either a full retrospective approach or a modified retrospective approach. The transition option is to be decided by the Group. The impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group is to be analysed in the near future. (q) Fair values (i) Measurement of fair value Several of the Group’s accounting policies, as well as the information supplied by the Group, require the fair value of both financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities to be determined. For valuation and information supplied, the fair value is measured using the methods below. Where applicable, more detailed information on the basis of the fair value measurement is disclosed in the specific notes on the asset or liability in question. The principal methods and assumptions used in estimating the fair value of financial instruments included in the summary are given below. (ii) Property, plant and equipment The fair value of property, plant and equipment recognised as a result of a business combination is based on market value in use. The market value of property is the estimated amount for which the property in question could be exchanged on the valuation date between a buyer and seller in an arm’s length transaction, in which both parties have acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion. The market value of other items of property, plant and equipment is based on the quoted market prices of comparable assets and goods. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 102 Annual Report 2016 (iii) Intangible assets The fair value of patents and trademarks acquired as part of a business combination is measured on the basis of the discounted estimated royalties that have been avoided through ownership of the patent or trademark. The fair value of customer relationships acquired in a business combination is based on the excess earnings method over multiple periods, valuing the asset in question by deducting a real return on all other assets which in total create the related cash flows. The fair value of other intangible assets is based on the expected discounted value of the cash flows from the use and ultimate sale of these assets. (iv) Financial lease liabilities The fair value is estimated on the basis of the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the interest rate for lease contracts of a similar nature. The estimated fair value reflects movements in interest rates. (v) Inventories The fair value of inventories acquired as part of a business combination is determined on the basis of the estimated selling price as part of normal business operations, less the estimated costs of completion and the selling costs, plus a reasonable profit margin that reflects the completion and sales effort. (vi) Trade and other receivables/trade and other payables The face value of receivables and liabilities falling due within one year is regarded as a reflection of their fair value. The fair value of all other receivables and liabilities is measured on the basis of present value. The discount factor is based on the risk-free interest rate of the same duration as the receivable and/or payable, plus a credit mark up reflecting the credit worthiness of the Group. (vii) Interest-bearing loans The fair value is calculated on the basis of the present value of future repayments of principal and interest at the prevailing market rate of interest, supplemented by a credit mark-up reflecting the credit worthiness of the Group. (viii) Derivatives The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on the present value of the contractual cash flows for the remaining term based on a risk-free interest rate. (ix) Non-derivative financial liabilities The fair value of non-derivative financial liabilities is determined from information supplied and is based on the present value of future repayments of principal and interest, discounted at a risk-free rate, and a margin based on the credit worthiness of the Group on the reporting date. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 103 (x) Contingent consideration The fair value of contingent considerations arising in a business combination is calculated using the income approach based on the expected payment amounts and their associated probabilities. If appropriate, it is discounted to present value. (r) Financial risk management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: ■■ credit risk; ■■ liquidity risk; ■■ market risk. This section provides general information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks in the course of its normal business operations, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further quantitative disclosures are included in the financial instrument section in these consolidated financial statements. The Executive Board bears the ultimate responsibility for the organisation and control of the Group’s risk management framework. The Group’s risk policy is designed to identify and analyse the risks confronting the Group, implement appropriate risk limits and control measures, and monitor the risks and compliance with the limits. The risk management policy and systems are evaluated at regular intervals and, if necessary, adapted to accommodate changes in market conditions and the Group’s operations. The Company’s Supervisory Board supervises compliance with the Group’s risk management policy and procedures. For a more detailed description of risk management and the position of financial risk management in the Group’s framework, see Report of the Executive Board. (i) Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group in the event that a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. Credit risks arise primarily from accounts receivable, derivative transactions concluded with banks, and cash positions and deposits held with banks. The Group continually monitors the credit risk within the Group. The Group does not normally require collateral for trade and other receivables or financial assets. The credit policy includes an assessment of the creditworthiness of every new major customer before offering payment and delivery terms. This assessment includes external credit ratings or reports if they are available. The creditworthiness of major customers is actively monitored on an ongoing basis. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 104 Annual Report 2016 The Group recognises impairment provisions of an amount equal to the estimated losses on trade and other receivables and other investments. The main component of this provision comprises specific provisions for losses on individual accounts of material significance. (ii) Credit risk concentration The customer with the largest receivable outstanding accounted for 7% of the trade and other receivables at 31 December 2016. In 2015, the largest customer outstanding at 31 December 2015 accounted for 7% of total trade and other receivables. Other customers individually accounted for 5% or less of the trade and other receivables at 31 December 2016. The geographical credit risk from the Group’s direct customers is largely concentrated in Germany. However, as the Group’s most important customers in the various segments of the German market are multinational or global players, this reduces the Group’s dependency on the German market. (iii) Investments and financial instruments The Group currently does not invest in debt securities. Cash positions and exposure to the financial instruments of financial counterparties are monitored actively. The Group’s main financial counterparties are well-established banks with good creditworthiness. The cash in bank accounts at other than the core-relationship banks is maintained at the minimum level required for the operations of the Group’s companies. (iv) Liquidity risk The liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its financial obligations at the required time. Liquidity risk management is based on the maintenance of sufficient liquidity in the form of unused (committed) credit facilities or cash to meet present and future financial obligations in normal and adverse circumstances. A summary of the credit lines available to the Group is disclosed in note 10 of these consolidated financial statements. The majority of the available facilities are provided by a syndicate of lenders consisting of BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and ING Bank on an equal basis. The Group had approximately EUR 89 million available within its existing revolving credit facility on the financial position date. (v) Market risk The market risk is the risk of the deterioration of the Group’s income due to movements in market prices, such as those relating to exchange rates and interest rates. The management of market risk exposure is intended to keep the market risk position within acceptable limits. Derivatives are used to manage specific market risks. These transactions are carried out within the treasury framework adopted by the Executive Board. If necessary, the Group uses hedge accounting to manage volatility in the statement of comprehensive income. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 105 (vi) Interest rate risk Pursuant to the Group’s policy more than 50% of the exposure to changes in interest rates on borrowings is maintained on a fixed rate basis, taking into account any assets with exposure to changes in interest rates and expected short-term free cash flows. The policy is implemented by making use of derivative financial instruments such as interest rate swaps and interest rate options. The Group has currently outstanding interest swap contracts with a total underlying notional value of EUR 50 million in order to reduce interest rate risk exposure to increasing market rates. EUR 20 million matures in the third quarter of 2017 and EUR 30 million matures in 2018. (vii) Currency risk The Group is exposed to exchange rate risks on sales, purchases, equity positions and loans expressed in currencies other than the euro. The Group companies are primarily financed in their own currency. The majority of the revenues and costs of the Group companies are realised in the euro zone. Approximately 75% of the cost base and revenues are realised in euros. Sales outside the euro zone are partly generated locally and partly through exports from the euro zone. Most of these exports are realised in euros. The Group’s activities in the Czech Republic have the most significant currency exposure, since the majority of revenue is generated in euros and part of the costs are in Czech korunas. Pursuant to the Group’s policy this currency exposure is hedged to a level of at least 70% for the next four quarters and at least 35% for the next four quarters thereafter. Exchange rate risks are hedged with derivatives. The Group also actively hedges intercompany loans in foreign currencies with currency forwards, swaps or back-to-back loans in the same foreign currency. Pursuant to the Group’s policy for other monetary assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency, net exposure is maintained at an acceptable level by buying or selling foreign currencies at spot rates as required to correct short-term imbalances. The Group’s policy stipulates that, in principle, equity investments and other translation exposures are not hedged. (viii) Other price risks Steel, copper and rare earth metals used in permanent magnets are the most important commodities that confront Kendrion with potential price risks. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 106 Annual Report 2016 Copper constitutes the Group’s main direct exposure to raw material price risks, since copper wire is an important component of electromagnets. Pursuant to the Group’s policy, the sensitivity to copper prices is actively reduced both by concluding fixed-price purchase contracts in the normal course of business with copper wire suppliers and by including raw material clauses in sales contracts. As the need arises the Group can also conclude derivative financial instrument contracts with financial counterparties to hedge the copper risk. No financial derivative contracts for raw materials were outstanding at the balance sheet date. The Group is also exposed to risks associated with rare earth metals such as neodymium, a component of permanent magnets, which are used in some of the Group’s products. Prices of these commodities have shown significant volatility in the past. The Group closely monitors developments in this market and has increased stock levels and the number of supply sources for these permanent magnets. Furthermore, agreements have been made with customers representing the majority of the sales volume in this context, to link sales prices to movements in permanent magnet prices. The Group is mainly indirectly exposed to raw material price risks relating to oil and steel, primarily as part of the purchase prices of machined components. This exposure is monitored and, if feasible, reduced by means of raw material clauses with customers and by concluding fixedprice agreements with suppliers for periods of between six and twelve months. The Kendrion steel contracts also partly govern the purchasing from component suppliers. The Group has formed a Strategic Purchasing Board with representatives from all business units, which meets on a quarterly basis and has the objective of further increasing and sharing knowledge on commodities and commodity markets, reducing risks and/or prices, and setting purchasing policies. (ix) Capital management The Executive Board’s policy is designed to maintain a strong capital gearing to retain the confidence of investors, creditors and the markets, and to safeguard the future development of the business activities. The Executive Board monitors the return on equity, which the Group defines as the net operating result divided by shareholders’ equity, excluding minority interests. The Executive Board also monitors the level of dividend distributed to ordinary shareholders. The Executive Board seeks to strike a balance between a higher return that would be achievable with a higher level of borrowed capital and the benefits and security of sound capital gearing. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 107 Kendrion carried out an evaluation of its dividend policy during the course of 2011. The results of this evaluation were discussed at the General Meeting of Shareholders on 16 April 2012. Kendrion intends to distribute an annual dividend of between 35% and 50% of the net profit, taking into consideration the amount of net profit to be retained to support the medium and long-term strategic plans of the company and to maintain a minimum solvency of 35%. Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries are subject to any externally imposed capital requirements beyond those stipulated by law. 1 Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant and Other fixed Under EUR million buildings equipment assets construction Total Cost Balance as at 1 January 2015 48.6 96.8 40.1 5.5 191.0 Acquired, other 1.8 5.3 4.6 7.5 19.2 Disposals (2.5) (2.8) (3.0) (2.0) (10.3) Currency translation differences 0.3 0.8 0.1 0.1 1.3 Balance as at 31 December 2015 48.2 100.1 41.8 11.1 201.2 Balance as at 1 January 2016 48.2 100.1 41.8 11.1 201.2 Acquired, other 1.9 16.5 5.4 7.1 30.9 Disposals (0.4) (0.5) (0.3) (10.0) (11.2) Currency translation differences 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.2 Balance as at 31 December 2016 49.8 116.2 46.9 8.2 221.1 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 108 Annual Report 2016 Land and Plant and Other fixed Under EUR million buildings equipment assets construction Total Depreciation and impairment losses Balance as at 1 January 2015 20.4 58.2 29.2 0.1 107.9 Depreciation for the year 1.9 10.6 4.3 – 16.8 Impairment – – – 0.1 0.1 Disposals (1.0) (2.5) (2.7) (0.1) (6.3) Balance as at 31 December 2015 21.3 66.3 30.8 0.1 118.5 Balance as at 1 January 2016 21.3 66.3 30.8 0.1 118.5 Depreciation for the year 2.0 10.8 4.4 – 17.2 Impairment – 0.2 0.3 – 0.5 Disposals – (0.4) (0.2) – (0.6) Balance as at 31 December 2016 23.3 76.9 35.3 0.1 135.6 Carrying amounts As at 1 January 2015 28.2 38.6 10.9 5.4 83.1 As at 31 December 2015 26.9 33.8 11.0 11.0 82.7 As at 1 January 2016 26.9 33.8 11.0 11.0 82.7 As at 31 December 2016 26.5 39.3 11.6 8.1 85.5 Translation differences are calculated on the carrying amount and reflected in the related item in the cost. The estimated useful lives are as follows: Buildings 10 – 30 years Plant and equipment 5 – 10 years Other fixed assets 3 – 7 years FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 109 2 Intangible assets Development EUR million Goodwill costs Software Other Total Cost Balance as at 1 January 2015 90.5 0.8 13.5 38.6 143.4 Acquired through business combinations – – 0.0 1.5 1.5 Acquired, other – 0.8 4.3 0.0 5.1 Disposals – (0.6) (0.8) – (1.4) Currency translation differences 2.9 0.0 0.0 0.8 3.7 Balance as at 31 December 2015 93.4 1.0 17.0 40.9 152.3 Balance as at 1 January 2016 93.4 1.0 17.0 40.9 152.3 Acquired, other – 0.9 2.0 – 2.9 Disposals – (0.2) (0.0) (0.1) (0.3) Currency translation differences 0.9 0.0 0.0 0.2 1.1 Balance as at 31 December 2016 94.3 1.7 19.0 41.0 156.0 Amortisation and impairment losses Balance as at 1 January 2015 – 0.0 5.4 13.8 19.2 Amortisation for the year – 0.0 2.6 3.8 6.4 Disposals – – (0.9) – (0.9) Balance as at 31 December 2015 – 0.0 7.1 17.6 24.7 Balance as at 1 January 2016 – 0.0 7.1 17.6 24.7 Amortisation for the year – 0.1 3.0 3.7 6.8 Disposals – – (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) Balance as at 31 December 2016 – 0.1 10.1 21.3 31.5 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 110 Annual Report 2016 Development EUR million Goodwill costs Software Other Total Carrying amounts At 1 January 2015 90.5 0.8 8.1 24.8 124.2 At 31 December 2015 93.4 1.0 9.9 23.3 127.6 At 1 January 2016 93.4 1.0 9.9 23.3 127.6 At 31 December 2016 94.3 1.6 8.9 19.7 124.5 The other intangible assets comprise the carrying amount of customer relationships amounting to EUR 18.4 million (2015: EUR 22.5 million). These customer relationships were acquired through business combinations. The addition in other intangible assets in 2015 mainly relates to the acquisition of Steinbeis Mechatronik GmbH. Depreciation and amortisation Depreciation and amortisation are recognised in the following items in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income: EUR million 2016 2015 Depreciation and amortisation 24.0 23.2 The estimated useful life of software is between three and eight years. The estimated useful life of other intangible assets is approximately between eight and fifteen years. Goodwill has an indefinite estimated useful life. The investments in software during 2016 of EUR 2.0 million (2015: EUR 4.3 million) mainly relate to an upgrade of the ERP system and upgrade of office applications. The depreciation period for the ERP system is eight years based on its expected useful life. Impairment testing for cash-generating units containing goodwill Goodwill EUR million 2016 2015 Kendrion Linnig Group 27.6 27.6 Kendrion (Mishawaka) LLC 7.3 7.0 Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH 7.1 7.1 Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. 21.2 20.6 Kendrion Kuhnke Automation 17.7 17.7 Kendrion Kuhnke Automotive 13.4 13.4 94.3 93.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 111 Key assumptions and method of quantification The Group recognises its intangible assets in accordance with IAS 38 and IFRS 3. Pursuant to IAS 36, the Group has performed an impairment test with reference to the goodwill allocated to each individual cash-generating unit. This test was carried out by discounting future cash flows (‘value in use’) to be generated from the continuing use of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill applies and on the assumption of an indefinite life. The cash flows for the next five years were based on mid-term plans and budgets drawn up by the local management and approved by the Executive Board. The horizon of the mid-term plans has been extended to five years (2015: three years). The Group did not recognise any impairment of goodwill in this reporting period. For the subsequent years, the residual value was calculated on the basis of the results in the last year of relevant forecasts, with a moderate growth rate of 2% taken into account. The forecasts took no account of tax considerations, i.e. were based on pre-tax cash flow. The weighted average cost of capital (WACC) based on the Capital Asset Pricing Model was also pre-tax. Expansion investments were excluded from the calculations in the residual value. The expected growth in cash flows as a result of these expansion investments was also excluded. Key assumptions used in the calculation of recoverable amounts concern discount rates, terminal value growth rates and EBITA growth. Assumptions are based on past experience and external sources. Key assumptions used in the calculation of recoverable amounts concern discount rates terminal growth rates and EBITA growth. These assumptions are as follows: Discounted cash flow projections Discount rate Terminal value growth rate 2016 2015 2016 2015 Kendrion Linnig Group 7.3% 8.0% 2.0% 2.0% Kendrion (Mishawaka) LLC 9.8% 10.5% 2.0% 2.0% Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH 7.0% 7.9% 2.0% 2.0% Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. 9.9% 10.4% 2.0% 2.0% Kendrion Kuhnke Automation 7.0% 8.0% 2.0% 2.0% Kendrion Kuhnke Automotive 7.0% 8.1% 2.0% 2.0% Discount rate In determining the pre-tax discount rate, first the post-tax average costs of capital were calculated for all cash generating units containing goodwill. The post-tax rate is based on debt leveraging compared to the market value of equity of 22%. All the post-tax weighted average cost of capital rates of cash generating units approximated 5.6% to 7.1%, and these rates were used for calculating the post-tax cash flows. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 Annual Report 2016 Terminal value growth rate All cash generating units with goodwill have five years of cash flows included in their discounted cash flow models. A long-term growth rate in perpetuity has been determined on the basis of a growth rate of 2%. Sensitivity to changes in assumptions The recoverable amounts of all cash-generating units with goodwill exceed their carrying amounts. Management has carried out an analysis of sensitivity to changes in the key assumptions. The following table shows the percentage by which each of these two assumptions would need to change for the estimated recoverable amount to equal the carrying amount: Change required for recoverable amount to equal carrying amount Discount rate (post tax) Forecasted EBITA 2016 2015 2016 2015 Kendrion Linnig Group 4.4% 13.9% (45%) (71%) Kendrion (Mishawaka) LLC 1.4% 1.4% (21%) (20%) Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH 3.1% 3.7% (45%) (47%) Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. 5.2% 6.6% (50%) (55%) Kendrion Kuhnke Automation 16.7% 13.2% (80%) (72%) Kendrion Kuhnke Automotive 9.8% 9.0% (71%) (56%) Compared to prior year the percentages are influenced by the change in the discount rate and the expected future cash flows. This table shows that a reasonably possible change in key assumptions would not cause the value in use to fall to the level of the carrying value. 3 Other investments, including derivatives Other investments in 2016 include financial derivatives and recognised upfront and legal fees related to the facility agreement (see note 10). Kendrion amortises these costs over the remaining maturity of the facility. As these costs relate to the facility agreement as a whole and not to individual loans, these costs are not part of the effective interest rate of outstanding loans. 4 Deferred tax assets and liabilities The Group has recognised deferred tax assets for tax loss carry-forwards in the following jurisdictions: Germany Tax assessments have been submitted for the German companies up to and including 2014. As from 2010, these years are still open for potential tax audits with the exception of Kendrion Aerzen which has been audited up to and including 2008. For the German operating companies of Kuhnke the years up to and including 2011 have been audited and the tax assessments are final. At 31 December 2016 tax loss carry forwards amounted to about EUR 5.1 million (‘Gewerbesteuer’) and EUR 25.3 million (‘Körperschaftsteuer’). These are recognised in full, resulting in deferred tax assets of EUR 4.6 million (2015: EUR 5.2 million). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 113 United States of America Tax assessments have been submitted up to and including 2015. The years 2013 up to 2015 are still open for potential tax audits. At 31 December 2016 the tax loss carry forwards amounted to EUR 3.7 million (2015: EUR 0.5 million). These are recognised in full, resulting in deferred tax assets of EUR 1.3 million (2015: EUR 0.2 million). The Netherlands Tax assessments have been submitted up to and including 2014. The years 2010 up to 2014 are still open for potential tax audits. At 31 December 2016 the tax loss carry-forwards amounted to EUR 4.5 million (2015: EUR 20.8 million). These are recognised in full, resulting in deferred tax assets of EUR 1.1 million (2015: EUR 5.2 million). These tax loss carry-forwards originated in 2012. Deferred tax assets and liabilities included in the financial position The deferred tax assets and liabilities can be specified as follows: EUR million Assets Liabilities Net 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.2 3.6 3.6 (3.5) (3.4) Intangible assets 4.3 0.6 6.8 7.2 (2.5) (6.6) Inventories 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 (0.1) Employee benefits 2.2 1.6 0.0 – 2.2 1.6 Provisions 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.2 (0.1) 0.2 Other items 1.9 2.4 0.1 0.2 1.8 2.2 Tax value of recognised loss carry-forwards 7.0 10.6 – – 7.0 10.6 Deferred tax assets/liabilities 16.0 15.9 10.9 11.4 5.1 4.5 The tax losses carry forward for which no deferred tax assets are recognised in the statement of financial position amount to EUR 1.4 million. These unrecognised tax losses carry forward will expire mainly in 2019 and in 2020. The deferred tax liabilities relate almost entirely to temporary differences between the carrying amount and tax base of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. These are of a relatively long-term nature, mostly longer than five years. Tax loss carry forward limitation rules apply in certain jurisdictions in which Kendrion has carry forward tax losses. These rules might under certain circumstances lead to a (proportional) forfeiture of recognised and unrecognised carry forward tax losses in case of a direct or indirect change in ownership. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 114 Annual Report 2016 Movement in temporary differences during the financial year Net, EUR million 2016 Recognised in other Recognised comprehensive At 31 At 1 January in profit or loss income December Property, plant and equipment (3.4) (0.1) – (3.5) Intangible assets (6.6) 4.1 – (2.5) Inventories (0.1) 0.3 – 0.2 Employee benefits 1.6 (0.1) 0.7 2.2 Provisions 0.2 (0.3) – (0.1) Other items 2.2 (0.4) – 1.8 Tax value of loss carry-forwards used 10.6 (3.6) – 7.0 4.5 (0.1) 0.7 5.1 Net, EUR million 2015 Recognised in other Recognised comprehensive At 31 At 1 January in profit or loss income December Property, plant and equipment (3.3) (0.1) – (3.4) Intangible assets (6.6) 0.0 – (6.6) Inventories 0.1 (0.2) – (0.1) Employee benefits 1.5 0.0 0.1 1.6 Provisions 0.4 (0.2) – 0.2 Other items 0.4 1.8 – 2.2 Tax value of loss carry-forwards used 10.6 (0.0) – 10.6 3.1 1.3 0.1 4.5 In 2016, the net amount from the movement in deferred tax assets and liabilities, presented as tax in the statement of comprehensive income, is negative EUR 0.1 million (2015: positive EUR 1.3 million). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 115 5 Inventories EUR million 2016 2015 Raw materials, consumables, technical materials and packing materials 25.9 25.6 Work in progress 11.5 11.5 Finished goods 11.7 11.9 Goods for resale 3.5 3.5 52.6 52.5 The inventories are presented after accounting for a provision of EUR 9.0 million (2015: EUR 7.8 million) for obsolescence. In 2015, the amount of the write-down to net realisable value of the inventories was EUR 1.9 million (2015: EUR 1.3 million). The write-down and reversals are included in cost of sales. 6 Trade and other receivables EUR million 2016 2015 Trade receivables 45.6 43.8 Other taxes and social security 4.8 1.6 Other receivables 2.1 1.9 Derivatives used for hedging – 0.1 Prepayments 2.0 1.3 54.5 48.7 The credit and currency risks associated with trade and other receivables are disclosed in note 15, and in the financial risk management paragraph of note r. 7 Cash and cash equivalents EUR million 2016 2015 Bank balances 12.4 10.2 Bank overdrafts (2.7) (9.0) Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 9.7 1.2 The bank balances are freely available. The interest rate risk for the Group and a sensitivity analysis for financial assets and liabilities are disclosed in notes 15 and r. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 116 Annual Report 2016 8 Capital and reserves Capital and share premium Shares entitled to dividend Shares owned by Kendrion Total number of issued shares 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 At 1 January 13,188,154 13,026,325 – 4,657 13,188,154 13,030,982 Issued shares (share dividend) 199,706 146,148 – – 199,706 146,148 Issued registered shares (share plan) 8,174 11,024 – – 8,174 11,024 Delivered shares 1,044 5,985 (1,044) (5,985) – – Repurchased shares (1,044) (1,328) 1,044 1,328 – – At 31 December 13,396,034 13,188,154 – – 13,396,034 13,188,154 Issuance of ordinary shares In 2016, 199,706 new shares were issued as share dividend (2015: 146,148). During 2016, the Company delivered 9,218 shares to the Executive Board and senior management as part of its share plan and remuneration packages (2015: 17,009). The Company purchased 1,044 of its own shares in 2016 (2015: 1,328). Ordinary shares The authorised share capital consists of: EUR million 2016 2015 40,000,000 ordinary shares of EUR 2.00 80.0 80.0 Issued share capital Balance at 1 January 2016: 13,188,154 ordinary shares (2015: 13,030,982) 26.4 26.1 Balance at 31 December 2016: 13,396,034 ordinary shares (2015: 13,188,154) 26.8 26.4 Share premium EUR million 2016 2015 Balance as at 1 January 62.7 68.8 Dividend payment (10.3) (10.2) Share premium on issued shares 4.0 4.1 Balance as at 31 December 56.4 62.7 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 117 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of associates in the non-euro zone. Gains and losses relating to the translation risk are recognised in equity. The build-up of the cumulative figure commenced on 1 January 2004. Hedge reserve The hedge reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net movement in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet occurred, net of tax. The net movement was EUR 0.2 million (2015: EUR 0.3 million). The hedge reserve increased by EUR 0.0 million due to the realisation of hedged transactions (2015: EUR 0.2 million). The hedge reserve decreased by EUR 0.2 million due to valuation effects (2015: positive EUR 0.3 million). There was no hedge ineffectiveness in 2016 (2015: EUR 0.0 million). Reserve for own shares (treasury shares) The reserve for the Company’s own shares comprises the shares held by the Company for the remuneration packages for the Executive Board. At 31 December 2016, the Company held none of its own shares (2015: none), see also note 27. Other reserves Other reserves are all the reserves other than those shown separately and primarily represent the accumulated, undistributed profits from previous financial years. Retained earnings In 2016, the result for 2015 was fully transferred to other reserves. Retained earnings in the 2016 financial statements consequently consist solely of the result for 2016. 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share The calculation of the basic earnings per share at 31 December 2016 is based on the profit for the period of EUR 14.9 million (2015: EUR 16.8 million) attributable to the holders of ordinary shares and the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the year 2016: 13,327,000 (2015: 13,132,000). EUR million 2016 2015 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 14.9 16.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 118 Annual Report 2016 Weighted average number of ordinary shares In thousands of shares 2016 2015 Issued ordinary shares at 1 January 13,188 13,026 Effect of shares issued as share plan 8 11 Effect of own shares delivered and repurchased – 5 Effect of shares issued as share dividend 200 146 Ordinary shares outstanding at 31 December 13,396 13,188 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 13,327 13,132 Basic earnings per share (EUR) 1.11 1.28 Basic earnings per share (EUR), based on weighted average 1.12 1.28 Diluted earnings per share The calculation of the diluted earnings per share at 31 December 2016 is based on the profit of EUR 14.9 million (2015: EUR 16.8 million) attributable to the holders of ordinary shares and the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year, after adjustment for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares amounting to 13,333,000 (2015: 13,139,000). EUR million 2016 2015 Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 14.9 16.8 Effect of dilution (0.0) (0.0) Net profit attributable to ordinary shareholders (diluted) 14.9 16.8 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) In thousands of shares 2016 2015 Weighted average numbers of ordinary shares at 31 December 13,327 13,132 Weighted average numbers of ordinary shares at 31 December (diluted) 13,333 13,139 Basic earnings per share (EUR), based on weighted average (diluted) 1.12 1.28 10 Loans and borrowings These notes contain information on the contractual provisions of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings, which are carried at amortised cost price. For further information on the interest rates, and the currency and liquidity risks borne by the Group, see note 15 and accounting policy r. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 119 EUR million 2016 2015 Non-current liabilities Bank syndicate loans 58.0 63.5 Mortgage loans 3.7 4.4 Financial lease liabilities 0.3 0.5 Other loans 1.0 1.2 63.0 69.6 EUR million 2016 2015 Current liabilities Current portion loans 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Financing conditions At 31 December 2016, the Group had the following credit lines available: ■■ EUR 150 million revolving Credit Facility with a syndicate of three banks consisting of BNP Paribas, Deutsche Bank and ING Bank. The Credit Facility is committed until 15 August 2019 and includes an option (accordion option) to increase the facility by a maximum of EUR 75.0 million; ■■ EUR 4.4 million mortgage loan for the premises of the Kuhnke facilities in Malente, Germany. The loan ultimately matures in 2022; ■■ EUR 1.0 million in subsidised term loans with final maturity in 2019; ■■ EUR 0.3 million in financial leases for various equipment in the Kuhnke facilities in Malente and Sibiu; ■■ EUR 1.0 million in other overdraft facilities. At 31 December 2016, the total unutilised amount of the facilities was approximately EUR 89 million. Banking syndicate credit facility Pursuant to the terms of the credit facility with the banking syndicate, the Group has agreed to financial covenants relating to the leverage ratio (interest bearing debt / EBITDA) and interest coverage (EBITDA / interest costs). In accordance with these covenants, the leverage ratio should remain below 3.0, which can under certain circumstances be temporarily increased to a maximum of 3.5. The interest coverage should always exceed 4.0. Both covenants are tested quarterly on a 12-month rolling basis. The actual leverage ratio at year-end was 1.1 (2015: 1.5) and the actual interest coverage at year-end was 24.5 (2015: 20.1). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 120 Annual Report 2016 Security provided The Group has provided a mortgage on its premises in Malente, Germany for a EUR 4.4 million loan. No security is provided in relation to the EUR 150 million revolving Credit Facility. Interest-rate sensitivity Interest on the EUR 5.7 million other loans is based on a fixed-term interest rate. Interest amounts payable on the EUR 150 million revolving Credit Facility are based on short-term interest rate (mainly three months). See note 15 and accounting policy r for further details. Financial lease liabilities The financial lease liabilities are payable as follows: EUR million 2016 2015 Minimum Minimum lease Interest Principal lease Interest Principal ‹ 1 year 0.3 0.0 0.3 0.4 0.0 0.4 1 – 5 years 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.0 0.1 › 5 years – – – – – – 0.3 0.0 0.3 0.5 0.0 0.5 The financial lease liabilities mostly relate to financial leases for various items of equipment in Germany and Romania. 11 Employee benefits EUR million 2016 2015 Present value of unfunded obligations 16.0 14.7 Present value of funded obligations 6.6 8.2 Fair value of plan assets (4.4) (5.6) Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations 18.2 17.3 Liability for long-service leave and anniversaries 3.2 2.5 Total employee benefits 21.4 19.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 121 Movement in net liability for defined benefit obligations recognised in the statement of financial position EUR million 2016 2015 Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations at 1 January 17.3 17.3 Expense recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income (0.7) 0.5 Benefits paid (1.0) (0.9) Other movements (including currency differences and employer contributions paid) (0.1) 0.0 Actuarial (gains) losses in other comprehensive income 2.7 0.4 Recognised net liability for defined benefit obligations at 31 December 18.2 17.3 Movement in plan assets EUR million 2016 2015 Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 5.6 5.0 Contributions paid employer 0.1 0.1 Contributions paid participants 0.1 0.1 Benefits paid (0.1) (0.1) Assets distributed on curtailments (1.1) – Return on plan assets 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gains (losses) in other comprehensive income (0.3) 0.4 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 4.4 5.6 Expense recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income regarding defined benefit arrangements EUR million 2016 2015 Current service costs 0.2 0.2 Past service costs including losses/(gains) on curtailments (1.2) – Net interest 0.3 0.3 (0.7) 0.5 Effective return on plan assets (0.2) 0.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 122 Annual Report 2016 The expenses relating to the defined benefit pension arrangements are included in the following line items of the statement of comprehensive income: EUR million 2016 2015 Staff costs (0.9) 0.2 Net finance costs 0.3 0.3 (0.6) 0.5 Principal actuarial assumptions (expressed as weighted averages) 2016 2015 Discount rate at 31 December 0.9% 1.8% Future salary increases 0.6% 0.7% Future pension increases 1.7% 1.3% Historical information EUR million 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 Net liability for defined benefit obligations 22.6 22.9 22.3 20.6 9.6 Fair value of plan assets 4.4 5.6 5.0 4.8 4.4 Deficit in plan 18.2 17.3 17.3 15.8 5.2 Actuarial calculations of employee benefits have not been materially influenced by amendments based on historical experience or by variable assumptions. Composition plan assets EUR million 2016 2015 Bonds 1.8 2.1 Equity 0.9 1.3 Real estate 0.8 1.0 Government loans 0.1 0.0 Other 0.8 1.1 Total 4.4 5.6 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 123 Sensitivity analysis Defined benefit obligation 0.5 percent 0.5 percent EUR million point increase point decrease Discount rate (1.3) 2.0 Future salary growth 0.1 (0.1) Future pension 0.9 (1.0) Liabilities arising from employee benefits The pension plans included defined contribution plans as well as defined benefit plans. In the case of defined contribution plans, the contribution is charged to the year to which it relates. With defined benefit plans, benefit obligations are calculated using the projected unit credit method. Calculations are made by qualified actuaries. The pension liability shown in the statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the financial position date minus the fair value of the plan assets at this date. The discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit obligation is based on the yield on AA-rated corporate bonds in Europe. The greater part of the defined benefit obligation at year-end 2016 relates to pension arrangements in Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The group companies account individually for the pension schemes. The individual group company is fully liable for its benefit obligation. A portion for the German group companies is reinsured. All pension arrangements accounted for as defined benefit obligations are not open for new participants (< 15% active participants) except for the pension arrangement of Kendrion Switzerland. This pension arrangement is a contribution-based plan. Pension premiums paid to the multi-employer fund are vested rights for plan participants. Under EU-IFRS the pension arrangement of Kendrion Switzerland is qualifed as a defined benefit plan as Kendrion Switzerland is liable for any shortfall (if any) of the multiemployer fund in which Kendrion Switzerland participates. In 2016 the Group decided to close the manufacturing facility in Switzerland. Closure of the manufacturing facility and corresponding termination of employment contracts qualifies as a curtailment. The curtailment gain amounted to EUR 1.2 million and is recognised as past service credit. Liabilities arising from employee benefits also include liabilities relating to long-service, early retirement and service anniversaries of EUR 3.2 million (2015: EUR 2.5 million) in Germany and Austria. 12 Share-based payments At 31 December 2016, the Group had the following share-based payment arrangements. Share plan for the Executive Board (equity settled) Details of the remuneration of the Executive Board are provided in note 27. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 124 Annual Report 2016 Loyalty bonus (equity settled) The Group had a share incentive programme, which entitled certain managers to purchase shares in the Company for an amount up to 50% of their respective net cash bonuses. Employees who retain these shares for three years and remain in service for three years become entitled to a number of shares equal to the number of shares they individually purchased. Pursuant to this incentive programme, a total of 1,714 shares was issued in 2016, resulting from shares granted in 2013. Expenses recognised in profit or loss for the shares amount to EUR 0.1 million. Terms & conditions of the share programme (loyalty bonus) Grant date Number of instruments Vesting conditions Shares granted to key management in 2014 2,479 3 years of service Shares granted to key management in 2015 2,259 3 years of service Shares granted to key management in 2016 1,817 3 years of service Total shares 6,555 Awarded shares Every year, the Company awards a number of its own shares to certain key employees. There are no vesting conditions attached to these shares. Expenses recognised in profit or loss for the shares amount to EUR 0.2 million. 13 Provisions EUR million 2016 2015 Balance at 1 January 0.8 0.4 Provisions made during the period 0.8 0.8 Provisions transferred/used during the period (0.4) (0.4) Provisions released during the period – – Balance at 31 December 1.2 0.8 Non-current portion – – 14 Trade and other payables EUR million 2016 2015 Trade payables 41.3 39.8 Other taxes and social security contributions 4.7 1.2 Derivatives used for hedging 0.5 0.3 Non-trade payables and accrued expenses 21.9 16.6 68.4 57.9 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 125 15 Financial instruments Credit risk The carrying amount of the financial assets represents the maximum credit risk. The maximum credit risk on the reporting date was as follows: EUR million Carrying amount 2016 2015 Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 10.2 Other long term investments 0.4 0.6 Current income tax 1.2 2.7 Trade and other receivables 54.5 48.7 Total 68.5 62.2 Impairment losses Aging analysis of the trade and other receivables EUR million 2016 2015 Gross Provision Gross Provision Within the term of payment 47.3 – 41.0 – 0 – 30 days due 5.7 – 6.4 – 31 – 60 days due 0.7 – 0.4 – > 60 days due 0.9 (0.1) 1.3 (0.4) Total trade and other receivables 54.6 (0.1) 49.1 (0.4) The provision for trade receivables is used to absorb impairment losses, unless the Group is certain that collection of the amount owed is impossible, in which case the amount is treated as a bad debt and written off against the financial asset in question. At 31 December 2016 the provision for impairment losses on trade and other receivables relates to several customer invoices that the Group believes to be non-collectible, in whole or in part. Based on historic payment behaviour and financial information currently known all receivables that are not impaired at 31 December 2016 are collectible. EUR 1.6 million of trade receivables are over 30 days overdue, of which EUR 0.1 million is provided for. The Group has written off less than EUR 0.1 million receivables in 2016 (2015: less than EUR 0.2 million), which are recognised under other operating expenses in the statement of comprehensive income. The customer with the largest trade receivables outstanding accounted for 7% of the trade and other receivables at 31 December 2016. At 31 December 2015 the largest customer accounted for 7% of total receivables. The geographical credit risk from the Group’s direct customers is largely concentrated in Germany. However, as the Group’s most important customers in the various segments of the German market are multinational or global players this reduces the Group’s dependency on the German market. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 126 Annual Report 2016 Liquidity risk The contractual terms of the financial obligations, including the estimated interest payments and repayment obligations, are set out below. 31 December 2016 Contractual EUR million Carrying amount cash flows 0 – 6 months 6 – 12 months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years › 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank syndicate loans 58.0 (60.1) (0.4) (0.4) (0.8) (58.5) – Finance lease liabilities 0.3 (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – – – Bank overdrafts 2.7 (2.7) (2.7) – – – – Other loans and borrowings 5.4 (6.1) (0.6) (0.6) (1.2) (2.9) (0.8) Trade and other payables 68.4 (68.4) (68.4) – – – – Tax liabilities 0.7 (0.7) (0.7) – – – – Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swap contracts 0.2 (0.2) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) – – Forward exchange contracts 0.3 (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – – – Total 136.0 (138.8) (73.2) (1.3) (2.1) (61.4) (0.8) 31 December 2015 Contractual EUR million Carrying amount cash flows 0 – 6 months 6 – 12 months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years › 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Bank syndicate loans 63.5 (66.9) (0.5) (0.5) (1.0) (64.9) – Finance lease liabilities 0.5 (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.0) (0.1) – Bank overdrafts 9.0 (9.0) (9.0) – – – – Other loans and borrowings 6.3 (7.2) (0.5) (0.5) (1.0) (3.6) (1.6) Trade and other payables 57.9 (57.9) (57.9) – – – – Tax liabilities 1.8 (1.8) (1.8) – – – – Derivative financial liabilities Interest rate swap contracts 0.3 (0.3) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – Forward exchange contracts – – – – – – – Total 139.3 (143.6) (69.9) (1.3) (2.1) (68.7) (1.6) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 127 It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis should occur significantly earlier, or at significantly different amounts. Within the scope of the Group’s risk management the Group has hedged the currency and interest risks with derivatives, whereby the hedges have been designated as cash flow hedges. The following table lists the value of these derivatives at financial position date, and when the derivatives will influence profit or loss and cash flows. Cash flow hedges (in statement of cash flows) The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to occur. 2016 Contractual EUR million Carrying amount cash flows 0 – 6 months 6 – 12 months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years › 5 years Interest rate swap contracts Assets – – – – – – – Liabilities (0.2) (0.2) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) – – Forward exchange contracts Assets – – – – – – – Liabilities (0.3) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – – – Total (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – – 2015 Contractual EUR million Carrying amount cash flows 0 – 6 months 6 – 12 months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years › 5 years Interest rate swap contracts Assets – – – – – – – Liabilities (0.3) (0.3) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – Forward exchange contracts Assets 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – – Liabilities – – – – – – – Total (0.2) (0.2) 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 128 Annual Report 2016 Cash flow hedges (in statement of comprehensive income) The following table indicates the periods in which the cash flows associated with derivatives that are cash flow hedges are expected to impact the result. 2016 Contractual EUR million Carrying amount cash flows 0 – 6 months 6 – 12 months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years › 5 years Interest rate swap contracts Assets – – – – – – – Liabilities (0.2) (0.2) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) – – Forward exchange contracts Assets – – – – – – – Liabilities (0.3) (0.3) (0.2) (0.1) – – – Total (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) (0.1) – – 2015 Contractual EUR million Carrying amount cash flows 0 – 6 months 6 – 12 months 1 – 2 years 2 – 5 years › 5 years Interest rate swap contracts Assets – – – – – – – Liabilities (0.3) (0.3) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – Forward exchange contracts Assets 0.1 0.1 0.1 – – – – Liabilities – – – – – – – Total (0.2) (0.2) 0.1 (0.1) (0.1) (0.1) – Interest-rate risk Part of the Group’s loans is governed by a floating interest rate (usually 3-month EURIBOR). In view of the Treasury Policy, the Group hedges at least 50% of the floating interest rate exposure. To this extent the Group has outstanding interest rate swaps with a notional amount of in total EUR 50 million. The aggregate fair value of the outstanding interest rate swaps at 31 December 2016 was negative EUR 0.2 million (2015: negative EUR 0.3 million). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 129 The following table shows the interest rates prevailing at the financial position date for interest-bearing financial liabilities. The majority of all interest expenses relate to senior bank loans. The effective interest rate of these loans equalise the nominal interest rate. The EUR 4.4 million mortgage loan was acquired through business combinations in 2013 and initially recorded at fair value. The effective interest rate of the loan is 3.7%. Other loans are not provided at an upcount or discount and no incremental transaction costs were incurred when the loans were drawn. 2016 2015 Nominal Year of Carrying Carrying Currency interest redemption Fair value amount Fair value amount Banking syndicate loans EUR IBOR + 1.5% 2019 58.0 58.0 63.5 63.5 Mortgage loan EUR 6.4% 2022 4.7 4.4 5.3 5.0 Other loans EUR 3.5% 2019 1.0 1.0 1.3 1.3 Bank overdrafts Various IBOR + 1.5% 2016 2.7 2.7 9.0 9.0 Finance lease liabilities EUR 3.0% – 6.5% 2017 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.5 Total interest-bearing debt 66.7 66.4 79.6 79.3 Sensitivity analysis interest Financial assets and liabilities with a fixed interest rate are not recognised at fair value by processing the value changes in profit or loss. For this reason a movement in interest rates across the yield curve at 1 January 2016 would not have had a material influence on the 2016 result. The Group has hedged a considerable part of the floating interest rate exposure by means of interest rate swaps. When taking into account these swaps and the loans with a fixed rate, in total EUR 55.4 million of the EUR 66.4 million long-term and short-term loans at financial year-end have an interest rate which is fixed for one year or longer. Based on the interest bearing debt levels at year-end and expected cash flow development, a 1% point increase in the interest rate across the yield curve as from 1 January 2017, will have an increasing effect on interest expenses in 2017 of maximum EUR 0.1 million. Exchange rate risk The aggregate fair value of the outstanding forward exchange rate contracts concluded to hedge anticipated transactions was negative EUR 0.3 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: positive EUR 0.1 million). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 130 Annual Report 2016 A 10% point appreciation of the currencies listed hereafter against the euro would increase shareholders’ equity at 31 December 2016 and the result for 2016 by the amounts shown in the following table. A 10% point depreciation of the listed currencies against the euro would have had the opposite effect. The same analysis was performed for 2015. The same test was done for the profit or loss, where the sensitivities for a 10% appreciation or depreciation on 31 December would have had an impact as is shown below. 31 December 2016 Equity Result US dollar 5.1 0.0 Czech koruna 0.2 (0.1) Chinese yuan 1.2 0.1 Rumanian lei 0.7 0.1 Swiss franc (0.1) (0.1) 31 December 2015 Equity Result US dollar 3.9 (0.0) Czech koruna 0.7 (0.1) Chinese yuan 1.1 0.0 Rumanian lei 0.6 (0.0) Swiss franc (0.0) (0.0) Principal exchange rates during the reporting period were as follows: Applicable currency rates Value of EUR At 31 December 2016 At 31 December 2015 Average over 2016 Pound sterling 0.8562 0.7340 0.8131 Swiss franc 1.0739 1.0835 1.0902 Czech koruna 27.0212 27.0230 27.0409 Chinese yuan 7.3202 7.0608 7.3181 US dollar 1.0541 1.0887 1.1015 Mexican peso 21.7718 18.9145 20.5061 Brazilian real 3.4305 4.3117 3.8285 Romanian lei 4.5390 4.5240 4.4955 Indian rupee 71.5922 72.0215 74.0138 Swedish krona 9.5525 9.1895 9.4449 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 131 Fair values of financial instruments The following table shows the fair values and carrying amounts of the financial instruments: EUR million 2016 2015 Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets carried at amortised costs Receivables (including current tax assets) 55.7 55.7 51.4 51.4 Cash and cash equivalents 12.4 12.4 10.2 10.2 Held to maturity investments 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.6 68.5 68.5 62.2 62.2 Liabilities carried at amortised costs Banking syndicate loans (58.0) (58.0) (63.5) (63.5) Mortage loan (4.4) (4.7) (5.0) (5.3) Other loans (1.0) (1.0) (1.3) (1.3) Finance lease liabilities (0.3) (0.3) (0.5) (0.5) Bank overdraft (2.7) (2.7) (9.0) (9.0) Trade and other payables (including current tax liabilities) (69.1) (69.1) (59.7) (59.7) (135.5) (135.8) (139.0) (139.3) Assets and liabilities carried at fair value Interest derivatives (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.3) Forward exchange contracts (0.3) (0.3) 0.1 0.1 (0.5) (0.5) (0.2) (0.2) The Group has no available-for-sale financial assets and all liabilities at fair value were designated as such upon initial recognition. The loans and receivables consist of the trade and other receivables, including the current tax assets in the statement of financial position. The held-to-maturity investments are included in the other investments, including derivatives in the statement of financial position. The interest derivatives and forward exchange contracts are included in the trade and other payables in the statement of financial position. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 132 Annual Report 2016 Interest rate used in measuring fair value The interest rate used for discounting estimated cash flows, where applicable, is based on the swap curve at 31 December 2016, augmented by the prevailing credit mark-up, and is as follows: 2016 2015 Derivatives 0.0% 0.1% Leases 1.5% 1.5% Banking syndicate loans 1.5% 1.5% Mortgage loans 1.8% 2.5% Other loans 1.8% 2.5% Fair value hierarchy The fair value calculation method of all assets and liabilities carried at amortised costs is categorised in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows: level 1 quoted prices (unadjusted in active markets for identical assets or liabilities); level 2 inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); level 3 inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total 31 December 2016 Derivative contracts used for hedging – (0.5) – (0.5) Total – (0.5) – (0.5) 31 December 2015 Derivative contracts used for hedging – (0.2) – (0.2) Total – (0.2) – (0.2) Master netting The Company has no master netting agreement in place. All derivative instruments are presented individually as either an asset or liability. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 133 16 Operating lease agreements Lease contracts for which the Group acts as lessee The sums payable on non-redeemable operating lease and rental contracts are as follows: EUR million 2016 2015 < 1 year 4.4 3.6 1 – 5 years 6.0 3.3 > 5 years 4.8 1.5 15.2 8.4 In the 2016 financial year a charge of EUR 0.5 million was recognised in profit or loss in respect of operating leases (2015: EUR 0.5 million). The operating lease agreements mostly relate to buildings. 17 Capital commitments As at 31 December 2016 the Group had capital commitments totalling to EUR 3.9 million (2015: EUR 3.5 million). 18 Contingent liabilities The Group has divested itself of a number of companies in the past. The customary representations and warranties for transactions of this nature are included in the relevant share or asset purchase agreements. The Group, as is customary for transactions of this nature, also issued representations and warrants for potential (tax) claims relating to periods prior to the various divestment dates. 19 Operating segments The Group, in accordance with IFRS 8, has included general and entity-wide disclosures in these consolidated financial statements. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 Annual Report 2016 Geographical segments based on physical location of the Group operating companies The revenue and non-current assets per geographic area are specified below. EUR million Germany Other European countries Asia 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue from transactions with third parties 274.8 279.3 84.0 72.7 23.4 24.2 Other non-current assets 164.1 167.0 20.3 17.9 1.8 1.7 Deferred tax assets 8.2 8.6 5.1 5.6 0.0 0.0 Net liability for defined benefit obligations 15.9 14.7 2.3 2.6 0.0 0.0 EUR million The Americas Consolidated 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue from transactions with third parties 61.2 65.9 443.4 442.1 Other non-current assets 24.2 24.3 210.4 210.9 Deferred tax assets 2.7 1.7 16.0 15.9 Net liability for defined benefit obligations 0.0 0.0 18.2 17.3 Revenue segmented by customer location EUR million 2016 2015 Germany 223.3 215.5 Other European countries 104.2 107.1 Asia 39.4 40.5 The Americas 74.0 76.7 Other countries 2.5 2.3 Total 443.4 442.1 Information about reportable segments Kendrion has split all activities over two segments: Automotive and Industrial. Based on the structure of the Group and the criteria of IFRS 8-Operating segments, Kendrion has concluded that within this structure the Kendrion business units are the operating segments within the Group. Based on the aggregation criteria of IFRS 8, these operating segments have been aggregated into two reportable segments: Automotive and Industrial. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 135 EUR million Industrial Automotive Corporate activities Consolidated 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Revenue from transactions with third parties 152.3 150.8 291.1 291.3 – – 443.4 442.1 Inter-segment revenue 0.1 0.1 0.8 0.4 – – 0.9 0.5 EBITA 9.8 10.1 16.5 17.7 (0.9) (2.0) 25.4 25.8 EBITA margin 6.4% 6.7% 5.7% 6.1% – – 5.7% 5.8% EBITA* 11.6 10.1 19.9 17.7 (0.4) (2.0) 31.1 25.8 EBITA margin* 7.6% 6.7% 6.8% 6.1% – – 7.0% 5.8% Reportable segment assets 113.1 106.0 213.4 206.5 20.6 28.4 347.1 340.9 Major customers Three customers (Volkswagen, Daimler and ThyssenKrupp Bilstein) individually account for more than 5% of the company’s total revenue. 20 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests The Company reached an agreement with the owners of Steinbeis Mechatronik GmbH on the acquisition of the company on 23 December 2014. Kendrion obtained control over Steinbeis Mechatronik GmbH on 5 January 2015. From that date on, the financial statements of Steinbeis Mechatronik GmbH have been consolidated by the Group. 21 Other income EUR million 2016 2015 Net gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.0 – Other 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 * Excluding one-off costs related to the simplyfing measures. The bridge from reported to normalised figures can be found on page 35. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 136 Annual Report 2016 22 Staff costs EUR million 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 106.5 105.5 Social security charges 19.5 19.5 Temporary personnel 3.6 3.7 Contributions to defined contribution plans 0.4 0.4 Expenses related to defined benefit plans (0.9) 0.2 Increase in liability for long-service leave 0.1 0.2 Other costs of personnel 3.4 3.6 132.6 133.1 Total number of employees and temporary workers at 31 December (FTE) 2,578 2,658 The staff costs 2016 include EUR 3.4 million one-off costs related to the simplifying measures. 23 Other operating expenses EUR million 2016 2015 Lease expenses 0.5 0.5 Increase in provision for doubtful debts (0.1) 0.2 Premises costs 8.1 8.1 Maintenance expenses 5.7 5.6 Transport expenses 1.7 2.0 Consultancy expenses 5.8 6.4 Sales and promotion expenses 3.2 2.3 Car, travel and representation costs 4.1 4.6 Other 5.7 6.0 34.7 35.7 The other operating expenses 2016 include EUR 1.7 million one-off costs related to the simplifying measures. Research & Development expenses (including staff and other operating expenses) for 2016 totalled EUR 27.6 million (2015: EUR 26.4 million). FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 137 24 Net finance costs EUR million 2016 2015 Interest income 0.1 0.2 Net exchange gain – – Finance income 0.1 0.2 Interest expense (2.5) (2.7) Interest expense related to employee benefits (0.3) (0.3) Net exchange loss (0.4) (0.5) Finance expense (3.2) (3.5) Net financing costs (3.1) (3.3) On the closure of our operation in Brazil in 2016, the cumulative amount of translation differences in equity were reclassified from equity to profit or loss. This had a negative impact of EUR 0.4 million on the net exchange loss. 25 Income tax EUR million 2016 2015 Current tax charge on year under review (3.7) (1.9) Total corporation tax expenses in the income statement (3.7) (1.9) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 138 Annual Report 2016 26 Reconciliation of effective tax rate Reconciliation effective tax rate Reconciliation in EUR million 2016 2015 2016 2015 Profit before income tax 18.6 18.7 Income tax expense at local corporation tax rate 25.0% 25.0% 4.7 4.7 Non-deductible expenses 1.9% 2.2% 0.3 0.4 Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdictions (3.0%) (0.8%) (0.6) (0.2) Tax exempt income (4.5%) 1.6% (0.8) 0.3 Changes in estimates related to prior years 1.4% (3.2%) 0.3 (0.6) Recognition of previously unrecognised tax losses* – (13.8%) – (2.6) Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses (3.2%) – (0.6) – Current-year losses for which no deferred tax asset is recognised 1.8% 0.3% 0.3 0.1 Other movements 0.4% (1.0%) 0.1 (0.2) 19.8% 10.3% 3.7 1.9 27 Related parties Identity of related parties A related-party relationship exists between the Company and its subsidiaries, their managers and executives. The Company has a number of agreements with its subsidiaries relating to the charging of central costs to and from the business units, including management, development, information technology and marketing costs, as well as agreements in respect of Group financing and use of intellectual property. Internal supplies are also obtained within the business units. Intercompany transactions are effected at arm’s length market prices. As all subsidiaries are fully consolidated and reflected in these financial statements, the amounts of these transactions are not further specified. For a list of the principal subsidiaries, see pages 163 and 164. * Mainly due to recognition of carry forward tax losses in The Netherlands. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 139 Compensations of key management personnel The remuneration of the Executive Board and Supervisory Board is as follows: EUR thousand 2016 2015 Short-term benefits 1,098.0 1,120.7 Post-employment benefits 150.0 150.0 Other long-term benefits – – Share-based payments 192.2 133.9 Termination benefits – 61.1 1,440.2 1,465.7 The total remuneration is included in staff costs (see note 22). For a description of the remuneration policy of the members of the Executive Board, see pages 75 to 77. The achievement of the performance criteria set for 2016 was 97% for the CEO (2015: 0%). He will, based on this performance, receive a variable remuneration of 38.80% of his gross fixed remuneration. The CEO’s gross variable remuneration amounts to EUR 180,420 of which EUR 60,140 will be paid in cash. An amount of EUR 120,280 is awarded conditionally in shares on the basis of the closing share price on 10 April 2017. The vesting period ends in 2018 and the holding period ends in 2020. The achievement of the performance criteria set for 2016 was 97% for the CFO (2015: 22%). He will, based on this performance, receive a variable remuneration of 33.95% of his gross fixed remuneration. The CFO’s gross variable remuneration amounts to EUR 108,042 (2015: EUR 68,250) of which EUR 36,014 (2015: EUR 22,750) will be paid in cash. An amount of EUR 72,028 (2015: EUR 45,500) is awarded conditionally in shares on the basis of the closing share price on 10 April 2017. The vesting period ends in 2018 and the holding period ends in 2020. 2/3 of the gross annual variable remuneration is invested in shares. The number of shares granted to the CFO in 2014 in this respect is 1,044. The variable remuneration is supplemented with a share match. On the basis of the long-term variable remuneration policy applicable in 2014, Kendrion will, depending on the long-term performance criteria, increase the number of shares awarded by 50% net (a matching ratio of 1:2). The Supervisory Board has decided that the CFO achieved 75% of his long-term performance criteria for the period 2014-2016. This means that 392 shares will be matched (1,044 x 0.5 x 75%). The holding period of these shares ends in 2018. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 140 Annual Report 2016 The vesting and holding periods for shares awarded to the CFO are specified as follows: Description Number of shares Vesting period Holding period Shares granted to the CFO (variable remuneration 2013) 1,044 – End of 2017 Shares granted to the CFO (variable remuneration 2014) 1,451 End of 2016 End of 2018 Shares granted to the CFO (variable remuneration 2015) 1,000 End of 2017 End of 2019 Shares granted to the CFO (share match 2014-2016) 392 – End of 2018 Pensions The Executive Board participated in the defined contribution plan of the Company in 2016. The contribution was EUR 30,138 for the CEO, Mr Van Beurden and EUR 29,048 for the CFO, Mr Sonnemans. Transactions with shareholders There were no transactions with shareholders. 28 Accounting estimates and judgements by management The Executive Board discussed the selection and disclosure of the critical accounting policies for financial reporting and estimates, as well as the application of these policies and estimates, with the Supervisory Board. In preparing the financial statements, the management is required under IFRS to make various judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the implementation of policy and the amounts disclosed in relation to assets, liabilities, income and expenses. The estimates and assumptions are based on experience and factors deemed reasonable in the circumstances. Estimates and assumptions are constantly reappraised. Changes in the accounting estimates used are reflected in the period in which the estimate is changed if the change affects only that period, or in the period in which the estimate is changed and in future periods if the change affects both the reporting period and future periods. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 141 Estimated impairment of goodwill The Group tests annually whether goodwill is subject to any impairment, in conformity with the accounting policy disclosed in note g. The impairment model applied is the discounted cash flow method (value in use determined based on the discounted value of the expected cash flows) with a weighted average cost of capital (pre-tax WACC) of 7-10%. The use of estimates is essential for making this calculation. The explicit forecast period contains five planning years. As of year six the residual value is calculated based on the last explicit forecast year (year five). No further growth in earnings is considered, with the exception of an inflation adjustment. The first three years of the explicit forecast period are based on cash flow projections derived from the bottom-up generated mid-term plan (available per company and approved by the Executive Board). The last two years are based on experience or target data for the Group under review. The pre-tax WACC is consistent with external sources of information, past experience and internal assessment of the assumptions used. Pensions Since the pension arrangements involve long-term obligations and uncertainties, it is necessary to make assumptions in order to estimate the amount that the Group needs to invest to fund its pension obligations. Actuaries calculate the obligation for defined benefit plans partly on the basis of information provided by the Executive Board, such as future pay rises, the return on plan assets, mortality tables and the probable extent to which pension scheme members will leave the scheme because they have reached retirement age, become incapacitated or left the Group. Utilisation of tax losses Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can be set off. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised; such reductions are reversed if the probability of future taxable profits improves. 29 Post-balance sheet events On 1 February 2017, the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg delivered its judgment in the case brought by Kendrion N.V. (C-479/14) to claim damages caused by the delay in ruling on an appeal against an EU fine judgment (T-54/06). The Court ruled that the European Union must pay Kendrion compensation of EUR 588,769 for financial damages and EUR 6,000 for non-financial damages. Both parties have the right to appeal. Kendrion will review the full text of the judgment and then decide whether or not to appeal. In accordance with the relevant accounting standard of EU-IFRS, the compensation is not recognised in the consolidated financial statements of the Group as of 31 December 2016. Kendrion operations in Pune, India focus mainly on the production of fan clutches for the local truck market. Following a decreasing revenue in 2016 as customers are moving away from electromagnetic clutches towards cheaper but less efficient technologies, Kendrion decided in February 2017 to close the facility in Pune. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 142 COMPANY BALANCE SHEET AT 31 DECEMBER Annual Report 2016 (before profit appropriation) Note EUR million 2016 2015 Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 0.1 0.1 Intangible assets 0.0 0.1 Other investments, including derivatives 0.2 0.3 1.3 Financial assets 210.7 194.9 Total non-current assets 211.0 195.4 Current assets 1.4 Receivables 0.8 0.9 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 Total current assets 0.8 0.9 Total assets 211.8 196.3 1.5 Equity Share capital 26.8 26.4 Share premium 56.4 62.7 Legal reserves 12.9 11.2 Other reserves 67.1 52.8 Retained earnings 14.9 16.8 Total equity 178.1 169.9 1.6 Current liabilities Loans and borrowings 29.1 24.8 Payables 4.6 1.6 Total current liabilities 33.7 26.4 Total equity and liabilities 211.8 196.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT Annual Report 2016 143 Note EUR million 2016 2015 Revenue – – 1.8 Other income 22.6 6.8 Total revenue and other income 22.6 6.8 1.9 Staff costs 3.6 3.2 Depreciation and amortisation 0.0 0.1 Other operating expenses 2.1 2.9 Result before net finance costs 16.9 0.6 Finance income 0.2 0.2 Finance expense (1.3) (0.9) Net finance costs (1.1) (0.7) Profit before income tax 15.8 (0.1) Income tax expense (4.1) 0.6 Profit for the period 11.7 0.5 Share in results of Group companies after tax 3.2 16.3 1.10 Net profit 14.9 16.8 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 144 NOTES TO THE COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 1 Notes to the company financial statements 1.1 General The Company financial statements are part of the 2016 financial statements of Kendrion N.V. (the ‘Company’). The Company is registered at the Chamber of Commerce in The Netherlands under number: 30113646. Until 2015 the Company has made use of Section 402 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Due to changes in the Netherlands Civil Code this option can not be applied by Kendrion N.V. for the year ending 31 December 2016. The condensed Company's Income Statement is changed accordingly and presented on previous page. 1.2 Principles of valuation of assets and liabilities and determination of results In selecting the principles employed in the company financial statements for the valuation of assets and liabilities and determination of results, Kendrion N.V. has made use of the option provided by Section 362, subsection 8, of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Consequently, the principles employed in the Company financial statements of Kendrion N.V. for the valuation of assets and liabilities and determination of results (the ‘accounting policies’) are identical to those employed in the consolidated EU-IFRS financial statements. Interests in entities in which Kendrion N.V. has significant influence are measured using the equity method. The consolidated EU-IFRS financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the standards adopted by the International Accounting Standards Board as endorsed for use in the European Union (hereinafter referred to as ‘EU-IFRS’). These policies are discussed in notes a – r. 1.3 Financial fixed assets Interest in Group Loans to Group EUR million companies companies Deferred tax Total 2016 Total 2015 Carrying amount at 1 January 187.6 2.1 5.2 194.9 173.0 Results of Group companies 3.2 – – 3.2 16.3 Movements in loans and borrowings – 13.9 – 13.9 (0.7) Movements in deferred tax assets – – (4.1) (4.1) 0.7 Other movements 2.8 – – 2.8 5.6 Carrying amount at 31 December 193.6 16.0 1.1 210.7 194.9 The main portion of the loans to Group companies has a duration of over one year. The investments in the principal subsidiaries and associates are disclosed on pages 163 and 164 of the Annual Report. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 145 1.4 Receivables EUR million 2016 2015 Receivables from Group companies 0.5 0.6 Prepayments and accrued income 0.3 0.3 0.8 0.9 All receivables are due within one year. 1.5 Equity Share Share Translation Hedge Reserve for Reserve for Other Retained EUR million capital premium reserve reserve participations own shares reserves earnings Total 2016 Total 2015 Balance at 1 January 26.4 62.7 10.3 (0.1) 1.0 – 52.8 16.8 169.9 153.2 Appropriation of retained earnings – – – – – – 16.8 (16.8) – – Foreign currency translation differences for foreign operations – – 1.3 – – – – – 1.3 5.6 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges, net of income tax – – – (0.2) – – – – (0.2) 0.3 Issue of ordinary shares 0.4 3.8 – – – – – – 4.2 4.1 Share-based payment transactions 0.0 0.2 – – – – 0.0 – 0.2 0.4 Dividend payment – (10.3) – – – – – – (10.3) (10.2) Other – – – – 0.6 – (2.5) – (1.9) (0.3) Total recognised income and expenses – – – – – – – 14.9 14.9 16.8 Balance at 31 December 26.8 56.4 11.6 (0.3) 1.6 – 67.1 14.9 178.1 169.9 1.5.1 Share capital The authorised capital of the Company amounts to EUR 80 million, divided into 40 million ordinary shares of EUR 2.00, of which 13,396,034 ordinary shares have been issued. 1.5.2 Share premium The share premium represents revenue from shares issued at more than their nominal value (issued above par). The issued and paid share capital, including share premium, is fiscally recognised capital. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 146 Annual Report 2016 1.5.3 Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of associates outside the euro zone. Gains and losses relating to the translation risk are recognised in equity. The build-up of the cumulative figure commenced on 1 January 2004. 1.5.4 Hedge reserve The hedge reserve comprises the effective share of the cumulative net movement in the fair value of cash-flow hedging instruments relating to hedged transactions that have not yet been executed. 1.5.5 Statutory reserve for participations This reserve pertains to participating interests that are accounted for according to the equity accounting method. The reserve represents the difference between the participating interests’ retained profit and direct changes in equity, as determined on the basis of the Company’s accounting policies, and the share thereof that the Company may distribute. It is shown as the share in the undistributed results of the subsidiaries since they were first valued using the equity method. The amount of any dividend – from these subsidiaries – to which there is an entitlement on adoption of the financial statements is deducted from this reserve. 1.5.6 Reserve for own shares The reserve for the Company’s own shares comprises the cost of the Company shares that are held by the Company for the remuneration package for the Executive Board. At 31 December 2016, the Company held none of its own shares (2015: none). 1.5.7 Other reserves Other reserves are all the reserves other than those shown separately and comprise primarily the cumulative, undistributed profits from previous financial years. 1.5.8 Retained earnings In 2016, the full result for 2015 was included in other reserves. Retained earnings consequently consist solely of the result for 2016. 1.6 Current liabilities EUR million 2016 2015 Debts to Group companies 29.1 24.8 Trade payables 0.3 0.5 Other payables and accrued expenses 4.3 1.1 33.7 26.4 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 147 1.7 Financial instruments See note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for details on financial instruments. 1.8 Other income EUR million 2016 2015 Management fee 5.4 4.1 Logo fee 2.7 2.7 Other 14.5 – 22.6 6.8 The amount of EUR 14.5 million refers to the transfer of the Kendrion brand name to Kendrion Marketing B.V. 1.9 Staff costs EUR million 2016 2015 Wages and salaries 2.9 2.4 Social security charge 0.1 0.1 Pension costs 0.3 0.3 Other costs of personnel 0.3 0.4 3.6 3.2 Total number of employees and temporary workers at 31 December (FTE) 11 13 The average number of FTEs during the year was 11 (2015: 13). In this financial year 0 FTE (2015: 0.3 FTE) are employed outside The Netherlands. The Company has only defined contribution plans for its employees. 1.10 Profit appropriation Appropriation of net profit EUR million 2016 2015 Net profit 14.9 16.8 The Executive Board has decided, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, that the net profit of EUR 14.9 million will be added to the other reserves. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 148 Annual Report 2016 1.11 Commitments not appearing on the balance sheet 1.11.1 Joint and several liability and guarantees The Company and its Group companies have issued guarantees mainly in the context of the financing by financial institutions. The Company has issued declarations of joint and several liability, as referred to in Section 403 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, for: ■■ Combattant Holding B.V., Zeist; ■■ Kendrion Finance B.V., Zeist. 1.11.2 Fiscal unity The Company and its Dutch subsidiaries excluding Landfort II B.V. and Kendrion Marketing B.V. form a tax group for corporation tax purposes. According to the standard terms, each of the companies is jointly and severally liable for corporation tax payable by all the members of the fiscal unity. 1.12 Post balance sheet events On 1 February 2017, the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg delivered its judgment in the case brought by Kendrion N.V. (C-479/14) to claim damages caused by the delay in ruling on an appeal against an EU fine judgment (T-54/06). The Court ruled that the European Union must pay Kendrion compensation of EUR 588,769 for financial damages and EUR 6,000 for non-financial damages. Both parties have the right to appeal. Kendrion will review the full text of the judgment and then decide whether or not to appeal. In accordance with the relevant accounting standard of EU-IFRS, the compensation is not recognised in the consolidated financial statements of the Group as of 31 December 2016. 1.13 Fees to the auditor With reference to Section 2:382a of the Netherlands Civil Code, the following fees have been charged by Deloitte Accountants B.V. and its member firms and affiliates in 2016 and 2015 to the Company, its subsidiaries and other consolidated entities: EUR thousand 2016 2015 Other Deloitte Other Deloitte Deloitte member firms Deloitte member firms Accountants B.V. and affiliates Total Deloitte Accountants B.V. and affiliates Total Deloitte Audit of financial statements 163.0 268.8 431.8 98.0 318.0 416.0 Other assurance services 46.5 – 46.5 53.2 – 53.2 Tax advisory services – – – – – – Other non-audit services – 4.0 4.0 – – – Total 209.5 272.8 482.3 151.2 318.0 469.2 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2016 149 1.14 Remuneration of and share ownership by the Executive Board and Supervisory Board Remuneration of the Executive Board The remuneration of current Executive Board members charged to the Company and Group companies, including pension expenses as referred to in Section 383, subsection 1, of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, amounted to EUR 1,287,200 (2015: EUR 1,315,700). This remuneration is as follows: EUR thousand 2016 2015 J.A.J. van F.J. J.A.J. van F.J. Beurden Sonnemans Total P. Veenema * Beurden** Sonnemans Total Fixed remuneration 465.0 318.2 783.2 397.8 38.8 312.0 748.6 Variable remuneration 180.4 108.0 288.4 308.7 – 68.3 377.0 Total remuneration 645.4 426.2 1,071.6 706.5 38.8 380.3 1,125.6 Pension and other expenses 130.4 85.2 215.6 87.1 23.8 79.2 190.1 775.8 511.4 1,287.2 793.6 62.6 459.5 1,315.7 The 2016 variable remuneration will be granted directly after the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 10 April 2017. Part (1/3) of the variable remuneration will be paid in cash after income tax and other part (2/3) will be covered conditionally for in shares against the prevailing closing share price of 10 April 2017. Remuneration of the Supervisory Board The total remuneration of current and former Supervisory Board members in 2016 amounts to EUR 153,000 (2015: EUR 150,000). This remuneration is as follows: EUR thousand 2016 2015 Supervisory Board members: H. ten Hove 45 45 R.L. de Bakker 35 35 H.J. Kayser (resigned as from 7 January 2016) – 35 M.E.P. Sanders (resigned as from 11 April 2016) 9 35 M.J.G. Mestrom (appointed as of 11 April 2016) 35 – J.T.M. van der Meijs (appointed as of 31 October 2016) 9 – T.J. Wünsche (appointed as of 31 October 2016, started activities as of 1 June 2016) 20 – 153 150 * Left on 31 December 2015. ** Appointed as of 1 December 2015. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 150 Annual Report 2016 No loans, advances or related guarantees have been given to the Executive Board or Supervisory Board members. Share ownership by the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board 31 December 2016 31 December 2015 Executive Board J.A.J. van Beurden 20,773 20,000* F.J. Sonnemans 1,082 – Supervisory Board – – Zeist, 21 February 2017 Executive Board Supervisory Board J.A.J. van Beurden H. ten Hove F.J. Sonnemans R.L. de Bakker M.J.G. Mestrom J.T.M. van der Meijs T.J. Wünsche * Appointed as per 1 December 2015. Purchased shares at his own initiative before this date. OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report 2016 151 Provisions in the Articles of Association governing the appropriation of profit Under article 35.1 and 35.2 of the Articles of Association of the Company, the Executive Board shall, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, determine which part of the profits is added to the reserves. The profit remaining after transfer to the reserves is available to the General Meeting of Shareholders. The Company can only make payments to the shareholders and other parties entitled to the distributable profit insofar as the shareholders’ equity exceeds the paid-up and called-up part of the capital plus the statutory reserves and exceeds the amounts resulting from the distribution test, performed by the Executive Board at the date of each dividend payment. OTHER INFORMATION 152 Annual Report 2016 To: the Shareholders and Supervisory Board of Kendrion N.V. Independent auditor’s report Report on the audit of the financial statements 2016 Our opinion We have audited the financial statements 2016 of Kendrion N.V. (‘the Company’), based in Zeist. The financial statements include the consolidated financial statements and the company financial statements as set out on the pages 79 up to and including 150. In our opinion: ■■ The consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Kendrion N.V. as at 31 December 2016 and of its result and its cash flows for 2016 in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union (‘EU-IFRS’) and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. ■■ The company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of Kendrion N.V. as at 31 December 2016 and of its result for the year 2016 in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. The consolidated financial statements comprise: ■■ The consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December 2016; ■■ The following statements for 2016: the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in equity and the consolidated statement of cash flows; and ■■ The notes to the consolidated financial statements, comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. The company financial statements comprise: ■■ The company balance sheet as at 31 December 2016; ■■ The company income statement for 2016; and ■■ The notes to the company financial statements comprising a summary of the significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Basis for our opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the section ‘Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ of our report. OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report 2016 153 We are independent of Kendrion N.V. in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (‘ViO’) and other relevant independence regulations in the Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (‘VGBA’). We believe the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Materiality Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material, if individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extend of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. Based on our professional judgement we determined the materiality for the financial statements as a whole at EUR 1.4 million (2015: EUR 2.1 million). The materiality is based on 7.5% of 2015 profit before taxation. We reassessed the group materiality level based on the 2016 actual profit before tax and alternative benchmarks. We have also taken into account misstatements and/or possible misstatements that in our opinion are material for the users of the financial statements for qualitative reasons. Audits of group entities (components) were performed using materiality levels determined by the judgement of the group audit team, having regard to the materiality of the consolidated financial statements as a whole. Component materiality did not exceed 60% of group materiality and for most components, materiality is significantly less than this. We agreed with the Supervisory Board that misstatements in excess of EUR 70,000, which are identified during the audit, would be reported to them, as well as smaller misstatements that, in our view, must be reported on qualitative grounds. Scope of the group audit Kendrion N.V. is at the head of a group of entities. The financial information of this group is included in the consolidated financial statements of Kendrion N.V. Because we are ultimately responsible for the opinion, we are also responsible for directing, supervising and performing the group audit. In this respect we have determined the nature and extent of the audit procedures to be carried out for the group entities (components). Decisive were size and/or risk profile of the components. On this basis, we selected components for which an audit or review had to be carried out on the complete set of financial information or specific items. OTHER INFORMATION 154 Annual Report 2016 Kendrion N.V. is divided into two reportable segments, as disclosed in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. These two reportable segments encompass 29 reporting entities (“components”). The most significant components are Kendrion (Villingen) GmbH, Kendrion Kuhnke Automotive GmbH and Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. which on a combined basis contribute approximately 50% of the consolidated revenue. Our group audit mainly concentrated on significant components in terms of size and financial interest or where significant risks or complex activities were present, leading to full scope audits performed for 11 components. We have performed audit procedures ourselves at corporate entities and we have carried out full scope audit procedures on Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. Furthermore, we performed audit procedures at group level on areas such as consolidation, reporting, goodwill and taxation. Specialists were involved amongst others in the areas of information technology, tax, pensions and valuation. For all relevant foreign components, the group audit team provided detailed written instructions, which, in addition to communicating the requirements of component audit teams, detailed significant audit areas and information obtained centrally relevant to the audit of individual components including awareness for risk related to management override. Furthermore, we developed a plan for overseeing each component audit team based on its relative significance to the Company and certain other risk characteristics. This included procedures such as visiting components and/or component teams in Germany and the United States, performing file reviews, holding conference calls, attending meetings and reviewing component audit team deliverables to gain sufficient understanding of the work performed. For smaller components we have performed review procedures or specific audit procedures. Considering their share in consolidated revenue, 89% of the components is subject to audit procedures. Desk-top review procedures have been performed in respect of the components that have not been audited. By performing the procedures mentioned above we have been able to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence on the group’s financial information to provide an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report 2016 155 Our key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements. We have communicated the key audit matters to the Supervisory Board. The key audit matters are not a comprehensive reflection of all matters discussed. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Key audit matter – decentralized operations How the key audit matter was addressed in the audit Kendrion is a group with all operating activities taking place outside We have evaluated the group’s internal controls, including centralized The Netherlands. These decentralized operations require adequate monitoring controls that exist at both group and segment level. monitoring activities from an internal control perspective. Also in our The group has developed an internal control framework with control role as group auditor it is essential that we obtain an appropriate level activities that are required to be implemented by the components. of understanding of the components and the component audit work. Compliance with this framework is monitored through Kendrion In Control (KIC) procedures, performed by experienced staff from the finance and control team, notably at head office level. As explained in the ‘Risk and risk management’ paragraph of the Executive Board report, KIC procedures were performed at several locations with limited control deficiencies revealed. In our audit approach we have specifically focused on risks in relation to decentralized structure and we have been closely involved in the audits performed at the most significant components. Members of the group team performed the audit of Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. and also reviewed reporting deliverables and selected files from the component audit teams. We also performed tests on consolidation adjustments and manual journal entries, both at group and component level to obtain an understanding of significant entries made. OTHER INFORMATION 156 Annual Report 2016 Key audit matter – valuation of goodwill How the key audit matter was addressed in the audit The group has recorded a significant amount of goodwill that is subject We have reviewed the impairment model and involved valuation to an annual impairment test. The goodwill is allocated to the cash experts in understanding the models used and the key assumptions generating units within the two reportable segments and amounts applied. to EUR 94.3 as at 31 December 2016 (2015: EUR 93.4 million). We have evaluated the internal controls related to the preparation An impairment arises when the recoverable amount for a cash of the impairment model and the review of the forecasted cash flows, generating unit is lower than the carrying amount recorded. Based growth rates, discount rates and other relevant assumptions. In our on the impairment test, no impairment losses have been identified audit procedures we also compared actual performance to previous by management. The impairment review is based on valuation models assumptions applied to understand the quality of the estimates and that require the input of estimated future cash flows as well as other address the risk of bias. Furthermore we compared the input with key assumptions from management. financial plans, applicable FX rates and other available information. Finally we have assessed the adequacy of disclosure notes including those relating to the sensitivity of management’s assumptions. Reference is made to note 2 of the consolidated financial statements. Report on the other information included in the Annual Report In addition to the financial statements and our auditor’s report, the annual report contains other information that consists of: ■■ Report of the Executive Board; ■■ Report of the Supervisory Board; ■■ Other Information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code; and ■■ Other information included in the Annual Report. Based on the following procedures performed, we conclude that the other information: ■■ is consistent with the financial statements and does not contain material misstatements; and ■■ contains the information as required by Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report 2016 157 We have read the other information. Based on our knowledge and understanding obtained through our audit of the financial statements or otherwise, we have considered whether the other information contains material misstatements. By performing these procedures, we comply with the requirements of Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and the Dutch Standard 720. The scope of the procedures performed is less than the scope of those performed in our audit of the financial statements. Management is responsible for the preparation of other information, including the Report of the Executive Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code and other information pursuant to Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Engagement We were appointed by the Annual General Meeting as auditor of Kendrion N.V. on 13 April 2015 for the audit of the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. Responsibilities of the Executive Board and the Supervisory Board for the Financial Statements The Executive Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with EU-IFRS and Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code, and for the preparation of the Report of the Executive Board in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Dutch Civil Code. Furthermore, the Executive Board is responsible for such internal control as the Executive Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the Executive Board is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the financial reporting frameworks mentioned, the Executive Board should prepare the financial statements using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The Executive Board should disclose events and circumstances that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in the financial statements. The Supervisory Board is responsible for overseeing the Company’s financial reporting process. Our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objective is to plan and perform the audit assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence for our opinion. Our audit has been performed with a high, but not absolute, level of assurance, which means we may not have detected all errors and fraud. OTHER INFORMATION 158 Annual Report 2016 Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our audit procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our opinion. For an overview of our responsibilities we refer to NBA’s website www.nba.nl (standard texts auditor's report). Amsterdam, 21 February 2017 Deloitte Accountants B.V. B. E. Savert OTHER INFORMATION Annual Report 2016 159 Assurance report of the independent auditor with respect to the CSR information included in the Integrated Report 2016 of Kendrion N.V. To: The Shareholders and Supervisory Board of Kendrion N.V. Our conclusion Based on our procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Integrated Report 2016 of Kendrion N.V. (hereafter: ‘Report’) and the assurance KPIs (as defined in the ‘Basis of our conclusion’ paragraph) have not been prepared in all material aspects in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4 Core option) of the Global Reporting Initiative and the internally applied reporting criteria as disclosed on pages 166 and 167 of the Report. The Report includes prospective information, such as ambitions, strategy, plans, expectations and estimates. Inherent to this information is that the actual results may differ in the future and are therefore uncertain. We do not provide any assurance on the assumptions and achievability of prospective information in the Report. Basis of our conclusion We have performed our review on the Key Performance Indicators: Energy consumption, Absoluteand Relative CO2-emissions, Accidents and Lost Time Injuries, Acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct and Number of Supplier audits in the section ‘Corporate Social Responsibility Review’ of the Report (hereafter: ‘the KPIs’). In accordance with Dutch law, including Dutch Standard 3810N ‘Assurance engagements relating to sustainability reports’. In addition we have reviewed whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4 Core option) with the objective to issue an assurance report that provides limited assurance. This review engagement is aimed to obtaining limited assurance. Our responsibilities under this standard are further described in the ‘Our responsibilities for the review of the Report’ section of our report. We are independent of Kendrion in accordance with the ‘Verordening inzake de onafhankelijkheid van accountants bij assurance-opdrachten’ (ViO) and other relevant independence requirements in The Netherlands. Furthermore we have complied with the ‘Verordening gedragsen beroepsregels accountants’ (VGBA). We believe that the assurance evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CSR INFORMATION 160 Annual Report 2016 Responsibility of the Executive Board The Executive Board of Kendrion N.V. is responsible for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4 Core option) and the internally applied reporting criteria as disclosed on pages 166 and 167 of the Report, including the identification of stakeholders and the definition of material matters. The choices made by the Executive Board regarding the scope of the Report and the reporting policy are summarized in chapter ‘About the CSR review’. The Executive Board is also responsible for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or errors. Our responsibilities for the assurance engagement of the CSR information included in the Report Our responsibility is to plan and perform the review assignment in a manner that allows us to obtain sufficient and appropriate assurance evidence for our conclusion. We apply the ‘Nadere voorschriften accountantskantoren ter zake van assurance opdrachten (RA/AA)’ and accordingly maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Misstatements can arise from fraud or errors and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this Report. The materiality affects the nature, timing and extent of our review procedures and the evaluation of the effect of identified misstatements on our conclusion. A review is aimed to obtain limited level of assurance. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed to determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than a reasonable assurance engagement. The procedures performed consisted primarily of making inquiries of staff within the entity and applying analytical procedures on the information in the Report. The level of assurance obtained in review engagements are therefore substantially less than the assurance obtained in an audit engagement. Our assurance engagement included amongst other: ■■ Performing an external analysis and obtaining insight into relevant environmental and social themes and issues, and the characteristics of the organisation. ■■ Evaluating the appropriateness of the reporting policy and its consistent application, including the evaluation of the results of the stakeholders’ dialogue and the reasonableness of management’s estimates. ■■ Evaluating the design and implementation of the reporting systems and processes related to the information in the Report. ■■ Reviewing internal and external documentation to determine whether the information as included in the KPIs, including the presentation and assertions made in the Report, is adequately supported. INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT CSR INFORMATION Annual Report 2016 161 ■■ Interviewing management and relevant staff at group level responsible for the sustainability strategy and policy. ■■ Interviewing relevant staff responsible for providing the information in the Report, carrying out internal control procedures on the data and consolidating the data in the Report. ■■ An analytical review of the data and trends submitted for consolidation at corporate level. ■■ Assessing whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4 Core option) of the Global Reporting Initiative. We have exercised professional judgement and have maintained professional scepticism throughout the review, in accordance with the Dutch Standard 3810N, ethical requirements and independence requirements. Amsterdam, 21 February 2017 Deloitte Accountants B.V. B. E. Savert 162 FIVE-YEAR SUMMARY Annual Report 2016 1 2012 excluding earn-out FAS Controls of EUR 4.4 million, EUR million, unless otherwise stated 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2013 excluding non-recurring costs and earn-out Kunke of Kendrion N.V. consolidated EUR 2.4 million after tax and 2016 excluding one-off costs Statement of normalised comprehensive income relating to the simplifying measures of EUR 5.7 million Revenue 443.4 442.1 428.9 354.0 284.9 (after finance expense and tax EUR 4.7 million). Organic growth 0.3% 3.1% 8.2% (1.2)% (4.1)% 2 Relates to inventories, receivables minus non-interest bearing Operating result before amortisation (EBITA)1 31.1 25.8 32.9 23.9 22.3 debts (2013 is excluding EC fine payable). Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and software 20.3 19.4 16.4 13.0 10.4 3 Total invested capital is property, plant and equipment, intangible Operating result before depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)1 51.4 45.2 49.3 36.9 32.7 assets, other investments and current assets less cash and Net profit for the period1 19.6 16.8 20.2 14.3 13.6 non-interest bearing debts (2013 is including EC fine). 4 Before cash flow relating to acquisitions and disposals Statement of financial position at 31 December conform financial statements (2013 excluding acquisition expenses, 2014 excluding EC fine Total assets 347.1 340.9 333.5 334.8 230.1 payment and 2016 excluding one-off costs relating to the Total equity 178.1 169.9 153.2 134.1 103.1 simplifying measures of. Net interest-bearing debt 54.0 69.1 83.0 49.0 21.3 5 2013 is including full year Kuhnke and 2016 is excluding one-off Working capital2,8 41.2 43.4 44.9 40.6 33.9 costs relating to the simplifying measures. Invested capital3 248.4 254.3 253.1 242.5 180.1 6 The net financing charges exclude foreign exchange differences, the commitment fees for unused facilities and the amortisation Statement of cash flows conform financial statements of upfront and legal fees. Net cash from operating activities4 45.2 40.9 37.9 30.5 28.4 7 2013 is including full year Kuhnke. Net investments 22.9 19.8 20.0 18.5 18.7 8 2016 excluding accruals and provisions related Free cash flow4 22.3 21.2 17.1 11.7 9.7 to the simplifying measures. Ratios Return on Sales (ROS) 7.0% 5.8% 7.7% 6.8% 7.8% Solvency 51.3% 49.8% 46.0% 40.1% 44.8% Net interest-bearing debt / EBITDA5 (debt cover) 1.1 1.5 1.7 1.2 0.6 Net interest-bearing debt / equity (gearing) 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.2 1,5 6 EBITDA / net finance costs (interest cover) 24.5 20.1 13.9 11.7 17.7 Working capital2 in % of revenue7 8.6% 9.8% 10.5% 10.2% 11.9% Dividend payout ratio of net profit 53% 61% 50% 50% 50% Market capitalisation as at 31 December 358.3 319.7 281.7 309.2 186.5 Net interest-bearing debt as at 31 December 54.0 69.1 83.0 49.0 21.3 Theoretic value of the organisation (Enterprise value) 412.3 388.8 364.7 358.1 207.8 Number of employees at 31 December (FTE) 2,578 2,658 2,713 2,756 1,632 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES Annual Report 2016 163 At 31 December 2016 Industrial Industrial Magnetic Systems (Norman Graf) Kendrion (Donaueschingen/Engelswies) GmbH, Donaueschingen, Germany Norman Graf Kendrion (Donaueschingen/Engelswies) GmbH, Engelswies, Germany Alfons Mattes Kendrion (Suzhou) Co. Ltd, Suzhou, P.R. China Telly Kuo Kendrion (Mishawaka) LLC, Mishawaka, Indiana, USA Corey Hurcomb Kendrion Industrial (Sibiu) S.R.L., Sibiu, Romania Mihai Petculescu Kendrion (Switzerland) AG, Hausen am Albis, Switzerland Edgar Bruhin Kendrion (Linz) GmbH, Linz, Austria Erich Holzinger Kendrion (Italy) S.r.l., Torino, Italy Vincenzo Leo Industrial Control Systems (Robert Lewin) Kendrion Kuhnke Automation GmbH, Malente, Germany Robert Lewin Kendrion Industrial (Sibiu) S.R.L., Sibiu, Romania Mihai Petculescu Kendrion Kuhnke (Sweden) AB, Kristianstad, Sweden Ronnie Jennerheim Industrial Drive Systems (Ralf Wieland) Kendrion (Villingen) GmbH, Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany Ralf Wieland Kendrion (UK) Ltd., Bradford, United Kingdom Peter McShane Kendrion (Suzhou) Co. Ltd, Suzhou, P.R. China Telly Kuo Kendrion (Mishawaka) LLC, Mishawaka, Indiana, USA Corey Hurcomb Kendrion (Aerzen) GmbH, Aerzen, Germany Gregor Langer Kendrion (Italy) S.r.l., Torino, Italy Vincenzo Leo PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES 164 Annual Report 2016 Automotive Passenger Cars (Bernd Gundelsweiler) Kendrion (Villingen) GmbH, Villingen-Schwenningen, Germany Bernd Gundelsweiler Kendrion Kuhnke Automotive GmbH, Malente, Germany Torsten Komischke Kendrion Mechatronics Center GmbH, Ilmenau, Germany Jörg Rönnert Kendrion (Eibiswald) GmbH, Eibiswald, Austria Martin Kollmann Kendrion Automotive (Sibiu) S.R.L, Sibiu, Romania Andra Boboc Kendrion (Shelby) Inc., Shelby, North Carolina, USA Brian Jacobs Kendrion Drive Tech. (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., Nanjing, P.R. China Telly Kuo Commercial Vehicles (Manfred Schlett) Kendrion (Markdorf) GmbH, Markdorf, Germany Manfred Schlett Kendrion (Prost ĕjov) s.r.o, Prost ĕjov, Czech Republic Václav Dostal Kendrion Toluca, S.A. de C.V., Mexicaltzingo, Mexico Alexander Glaser Kendrion Drive Tech. (Nanjing) Co., Ltd., Nanjing, P.R. China Telly Kuo Kendrion (Pune) Private Limited, Pune, India Sameer Deshmukh Kendrion (Shelby) Inc., Shelby, North Carolina, USA Brian Jacobs A complete list of all subsidiaries is available from the Chamber of Commerce in Utrecht (number 30113646) and from the Company offices. GLOSSARY Annual Report 2016 165 Code of Conduct A set of behavioural rules and standards ERP system Enterprise Resource Planning: an ICT system Mid-term Plan A plan for the medium term (three years) which broadly reflects the values that should guide all which supports all the business processes within an which is drawn up by the Group annually to facilitate the employees, for example in relation to doing business organisation, such as purchasing, sales and accounting, management and control of its organisation in the short responsibly, safety, health and the environment. with data being exchanged between departments. to medium term. Compliance Officer The Kendrion employee who is charged Fair value The current value. For assets or liabilities for which Number of employees (FTEs) Number of employees stated with supervising compliance with the regulations to prevent there is an active market, this is generally the market value. in full-time equivalents. insider trading. FTE Full Time Equivalent: equal to the number of total Organic (sales) growth Growth in revenue after eliminating Corporate governance The management of the business, scheduled person hours divided by the number of hours per the effects of acquisitions and disposal of activities. the supervision of that management, the rendering of week which constitute a full-time person (40 hours). FTE may account thereon and the way in which stakeholders can consist of several part-time individuals whose combined Solvency ratio The ratio of total equity to the financial influence decisions. work hours in a week equal the full-time person. position total. Defined benefit plan A pension scheme where the employee Hedging The covering of financial risks, usually relating to Stakeholders dialogue The discussions Kendrion organises is promised a pension the level of which depends on their (undesirable) movements in market interest rates, exchange with various stakeholders with the aim to receive feedback age, salary and years of service. The commitment carried rates and raw material prices. on the CSR efforts of Kendrion. in the financial position is the cash value of the projected pension benefits on the financial position date, less the fair IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards, also Taking Responsibility programme The 3-year CSR market value of fund investments. referred to as IAS (International Accounting Standards). programme (2015 2017) for the Kendrion Group. With effect from 2005, all listed companies in the European Defined contribution plan Pension scheme where the Union must comply with these accounting rules. Translation risk Translation risk: a change in the value of an employer pays agreed contributions to a fund or insurance asset or liability of a subsidiary as a result of movements in company and no obligation arises for the employer to pay Interest rate swap Derivative financial product whereby the (non-euro) exchange rate. supplementary contributions in the event of a shortfall in an agreement is reached with a counterparty (bank) to the fund or insurance company. exchange specific interest payments on a predetermined TSR Total shareholders return. underlying amount during a predetermined period. Derivatives Derivative financial products which do not A variable interest rate (e.g. three-month EURIBOR) is usually UN Global Compact The Global network initiative in support represent a direct cash value; they include options, forward swapped for a fixed interest rate. of ten principles encompassing human rights, labour exchange contracts and swap contracts. standards, environment and sound business practices. Materiality analysis The analysis carried out by Kendrion and stakeholders to select the CSR key issues. . 166 ABOUT THE CSR REVIEW Annual Report 2016 Pages 43-60 of this Annual Report 2016 (the ‘CSR Review’), has not selected GRI indicators. This concerns “market based on a more limited scope of locations, excluding the in conjunction with the corporate website, have been presence”. Kendrion will decide in 2017 how to report on this USA, Suzhou (China) and Romania. The locations in this compiled in accordance with the guidelines of the Global next year further to the importance that stakeholders attach limited scope are the locations that were reported on in the Reporting Initiative GRI G4 ‘core level’. The GRI index can be to this information as well as the significance of Kendrion’s baseline year 2014. found on pages 168-171 of this Report. impact on it. Calculation of the CO2 emissions is based on the following The KPIs on energy, carbon emissions, number of accidents, The information on accidents, lost time injuries and details of conversion factors: lost time injuries, number of supplier audits and number of suppliers includes all group entities. The information on ■■ Electricity generated from renewable sources 0.017 kg/ signed Supplier Code of Conduct documents have been energy (G4-EN3 and G4-EN5) is based on the consumption kWh reviewed by Kendrion’s external auditor. The auditor’s report of Kendrion’s production facilities (electricity, gas, oil) in ■■ Electricity generated from non-renewable sources with limited assurance on these KPIs and the statement Germany, the Czech Republic, Austria, the USA, Suzhou (average) 0.355 kg/kWh in accordance with GRI’s core level is included on (China) and Romania. For greenhouse gas emissions (G4■■ Fuel oil and natural gas (average) 0.200 kg/kWh pages 159-161. EN15 and G4-EN16), Kendrion applies the same reporting scope as for energy. This covers the major operational plants Kendrion reports the total number of work-related accidents This sixth CSR Review encompasses all the Kendrion group and approximately 93% of Kendrion’s revenues and, thus, during working time or on the way to or from work for its own companies in 2016 as listed on pages 163-164 of this most of its energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Internal employees and for external employees over which Kendrion Kendrion 2016 Annual Report. In a number of instances, the and external transport under Kendrion’s control is very has supervision. Only the accidents that the group entity had information provided in the CSR Review relates solely to part limited; therefore transport emissions are not included. to report to an external institution are reported. As of 2017, of the operations. When this is the case, it is stated explicitly. Kendrion will report accidents from all group entities that This is due either to the operations not being carried out or The relative energy consumption and CO2 emissions caused an absence of more than three calendar days, not the reliability of the data not yet matching with Kendrion’s are based on the added value of the relevant locations. including the day of the accident. This definition is based requirements. For the first time, the CSR Review is integrated The added value is the revenue plus other income, minus on regulations applicable in Germany. in the Annual Report, showing the maturity of the Kendrion the changes in inventory and work in progress and minus CSR Programme and the related monitoring and reporting. the raw materials. The period for which the absolute and In addition, Kendrion reports the absence resulting from relative energy consumption and CO2 emissions is reported work-related accidents of its own employees. The LTI is time For the quantitative information on economic performance, changed from the calendar year to the period from (‘scheduled working days’) that could not be worked (and is energy consumption, absolute and relative CO2 emissions, 1 December up to and including 30 November of the next thus ‘lost’) as a consequence of a worker being unable to accidents, and lost time injuries, training, non-discrimination, calendar year, as it is not possible to obtain all data perform the usual work due to an occupational accident (‘at anti-corruption, acceptance of Supplier Code of Conduct regarding energy consumption for the complete calendar work accident’ as well as ‘way-to-work accident’) or disease. and number of CSR Supplier audits, Kendrion used the GRI year from our suppliers in a timely manner in January. There is no difference in whether the salaries or wages G4 Specific Standard Disclosures G4-EC1, G4-EN3, This means that in this CSR Review the period is 1 December were paid by Kendrion or by an external G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-LA6, G4-LA9, 2015 to 30 November 2016, and for comparison reasons institution during that time. G4-HR3 and G4-SO5 respectively. Topics were identified in 1 December 2014 to 30 November 2015 is provided. The the materiality analysis 2016 on which Kendrion is partially comparison with 2014 is based on the data for the calendar reporting (on a qualitative basis) at present, but for which it year 2014. In addition, the comparison with 2014 is ABOUT THIS REPORT Annual Report 2016 167 A return to limited duty or alternative work for the same other companies. There are two reasons for this. Companies organisation does not count as ‘lost days’. Counting of ‘lost do not always select the same KPIs or apply the same days’ begins with the first scheduled working day of full definitions for them. Secondly, the nature and spread of absence (e.g. the day after the accident). A lost day counts Kendrion’s activities mean that it is not easy to make one-onas one full day regardless of whether the employee has a one comparisons with other industrial companies. But, where part-time or a full-time contract. Kendrion does not specify possible, Kendrion stated its own prior-year figures and data LTI data per region, worker type or gender as Kendrion to make internal progress visible. Other information used in considers this information not relevant to its current this CSR Review was collected from the existing operations. Kendrion evaluated the definition of the LTI rate management and financial reporting systems. Any estimates to enable better benchmarking. As of 2017, Kendrion will or forecasts included are explicitly referred to as such. report the LTI rate per 1,000 employees or per million hours worked. For reporting on the number of signed Supplier Code of Conduct documents and the number of supplier audits, Kendrion makes use of GRI indicator G4-SO9 in conjunction with the number of suppliers that signed the Supplier Code of Conduct and underwent a supplier audit. The supplier audits are internal audits by Kendrion employees based on interview questionnaires. For more information on the scope of the Code of Conduct and related audits, Kendrion refers to its website (Code of Conduct). The ‘percentage of top 20 material suppliers that signed the Supplier Code of Conduct’ is based on the 20 biggest suppliers in terms of procurement value (in euros) in the respective calendar year. During 2016, the internal management information system and internal controls for CSR reporting were further improved. They are designed to facilitate the collection and consolidation of relevant CSR information from all Kendrion’s operating facilities. This is required for the preparation of reliable periodic internal and external reports about the KPIs. Kendrion realises that the figures and data presented in this CSR Review are not always fully comparable with those of 168 GRI INDEX Annual Report 2016 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page number (or link) External Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has been externally assured. reports prepared by the organization. In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to If yes, include the page reference for the External Assurance Statement where the relevant information can be found. in the report. Strategy and analysis G4-1 7 and website: https://www.kendrion.com/group-services/en/csr/csr-reports.html Organizational profile G4-3 5 G4-4 cover, 5, 29-33. See also www.kendrion.com for more information about the brands Kuhnke, Linnig and Binder. G4-5 Back cover G4-6 12, 163-164 G4-7 15-16 G4-8 12, 29-34 G4-9 12, 35-40, 58 G4-10 55-58 G4-11 57 G4-12 47-48 G4-13 8, 15, 29-33, no significant changes regarding suppliers G4-14 49, 62-69 G4-15 44, UN Global Compact, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises G4-16 n.a. Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 163-164, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) G4-18 44-46, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) G4-19 46 G4-20 166-167 (About the CSR Review). The material aspects are material to all group entities, although for Energy and Emissions, the plants described on pages 166-167 are most relevant. G4-21 46 G4-22 166-167 (About the CSR Review) G4-23 166-167 (About the CSR Review), change in reporting period for Energy and Emissions GRI INDEX Annual Report 2016 169 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Page number (or link) External Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in other Indicate if the Standard Disclosure has been externally assured. reports prepared by the organization. In these circumstances, the organization may elect to add a specific reference to If yes, include the page reference for the External Assurance Statement where the relevant information can be found. in the report. Stakeholder engagement G4-24 44-45 G4-25 44 G4-26 44-46 G4-27 44-46 Report profile G4-28 Calendar year 2016, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) describes the reporting period for Energy and Emissions. G4-29 31 March 2016 G4-30 Annual G4-31 Back cover G4-32 166-167 (About the CSR Review), 159-161 (assurance report CSR information) G4-33 166-167 (About the CSR Review), 159-161 (assurance report CSR information) Governance G4-34 21-24, 43, 71-73 Ethics and integrity G4-56 53 GRI INDEX 170 Annual Report 2016 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and indicators Page number (or link) Identified omission(s) Reason(s) for omission(s) Explanation for omission(s) External Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by In exceptional cases, if it is not In exceptional cases, if it is not In exceptional cases, if it is not Indicate if the Standard Disclosure the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in possible to disclose certain possible to disclose certain possible to disclose certain has been externally assured. other reports prepared by the organization. In these required information, identify required information, provide required information, explain If yes, include the page reference circumstances, the organization may elect to add a the information that has been the reason for omission. the reasons why the information for the External Assurance specific reference to where the relevant information omitted. has been omitted. Statement in the report. can be found. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material aspect: economic performance G4-DMA 10-11, website: https://www.kendrion.com/ group-services/en/ G4-EC1 12, 35-40, 54, 73-74 Payments to government The information is currently Payments to government by country unavailable by country will be reported if required. CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL Material aspect: energy G4-DMA website: https://www.kendrion.com/groupservices/en/csr/energy-and-co2-reduction.html G4-EN3 50-51 Data regarding renewable The information is currently The underlying data are yes, 159-161 resources and sold energy unavailable currently unavailable. It will be considered if and when to report these in the future. G4-EN5 50-51, 166-167 (About the CSR Review), yes, 159-161 energy used inside organisation G4-EN6 50-51, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) The amount of energy The information is currently The underlying data are yes, 159-161 reduction as a direct result unavailable currently not available. It will of individual efficiency be considered if and when initiatives is not availble. to report these in the future. Material aspect: emissions G4-DMA website: https://www.kendrion.com/groupservices/en/csr/energy-and-co2-reduction.html G4-EN15 50-51, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) GWP data The information is currently The underlying data are yes, 159-161 unavailable currently not available. It will be considered if and when to report these in the future. G4-EN16 50-51, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) GWP data The information is currently The underlying data are unavailable currently not available. It will be considered if and when to report these in the future. GRI INDEX Annual Report 2016 171 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and indicators Page number (or link) Identified omission(s) Reason(s) for omission(s) Explanation for omission(s) External Assurance Information related to Standard Disclosures required by In exceptional cases, if it is not In exceptional cases, if it is not In exceptional cases, if it is not Indicate if the Standard Disclosure the ‘in accordance’ options may already be included in possible to disclose certain possible to disclose certain possible to disclose certain has been externally assured. other reports prepared by the organization. In these required information, identify required information, provide required information, explain If yes, include the page reference circumstances, the organization may elect to add a the information that has been the reason for omission. the reasons why the information for the External Assurance specific reference to where the relevant information omitted. has been omitted. Statement in the report. can be found. CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material aspect: occupational health and safety G4-DMA 59, website: https://www.kendrion.com/groupservices/en/csr/health-and-safety.html G4-LA6 59-60 Info per regio and gender The information is currently The data per gender is in yes, 159-161 unavailable the view of Kendrion not relevant. Kendrion considers to disclose the data per region next year. Material aspect: training and education G4-DMA 58 G4-LA9 58 Info per gender and per The information is currently The data per gender is in employee category unavailable the view of Kendrion not relevant. Kendrion consider to disclose the data per employee category (direct and indirect) next year. SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS Material aspect: non-discrimination G4-DMA 56 G4-HR3 56. No reports. SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY Material aspect: anti-corruption G4-DMA 53 G4-SO5 54, no reports of incidents or legal cases in 2016 Material aspect: supplier assessment for impacts on society Own indicator: 47-48, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) yes, 159-161 Number of CSR supplier audits Own indicator: 47-48, 166-167 (About the CSR Review) yes, 159-161 number of signed Supplier Code of Conduct 172 COLOPHON Annual Report 2016 Contact information Any questions or comments about this Annual Report or Kendrion’s activities can be raised with: Mrs Wilma Stuiver Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist, the Netherlands P.O. Box 931 3700 AX Zeist, the Netherlands Telephone: + 31 (0) 30 699 72 50 Fax: +31 (0) 30 695 11 65 Email: ir@kendrion.com www.kendrion.com Kendrion N.V. Euronext code 0000383511 ISIN code 0000383511 Chamber of Commerce 30113646 Photography and images Kendrion N.V. Dieter Marx Artphotographs SLM Solutions Group AG/Part-Time Scientists GmbH (page 26) Otto Bock HealthCare Deutschland GmbH (page 38) Elcore GmbH (page 42) Drägerwerk AG & Co. KGaA, Lübeck, Germany (page 55) GERSTEL GmbH & Co. KG (page 78) A digital version of this Report is available on the website (www.kendrion.com) along with other publications such as press releases.
