63 Corporate 2 Social Responsibility Report 62 Message from the Honorary The Global Goals for Sustainable Development Chairman At Grupo ALDESA, we are aware that Corporate Other strategic objectives for the GROUP within Social Responsibility is part of the company’s the scope of Corporate Social Responsibility are corporate culture and, therefore, we understand that the R&D&I projects based on sustainability and in order to generate value in the communities we optimising the improvement of construction work, we have to focus on projects that are aligned processes in civil engineering projects and building. with our business, where we can really be an agent Construction is undergoing a change due to the of change. arrival of new technologies in projecting and executing works. These, added to the lessons With more international than national business, learnt in our over 40 years of experience developing we are fully aware of how important it is to work complex works in 3 continents, will undoubtedly in countries like Mexico and Peru, establishing a make us stronger. continuous dialogue with the communities in which we operate, since they are part of our operation and We want to implement all these initiatives in the activity. In other countries, the strategy continues collaborating companies and suppliers, with the BUILDING to concentrate on generating value through aim of guaranteeing that the guidelines are fulfilled CONFIDENCE improvements in infrastructure and education, throughout the value chain. We are convinced that, if developing projects directly or through the institution we all collaborate, we will create a multiplying effect Clients with which we collaborate. and the impact will be a success. Since adhering to the Global Compact, we have identified two key goals for sustainable development: I would also like to say that none of these projects would be possible without people contributing Building confidence Employees to making them a reality. People who give the Number 9: industry, innovation and infrastructure, best version of themselves, people who make it The Group’s Corporate Responsibility strategy, summarised Investors and Number 11: sustainable cities and communities. worthwhile every day. Because Grupo ALDESA is a in the slogan “Building confidence”, is based on a series In this regard, we perceive infrastructure as a means reality thanks to its Team, to the people who work of corporate values which extend to every level of the Partners to improve the environment and, thus, the life of on the most difficult of tasks and can create new organisation and aim to be not simply a hallmark, but a people. We believe that healthy and sustainable opportunities from any challenge. genuine commitment to all stakeholders: clients, employees, communities are those in which education, values Suppliers partners, suppliers, subcontractors, public authorities, users and collaborative work are critical for development. and society in general. Antonio Fernández Rubio Honorary Chairman Subcontractors All these values take the form of a series of areas and Grupo ALDESA management systems establishing the implementation of the corresponding policies and action plans in order Government effectively to fulfil all these undertakings. Users Community 64 65 Generation of The group and corporate social Value Responsibility By managing certain risks, we can detect new business opportunities. At ALDESA, we identify the different risks that arise from the nature of our business activity and the countries in which we operate. We have detected these risks and assessed them with the purpose of mitigating Commitments It likewise works on advanced technological protheir potential impact. jects connected with electrical engineering and • Solid backing to Human Resources with hightelecommunications. level technical skills. Aldesa is aware that its • Compliance with the most demanding quality success has been made possible by its human standards. Aldesa has for more than a decade team. The growth registered by the Group over Risks management now held certification for its Quality Management, recent years demands the continuous recruitment thereby guaranteeing compliance with client of professionals with an ambitious approach requirements in terms of satisfaction, as well as and high-level technical skills in all fields of the legal and regulatory requirements to reduce defects business. One of the cornerstones of employee POLITICAL ECONOMIC PEOPLE SOCIAL development within the Human Resources policy and establish a framework for the continuous improvement of the Group’s processes. One of the is internal promotion and specialist training. aims of the Aldesa Quality Policy is to make quality Economic stagnation, a fundamental element of the organisational Increased market comLoss Loss of licence • High level demands in Safety and Risk Prevention. currency devaluation and culture, and to ensure that all personnel identify petition key personnel to operate Occupational safety is a fundamental cornerstone fiscal consolidation with and sincerely commit to this goal. for Aldesa in structuring all activities it undertakes, and is just as important as profitability, quality out• Strict fulfilment of established delivery deadlines. Change in legislation Cessation of works Lack of operational staff Corruption/Credibility put. The Group has a serious commitment to safeNo detail is overlooked in the planning of tasks ty and occupational risk prevention, establishing a required by each project, and if the periodic series of undertakings and directives expressed in monitoring of partial deadlines detects the slightest Activities consolidated Operational its Health and Safety policy, which must be fulfilled Confidence Financing delay, consideration is given to increasing the team with changes continuity by all employees, thereby involving them in the preand working shifts, avoiding any unnecessary ventive management of safety. inconvenience of clients and users. • Application of sustainability and new technolo• Environmentally friendly management. Aldesa’s gies. Aldesa has in place the capacity to use the environmental policy places a particular most advanced techniques in the execution of its emphasis on prevention and the establishment projects, selectively incorporating the most apof continuous improvements to the Group’s propriate technology. The available technological environmental performance, with a high level of options are analysed in order to enhance coninvolvement throughout the organisation. Aldesa struction methods, with a particular emphasis on has for some 10 years now had in place its ISO the efficiency of processes and on sustainability. 14001 Environmental Management certification, 66 67 The group and Corporate Social Responsibility Stakeholders One of the most important focuses in our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy is the communication with our stakeholders. They will see the results of our work so it’s important to listen to what they want, what we can do and how we can collaborate for a win-win outcome. We’re applying different tools in order to know stakeholder expectations regarding our commitment. Suppliers Partners chain Communities in operating areas Companies/ Joint Ventures Government Corporate Governance Clients Collaborators Mass Media guaranteeing compliance with the applicable access to basic infrastructure services, and the DISTINCTIONS environmental regulations and legislation, and social integration of the most underprivileged the use of processes which avoid, reduce and individuals in those communities where the control pollution. Group operates. • Support for initiatives which create value for the community. Aldesa’s social initiatives focus on Convinced of the need to maintain a sustainable the development of projects connected with its business model, the Board of Directors of the Aldesa operations to generate value for the community Group is committed to the approval of policies which by satisfying their fundamental needs. These affect the various spheres covered by Corporate projects correspond essentially to support for Responsibility, to ensure they are aligned with the the development of infrastructure in the world’s expectations of stakeholders and the strategic poorest regions, providing the population with objectives which have been set. 68 69 The group and Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable Development Goals Although, there are other objectives in which Aldesa corporate responsibility. We develop the quality events, including congresses, seminars has a more direct relation, as drinking water and manual that applies to the working centers of civil and conferences, connected both with the In Aldesa, we have included our commitment to sanitation, decent employment and renewable works, so we can work with the same guideline. promotion of its activities and Corporate collaborate in the goals for sustainable development energy. Responsibility, giving it the opportunity to based on the developed objectives of the millennium, Promotion of sustainable development inform the wider business fabric of various this as part of our operative strategy. Although Adherence to UN Global Compact aspects connected with sustainability. The including climate change, inequity in economics, During 2016 Grupo Aldesa undertook internal Group’s companies likewise play an active innovation sustainable consumes peace and justice As a significant step and in its duty with society, awareness-raising campaigns addressing the role in organisations and associations which among others. in 2015 Grupo Aldesa signed the union to the need to apply the principles of sustainable promote the responsible development of their UN Global Compact. In 2016 has renovated its development, and took part in various respective sectors. In this context, the challenge for the company’s is commitment, implying firmly in the objective of to contribute to accomplish the goals locally. Aldesa aligning its activities and business strategies with has the capacity and the will to contribute to this the ten universally accepted precepts in the areas of transformation and be the development cause. In human rights, labor standards, the environment and Leading associations and organisations supported by this way, Aldesa has identified two objectives that the fight against corruption. Group companies in 2016 can be contributed as part of the development of his activities: To this international United Nations initiative that AEC – Spanish Association of Roads takes place in 2000 year, more than 12,000 entities AECMA – Spanish Association of Management Construction • Objetive 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure in around 150 country’s had joined, this is why the United Nations Global Compact the is today the AEE – Wind Power Business Association • Objetive 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities most important volunteer initiative of global social AENOR Standardization Committees AETOS Spanish Association of Tunnels and Underground Works AMDEE – Mexican Wind Energy Association AMITOS – Mexican Association of Tunnel Engineering and Underground Works ANCI National Association of Independent Builders APREAN – Association of Developers and Producers of Renewable Energies of Andalusia Chamber of Contractors of the Valencia Region CAMESCOM – Spanish Chamber of Commerce in Mexico CCOC Official Chamber of Works Contractors of Catalonia CMIC – Mexican Chamber of the Construction Industry COGENERA México – Association of Cogeneration sector CSIC Higher Scientific Research Council Construction Employment Foundation ITS Spain Intelligent Transport Systems ITS Polska – National Association of Intelligent Traffic Systems of Poland PHIG – Polish-Spanish Chamber of Commerce PZPB – Polish Association of Construction Industry UNEF – Spanish Photovoltaic Union 70 71 People Behind every success there is a group of people that made it happen People are the cornerstone of are immersed in a process of ALDESA and, thus, our human transformation that we have defined resources are the GROUP’s most in 3 main points: valuable asset. 2,598 One of our main objectives is our commitment towards the employees people in a healthy and discrimination-free environment, where we can also TALENT attract and foster talent with a longMANAGEMENT term vision. In a changing environment and an industry which has been immersed 57% in one of the worst crisis in living memory in Spain, the development CULTURE university graduates of people and human resources has CORPORATE been a key element in facing the adversities of recent years. In this sense, we have made of ALDESA a GLOBAL company with a team that can perform its role in the required project anywhere in the world. 38 COMMITMENT Today we operate with a global COLLABORATION team that are able to drive a project average age to success. This team intends to provide effective, efficient answers Grupo Aldesa continues its to the needs of the company, and expansion beyond our borders. All this has consolidated ALDESA as this is the result of consolidation a corporate reference in all the and growth in countries such as sectors where it operates and as Mexico and Poland. In this sense, one of the best companies to work working for a company like Aldesa 5 average seniority for. provides numerous options for promotion, mobility and professional Therefore, considering the environment, development that are emerging market and current needs, we as a result of the diversification 72 73 People This is a commitment that runs through the entire System. From the perspective of employees, the organisation, with the aim of establishing the best risks associated with the activity undertaken by conditions of safety at work and a high level of the company are minimised, thereby achieving the protection for all employees. continuous enhancement of working conditions and moving closer to the goals of eliminating risks and In compliance with the legal requirements of hazards and of “Zero Accidents”. Occupational Risk Prevention, the risk prevention activity in Grupo Aldesa is organised through the During 2016 the targets set in the Risk Prevention Joint Prevention Service with the collaboration Plan were fulfilled. The key initiatives comprised and support of other areas and departments of the providing further information and specific training at organisation. the work sites, with the priority focused on promoting strict compliance with legal demands. Similarly, a The risk In 2016, Grupo Aldesa’s companies in Spain subjected their Occupational Risk Prevention continuous and effective inspection of the different sites and work facilities has been carried with the prevention management system to legal audits and compliance purpose of detecting and controlling possible risks with OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health in order to eliminate them and improve working activity in and Safety Management System), successfully conditions. passing the audits to ensure that our organisation Grupo Aldesa is among the leading firms in this regard. This Likewise, a great effort has been invested in system not only satisfies the legal requirements, but promoting the Policy and the management system is organised also establishes the requirements to be fulfilled by to all collaborating companies and subcontractors, through the and expansion process being In Poland we hold the Engineersorganisations wishing to optimise the performance of their Occupational Health and Safety Management demanding a level of compliance identical to that of Grupo Aldesa at our work facilities. Joint Prevention experienced by the company. in-Training programme with the same characteristics than in In Spain we collaborate with a series Service with the of public and private institutions, other countries, and we continue collaborating with the University of collaboration which include the Civil Engineering Technology in Lublin. In addition, we School of the Valencia Polytechnic also took part in the Absolvent Talent and support of University, the European University, Days, which is an event organised Confemetal Foundation, and the by students and graduates from other areas and Madrid Civil Work Engineers’ Warsaw as a networking platform for departments of Association. the future job market. In the other countries we have the organisation. In Mexico we work closely with the National Autonomous University established a collaboration with the main universities aimed at promoting of Mexico (UNAM), Tecnologico de young and qualified employment, Monterrey (TEC) and the National while we also focus on contracting Polytechnic Institute (IPN) to local and national personnel. incorporate into our teams the best, recently graduated engineers OCCUPATIONAL RISK and architects through the Aldesa PREVENTION Cantera Programme. This high performance programme involves The integration of the Occupational recent graduates entering a Risk Prevention is for Grupo Aldesa comprehensive development plan a key element of its corporate for a period of three years. culture. 74 75 People As a direct consequence of this effort, the accident low accident rate indices and always well below designed to consolidate the health and safety successfully obtained, for the first time, the safety rate figures achieved in 2016 by the companies of those in the industry. These results have been standards in Grupo Aldesa’s work centres. certification OHSAS 18001, which means that the the Group have dropped considerably with respect maintained mainly thanks to the effort made by Grupo Aldesa enjoys this certification for all the to the previous year and are well below the average the organisation in monitoring and controlling the Some of these actions include reviewing and countries in which it operates. for the sectors within which it operates. work carried out in the different facilities through improving the Occupational Risk Prevention its departments, Occupational Risk Prevention Management System, adjusting it to the Polish The specific safety and health management projects legislation and context, and carrying out a Among the main actions carried out by and production. in 2016 were targeted, on the one hand, at achieving successful effort in communicating and monitoring Aldesa in Peru last year are consolidating the a safe work environment and, on the other hand, at Last year, we saw the successful renewal of the its compliance in the organisation. implementation, dissemination and compliance disseminating Grupo Aldesa’s commitment to the Health, Safety and Environmental Management of the Occupational Risk Prevention Management prevention of occupational risks. System certificate, based on compliance In addition, the establishment of Health and Safety System and establishing and achieving the proper with standard OHSAS 18001:2007, since the technical procedures and the implementation of functioning of the Central Committee on Security In Mexico Aldesa achieved in 2016 the milestones Management System was certified in 2012, a specific health and safety training plan are also and the Subcommittees in the different projects. established in the Occupational Risk Prevention and thus the standardisation is consolidated in worth mentioning. Similarly significant is the in-house training on Action Plan for the year, unquestionably thanks terms of safety within the organisation. health and safety at work undertaken, which to the effort and commitment of the organisation Grupo Aldesa in Peru has worked efficiently in 2016 extended to subcontracted personnel. The positive for the integration of Risk Prevention at every With regard to Poland, an excellent accident rate to control the risks in the various activities of the results achieved in the accident rates with respect level. This effort has been critical to maintaining has been maintained thanks to the different actions different projects awarded. In this sense, we have to previous years are also worth highlighting. 76 77 Commitment to Value Chain This commitment is set out in the Quality Policy which ensures that the final product is safe, reliable and complies with all applicable specifications, standards and codes QUALITY • Reducing faults. The Aldesa Group has a long-standing commitment • Establishing actions aimed at prevention and not to provide high quality products and services only detection. to its clients. This commitment is set out in the Quality Policy which ensures that the final product • Supplying products and services that meet our is safe, reliable and complies with all applicable clients’ expectations in terms of value for money. specifications, standards and codes. • Maintaining permanent contact with clients, The general objectives of the Quality Policy focus collaborating together to improve our products and on: services. • Consolidating quality as a basic element in the • Instructing, motivating and involving all the staff in culture of Aldesa Group companies. the management and development of the Quality System that has been implemented. • Strengthening the identification and sincere commitment of all employees to the Quality Policy. • Keeping the commitment to constantly improving the Environmental Management System. • Bolstering participative quality management which takes advantage of the capabilities of the entire For Grupo Aldesa, Quality Management Systems workforce. are essential for achieving the objectives defined by the company, generating an added value that • Permanently optimising the global business makes it easier to comply with and go a step process. beyond in fulfilling the initial expectations of its clients. Quality Policy The different companies comprising the Aldesa Group in Spain have implemented quality • Ensuring that the products and services supplied to management systems at all their work sites. Aldesa our clients are safe, reliable and meet the applicable Construcciones, Proacon, Coalvi and Acisa are specifications, standards, legislation and codes. certified as per the ISO 9001 standard and their 78 79 Commitment to value chain scope includes all types of projects continuous enhancement processes in all procurement processes. So far a list of almost as well as the various activities as a priority. Hence the fact that 39,000 evaluated suppliers has been built up in four carried out in the Industrial Area. procurement and subcontract categories. management is the cornerstone of The unification and integration of its Quality Management System. The computer application that handles the evaluation the Management Systems of Aldesa of suppliers has online access, which means that Group companies are also worth The Group has a specific system that all operational centres and work sites can pass on mentioning. This has made it possible specifies the lines to be followed for information about the performance of each supplier to combine criteria, setting up a single proper procurement management. instantaneously and in real time, and so the results work system within Group companies, The first step is an initial assessment of the evaluation take effect from the point at which creating a more effective and efficient of suppliers, which analyses their the process is performed at each work site. data analysis methodology that ability to supply products and encourages System feedback and services in accordance with the hence improvement. requirements stipulated by the Aldesa Group. The aspects which Quality assured in every process are evaluated include their human and service Satisfaction surveys and material resources, products and services certified by accredited Grupo Aldesa Group implements Quality Assurance One of the greatest concerns of the bodies, as well as their commitment Plans (QAPs) for each project and service. These Aldesa Group is the satisfaction of to the environment. plans include, inter alia: its clients. To this end, direct surveys and interviews are conducted This initial approval enables the • Project review to detect possible shortcomings, periodically to obtain their point inclusion of the Group-approved undefined aspects, proposed improvements, etc. of view on the fulfilment of their suppliers in the database, which expectations and their perception are then assigned a specific activity • Strict control of the documents used (blueprints of the final quality of the projects group and an initial score. and necessary technical documentation). executed. This serves as the basis for establishing improvement When each of the projects for which • Carrying out documented inspections upon receipt measures every year. The level of they were contracted is completed, a of materials and their subsequent traceability, and satisfaction of the Group’s clients is reassessment is carried out to rate controls and inspections at the start, during and high, according to the satisfaction aspects such as meeting deadlines, at the end of the execution of each project unit or surveys conducted when projects quality levels, Environmental during the rendering of each service to ensure that and services awarded have been guidelines and their legal obligations, all requisites specified by the clients are complied completed. This fact is borne out by and a score is then assigned. with as well as all applicable legal and regulatory the clients’ trust in awarding their This makes it possible to obtain a requirements. main projects to Aldesa. supplier rating based on the merits Most of the quality objectives in or demerits accumulated in the Each Plan also includes the preparation and each of the company’s operating different projects executed. execution of tests by the major approved laboratories processes were fulfilled in 2016, in which the materials used are controlled and the ensuring the constant improvement A minimum threshold is defined pertinent final tests are conducted to ensure that of processes. below which the supplier is excluded the project complies with all requisites. A calibration as an approved supplier and not and verification programme is established for the readmitted until it demonstrates different measurement equipment used at projects Commitment to chain value reliably that it has improved in these to ensure that their measurements are accurate. aspects. This approved supplier The optimal condition of the Group’s own ancillary Grupo Aldesa views the involvement database is computerised and its resources and those of collaborating companies is of its suppliers and subcontractors in use and consultation are mandatory also subject to control and follow-up. 80 81 Commitment to value chain It is also ensured that all employees •Have a solid and exportable • Development of technical execution procedures • Among with the Archive Department, an “Inactive involved in each of the project solution that can grow into new for the Industrial business based on updated File Control” protocol has been developed, so phases or who render services are functionalities. CFE regulations, for all possible activities and for that all contractual information is supported both duly qualified in terms of the required business building, in accordance with construction physically and digitally in order to be able to close training and experience. In addition, Thanks to all these measures, regulations and applicable standards for civil the project in a timely manner, as well as the a methodology has been defined Grupo Aldesa enjoys a high level works, coverings and facilities. collection of bonds. that is used for evaluating suppliers of competitiveness in the sectors and subcontractors, all of which where it operates, achieving • Quarterly Management Committees were •The role and responsibilities matrix has been ensures compliance with each and constant improvement and fulfilling implemented in all businesses, with the purpose developed, as a tool to manage the different every project requirement and the the expectations of its clients. of presenting the advances or improvements in fronts of action on site, job descriptions with their fulfilment of clients’ expectations. the Group’s approved preventive activities and corresponding performance evaluations, the job Information videos have also been As regards to Mexico, during 2016 the objectives. catalog of the building unit, which was presented Quality produced in order to enhance and Integrated Management System was • Implementation of online audits for the working to the Human Resources area, the corporate interaction matrix structure and works; based on underpin the effectiveness of the recertified in quality, environment Assurance training given in this field to the and multi-site occupational health centers from the corporate offices through the this the operational procedures of the unit are being. Group’s workers. use of digital platforms, in order to improve Plans according to standards ISO 9001, 14001 and OHSAS 18001. documentary control in each project without the • In terms of quality on site, four operational need of performing face-to-face audits reducing procedures have been developed, focused on (QAPs) all costs. servicing the works and guaranteeing the technical Likewise, in the edification unit we Quality-focused software standardize the operative procedures, focused on the needs and reality 1. Project Grupo Aldesa has IT tools applied of the business, with the goal of review to management, which contribute added value and make it possible to: simplify the integration of new team collaboration in the construction • Manage and expedite the Quality site to increase and improve the Systems through online IT tools. mobility of the collaborators in the 2. Strict different functional areas and to give control of the • Have information in real time on the Quality at all of Grupo Aldesa’s coverage to all the required actions documents projects and work sites. for the execution of the projects used and optimize the investment, as well as the management of the • Ensure the filing of records in subcontractors. electronic support to prevent losses. For the certify renovation, Aldesa 3. Documented overcome satisfactorily the audits inspections • Generate reports that contribute to and external certification processes, the decision-making process at all and complied in detail the approved levels and the processing of a larger internal audit program. number of indicators. • Eliminate, to a large extent, the use of Among 2016 performances, the paper and minimise administrative following milestones stands out: QUALITY tasks. ASSURED • Have a common platform that •Implementation of economic indicators in the centers of civil is applicable at all Grupo Aldesa work, related to divers controls and/ companies. or operational tools used on site. 82 83 Commitment to value chain and administrative closures thereof, in order to In Poland, during 2016 Aldesa Nowa Energia has projects on the performance of these companies, and substations, obtained a qualification of level reduce the period of completion of works, reduce successfully passed certification audit under the which ensures that only the best suppliers can “A” with a quality management score of 94%. the cost of indirect for closures of work and to ISO 9001 standard. This is a relevant fact, as it is participate in the implementation of the activities. recover retentions of guarantee in a shorter time. consolidating Aldesa’s continuous improvement At the same time, over the course of the past year the INNOVATION These operating procedures are quality of work, work culture in this country. In addition to turning quality of installations, control of documents and Aldesa Nowa Energia into the reference company objectives that had been set were fulfilled, thereby control of constructive documents, each of which of the Industrial Division of the Group that has such contributing to the progressive consolidation of the Quality system. In Grupo Aldesa, R&D&I is understood as a has a diagnosis to measure compliance. certification in Poland. differentiating element that promotes the As a result of Grupo Aldesa’s strong commitment to organisation’s activities and competences, • In terms of process-oriented quality, an operational In addition to these major achievements, work also continuous improvement, rigorous Quality assurance ensuring resource optimisation and improving both structure under the PMP (Project Manager continued on the implementation of compliance plans are prepared for in each customer’s project, service quality and efficiency. For these reasons, it Professional) methodology has been developed procedures and internal processes at the company developed by applying strict inspection programmes constitutes a strategic axis within the company’s in the building unit, focused on standardizing itself, along with the development and continuous and operational activities to ensure that the quality management model. the operation of the business and facilitating the enhancement of quality standards. Among others, interaction of the various functional areas and the for example, it has improved the systematic approval of the projects meets and exceeds the requirements The vocation of the Group is to remain a leading corporate. of suppliers and purchases by reporting each of the and expectations of our customers. exponent for its clients in all business areas in its As regards to Peru, the main actions carried out by commitment to R&D&I, investing every year in both Grupo Aldesa in 2016 include: technical and human resources, as a vital activity in response to the constant demand for new • Standardization of the various activities in works technologies and products. Proximity to the market and in central headquarters according to the and an understanding throughout the organisation requirements of ISO 9001. provide the channel for information sources generating new innovative projects which will act as • Establishment and fulfillment of strategic quality the driving force of the corporation’s growth. management objectives according to ISO 9001. Given the current market circumstances, with • Satisfaction evaluation of our clients during and ever-increasing globalisation and high levels at the end of our projects, adopting measures in of competitiveness, the internationalisation order to continuously improve the perception of of Innovation is vital as a means of business our clients. growth. Grupo Aldesa, as a company operating in sectors demanding products or services derived • Establishment of Process Indicators that allow to from substantial R&D&I activities, is convinced mediate the objectives of each one of the areas of of the need to transfer knowledge and to deploy Aldesa Peru. the latest advances and technology in new international markets, with the ability to incorporate • Certification in ISO 9001: 2008 by Bureau Veritas innovations or launch new products within potential Certification. priority business areas, thereby increasing the competitiveness of the Group’s companies against • Certification to SGS of our Design, Planning and an international backdrop, positioning itself at the Execution of Works activities for transmission lines forefront of technology in Europe and worldwide. 84 85 Commitment to value chain 70 +15% and personnel. However, at the Aldesa Group the ability to innovate is an asset which belongs to all businesses and departments, as an implicit activity at every area of the organisation, with the national key and international areas representing the main focus certified during driving forward new developments at the Group in projects 2017 the present. Grupo Aldesa currently has 70 key certified projects, a figure which is expected to rise by 15% during 2017. Many of these projects have also been supported by Activities and projects a wide range of bodies, including the CDTI (Industrial Technological Develop and Centre), the Regional Centralised monitoring of R&D&I activities, in Government of Andalucía, the Autonomous Region accordance with a progressive but decisive task of Madrid and the Ministry of Industry, Energy and of coordination, detection and support of novel Tourism (MINETUR). initiatives in all the Group’s operational areas, has facilitated effective management of technology In 2016 the Aldesa Construction Division focused projects connected with sustainable, construction, its innovation operations in Spain on projects to engineering and telecommunications activities, optimise the execution of major civil engineering along with comprehensive work to improve projects, the mitigation of environmental impact, documentation, as reflected in the considerable sustainable construction and energy efficiency. number of projects classified by accredited bodies. At the same time, this division has continued with Solid backing to Technological Solutions profitability in the activities: ITS, Communications Division and Systems or Technologies for Smart Cities. Technological Solutions Division is a new business These achievements position Aldesa as a constructor line focused on offering complete solutions in the group with an innovative policy to optimize the field of technology and innovation. The Group knows organization’s technological innovation processes. how important it is to create value to respond to the It also enables the Company to set objectives in current needs of customers. line with current activities and services, expand its knowledge and improve the management of R&D&I Technological Solutions will develop an offer of own activities. solutions, advanced services and high added value in technology, which allow them to solve the most Innovative or R&D&I activities are often seen as critical issues and improve processes, efficiency, the inherent business of a specific department 86 87 Commitment to value chain Industrial Design of intelligent solutions for architectures deployed in cloud computing environments. R&D of innovative solutions for new technologies of control systems in the cloud. New technologies for energy efficient installations within an environment Industry 4.0. Design and development of an intelligent system with new integrated communication functionalities that allow optimizing the data capture, processing of the measurement and the management of the information received. Development of an urban traffic management system based on the principles of standardization and innovation. R&D of new technological solutions for the predictive management of fleets by shipped unit. Development of new technology products for innovative traffic management systems that respond to the current needs of smart cities. Development of a user information system for efficient and sustainable driving in urban centers. R&D of technological processes for the design of sustainable engineering in automated ecosystems. GRUPO ALDESA NOTEWORTHY R&D&I PROJECTS Years 2015/2016* * Certified or in the process of certification according to the UNE 166001:2006 standard Construction Development of new engineering solutions for the construction challenges posed in railway tunnel infrastructures. Constructive process for the stabilization of areas located in infrastructures under highly unstable environments. Innovative solutions in tunnelling using new generation technology. Development of a local data network for energy management in buildings. Development of technological improvements applied to typological EPB tunnelling machines for optimization in the assembly and drilling advance (with Proacon). R&D of new construction applications for materials in terms of multiobjective sustainability criteria. Design of mixed structural solutions under high impact environmental conditions. Research of a linear transport system powered by solar energy. R&D of new solutions in civil engineering at the forefront of sustainable constructive innovation. R&D in railway technology solutions based on sustainable criteria of efficiency and integration. 88 89 Commitment to value chain projects initiated in 2015, meeting transport, pattern generation using the high expectations placed. Big Data analysis, cybersecurity, digital trust, management, guidance Aldesa Construcciones promotes and refuelling of electric vehicles, knowledge through the innovation cloud computing, and information and research in the construction for the driver to adapt their progress sector. In this way, it has established a for better progression in signalised Framework Collaboration Agreement networks. In 2016, ACISA, as the with the Higher Council for Scientific leading technology company, has Research (CSIC) in order to join efforts developed three new projects: in the sustainable development of construction activities, mainly in • Design intelligent solutions under The Industrial the fields of building and urban and architectures deployed in cloud computing environments. Division has interurban transport infrastructures. This agreement started in 2015 continued to focus with a local data network for energy • Research and development of its efforts on the management in buildings. It consists innovative solutions for new technologies of control systems in development of a project capable of integrating and optimizing the energy performance the cloud of projects related of a building. Information comes • New technologies for energy to smart traffic from a set of sensors and actuators efficient installations within an located on the premises and local and transport equipment, relevant systems or Industry 4.0 environment. management, external systems and general Two projects started in 2015 and are the engineering Internet networks. It also has the still in progress: support of the Center for Industrial of industrial Technological Development (CDTI) • Design and development of processes, and through the FEDER Operational an intelligent system with new telecommunications. Program of Madrid. integrated communication. The goals are optimizing the data capture, The Industrial Division, the Group’s processing of the measurement and main technological area, has information received. continued to focus its efforts on the development of projects related • Development of an urban traffic to smart traffic and transport management system based on the management, the engineering principles of standardization and of industrial processes, and innovation. telecommunications, being a major pillar of the company in recent Both projects have the support of years innovation in Smart Cities, the Center for the Development of researching various topics such as Industrial Technology (CDTI) through the balance of emissions resulting the FEDER Operational Program in from the prioritisation of public Madrid. 90 91 Commitment to value chain Global Innovation Peru The completion of the many certified R&D • Tunnels of Puruchuco and accesses in Ate (Lima). projects in Grupo Aldesa in Spain has generated One project for the construction of two parallel extensive innovative own know-how which is being tunnels with 77 meters and 3 vials. The most currently applied as a differentiating factor for the important aspect is the great difficulty of executing organisation in the largest international projects, it in a little mountain. This project is located in a making it possible to offer clients a technological particularly sensitive sector that needs the least leap in services. possible affection in surface, being a pre-Inca zone pertaining to Mayorazgo Hill. The background in Mexico experience of the construction of false tunnels and stabilization of slopes has allowed the • The Emisor Poniente II drainage tunnel (TEP development of solutions for the completion of a II). Construction of a 5.52-km hydraulic tunnel technically very complicated work, showing again using a TBM-type tunneller, connecting the West its our leading position in Peru in the specific sector Interceptor with Rio San Javier, with an excavation of civil engineering. diameter of 8.4 m and 7 m when the tunnel is finished. Structurally it consists of a ring of Norway segments and a secondary coating of reinforced concrete. This project is being implemented with • Installation system DAI Hvaler tunnel. Installation technological improvements that have enabled of an Automatic Incident Detection (DAI) system the optimised assembly and progression of the in a 3.70 km underwater tunnel in the Norwegian tunneller. town of Hvaler, near Oslo. The project will provide the interior of the tunnel with 75 fixed cameras • Energy Loss Reduction in Distribution Project. with DAI system, which consists of a combination Execution of all necessary activities for the of software and hardware that, through a dynamic construction and installation work to reduce analysis of the images of the cameras, allows losses with 23 kV voltage, a total 116,616 MVA detection of any anomalous situation in the tunnel. transforming power, line construction and measurement assurance. These activities involve the removal, supply and installation of 156,669 AMI-type meters communicated through an innovative integrated smart system with new features that optimise data capture, the processing of measurement-taking and the management of the information received. 92 93 Environment The Group’s commitment is borne out in the guidelines of its environmental policy The Aldesa Group has a long-standing interest in • To notify and involve staff regarding how to develop achieving and demonstrating a great commitment and apply the environmental management system. to the respect for the Environment and to the preservation of the natural surroundings. The These environmental policy principles are undertaken Group’s commitment is borne out in the guidelines within the framework of an Environmental of its environmental policy. Management System based on the ISO 14001 standard which ensures compliance with applicable environmental law and regulations and the use of processes that prevent, reduce and control pollution, Environmental Policy stressing prevention and establishing on-going improvement in the company’s environmental • To commit to protecting the environment, including performance. other specific commitments in the field. The main companies comprising the Aldesa Group in • To comply with prevailing environmental legislation Spain – Aldesa Construcciones, Proacon, Coalvi and and regulations, as well as the requirements that Acisa – have their own environmental management the company subscribes for these purposes. systems that have been certified pursuant to the ISO 14001 standard. • To use processes, practices or materials that avoid, reduce or control pollution, under an overall With a view to complying with the requirements prevention commitment. of this standard, Aldesa has implemented an Environmental Management Plan at each of its • To continuously strengthen environmental projects and work sites where the following actions management in order to secure improvements in are carried out, inter alia: the company’s environmental performance. • The environmental aspects generated by the • To regularly establish and review environmental activities which are carried out at these sites objectives and goals, according to the commitments are identified and evaluated (mainly waste, undertaken in this declaration. atmospheric emissions, spillages and noise). The 94 95 Environment criteria applied in conducting this assessment of environmental aspects are: its nature and toxicity, 1 PLANNING magnitude, impact on the receiving environment, likelihood of occurrence and severity of the consequences. RUBBLE 2 REUSE MANAGEMENT • Subsequently, the applicable environmental legislation is identified (EU, State, Autonomous Community and local), as well as the possible environmental requirements contemplated in SEGREGATED & MANAGEMENT AT licenses, authorizations or environmental impact WORKS SITES BY statements. To facilitate this identification task, MEANS OF a specialised external service reports any legal HAZARDOUS AUTHORISED WASTE COMPANIES novelties as they arise. MANAGEMENT • Once the requirements and obligations have been identified, compliance by the employees and subcontractors and collaborating companies is controlled. To this end, an Environmental Inspection Programme (PIM) is established which sets out the inspections to be carried out, those responsible for doing so, their frequency and their results. HANDED OVER TO AUTHORISED Periodically, environmental improvement actions are OPERATORS established by defining environmental objectives. TIMBER & In the Construction Area the main impact of works METALS MANAGEMENT is the volume of inert waste generated. This is mainly the product of excavation and demolition, rubble, timber and rebar. Along these lines and with the commitment to environmental improvement, In the case of timber and surplus rebar and metals, work is carried out each day to reduce the volume they are handed over to authorised operators for of waste so that it does not end up in landfill sites. subsequent recycling. As for hazardous waste (such Prevention comes first, properly planning the as empty containers for aerosols, paint, resins, foams activities and analysing construction alternatives and silicone, along with machinery waste, such as types of spillages, such as those produced when preventive maintenance and the use of recentlyto prevent, reduce, and minimise waste. For waste brake fluid, filters, used oil, etc.), this is segregated cleaning the concrete-mixing drums or bentonite manufactured machinery is required also confirming that cannot be prevented, alternatives are sought, and managed at each of the works sites and centres sludge frequently used in construction projects, that official technical inspections are up-to-date. such as reusing it at the work site or sending it by means of authorised companies. are collected at recycling sites for their subsequent to other projects that require excavated material treatment. thereby avoiding the need for new quarries. Another At the same time, to prevent spillages at work sites, In the Industrial Area, similar environmental control alternative to landfill is to use the surplus material several systems for containing possible spillages As to the control of noise and emissions to air, the guidelines, adapted to the specific activities and for agricultural improvement. are established such as fuel storage sites. Other machinery used at work sites is controlled and peculiarities of this division, are implemented. 96 97 Environment ALDESA CONSTRUCCIÓN SPAIN The Group’s recycling policy for offices also contemplates systematic collection of waste (replacing the current lighting with LEDtype lighting, placing timers in various public areas, etc.), which is such as paper or printer and photocopier toner by expected to contribute to a continuous reduction in authorised companies for subsequent recycling CO2 emissions. Inert waste Hazardous waste and reuse, respectively. One indicative figure is generated year 2016 generated year 2016 that during 2016, 4.78 tonnes of paper and 1,105 kg of RAEE-registered electronic equipment were recycled. Raising environmental Waste Amount (kg) Waste Amount (kg) awareness We should also mention that last year IT tools Total 197,467,889 Total 12,021 With a view to completing the environmental were also applied last year to environmental management. We already have real time improvement measures, since 2000 different information on the environmental performance environmental awareness-building campaigns have at all of the Group’s work sites and centres. been carried out aimed both at its own workers The reports that are generated contribute to and those of collaborating companies. These the decision-making process at all levels, also include the dissemination of operating guidelines ALDESA INDUSTRIAL SPAIN making it easier to handle a greater number of for sustainable management at the offices and environmental indicators. the publication of various good practice manuals which encompass the different activities in projects Inert waste Hazardous waste involving construction, machinery, masonry, structures, electrical installations and fixtures and generated year 2016 generated year 2016 Control of consumption of natural fittings. resources Waste Amount (kg) Waste Amount (kg) Aldesa also shares its concern for the environment Controlling the use of natural resources, including with suppliers and collaborating companies, Total 2,068,035 Total 7,165 water, fuel, and electricity, is another key aspect of particularly when their activities could have a major the Group’s environmental policy. impact on the projects, ensuring that their workers have the training and environmental awareness In addition to raising awareness among employees, required for carrying out their activities. several specific measures were implemented last year to optimise fuel consumption at work Several awareness-building campaigns were sites: the functioning hours of generators were conducted throughout 2016 at all the work centres adjusted in cases where the use of this equipment in order to raise awareness among employees to is essential, also encouraging the use of machinery ensure that they use water, fuel, and electricity in a manufactured more recently to ensure that the use responsible manner. Educational videos have also of resources is kept at a minimum. been used as a tool to improve and underpin the effectiveness of the training delivered. Regarding consumption of electricity, used mostly in office buildings, a study was conducted last year to determine the sources of consumption. Adjustments have been made to power ratings, the scheduling of Control of Greenhouse start-up times and proper temperature regulation in Gas Emissions accordance with the orientation of the building, so as to reduce and optimise consumption, thereby One of the main environmental issues in modern helping to cut CO2 emissions. society is climate change. Reducing carbon dioxide emissions to air has become a key concern at the In this spirit, studies are being conducted on Aldesa Group and the reason for considering it a energy efficiency at the Grupo Aldesa headquarters priority objective. 98 99 Environment Growing energy consumption has carried out the Carbon Footprint and the increase in the transport Voluntary Report in 2016. This report sector mean that CO2 emissions has been verified by the accredited are currently a serious problem that entity Bureau Veritas and has been must be taken into consideration registered with the Ministry of since these emissions are the main Environment. cause of global warming. In view of this situation of environmental degradation, Grupo Aldesa has SCOPES promoted environmental innovation BREEAM sustainable building OF focusing its efforts on producing energy from renewable sources: EMISSIONS During 2016 new building construction projects were 1 • More efficient production of solarundertaken to be certified under based electric power to replace BREEAM (Building Research conventional sources with renewable Establishment Environmental sources and the development energy Assessment Methodology). This storage technologies. certification serves to promote more • Creation of new systems for hydrogen sustainable construction, generating Direct production from renewable sources economic, environmental and social benefits for all parties associated sources of and mechanisms for efficient storage. with the lifespan of a building (developers, owners, tenants and/ emission • Implementation of energy efficiency or users), while also conveying the and CO2 capture improvements. Corporate Social Responsibility of the company with regard to society 2 • Improvement in the efficiency of the and the market, in an unmistakable management of industrial waste. and easily perceptible manner. • Creation of new solutions in the endIn Mexico, during the 2016 fiscal to-end water cycle. year, the ISO: 14001 certification for Indirect the Environmental Management • Measurement of the impacts of our System has been maintained. emissions activity on the environment. The activities carried out during During 2016 the initiative to reduce that year have been focused on 3 Aldesa continues to promote initiatives and actions • Scope 1: Direct sources of emission. Those emissions generated by the interacting more closely with the to reduce its ecological footprint and minimise associated directly with production activity. Group’s fleet of vehicles continued, operation of the different businesses greenhouse gas emissions (GGE), by implementing maintaining the key criterion in and on developing practical tools a reporting system for this field. • Scope 2: Indirect emissions. Emissions which are vehicle selection that they should to ensure compliance with the generated indirectly. An example would be those produce the lowest possible CO2 applicable requirements, specifically The objective of the Emissions Inventory Project is emitted to produce the electrical energy consumed emissions. So, last year standard by unit and type of works: to provide a precise idea of GGE generated by each activity to compare the situation against its peers and by the company. Other vehicle emissions have successfully been reduced by 2.22%. • Specialization in the integrated to identify improvement options. In 2016, work was ongoing on the calculation, analysis, and measurement • Scope 3: Other sources such as the emissions generated by employees’ travel and business trips, sources As a result of the commitment to management of LEED certified projects (Leadership in Energy of emissions based on three different scopes: supplies and services acquired, etc. reduce CO2 emissions, Grupo Aldesa & Environmental Design), in its 100 101 Environment different levels and types. In the area of building, the and specific work plans for the different works in • Application of matrices for monitoring and • Implementation of preventive activities with the aim responsible for sustainability, quality, production and execution. compliance with terms and conditions of of highlighting the actions of our Environmental technical office have been trained as LEED GA and environmental resolutions. Management system, as well as endorsing our • In the building unit, a DPT (Job Description) has LEED AP. commitment to continuous improvement. been developed for sustainability supervisor, which is associated with the operational • Implementation of mitigation measures for rescue The collection and treatment of waste by managers • The sustainability operational procedure, which procedure, the compliance diagnosis and a and relocation of wildlife with own personnel, approved by local environmental authorities are integrates environmental management and LEED, semester performance evaluation. This allows reducing costs. among the activities regularly performed. The aim is has been standardized in building works. It is to manage environmental issues and LEED in to guarantee the proper handling of waste generated measured through a diagnostic report, which allows coordination with the other specialties of the • Improvement of handling, control and disposal of during execution of each project headed by Aldesa to calculate the percentage of compliance and works and in agreement with the professionals electrical and electronic waste. Group Mexico. formulate plans of action in the short term. assigned to the projects. • Verification and compliance with the applicable •Preparation and application of environmental legal requirements by zone and/or state have diagnoses prior to the start of the project, avoiding been improved, by making specific identifications legal breaches. MSW (tn) SW (tn) HW (tn) C. Aldesem 772.591 6462.094 24.438 Proacón Mexico 1.56 26101.2 4.382 ADM 52.846 380.47 7.46 Concesionaria 10.35 – 0.400 During the year 2016, important work has been the time of the incorporation of new workers to each carried out in Poland in the implementation process project. of environmental management systems, which began with the identification of the country’s The various Quality Plans required by each of our regulatory requirements and then adapt them clients, investors or contract supervisors also include and improve them with the own environmental the identification and assessment of environmental management guidelines marked by Grupo Aldesa, aspects affecting every project, as well as the which are, in some cases, more demanding than appropriate implementation of preventive actions to the regulations of each country. All this process ensure the optimal environmental performance of culminated with success, obtaining finally the the Aldesa Group in Poland, viewing this as a priority certifications mentioned, and ensuring compliance issue, along with Health and Safety at construction with environmental legislation. sites, in other words, value-added as regards our clients. In the field of awareness-raising, a series of courses is furthermore being staged to increase Among the main actions undertaken by Grupo the environmental sensitivity of employees, along Aldesa in Peru in 2016 the following stand out: with a number of evaluations derived from different aspects requiring supervision during projects. In • Adapting the Environmental Management System 2015 major efforts were dedicated in this sense and construction projects subject to the issuance through the provision of initial training activities at of the LEED certificate (Leadership in Energy & 102 103 Environment Environmental Design), the sustainable building • Monitoring of compliance with the requirements certification system developed by the US Green established in the environmental impact studies of Identified Impact Environmental Control Measure Building Council. the projects in execution. Impaired air quality due to gaseous • Periodic technical review of the machinery to be used. • Certification of the Environmental Management • Approval by SGS of our Design, Planning and Execution combustion emissions (SO2, CO and NO2). • It will be checked that the machinery is provided with catalytic converters, which System according to ISO 14001:2004 by the of Works activities for transmission lines and reduce the concentrations of combustion gases by at least 75%. Certification Bureau Veritas Certification. substations, obtaining a qualification of Level “A” with a • The contractor will be asked that their mobile units (machinery) have a document puncture in environmental management of 100%. certifying that they have passed their maintenance, thus reducing the concentrations of the parameters that are emitted from the tailpipes and therefore their degree of • Standardization of the various activities in works toxicity to the worker’s health and/or neighbouring population. As for waste management, collection and treatment and in central headquarters according to the of waste is carried out by companies authorised by Impaired air quality due to emissions of • Soil and/or construction aggregate drenching. requirements of ISO 14001. the environmental authorities and they are some particulate matter and dust generated by • Anti-dust perimeter screens will be installed in the boundaries, retaining dispersing of the activities carried out regularly, which aim to construction activities (earthworks) and particles. • Establishment and fulfilment of Strategic ensure the proper management of waste generated movement of mobile units. • During transportation of removal material, the material will be fully covered by a wet Environmental Management Objectives according to blanket or other suitable material. during the execution of each project. • Order and cleanliness will be maintained in work areas. ISO 14001. In 2016 Grupo Aldesa has performed in Peru a range Increased level of environmental noise • Noise levels will not exceed those under National Environmental Quality Standards for • Monitoring of environmental legal requirements of activities in order to minimise environmental generated by construction activities Noise S.D. 085-2003-PCM. These are 70 dB during daytime and 60 dB during night (earthworks, operation of machinery). time. to ensure rigorous compliance in the various impact. Those undertaken during the past year • It will be checked that the contracted company use their hearing protection equipment projects. include in particular: Increased levels of vibration caused by the to avoid any effects on health of the worker. activity of earthworks. • It will be checked that the machinery has undergone preventive maintenance. • Construction activities will be performed only during daytime Solid household waste generation. • Household waste will be disposed of by the Municipality of the City. • Recycled paper will be handed over to Aldeas Infantiles, NGO that offers a recycling Generation of excess material and programme called “Fulfil Your Role”, with which we would be serving a dual purpose: hazardous waste (rags with grease, environmental prevention and social responsibility, because the money collected by the solvents, etc.) sale of the paper contributes to the welfare of the abandoned children that attends this NGO. • For the proper disposal of solid waste, a company that provides solid waste services authorised by DIGESA will be hired. • Solid waste containers (cylinders) will be temporarily installed for the segregated storage of solid waste. • Signs indicating where the temporary storage is will be placed. 104 105 Commitment to the Community Aldesa’s social initiatives focus on the development of projects that are connected to its activity and create value for the community by at least satisfying their basic needs. In the current sustainability economic environment, •Sustainable management of the area’s natural the company must set goals that go beyond achieving resources, in order to boost the development of the the maximum profit and must establish not only an most disadvantaged rural areas economic objective, but also a social objective. For this reason, Aldesa’s list of commitments with its •Developing initiatives aimed at training in interest groups is completed with its Social Action countries where Grupo Aldesa operates, as well programme, which confirms the Group’s desire to as integrating people with disabilities into the job allocate resources that contribute to reducing social market inequalities. This plan was designed with the goal of linking the corporate strategy with the community’s In Spain, Aldesa runs a number of campaigns among social and economic needs. its employees intended to promote collaboration in initiatives undertaken by a range of NGOs. Aldesa’s social actions are focused on developing projects related to its activity that create value for For the eighth year running, Aldesa initiated the community, by satisfying at least its basic needs. the blood donation campaign organised by the These projects are based around two spheres of Spanish Red Cross at its corporate head office, activity: promoting infrastructure development in the encouraging employees to take part and facilitating poorest regions of the world and the social integration the deployment of a mobile Donation Centre unit. of those less fortunate in the communities where it In 2016 the clothes donated by employees in the operates. “Solidarity Wardrobe” biannual campaign was given to Cáritas Sevilla. The key operational strategic approaches in this regard are as follows: Grupo Aldesa’s headquarters in Madrid hosted twice the Charity Market organised by the Capacis Foundation, •Access to basic infrastructure services for the whose mission is the social and occupational inclusion population, such as drinking water supply and of disabled people, while also incorporating other social sanitation and environmental concerns. The Group’s employees 106 107 Commitment to the community had the chance to purchase donated products and which is a non-profit organisation whose mission is Meanwhile, as part of Aldesa’s collaboration their projects take place, by extending this support others produced by the students themselves at their to contribute to the resilience of seriously ill children agreements with several universities in the country to cooperatives in rural communities. workshops. The money raised was allocated in full to and of their families by involving them and making to participate in the training of the sector’s future funding of the Occupational Classroom project (Aula them participate in achieving their biggest wish. professionals, it is worth highlighting the visit of In 2016, Aldesa supported for the fourth consecutive Laboral), through which the foundation provides Aldesa contributed in a unique and special way to students from the Barcelona School of Building year communities in a critical situation in the areas training suitable for disabled people to develop their materialising children’s wishes by participating in Construction of the Polytechnic University of of Guerrero, Chiapas and Oaxaca, via the Fair Trade social skills and facilitate their incorporation into the job the “Stars for Wishes” campaign and acquiring stars Catalonia (EPSEB-UPC) to one of its works under initiative for corporate Christmas gifts, through market. that were distributed among the entire staff in the construction. The aim of this visit was for the foundations and companies that directly support head offices. students to see in first person the activities and communities in areas with high indices of poverty. Meanwhile a campaign for collecting plastic caps was controls that are explained in the subject Quality in launched, with the intention of it being permanent. The In keeping with its Corporate Social Responsibility Building and which Aldesa has implemented in its In addition, Aldesa economically contributed to buying profits obtained from managing this type of waste is Plan, one of Aldesa’s objectives is to help people Integrated Management System for Occupational warm clothes for people in vulnerable or critical used for helping children with serious health problems who encounter difficulties in finding a job and to Prevention, Quality and the Environment. conditions, who are assisted by volunteers from that need medical treatment or an orthopaedic ensure that they find a quality job in the job market, the Church of Santa Rosa de Lima, located at the treatment not provided by the public health system. always putting the emphasis on their capabilities In Mexico Aldesa has also joined the Make-ACuauhtémoc neighbourhood in Mexico City. These rather than their limitations. In this sense, in Wish Mexico Foundation’s initiative to make a wish volunteers are in charge of delivering them basic In the Christmas campaign, the Group chose once 2016 it launched a new initiative that consisted come true for a twelve year old girl diagnosed with items on a monthly basis. again a charitable cards platform to send out its in inviting students of the Capacis Foundation leukaemia. This girl’s dream is to become a videoChristmas greetings in digital format, working to visit the corporate offices in Madrid as part of blogger and help other children that suffer her same In the environmental scope, during 2016 Aldesa specifically with the Josep Carreras Foundation their training programme so these young people, illness. continued with its corrective activities aimed against leukaemia. with intellectual disabilities, can learn about the at minimising the environmental impact of the reality of the business environment and complete The Group has carried out, since the onset of its Group’s activity in Mexico, including in particular During Christmas too, Aldesa collaborated for the the development of their professional skills before activity in the country, various programmes to reforestation campaigns along with the monitoring first time with the Make-A-Wish Spain Foundation, entering the job market. support local communities in the areas in which of the reforestation performed in previous years 108 109 Commitment to the community near the route of the Gdańsk Przyjaźń-Żydowo of opinions and experiences relating to smart Kierzkowo power line, which show what electricity cities. Aldesa Polska’s participation in this event is and how to handle it in a fun way. The idea and represents the company’s commitment towards objective of the project are to reinforce, from an the development of technologies that transform early age, the awareness of what electricity is and the life of inhabitants in cities by adopting models how it benefits us, while also teaching how to avoid that are more efficient and sustainable. the dangers associated with its use. Aldesa’s project is organised in 18 schools in all 11 municipalities Aldesa has focused its efforts in Peru on crossed by the power line that we are building. generating and developing local employment in the rural community Centro Poblado Alto Perú Within the scope of employability, in 2016 Aldesa by incorporating 47% of local workers to the Polska took part once again in one of the most construction project for the road section between important job fairs in Poland: Absolvent Talent Tacna and Collpa, along the border with Bolivia. The Days. This event, organised by students and company has also been involved in the life of this graduates from Warsaw ,was an opportunity to community, participating in the commemoration of acquire an unforgettable experience and valuable its 29th anniversary by donating small household information on the movement around the job appliances to be used in the celebration’s events market process. The persons responsible for and participating in its cultural activity. In addition, Human Resources at Aldesa Polska actively in Christmas it delivered toys to the three hundred participated in the rounds of consultations that children that live in this community. to increase the survival rate of the saplings and, It provides a meeting point for public authorities Absolvent Talent Days organises on orientation in basically, their success. responsible for the generation of strategies, the development of a career plan. Aldesa has been working with the NGO Aldeas policies and sustainable energy regulation and Infantiles Peru, participating in the campaign project development companies, components and Another event worth highlighting in which Aldesa “Recycle me: fulfil your role”, through the delivery of Aldesa also maintains the forest nursery created in equipment manufacturers, technical and financial participated as an official partner was the 4th edition office waste paper intended to be recycled. Thus, 2014 for the Siglo XXI motorway project. Located in service providers and companies engaged in of the Smart City Forum, which is a platform for for every two tons of recycled paper and cardboard the municipality of Jonacatepec (Morelos State), it R&D&I activities, among others. In addition, its dialogue and cooperation on the world of business collected, six children receive food for a month. In has capacity for 40,000 plants and covers a surface participation in the Annual Congress held by the with the central and local public administration. It 2016 Aldesa collaborated with nearly 900 kilos of area of 4,000 m2. It houses species rescued in Mexican Wind Energy Association and the ExpoForo is a space that allows for an effective exchange paper for recycling. accordance with environmental programmes and has facilities including security huts, a germplasm Environmental Mérida, which sponsoredthis event, processing area, a shade mesh shed and an is also worth mentioning. This initiative was led irrigation system. In August a reforestation day was by the National Chamber of Commerce, Mérida organised in the area of Las Estacas, specifically in Services and Tourism and the Secretariat for the ejidos (common land) “Tecomalco” and “7 de Urban Development and the Environment, with the Marzo”. It consisted in replanting 170 hectares of aim of promoting clean energies and conservation forest in accordance with the environmental impact practices in the State of Yucatán. authorisation that was established for this gesture. In the areas of training, employability and On the other hand, among the activities undertaken recruitment, Aldesa has been present in the most by companies of Grupo Aldesa in 2016 aimed representative fora on employment, such as the at transferring different sustainability-related recruiting fairs held by the National Polytechnic issues to the business, and specifically related University and the Technological Institute of Higher to the environment, mention should be made Education of Monterrey and the job fairs organised of the Group’s presence at Mexico Wind Power by the National Autonomous University of Mexico. 2016, the most important trade fair and series of international conferences focusing on wind In Poland Aldesa Nowa Energia has been organising energy in the country, which is held in Mexico City. educational workshops for children from schools 110 111
