01 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature 2016 LH Sustainability Report About this Report Contents Report Overview Sustainability Overview 02 About this Report 12 Introduction to LH The Korea Land and Housing Corporation (LH) publishes this Sustainability Report to 04 CEO Message 14 Vision & Strategies communicate our progress to create value for our stakeholders through sustainable 06 LH Sustainability Highlights 16 Governance initiatives. In this fifth Sustainability Report, we align our sustainability strategies with 08 LH Business 17 Risk Management the matters related to our business to make it easier to understand how the 18 Stakeholder Engagement stakeholders’ areas of interest are reflected in our sustainability practices. 21 Materiality Test Reporting Period, Scope and Boundary Strategic Focus for Sustainability This report is prepared based on the sustainability data covering January 2015 to Strategy I. Growth ‌ Driver Strategy II. H ‌ uman-centered Corporate Culture December 2015. We also provide the data from 2013 to illustrate certain for Sustainable Value Creation based on Transparent and Ethical Practice achievements and changes in progress. All currencies and units of measure are specified separately. This report covers the headquarters and regional headquarters, and there has been no material change in corporate scale, organizational structure, 24 36 and ownership structure. Reporting Principles & Assurance 26 Management Efficiency & Stability 38 HR-centered Practice This report adopts the Core option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 30 Housing Welfare Service 41 Fair Labor Practice guidelines and sets its boundary according to the prioritized material aspects. It was 34 Competitive Advantages 42 Ethical & Transparent Practice verified by an independent outside third party to ensure its reliability and accuracy, and the detailed results are provided in pages 66 and 67. Strategy III. Q‌ uality of Life Improvement Strategy IV. G ‌ reen Value Creation through Social Responsibility for the Planet & Future Generation Additional Information about the Report 44 56 More information can be found on our website. Please contact us for any questions or comments regarding this report. 46 Customer Satisfaction 58 Eco-friendly Value Sharing Website http://www.lh.or.kr 50 Shared Growth 63 Response to Climate Change Blog http://blog.naver.com/bloglh/ 52 Contribution to Local Community Address LH Korea Land & Housing Corporation, 19 Chungui-ro(Choongmoogong-dong), Jinju-si Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea (52852) POC Creative Culture Dept. of Administration Management Office E-mail semiddol@lh.or.kr Appendix TEL +82-55-922-3181 66 Third Party Assurance Statement FAX +82-55-922-3184 68 GRI Content Index 70 UNGC Membership & Support 71 ISO 26000 72 Awards / Membership 04 2016 LH Sustainability Report 05 CEO Message Greetings to our valued stakeholders LH has achieved record high sales through our consolidated efforts and unwavering commitment to fulfill our vision. At the same time, we have overcome barriers that arose from the previous year’s government initiatives such as normalization of management and public organization reform. The Happy House Project highlights the success of our public projects as the opening ceremony was held in Samjeon district and additional Happy Houses were developed using sites in the Baran district of Hwaseong-si that had remained unsold for a long period of time. We have expanded My Home service to a nationwide scale to further promote housing welfare. LH can now be considered to be not only a development company, but also a service provider of an integrated housing welfare solution. The Creative Economy Valley project is also continuing to show achievements in Pangyo. We would like to sincerely express our greatest gratitude to our stakeholders. Our achievements could not have been possible without your enduring support along the way. Instead of settling on our previous achievements, LH has taken proactive initiatives to accomplish sustainable management by focusing on the environmental changes and needs of society. For financial stability and debt reduction, our continuous efforts are set on supply and sales while seeking new opportunities for long-term growth. We are showing our ongoing commitment toward residential stabilization by establishing more rental houses such as Happy Houses. To further promote welfare, we have set up personalized residential housing services that provide leasing and housing allowances for the benefit of a larger community. Furthermore, we are unwavering in our commitment to promote a more sustainable foundation of land development for our next generation by incorporating eco-friendly architectural methods that make our city environments even more beautiful. We are initiating our scheme to enhance our management system to become a more reliable public company. In addition, we are continually improving our auditing system to prevent corruption. Securing transparency and integrity are essential when pursuing public projects. Therefore, we focus on ethical management that promotes work ethics and a corruption-free working environment. We have introduced an objective HR system that assesses employees based on their competence and performance. We will continue to foster a working culture that values great teamwork and working relationships. LH will strive to contribute to the community while advancing our business performance to give maximum value to our stakeholders. For a successful new era in Jinju, we plan to invite our partner companies to Jinju to generate more employment opportunities in order to fulfill our endeavor of local economic development. Meanwhile, we will continue “Local Harmonization Business” to strengthen cooperation with local communities. LH will continue to show the enduring dedication to the society by reinforcing the strength that we have established thus far and improving our weaknesses. As a public company, we will make sure to always incorporate the Ten Principles of UNGC to fulfill our responsibilities. We would like your continued interest and support for our future endeavors of achieving a sustainable business with distinguished performance. Thank you. April 2016 Park Sang-Woo CEO of LH 06 2016 LH Sustainability Report 07 4 Energy saving eco-friendly house design 5 Award for excellence in quality and construction standards rd We held the 3 House Design & Technology Contest We awarded construction companies based on their worksite management LH Sustainability Highlights to develop new and practical energy-saving house design techniques and key technologies, and and quality control in 2015. We selected 17 construction companies that undertook projects with a total of KRW 10 billion or higher as “Excellent create LH eco-friendly housing models as part Construction Companies,” and 12 companies in the categories of electricity, of the energy-saving government policies in the communication, and landscape whose projects with a total of less than KRW construction industry. We will incorporate the 76 10 billion as “Companies with Excellent Quality”. We also selected 36 companies key technologies and passive design techniques in 11 categories including reinforced concrete, plastering, and interior works we discovered through the contest into our design as “Excellent Professional Companies” to promote the government’s policy to and technological standards to take our expertise support small and medium-sized companies and facilitate their entry into the in apartment building design to the next level. The market. We are helping construction companies maintain strict quality control contest will continue to be held to help us find new and improve the construction quality of housing complexes to increase our ways to improve and innovate construction. customers’ satisfaction. 5 S&P 7 1 3 AAImprovements in Credit Moody’s Ratings Fitch 4 Aa2 AA2 6 1 ‌LH opens the door for “Jinju Era, Thousand 2 “‌ AA” with all three credit rating agencies, 3 First moving-in of Happy Housing 6 P ‌ artnership for building the foundation to 7 Social responsibility program “LH Local Harmony Project” Years of Sustainable Future” the highest rating among public secure sustainable growth A total of 847 households have moved in To fulfill our social responsibility as the largest public company in Korea, companies On June 30, 2015, we held the opening ceremony as part of the first Happy Housing districts We joined the “Private & Public Joint R&D Project” we have organized various local community events for citizens in Jinju City for our new corporate building after moving into Since we declared our emergency management in Songpa Samjeon, S eocho Naegok, organized by the Small and Medium Business and Gyeongnam Province. We donated KRW 30 million worth of Onnuri the Gyeongnam Innovation City. As one of the system in June 2013, we have made tremendous Guro Cheonwang, and Gangdong Gangil. Administration (SMBA) to enhance the collaborative Gift Certificates to “Happy World” to boost the local economy and delivered major public companies in South Korea and a efforts with all resources to stabilize our business The Happy Housing project is to build efforts and partnership with small and mediumhousehold goods and gift certificates to low-income families for Chuseok leading developer of the Innovation City project, we operation. All our executives and employees took public rental houses for college students, sized companies as part of our key model projects (Korean Thanksgiving Day) in Jinju. At the Jayu Market, we gave away shopping announced our plan of developing Jinju Innovation strong initiative as they gave up some of their the newly employed, and newly married for sustainable growth. On July 24, 2015, we entered baskets to citizens and held the “Traditional Market” campaign to encourage City as an example of promoting balanced economic wage and welfare benefits and enacted companycouples in locations with convenient the agreement for raising the “Private & Public Joint people to visit these markets. Meanwhile, about 500 people from Gyeongnam growth in the nation. We will open the door for the wide efforts to take advantage of sales diversifying public transportation or close proximity R&D Fund” with the Small and Medium Business Province and 600 employees from LH made kimchi with 20,000 cabbages and “Jinju Era, Thousand Years of Sustainable Future” business opportunities and reduce business cost. to workplaces. The rent is 20-40% cheaper Administration and Foundation for Collaboration donated to people in need as part of the “LH and Gyeongnam Province Kimchi that goes beyond the 5 year progress after our As a result, we managed to cut our debt by KRW than the market price, and residents can of Big and Small Companies to support the R&D Sharing Campaign”. We also donated 100,000 briquettes for low-income families operation in the Seoul Metropolitan Region, which 12.7 trillion, and entered a positive business circle live there up to 10 years. Currently, about initiatives of small and medium-sized companies. in Jinju and Gyeongnam as part of the “Relay Briquette Delivery Volunteer lasted for more than 50 years. We are also planning where we can carry out state projects without 77,000 households in 128 places nationwide We are expecting to introduce new technologies Campaign”. In addition, we are engaging in social responsibility programs that to reinvent Jinju as a “Hub of Korea’s Real Estate difficulties. In September 2015, S&P raised our have been secured, and the service will be needed for our urban development and building focus on communication and partnership with local communities by creating a & Housing Welfare One-stop Service” to provide a credit rating to AA-, and all three credit rating available in the future to job applicants or houses, save costs, and improve quality while marketplace for local agricultural products and holding music concerts for local total information solution based on our extensive agencies increased our rating to AA, which is the those who are planning to marry. helping small companies to grow through financial residents. We will continue to fulfill our social responsibility and collaborate with experience and expertise in the industry. highest rating among public companies. support and securing sales channels. local communities to boost the economy. 08 2016 LH Sustainability Report 09 Development of Logistics/ Industrial Complex LH Business Free Economic Zone U-City U-City Management Center Technological Innovation/ Certification Urban Regeneration Project Community Center Community Energy Project Urban Development Buy-to-let Rental New Urban Development, Land Development, Sejong City, Innovation City Reconstruction Rental Happy Housing Jeonse Rental 01 Sustainability Overview Introduction to LH 12 Vision & Strategies 14 Governance 16 Risk Management 17 Stakeholder Engagement 18 Materiality Test 21 12 14 16 17 18 21 12 2016 LH Sustainability Report Introduction to LH Vision & Strategies Governance Risk Management Stakeholder Materiality Test 13 Engagement Introduction to LH LH Profile LH Network Korea Land and Housing Corporation was established to improve people’s housing conditions and the efficiency of developing land. We support the country’s economic growth by managing the acquisition, development, Seoul Division Gangwon Division reservation, and supply of land, as well as undertaking urban development, supplying and managing housing units. 12, Seolleung-ro 121-gil, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 337, Gongji-ro, Chuncheon-si, Gangwon-do (As of December 2015) Relevant The Ministry of Land, Chungbuk Division Ownership Structure Organization Korea Land and Housing Corporation USFK Base Relocation Project Division Government Office Infrastructure and Transport 2060, Cheongnam-ro, Heungdeok-gu, 9, Jangmun-ro, Yongsan-gu, Seoul Cheongju-si, Chungcheongbuk-do Government Public company CEO Park Sang-Woo (as of April 2016) Organization Type 83.35% 100% (quasi-market type) Date of Incheon Division Korea October 1, 2009 Capital KRW 26.8 trillion Daejeon & Chungnam Division Incorporation 23, Nonhyeon-ro 46beon-gil, Namdong-gu, Development Bank 108, Dunsanjung-ro, Seo-gu, Daejeon Incheon 13.9% Basis of Korea Land and Housing Corporation Act No. 9706 Sales KRW 23.7572 trillion Incorporation The Export-Import Bank of Korea 19, Chungui-ro, Jinju-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, Number of Gyeonggi Division Headquarters 6,498 Daegu & Gyeongbuk Division 2.75% South Korea Employees 3, Seongnam-daero 54beon-gil, Bundang-gu, 272, Sanghwa-ro, Dalseo-gu, Daegu Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do Organization Sejong Special Project Division Gyeongnam Division 215, Jungang-daero, Uichang-gu, 238-3, Gareum-ro, Sejong-si Changwon-si, Gyeongsangnam-do LH’s organization consists of 8 divisions, 1 research institute, 42 offices, 1 university, 12 regional divisions, and 2 independent divisions. The headquarters was reorganized from 5 divisions and 3 sub-divisions into 8 divisions with Jeonbuk Division Busan & Ulsan Division a horizontal structure to reinforce the responsibility of the executive directors and ensure more effective response 158, Hongsan-ro, Wansan-gu, Jeonju-si, 224, Jungang-daero, Dong-gu, Busan to changes in the business environment. Jeollabuk-do Board of Directors Board of Auditors Gwangju & Jeonman Division Headquarters President 91, Sicheong-ro, Seo-gu, Gwangju 19, Chungui-ro, Jinju-si, Gyeongsangnam-do Standing Auditor Auditor Office Jeju Division 100, Jeonnong-ro, Jeju-si, Jeju-do Public Relations Future Strategy Secretary Office Vice Office Office President Planning & Finance Division Administration Innovation Division Housing Welfare Division Urban Environment Division Public Housing Division Strategic Project Division Happy Housing Division Construction Technology Division History • ‌Planning & Coordina• ‌General Affairs & • ‌Housing Welfare • ‌Urban Planning • ‌Public Housing • ‌National Project • ‌Happy Housing • ‌Complex Technology tion Office Customer Planning Office Office Planning Office Planning Office Planning Office Office • ‌Administration Satisfaction Office • ‌Housing Welfare • ‌Complex Project • ‌Public Housing • ‌Industrial Complex • ‌Happy Housing • ‌Housing Technology 1962 2009 2011 2013 2015 Management Office • ‌Personnel Project Office Office Project Office Office Project Office Office • Founded the KNHC. • Launched LH. • First residents of Sejong-city moved in. • Launched Happy Housing Project. • ‌Relocated the headquarters • ‌General Project Management Office • ‌Housing Welfare • ‌Urban Project Office • ‌Housing Facilities • ‌Financial Planning • ‌Urban Regeneration • ‌Construction Safety • Marked ‌ the construction of • Opened ‌ Je 2 Jayuro Expressway and to Gyeongnam Innovation Planning Office • ‌Labor Relations Support Office • ‌Urban Infrastructure Office Office Planning Office Office total 2 million houses. Gimpo-Hangangro Expressway. City. • ‌Finance & Office • ‌Housing Asset Office • ‌Housing Cost • ‌Financial Project • ‌Urban Renewal • ‌First residents of Happy Accounting Office • ‌Laws & Suits Office Management Office • ‌Spatial Information Management Office Management Office Planning Office • ‌Marketing & • ‌Administration Office • ‌Inter-Korean • ‌National Property Housing moved in. Compensation Office Information Office Development Planning Office Cooperation Office • ‌International Business Office 1975 2010 2012 2014 ‌ • Founded the Land Bank. ‌ • Became the first pubic company to • ‌First residents of Bogeumjari Housing • Achieved a new record in earnings. (Renamed to Korea Land Corporation employ senior citizens. units moved in. Land & Housing in 1996) • ‌Opened LH Land & Housing University. Regional Divisions Project Divisions LH University Institute • ‌Recruited the first round of LH new employees. • Seoul Division • Gangwon Division • Jeonbuk Division • Daegu ‌ & Gyeongbuk • ‌Sejong Special Research Support Office • ‌Received the highest rank (“Excellent”) • Incheon Division • Chungbuk Division • Gwangju ‌ & Jeonman Division Project Division • Gyeonggi Division • ‌Daejeon & Chungnam Division • Gyeongnam Division • ‌USFK Base Relocation in customer satisfaction for 4 consecu• Busan & Ulsan Division Division • Jeju Division Project Division Research Planning Office tive years. 12 14 16 17 18 21 14 2016 LH Sustainability Report Introduction to LH Vision & Strategies Governance Risk Management Stakeholder Materiality Test 15 Engagement Vision & Strategies Vision & Management Strategies Sustainable Management Strategies We have set a new vision, core values, company-wide goals, and business strategies in response to changes in the With its incorporation in October 2009, LH set standards and procedures for ethical practice, customer satisfaction, business environment including the development paradigm, housing welfare policies, and relocation of our quality control, environmental management, and risk management as part of our “Sustainable Management headquarters and to pave the way for the future as a public company. With “Better Place to Live and Happy Housing Guidelines” and implemented them as a foundation for sustainable growth. In addition, we established strategies to with LH” as our new vision, we established “Satisfaction of People”, “Creative Innovation”, “Win-win Partnership”, and achieve our missions and vision for sustainable management, focusing on growth drivers, human-centered culture, “Empathy & Communication” as core values to support our missions and vision. quality of life, and green value creation. By building a more efficient business structure and innovative business management, we are focusing our resources in stabilizing our business operation and maximizing our economic performance while fulfilling our social responsibility as a corporate citizen and protecting our environment. Vision & Management Strategies Sustainable Management Strategies Soaring High 2030 Soaring High 2030 Corporate Soaring high through company-wide innovation Mission Improve people’s quality of life and boost the economy through better housing conditions and land development. Corporate Better Place to Live and Happy Housing with Vision Mission Improve people’s quality of life and boost the economy through better housing conditions and land development. Vision Better Place to Live and Happy Housing with Mission for Make People’s Lives Better through Sustainable Value Creation Sustainability Vision for Build Trust through Responsible Value Creation Sustainability Core Values Satisfaction of Creative Win-win Empathy & People Innovation Partnership Communication Urban & Local Development Customer Satisfaction Housing Welfare for Reduction of Debt by Companyand Management & Ethical Practice wide Goals 3.3 million households 300 km 2 KRW 25 trillion Highest Level Strategic (LH Debt Clock 100 to 75) Priority Strategic Provide Happy Housing Create Value through ConverCreate Sustainable LH Customer-oriented Service Priority One-stop Service for People gence in Land Development Management System Growth Driver Human-centered Culture Quality of Life Green Value • ‌Enhance public housing • ‌Develop cities based on • ‌Reduce debt and financial risk • ‌Provide service tailored to the service demands • ‌Improve cost efficiency and needs of people • Improve financial stability • Create ‌ productive work • Strengthen ‌ commitment to • ‌Build green management • ‌Build housing welfare delivery • ‌Create foundation for national revenue generation • Build trust with people • Improve business efficiency environment shared growth system system economic growth • ‌Maximize sales and collection • ‌Increase productivity Strategic • Develop growth drivers ‌ • Improve competencies of • Increase ‌ customer satisfac• ‌Respond to climate changes • ‌Improve customizable • Lead balanced growth of payment through communication and Tasks ‌ • Enhance housing welfare employees tion proactively Strategic housing welfare service • ‌Develop Land Bank and • Build Work Smart system cooperation one-stop service ‌ • Develop ethical and trans‌ • Enhance customer-oriented • ‌Implement green Tasks • Ensure ‌ transparency in parent management system management system management • ‌Manage apartment buildings Inter-Korean and overseas • ‌Improve preparedness for the • ‌Fulfill social responsibility and increase the value of projects future • ‌Promote shared growth corporate governance • Promote ‌ respect for human ‌ • Establish strategic social • Develop green technologies buildings • ‌Advance real-estate financing with small and mediumrights responsibility programs • ‌Promote urban regeneration and foster spatial information sized companies and local projects industry communities Economy Society Environment TBL 12 14 16 17 18 21 16 2016 LH Sustainability Report Introduction to LH Vision & Strategies Governance Risk Management Stakeholder Materiality Test 17 Engagement Governance Risk Management Board of Directors (BOD) Composition Risk Management System The Board of Directors (BOD), as the highest decision-making body, reviews and approves basic management At LH, we maintain a set of guidelines and procedures for managing potential risks to our business operation. These Executive Directors policies and key management decisions including economic, environmental, and social issues. The BOD consists of risks are classified into “Risk” and “Crisis”. “Risk” refers to any kinds of threats, uncertainties, and loss of opportunities Name Job Title Gender seven executive directors and eight non-executive directors, and it is chaired by the senior non-executive director. while “Crisis” indicates a situation where a risk has been escalated, causing a significant loss to our business President Park (Head of CorporaMale To ensure transparency in the appointment process and improve members’ qualification and expertise, the nonoperation and reputation. We identify and respond to these threats through either “Risk Management” or “Crisis Sang-Woo tion) executive directors are named by the Minister of Strategy and Finance among the candidates recommended by the Management”. When dealing with company-wide risks, our Risk Management Team takes the initiative while project Heo Nominating Committee after the review and vote by the Steering Committee of Public Institution in accordance or support-related risks are managed by the risk manager of each division. Risk management is conducted through Standing Auditor Male Jong-Deok with the Act on the Management of Public Institutions. prompt response with the aim to minimize damage while taking appropriate follow-up measures to assess the risk Vice President / Hwang Executive Director, management performance and identify the areas of improvement. Male Jong-Cheol Planning & Finance Division Song Executive Director, Administration Male BOD Operation Types of Crisis Tae-Ho Innovation Division The BOD adopts resolution by a majority vote of the current directors, and any director who has a stake in the items Executive Director, Shin Dong-Cheol Housing Welfare Male on the agenda in question cannot participate in voting. The BOD is held on a monthly basis and may call a BOD Division meeting if necessary. In 2015, a total 12 BOD meetings were held to address 40 agenda items (28 items adopted, 12 Management Crisis Disaster Crisis Communication Crisis Conflict Crisis Executive Director, Park Urban EnvironMale items reported). The results of each BOD meeting are announced on our website and our information website for Soo-Hong • ‌Threats to business goals and • Natural disaster • Negative media coverage • Conflict with stakeholders ment Division public companies (http://www.alio.go.kr). Meanwhile, we keep non-executive directors informed on our perpetuity caused by changes in • Artificial disaster • ‌Accidents involving unethical or illegal Executive Director, management practice in a timely manner to promote their understanding and participation and arrange site visits Cho external environment including • IT disaster activities of employees Public Housing Male Seon-Hak and public relations activities. policies, regulations, competition, • Contingency ‌ in projects • ‌Accidents caused by violation of laws/ Division strategies, and operation with North Korea regulations * As of April 2016 • ‌Lawsuits that affect business operation in a material way Non-executive Directors Subcommittee Operation Job Title & LH established subcommittees and an audit committee under the BOD for in-depth review of the agenda delegated Risk & Crisis Management Process Name Gender Organization by the BOD or for matters that require preliminary review before any decision is made by the BOD. In 2015, LH held Chae Chairman of Male 6 subcommittee meetings to address 17 agenda items in advance. Duk-Seok* K-Reits & Partners Inspection Media Kim Vice President of and Male Prompt Review Overall Monitoring Related Seon-Yong Higen Motor auditRisk Response Identify and Response Situation & work Risk related ManageKing President of (Preemptive Respond to Management Management Response work Seon-Nam Gwangnam Ilbo Male Evaluation and Compensation Occurrence Measure & Post Report) Situations & Prevention Measures (adjustment, control etc) ment Committee Chairman of the Kim Korea Housing Implementation Male Executive directors are compensated through a basic annual salary, incentive salary and retirement allowance. The Chan-Gil Managers AssociReport (important matters) ation basic annual salary is determined individually based on achievement and job evaluation while the incentive is paid Vice Chairman of according to the performance evaluation by the government. The president receives an incentive salary according Yun Ju-Sun Korea Institute of Male to the management contract while the other executive directors receive an incentive salary within 100% of their Urban Planners Examiner of basic annual salary based on the performance review determined by the president. Relevant Organization Relevant Organization Wi Gyeonggi-do Male Risk Management Committee Seung-Cheol City Planning The Risk Management Committee is the supreme decision-making body in risk management, making decisions on Construction (President) LH’s risk-related policies, strategies, and countermeasures. The president assumes the role of chairman, and the vice Chairman of BOD Activities Rate of Preliminary Review by Non-executive Directors’ Activities Park Dongjak District Male Chef Risk Officer (Vice President) president serves as chief risk officer (CRO) of the committee. General Risk Management Team was organized under Won-Gyu Subcommittees (Unit: %) Council No. of BOD Meetings No. of Resolutions (Unit: %) Attendance Rate Ratio of Statement the committee designating the heads of divisions, team managers and risk response staff as risk managers for Attendance Rate General Risk Management Team Kim Professor of Urban prompt response to risks. Meanwhile, in case of crisis, the Crisis Management Division conducts analysis and plans Engineering at Male (Planning & Coordination Office) Geun-Yeong 93.9% 96.8% 91.7% 100 97.7 97.1 countermeasures for monitoring the status. Kangnam University 93.8 81 * Senior Non-executive Director (Chairman) 68.7 Risk Managing Risk Managing 30 30 28 58 Office Office 17 69.1 (Relevant Risk (Relevant Risk 16 12 23 Management Management Responsibility) Responsibility) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 12 14 16 17 18 21 18 2016 LH Sustainability Report Introduction to LH Vision & Strategies Governance Risk Management Stakeholder Materiality Test 19 Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Communication Channels with Stakeholders Internal External At LH, we classify stakeholders into groups based on our value creation system. We maintain communication channels customized for the shared values of each group and areas of interest, and their input is fully reviewed during our decision-making process. We will continue to listen to our stakeholders and integrate their perspectives into our business priorities to meet their demands and expectations. Government National Media Assembly Other Public Local Organizations Communities Definition Organizations that influence customer value creation Areas of Interest Public Role, Local Cooperative Management, Social Responsibility, Creating Jobs Employees Labor Union Communication • Hotline System • ‌Workshop, Council Meetings, Channels • LH Website etc. Definition Employees who create value for LH • Sustainability Report • LH Volunteer Group • Management Disclosure • Social Contribution Report Areas of Interest Vision, Pride, Pay, Financial Stability, Welfare, and Work • ‌Nationwide Advertising and • ‌CSR Advisory Committee Environment Campaign • ‌Union Corporate Communication • Cyber & Group Training • LH Coexistence Committee • ‌Integrity Ombudsman Committee Channels • Core Value Day • ‌Employee Satisfaction Program • ‌LH PR Exploration Team for • GpGgi Program Survey Value Creating Value Influencing • CEO Press Conference College Students • LH ‌ Family Camp, Couple • Growing Together Festival Customers Customers • Blogs, Facebook, and Twitter • ‌LH AD Contest for College Camp • Public Report Program • ‌Consultation with the Students • Labor-Management ‌ Joint • Suggestion Program Government • LH Youth Literature Contest Workshop • LH NEWS • Management Assessment • Labor-Management Council • Congressional Inspection General Corporations Public Design Construction Other Contractor Contractor Partners Definition External customers who purchase created values directly Definition Stakeholders who deliver created values Areas of Interest Housing Welfare Service, Land & House Purchase, Customer Satisfaction Areas of Interest Win-win Partnership, Trust, Shared Growth, Performance Sharing System, and Safety Communication • Building MyHome Portal • ‌Customer Suggestion Channels • KakaoTalk Service Program Communication • Clean Coexistence Council • Shared Growth Center • Resident Reverse Evaluation • Civil Service Center Channels • Shared ‌ Growth New • Integrity surveys Value Delivering Value Purchasing • ‌Investor Relations • ‌Customer Advisory Technology Festival • Meetings with Suppliers • Overseas ‌ Urban Customers Customers Conference Committee • Customer Happy Call • ‌Customer Satisfaction Development Center • LH Call Center Surveys • Rental Housing Portals • LH Sales Information App 12 14 16 17 18 21 20 2016 LH Sustainability Report Introduction to LH Vision & Strategies Governance Risk Management Stakeholder Materiality Test 21 Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Test Interviews with Stakeholders Process of Identifying Material Issues & Result At LH, we are reviewing how our sustainability practice affects our organization and stakeholders on a regular basis. We disclose the progress we make in our annual Sustainability Report and conduct materiality tests in the planning Considering all of the economic, social, and On September 3, 2014, forty civic groups, local and environmental aspects is critical for LH to maintain public organizations, and job groups founded the stage to give our stakeholders more focused insights into our practice. its sustainability. However, I recognize ecoTransparent Society Network, which will serve the friendly urban development and the welfare of roles of private and public governance to make employees as the two most important matters our society more transparent and ethically sound. for us to handle. Environmental issues caused by Korea Workers’ Compensation & Welfare Service Value Creating Customers Value Influencing Customer worsening environment and climate changes and LH worked together as part of the preparation Assistant Manager of LH Manager of Korea Workers’ are also affecting our sustainability. At LH, we are committee and participated in ethical practice Complex Technology Office diversifying our efforts to making our development Compensation & Welfare Service programs. The people’s expectations for transparent STEP 1. STEP 2. STEP 3. Kim Young-Il Kim Jung-Rye more eco-friendly by incorporating LID (Low Impact and ethical public service are higher than ever, Identify Prioritize Key Review Validity and Development) in our practices and minimizing but the laws, systems, and awareness of the public Sustainability Issues Issues Appropriateness environmental impact such as the heat island effect, underground eco-system, and sectors tend to fall short. The result of the corruption awareness survey shows some climate change. However, these measures are only implemented in limited districts improvement when compared to 69.4% in 2014. 57.8% of the respondents, however, such as Asan Tangjeong and Godeok since they are still new, and we are faced consider that there is corruption in the public sectors while only 3.4% of the public with numerous challenges due to a lack of guidelines, awareness of residents, and officials agree, showing a strong gap in their perspectives. verification of their effect. It is necessary to advance and optimize the LID-based The people’s expectations for ethical and transparent society will continue to In order to select sustainability issues We have conducted surveys on our The level of reporting and boundary of system while developing other innovative techniques to respond to environmental grow, and LH needs to take a stronger initiative to spread ethical work culture in a more balanced manner, we have stakeholders to confirm the importance material issues are subject to our internal risks more effectively. At the same time, we need to understand and resolve the and eliminate unethical practices that threaten the safety of the people and identified material issues based on of the issues we identified through review to determine their relevance difficulties that employees are facing and move forward into the “Era of Jinju”. In environment. We also need to take political measures to protect public finance. As their relative impor tance through internal and external environment and the level of influence. In addition, 2015, to facilitate the relocation of our headquarters to Jinju and provide support government-wide anti-corruption measures are needed more than ever, I hope that media analysis, relevant organization analysis. Through a series of process, we our external stakeholders review the for employees in terms of housing and leisure activities, we ensured that employees LH leads the efforts to promote ethical working environments. At Korea Workers’ benchmarking, review on international prioritized 13 material issues based on appropriateness of reporting process were assigned to dorm rooms on time, installed fitness facilities in the office building, Compensation & Welfare Service, we promise our full cooperation in this endeavor standards and internal materials, and T/F the level of stakeholders’ interest and and the validity of data. and established daily sports training programs. However, some employees are and realize substantial outcomes that meet the public’s expectations. interviews. influence on our business operation. still having a tough time adjusting to our new environment. The company needs to monitor their work environment and mental status and work together with them to find solutions through open communication and involvement. Related Employees Aspect Boundary Organization High 5 Material Issues GRI G4 Aspect Page Internal External Enhancing financial soundness and 9 1 Financial performance Government 26-29 profitability As the social responsibility and roles Developer Customer I got to know about LH through the apartment it 4 Government, partners, of a public corporation are becoming was selling. I liked its eco-friendly environment and 1 Reinforcing anti-corruption and 10 2 Anti-corruption customers, NGO, and 42-43 more impor tant to the people, LH convenient infrastructure, and that it included a park ethical practice the public 6 2 needs to focus on their approach to ensure where children can play, a school, and playground. 7 3 Building trust with customers Customers 46-49 mutual success with its stakeholders, particularly its As housing conditions have become a primary 12 Raising awareness in shared growth Analysis on the supplier Impact partners. In this economic and social climate where focus for our society, housing welfare is extremely 13 4 Partners 50-51 Value Delivering Customer Value Purchasing Customer with partners to society construction companies face tough challenges, LH important and requires more urgent measures. In Promoting social responsibility Site Manager of Lotte Pulmonology Dept. of Seoul 8 3 5 Local community Local community 52-55 needs to build a foundation for shared growth with this regard, LH needs to diversify its housing welfare programs with focus on the business Engineering & Construction National University Bundang HeadBusiness Influence Moon In-Hyo its partners to the extent that is reasonable, rather Hospital Nurse Jung Bok-Hee service and ensure that more people can enjoy the Implementing policies for improving Government and local 6 Indirect impact on economy quarters, 30-33 than seeking ways to cut project budgets for its benefits so as to help improve the quality of living. 11 housing conditions domestic community financial soundness. On the other hand, it is the only organization that Undertaking projects for improving divisions Government and local 7 Indirect impact on economy 34-35 To that end, it is positive to see that LH is undertaking the incorporation of efficient can succeed in these kinds of roles. Although it is important for a company to seek the competitive advantages in land and community work process and consideration of the site conditions with support from the Design financial gain, it is LH’s duty as a public corporation to fulfill its social responsibility 8 Enhancing customer satisfaction Product and service labeling regional Customers 46-49 divisions Review Committee and establishing the guidelines for a review system to help and create social values. There are things that only LH can do, and I hope it will do Creating and distributing financial Government, partners, 9 Financial performance 29 companies sustain their business operation without taking major losses due to its best to make that happen. It is also important to support vulnerable people for values and local community competition. their housing situation and ensure that housing welfare is available to more people Reinforing expertise of human 10 Training and education 39 I hope that LH will continue to improve its partner evaluation and fostering system such as college students, recipients of livelihood programs, low-income families, and resources to ensure mutually beneficial arrangements with its partners. It will also be good if middle class families while stabilizing the housing market and Jeonse price for all Building eco-friendly urban Energy, industrial water, Local community and 11 56-64 environment emissions, product and service NGO successful bid rates and performance costs reflect more realistic values during the social classes through supply of houses and rental service. LH also needs to take the design phase to promote shared growth and create more sustainable values. initiative in creating a more eco-friendly urban environment. It should develop its Carrying out tasks for stabilizing Government and the 12 26-28 business management effectively public own business model to create a new kind of housing value that private companies Enhancing brand power and simply can’t provide. I hope that LH will continue to build trust and earn respect 13 Product and service labeling 46-49 awareness from people as they expand its businesses in these areas. Low Level of Stakeholders’ Interest High 02 Strategic Focus for Sustainability Strategy I. Growth Driver 24 for Sustainable Value Creation Management Efficiency & Stability 26 Housing Welfare Service 30 Competitive Advantages 34 Strategy II. Human-centered Corporate Culture 36 based on Transparent and Ethical Practice HR-centered Practice 38 Fair Labor Practice 41 Ethical & Transparent Practice 42 Strategy III. Quality of Life Improvement 44 through Social Responsibility Customer Satisfaction 46 Shared Growth 50 Contribution to Local Community 52 Strategy IV. Green Value Creation 56 for the Planet & Future Generation Eco-friendly Value Sharing 58 Response to Climate Change 63 24 2016 LH Sustainability Report 25 Strategic Focus for Sustainability Strategy Ⅰ Growth Driver for Sustainable Value Creation Why is this strategy important to LH? What are the achievements? For us to maintain sustainable growth, it is essential to achieve our missions and goals based on efficient and stable business management and organizational operation. We recognize this as part of our growth drivers and focus on strengthening our fundamental and generating creative ideas while improving the quality of service. We will continue to fulfill our responsibilities as a public corporation with stable financial structure and active development of growth drivers 8.6 AA81,000 and help improve the quality of living by stabilizing the housing market for both current and future generations. Credit rating (S&P) New rental Debt cut by KRW trillion increased to housing units How do we make our approach? LH’s Commitments Since integration, we have focused our efforts in reducing debts by taking a strong initiative in the debt reduction plan Respond to the changes in macroeconomics more effectively and reflect improvements in our long and mid-term and restructuring process. Under this plan, we make sure our financial status remains strong in terms of our project plan and financial management plan. management, sales force, management efficiency, asset disposal, and business model while creating a virtuous circle in Maintain the highest level of efficiency in our business operation to achieve Housing Project Vision 2020. our business structure to maintain stable business practice. In addition, we seek active participation from our employees by raising awareness in our initiatives and align our performance evaluation and incentive systems with this objective. Establish customer-oriented programs to reduce the burden on their housing cost. Meanwhile, we are identifying emerging demands for safety and other aspects and taking preemptive measures. While stabilizing our supply of rental housing in accordance with the housing welfare policies, we are increasing the recipients Build a foundation for creative economy through public service roles in line with industrial welfare such as business of housing welfare service to include college students and newlyweds. Furthermore, we are reinforcing the level of start-up, and provide corporate growth support. innovation in industrial complexes and facilitating the development of bases to boost local economy and build Continue building parks with various themes to reflect social trends, and apply the model cases of safety in the foundations for economic growth and competitive advantages in land development. development of new cities. 24 36 44 56 26 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 27 Management Efficiency & Stability Housing Welfare Service Competitive Advantages Management Efficiency & Stability Stabilization of Management & Financial Conditions Virtuous Circle of Business Structure We introduced private financing and performed joint projects with Virtuous Circle of Business Structure private sectors, reducing our project costs successfully. By increasing the Investment Collection efficiency and productivity in business operation, we reduced the cost Business Stabilization Plan while constantly improving quality. On the other hand, we improved the 2014 KRW KRW way we collect payment by establishing a competitive sales goal system 15.2 trillion 21.7trillion as well as making efforts to maximize profitability. We also focused on Business Status the sales of all our available assets, including long-term unsold land in order to reduce investment and increase the amount we collect. KRW KRW In response to the changing land and housing political paradigm and to overcome the limitation in the existing 2015 16.0 trillion business approach and worsening financial structure, we are focusing our corporate-wide resources on stabilizing our At LH, we are enhancing our financial soundness based on the virtuous 25.9 trillion circle of business structure for two consecutive years with continuous business operation. With restructuring, diversification of business models, and full-scale sales efforts, as well as debt reduction efforts. compliance with the government policies and management innovation, we are solidifying our fundamental and financial stability while slowing down the increase in debt as we realize financial improvement and business efficiency. Financial Debt Reduction & Credit Rating Debt Reduction Initiative Process After our long and mid-term financial management plan was established Financial Debt Reduction in June 2013, we planned debt reduction in line with the long and mid105.7 (Unit: KRW trillion) In response to the government’s announcement of the 2-Stage Public Agency Normalization Directive in January 97.8 103.9 98.5 term financial management plan in June, 2014. In compliance with the 89.9 2015 with an emphasis on building a foundation and monitoring process for their financial sustainability, we are Financial Public Corporation Bond Total Amount System, we reduced the limit of focusing on improving our financial stability and profit generation. This will achieve more efficient distribution of Debt issuance by 50% and reinforced our business management system. To limited financial resources based on a virtuous circle of business model and consistent implementation of our debt 6.1 1.8 maximize our sales resources, we improved our sales objective reduction plan. For a corporate-wide approach in this matter, we have established an implementation process in line 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 management system by incorporating a private competition system as Increase/ with the long and mid-term plan. We track our progress on a daily/weekly/monthly/quarterly basis and align our 7.2 8.6 Decrease part of our debt reduction plan. internal evaluation with the debt reduction initiative while increasing the incentive for better performance. in Financial Since we introduced our debt reduction plan 2 years ago, we managed Debt to reduce our debt by KRW 15.8 trillion and received the AA credit rating, Debt Reduction Initiative Process the highest rating among quasi-market public companies, from all three International Credit Rating credit rating agencies including S&P in 2015. Implementation Moody’s S&P Fitch Build a foundation for sustainable growth through business innovation and restructuring. Aa2 AAAAGoal Performance Implement a debt reduction process Achieve the debt reduction goals Build a foundation for debt reduction Objectives • ‌Plan debt reduction through • ‌Align business to long and mid-term plan. • Enhance ‌ segment accounting system Debt Amount Financial Debt Ratio Debt Ratio performance and risk analysis. • Increase the private financing model. through strategic decision-making. (Unit: KRW trillion) (Unit: %) (Unit: %) • ‌Reinforce the business management • ‌Improve profitability through an objective • Align ‌ financial data with debt reduction process to reduce debt. management system and customized sales plan through segment accounting. 142 340 458 138 409 Action Plan • Manage risks and conflicts. strategies. • Reinforce ‌ the responsibility in the 292 376 134 252 • ‌Deal with financial risk through Financial • ‌Launch corporate-wide cost reduction campaign. management system through financial Risk Management System (FRM) • ‌Sell more assets through continuous improvement evaluation by division. development of new assets and performance • Comply ‌ with the public corporation total management. debt amount management system. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Task Force Task Force Land Inventory Inventory Turnover Ratio Interest Coverage Ratio (Unit: KRW trillion) (Unit: %) (Unit: times) At LH, we are reinforcing our decision-making process with the organization of a task force to build a foundation for 30 1.3 Decision Management 29.9 Making Efficiency Committee debt reduction and strengthen our implementation capabilities. With the CEO as chairman, the Management 26.9 25 1.0 21.1 21 Efficiency Committee is in charge of making decisions for continuous debt reduction activities while the Planning & 0.7 ManagePlanning & ment Coordination Office Coordination Office takes up the role of generation management of debt reduction, business operation, and financial management, as well as long, mid and short-term plans. The headquarters implementation team establishes action plans by division and sets goals for regional headquarters while monitoring their progress and 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 ImplemenHeadRegional tation quarters Divisions providing feedback. Meanwhile, the implementation team at regional headquarters is in charge of setting goals for individual project districts (work sites). 24 36 44 56 28 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 29 Management Efficiency & Stability Housing Welfare Service Competitive Advantages Debt Reduction Initiative Progress Generation and Distribution of Economic Value Private Financing Business Model Economic Performance & Financial Highlights Thanks to our efforts to diversify private financing business models and restructure our business based on the Classification Sub-classification Sector Unit 2013 2014 2015 market demands, we were able to build a low-cost business structure with an optimum investment-return rate. We Sales KRW 100 million 183,000 212,419 237,572 developed business models that promote mutual success with private sectors while maintaining the total project Land Development KRW 100 million 108,922 137,565 175,012 amount as we reduce project cost through their diversification. In 2015, we reduced our project cost by KRW 575.1 Housing Project KRW 100 million 61,155 61,982 49,023 billion through private financing and cut project cost by KRW 1,139.5 billion with REITs, which covers land Key Economic Sales by Sector Housing Welfare KRW 100 million 8,844 10,197 10,997 acquisition cost through private financing as part of our debt reduction plan. Performance Subsidiary Business KRW 100 million 3,807 2,674 2,540 Operating Profit KRW 100 million 8,295 11,119 14,712 Type Model Business Method Project District(Block) Net Profit KRW 100 million 7,108 8,479 9,801 Joint Private Land Development Develop land jointly with private developers. 1 in 2014 → 3 in 2015 (increase by 2) Interest Reduction Interest Rate Weighted Average Financing Rate % 3.2 3.0 2.1 Land Commissioned Development Substitute private financing with land. 27 in 2014 → 44 in 2015 (increase by 17) Current Assets KRW 100 million 970,046 921,981 871,677 Land Substitution Development Substitute compensation cost with land. 1 in 2014 → 1 in 2015 Assets Non-current Assets KRW 100 million 763,429 794,216 827,218 Joint Private Housing Construction Build public rental housing jointly with private developers. 2 in 2014 → 7 in 2015 (increase by 5) Total Assets KRW 100 million 1,733,475 1,716,197 1,698,895 Housing Public Rental REITs Build rental housing through REITs private financing. 3 in 2014 → 7 in 2015 (increase by 4) Current Liabilities KRW 100 million 392,928 363,662 481,937 Summary of Financial Commissioned Construction Substitute a part of private financing with land. 1 in 2015 (new) Liabilities Non-current Liabilities KRW 100 million 1,029,673 1,015,146 859,948 Statement Land Development + Rental Include rental housing in joint private land development Total Liabilities KRW 100 million 1,422,602 1,378,808 1,341,885 1 in 2015 (new) Housing projects. Combined Capital Stock KRW 100 million 238,923 257,825 268,492 Include rental housing in joint private housing Housing for Sales + Rental Housing 2 in 2015 (new) Equity Others KRW 100 million 71,916 79,529 88,483 development projects. Total Equity KRW 100 million 310,874 337,390 357,010 * Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs): Indirect investing organization that raises a fund from investors and distributes return. Sales Growth % (0.5) 16.1 11.8 Growth Net Profit Growth % (41) 19.3 15.6 Customized Sale Strategies Profitability Return on Asset % 0.4 0.5 0.6 Return on Equity % 2.3 2.6 2.8 LH is the first public enterprise to introduce a sales performance competition system, “Sales Objective Management”, Current Ratio % 247 254 181 Key Financial Indicators for the collection of payment through full-scale sales effort. In 2015, we evolved our system and evaluation Quick Ratio % 26 30 22 indicators to enhance our goals and reached KRW 28.3 trillion in sales with KRW 24.7 trillion in collection. To Stability Debt-to-Equity % 458 409 376 maintain momentum in sales, we focus on 8 key tasks. We identified these 8 tasks including quality, demands, and Financial Debt Ratio % 340 292 252 prices of unsold land through a cause analysis. As a result, the amount of land unsold for at least 3 years has been Equity Ratio % 17.9 19.7 21.0 reduced by KRW 3.7 trillion, thanks to the sales promotion strategies of each factor. Productivity Gross Value Added to Total Assets % 2.6 2.9 3.5 Cost Reduction through Cost Reduction through Efficient Management Management Efficiency Value Distribution to Stakeholders (Unit: KRW 100 million) Lately, we are facing tough challenges as our foundation for earning weakens due to a decrease in project profitability. We are also taking on more burden for utility facilities as required by local governments, as well Classification Item Unit 2013 2014 2015 Project Cost donating land for building schools. However, the rent for low-income residents cannot be increased, causing more Reduction 7,354 operating loss. Economic Value Generated Sales KRW 100 million 183,000 212,419 237,572 7,111 Current Cost Reduction LH’s CEO is leading the cost reduction campaign across the entire corporation as we review 157 tasks by division on Shareholders Dividend KRW 100 million 1,228 681 1,515 154 a regular basis. We are also incorporating continuous value engineering through land and housing project processes Wage & Benefits Reduction in our cost reduction efforts while maintaining high quality. Our employees also take a cut in current cost, wage, and 89 welfare benefits. Government Corporate Tax KRW 100 million 0 1 1 Employees Wage and Benefits KRW 100 million 5,634 5,527 6,116 Proactive Adoption of Segment Accounting As part of our business innovation for overcoming the financial crisis, we have adopted segment accounting and Local Community Local Taxes and Social Contribution KRW 100 million 3,337 3,820 4,964 upgraded all aspects of our system from system operation to evaluation. A task force has been designated to secure the implementation capabilities, and the causes of debt have been fully analyzed by project, product, and function for Suppliers Construction Cost KRW 100 million 115,662 98,688 107,985 taking a more rational approach to our reduction plan. We use this system in our decision-making process for strategic projects and manage our progress through monthly reviews. 24 36 44 56 30 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 31 Management Efficiency & Stability Housing Welfare Service Competitive Advantages 1 Housing Welfare Service Focus Business Happy Housing Project What is the purpose of this project? Project Summary Happy Housing is a public rental housing project that rents houses to college students, Classification Description newlyweds, and those newly employed in a location with convenient public transportation or a Purpose of Stabilize housing situation and imclose proximity to the workplace or schools. The project is designed to improve the housing Supply prove welfare for younger generations. situation of people by extending the benefits under the government’s housing policies to more Eligible College students, newly married Tenants couples, and newly employed people people. It helps improve the quality of living by creating social benefits such as reducing the Stabilizing Housing Situation housing cost for younger people, commuting time, and traffic congestion. Housing Size (Area for 45m2 or less Exclusive Use) Location with convenient transportaIncrease in the Supply of Rental Housing What progress has been made? Main Location tion and commuting distance LH is planning to supply a total of 140,000 housing units, using the land for public use, In response to soaring Jeonse (lump-sum deposit) and increasing demand for housing supply for low-income urban regeneration, and the land owned by public corporations. The locations are selected by families, we are increasing our supply of rental housing and creating a safety net for non-homeowners through Roles of Happy Housing local governments and residents in prior consideration of transportation and the residential Space for open communication welfare housing service tailored to the needs of service recipients. Our rental housing portfolio includes national environment. In addition, various convenience facilities are built around Happy Housing Housing welfare for and harmony, rental housing, public rental housing, and permanent rental housing, depending on the demands and level of income. projects, such as parks, cultural spaces, public childcare centers, and a small library to make the younger people Cultural and art programs Increased supply helps improve the housing situation of socially vulnerable groups. In 2015, we supplied the most place more culturally vibrant with improved communication, welfare, and public lifestyle. This rental housing units through diverse options such as Happy Housing and Housing Welfare since the buy-to-let and also creates jobs for local residents with the establishment of social companies and business Jeonse rental service started with 81,000 new rental housing units, which is a 27% increase from the last year. startup and employment centers. In 2013, 6 locations in Seoul, 1 location in Gyeonggi, and 7 locations in the Seoul Metropolitan Area were designated as trial districts. In 2014, 9 locations Happy Housing Types of Rental Housing Unit (6,230 units) in Seoul Metropolitan Area and 10 locations (7,095 units) outside Seoul were selected to ensure that the housing supply is more evenly distributed across the country. In Permanent Rental Housing • Low-rent housing that is available as a permanent residence October, 2015, the first Happy Housing tenant moved in Songpa Samjeon District in Seoul, and National Rental Housing • Rental housing for people who want to own a house we secured various locations (20 locations including Ulsan), thanks to the local governments’ Boost in local Employment and business • Rental houses that tenants can buy after renting for 5 to 10 years participation in the policies. economy start-up program Public Rental Housing • 50 year rental option, long-term Jeonse, and rental housing for foreigners Buy-to-let Housing • Multi-household houses purchased by LH and rented to low-income families Low-income Families • Jeonse houses LH sublets to low-income families at low rent Jeonse Newlyweds • Jeonse houses LH sublet to low-income newlyweds in urban areas Focus Business 2 New Stay Project Rental College Students • Rental houses designed to support college students from low-income families Children as Head of • ‌Jeonse housing for households headed by children, rental housing provided for the residential stabilization What is the purpose of this project? Household of children as the head of household New Stay Project is a part of the government’s “Housing Innovation Policy for Middle Class” announced in January 2015. This is a housing rental service where the Public Housing Fund and private investors establish REITs together, and REITs purchase LH’s land, construct private Supplying Rental Housing through Renovation rental houses and then operate the rental business. With the increase in one-person households (senior citizens, college students, etc.) and demand for rental housing, Project Structure large scale rental housing construction reached its limit due to a lack of land in urban areas. Under these circumstances, we are renovating old houses “with their owners” and rent them afterwards. Recognizing that elderly Debt LH (Joint Residential Land) Construction Company (Construction) Rental Service Provider house owners have difficulty financing renovation and have no experience in renting houses, we leveraged our • Security Deposit Rental Operation expertise and experience in construction and rental operation. LH supports financing at a low interest rate (1.5%) up • Private Loan Payment Sale of Land Completion Guarantee Construction Cost Fees and Management to KRW 200 million and manages the renovation process, including designing and the selection of construction companies, while providing services in selecting tenants and collecting rent. With our active promotional efforts and REITs Equity increase in house owners’ interest, 358 house owners participated in this program compared to 80 house owners in ‌ • Fund Contribution Dividend/ Contribution/ Asset Rent Lease 2015. As a result, the house owners enjoy a stable income during their senior years while increasing the supply of Fees (Preferred Stock) Interest Loan Management rental housing for low-income families. • Private ‌ Contribution (Common Stock) Investor AMC (Asset Management Company) Tenant Renovated Rental Housing Model What progress has been made? New Stay Project is a housing rental service that supplies high quality rental houses in convenient locations with the creativity of the private sector, satisfying both project developers and tenants. LH selected project developers in 3 districts in Hwaseong Dongtan 2, Wirye, and Gimpo For 8-20 years, rent at Commissioning Hangang in April 2015, and private developers were selected for 9,200 units in 10 districts. With the Special Act on Private Rental Housing taking Eligible Houses Renovation to House owner (owning) Rent 50~80 % effect in December 2015, more private developers will join the project, thanks to greater access to project loans and tax benefits. 10+ year old houses one-person house ⇢ LH (management) Low-income citizens of the market price 24 36 44 56 32 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 33 Management Efficiency & Stability Housing Welfare Service Competitive Advantages Housing Welfare Result of Housing Stabilization Reducing Housing Cost New Housing Supply Jeonse Rent Security System Tenants of Jeonse rental houses (monthly rent for security deposit) need to deposit additional fund for monthly rent Project Approval (Unit: housing unit) Housing Supply (Unit: housing unit) for 12 months, which causes extra burden on their housing cost. LH introduced the Jeonse Rent Security System, Public Sale Rental Housing Public Sale Rental Housing which substitutes the 9 month rent with the payment guarantee. The service can be joined using the inclusive 2013 3,809 38,212 42,021 2013 26,943 65,561 92,504 security system. The fixed rate applies regardless of the tenant’s credit rating while LH bears the guarantee fees. As a 2014 3,968 44,422 48,390 2014 20,801 63,938 84,739 result, 5,000 tenants reduced their housing costs by KRW 9.6 billion in 2015. 2015 2,763 56,092 58,855 2015 10,168 81,467 91,635 Rent-Security Deposit Conversion System With the increased application of the Rent-Security Deposit Conversion System, we are helping tenants reduce their housing costs. The previous system only allows conversion from rent to security deposit; in the new system, tenants can switch to both ways. As a result, a total of 18,447 households benefited from the system while 691 households New Rental Housing Supply either used the security deposit reduction program or rent increase program. Permanent Rental National Rental Public Rental and Others Buy-to-let Jeonse Rental (Unit: housing unit) Rental Housing Energy Efficiency Improving Residential Environment 2013 482 19,991 15,363 7,079 22,646 65,561 Project Reduction of Heating 2014 780 22,255 9,489 7,662 23,752 63,938 Cost per Household Due to increasing heating and maintenance costs (e.g. replacement of windows and insulation materials) in old buy2015 3,077 17,480 15,922 9,479 35,509 81,467 to-let houses, LH selects and recommends from the supplies under the “Energy Efficiency Improvement Project” by Korea Energy Foundation to improve the residential environment for tenants. In 2015, we included tenants of Classification 2013 2014 2015 permanent rental housing for the program in addition to those of buy-to-let rental housing. As a result, a total of 7,102 Permanent Rental Housing 482 780 3,077 households were selected under the program. Each tenant saved KRW 200,000 in heating costs per year. National Rental Housing 19,991 22,255 17,480 KRW Public Rental Housing and Others 15,363 9,489 15,922 200,000/Year Residential Support Service Tailored to Customer Needs Buy-to-let Housing (including bankruptcy, urban maintenance) Low-income Families 7,079 14,283 7,662 15,889 9,479 25,251 Housing Welfare Governance Jeonse Rental Newlyweds 3,905 3,542 4,624 To improve the quality of housing welfare for the tenants of rental housing, LH established housing welfare Housing College Students 3,713 3,650 4,923 governance for each residential complex. LH also provided housing welfare service through the senior citizen welfare Children as Head of Household 745 671 711 program, created jobs, and education programs for youth. In 2015, we expanded this governance to a regional scale Total 65,561 63,938 81,467 and introduced external resources to promote the participation of local communities and provide a more beneficial residential support service. Building upon our role as a coordinator, LH uses efficient resource distribution to ensure the successful implementation of housing welfare service. Rental Housing Supply On-site Housing Welfare Service Result of Welfare Service Tailored to Customer Needs LH signed an MOU with Seongbuk District Office to provide on-site housing consultation service for more than 200 Number of Rental Housing Units (Unit: housing unit) Supply by Type Accumulative (Unit: housing unit) welfare recipients and people with disabilities. Earning a favorable response in 2015, we are planning to formalize the Permanent Rental National Rental Public Rental and Others Buy-to-let Jeonse Rental program by creating LH booths at the Housing Welfare Festival next year. Our “On-site Housing Welfare Service” was 872,546 recognized for its performance and won the Green Construction Award (Ministerial Award from the Ministry of Land, 144,227 423,213 76,554 100,420 167,535 911,949 Infrastructure and Transport) in the Housing Welfare Category by the 7th Asia Today. 807,005 754,083 Green Construction Children as Head of Award Creating Jobs for Tenants Household College Students (Ministerial Award from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure The delivery pick-up service using the security office compromises security performance while reducing the quality 22,742 9,841 and Transport) of delivery service. To resolve this, we implemented the “Silver Delivery Service within Rental Housing Complex” to Jeonse Low-income Families (The 7th Asia Today Housing Welfare Category) create jobs for senior citizens, using idle space as a delivery base. As a result, 20 senior employees were able to earn Rental KRW 300,000 per month, and we will continue to create more secure jobs for senior citizens. Newlyweds 103,018 31,934 2013 2014 2015 24 36 44 56 34 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 35 Management Efficiency & Stability Housing Welfare Service Competitive Advantages Competitive Advantages Creating Economic Foundation Creating Future-oriented Innovative Industrial Complex The industrial paradigm that used to focus on manufacturing and large-scale development is shifting to small and mid-scale development projects in technology-centric, advanced, and specialized areas. Recognizing the need for a corporate environment in cities that can reflect the characteristics of prospective sectors, we are building a creative economic eco-system and boost local economy with Pangyo Creative Economy Valley, Urban High-Tech Industrial Gaining Competitive Advantages through Urban Development Complexes, and Specialized Local Industrial Complexes. Developing Safe City Master Plan of Pangyo Creative Pangyo Creative Economy Valley Economy Valley “Pangyo Creative Economy Valley” is developing Pangyo areas as a creative economic eco-system by creating more There is an increasing demand and interest in the safety of the residential environment, where there is no blind side space for expansion and improving its infrastructure. With an innovative master plan for creating jobs and from crime, accident, and disaster. At LH, we have established a cooperation system and integrated safety ① Creative Space promoting growth and communication, we are building a multi-dimensional city in line with corporate life cycles, Integration of Creative Economy technologies to make each city a safer and better place to live. To achieve this goal, a safe city TFT was organized ⇢ ‌Public Support for rather than with the flat structure associated with the conventional industrial complex. with the establishment of a cooperation system that includes various research activities, forum for developing a safe Business Startup new city, and participation in industrial safety exposition, raising awareness in city safety. In addition, we have set Corporate Support Hub Urban High-Tech Industrial Complexes planning guidelines for improving our design and safety standards and increasing the safety for handicapped Urban High-Tech Industrial Complexes are designated in a city to promote knowledge-based, cultural, and people and children. We also established guidelines for designing schools with a high level of safety, applying information and communication industries. We have selected 12 urban high-tech industrial complexes nationwide, CPTED for the prevention of accidents and violence in schools as well as guidelines for making the residential ② Growth Space using the Pangyo Creative Economy Valley as a model to create a foundation for building a creative economic ecoPublic Support for Startup environment safer with protective measures against fires, crimes, and accidents. We are planning to reinforce these Businesses system. guidelines and reduce social cost while increasing the satisfaction of residents and competitive advantages. Public Knowledge-based Industrial Center Specialized Local Industrial Complexes We are creating jobs and boosting local economy in line with the government’s master plan for promoting Safe City Development Goal ③ Venture Space specialized industries and local development strategies. LH has secured sufficient demands and financial support Promotion of Private Venture from local governments while conducting a KDI preliminary feasibility study to develop our three project locations Everyone Everyday Everywhere Industry into national industrial complexes. Venture Campus Socially vulnerable groups in Real-time risk analysis and prompt Entire urban living environment e.g. population e.g. senior citizens, children, response based on residential complex, school, Regeneration of Old Industrial Complexs women, and handicapped people CPTED* and U-City road, and park Industrial complexes that have lasted more than 20 years suffer from outdated infrastructure and support facilities. ④ Corporate Innovation Space * ‌CPTED (Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design): Techniques and systems of creating an urban environment free of crime from the designing phase Leading Technological Innovation As a result, companies do not receive the support they need on time, causing their productivity to drop. LH serves as of Creative Companies a project manager to support the government policies and gain competitive advantages to transform outdated Innovation Town industrial complexes, and we selected our two target locations using our customized project structure. Developing High Quality Specialized City At LH, we are undertaking the development of a high quality, specialized city with its own identity. We recognize the ⑤ Global Space Boosting Local Economy and Development of Regional Base for Growth need for change, and so we are creating parks that can meet the social trends for leisure activities and demands of Global Network and AcademyIndustry Cooperation We are supporting more balanced economic growth of our country by creating new economic foundations in tenants. We are also introducing a spatial program for designing a family-friendly theme park where everyone— Global Biz Center regional bases. The relevant laws have been revised to promote investment in the Free Economic Zone including women, handicapped people, and senior citizens—can enjoy themselves while creating an urban Development Project, creating a foundation for sustainable growth and increasing value with the market-oriented community space that meets trends with automobile campsite and places for companion animals. investment environment. To create local economic bases for sustainable growth, we selected new project locations, Due to the growing interest in traditional houses as part of the new housing culture and alternative to the ⑥ ‌Space for Communication including Myeongji in Busan as a preliminary location, Yeongcheon High-Tech Park in Gyeongbuk and Danbong in apartment lifestyle, LH is building Hanok Village, combining its unique traditional identity and functionalities with & Exchange MICE, Commercial and Cultural Donghae, carried out a feasibility study, and secured financial support from local governments. modernity. LH established a master plan for a three-dimensional structure and floor planning to create the street Convergence and Communication In response to the shift of the government policies from central government-led development to local governmentnetwork based on traditional village concept in Hwaseong Dongtan Hanok Village. We also created a traditional I-Square led development, we have created a business opportunities development system with local governments to culture theme zone to provide experiences in tradition and education by using the existing Hanok Village in Gimpo strengthen the relationship for shared growth. We also established a local development support center to plan and Hangang Art Village, thus improving the quality of the city. support local development while exploring locations for development through the incubating system. By maintaining a close relationship with the government and local governments, we promote the government’s development policies while securing the best project locations and helping local governments to meet demands as part of our sustainable growth development strategies. 36 2016 LH Sustainability Report 37 Strategic Focus for Sustainability Strategy Ⅱ Human-centered Corporate Culture based on Transparent and Ethical Practice Why is this strategy culture important to LH? What are the achievements? 【 HR-centered Practice 】 【 Fair Labor Practice 】 【 Ethical & Transparent Practice 】 Protecting individuals’ rights, acknowledging their abilities and values, understanding colleagues and treating colleagues and stakeholders in a transparent and ethical manner are the fundamental values of every organization expected from Result of 1,071 the society. Lately, these values are often ignored: there is infringement of human rights causing vastly negative impact Flexible Work 12 First Large Public Overall Integrity Schedule Corporation to Rating on our society and environment while many corporations are losing public trust and thus their sustainability in business. 7.77 Program At LH, we promote human-centered culture to meet the expectation of people by supporting the most fundamental yet Introduce Wage Peak System (Unit: person) important values. Work Hour Varied Start/Finish (Grade 4) Option System Time System How do we make our approach? LH’s Commitments With transparent human resource management and ethical practice at our foundation, we set the highest priority in the quality of life and country’s sustainable future while building trust with our stakeholders. To protect our employees’ rights, we increased the flexibility in work schedules and improved our compensation and Create a reliable and performance-oriented corporate culture based on strong HR system. welfare system while preventing discrimination. We also focus on ensuring fair and productive HR management practice for more sustainable development of their expertise and competency. Our labor practice promotes a culture of open Continue to foster talented individuals with our constantly evolving training strategies. communication and trust in order to make individual employees and our organization grow together. We are implementing corporate-wide ethical management strategies and promote understanding through Implement anti-corruption practice. communication. With our commitment to raising more awareness in ethical practice, we are taking more active measures to prevent corruption and unethical conduct of our employees. 24 36 44 56 38 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 39 HR-centered Practice Fair Labor Practice Ethical & Transparent Practice HR-centered Practice Talent Development System Training Cost per Person HR Development Strategies (Unit: KRW 1,000) 1,390 Due to changes in the social and population structure, the political paradigm is shifting to demand-based qualitative 1,207 1,276 growth and large-scale development projects become less prevalent while there is an increasing demand for housing welfare and urban regeneration policies. We have declared Vision 2030 with aim to create a foundation for sustainable growth. At LH, we are fostering and developing talent within our organization in order to proactively respond to Flexible Employment changing business environment by setting a new standard and training plan for our employees. 2013 2014 2015 Identifying “LH Path-Finder” as an ideal candidate for our employees, we hire talented individuals who can work Employment Status Gender Ratio Number of Trainees HR Development System (Unit: person) together to achieve our mission and vision in a fair and transparent manner. In 2015, we recruited 10 new employees (Unit: person) based on their job performance level in accordance with our HR management plan and changes in business 69,155 HRD Vision Foster creative and talented individuals to create sustainable values. environment. We respect the diversity and human rights of our employees and do not discriminate based on their 67,055 68,228 gender, age, religion, educational background and physical disability while ensuring full compliance with Labor Quality 6,498 We Seek LH Path-Finder who paves the way for the future through communication, creativity, convergence and insight. Standard Act and International Labor Organization (ILO) on the prohibition of forced labor. Expert with Insight and HRD Open-minded Pioneering Creator Reliable and Ethical Servant Ability to Converge Female 1,219 (18.8%) Strategies Communicator (Pioneering Spirit) (Dedication) 2013 2014 2015 (Intellectual Curiosity) Employment Status Male 5,279 (81.2%) (Unit: person) Training Job Title Competency Job Performance Self-Development/ System Basic Competency Classification 2013 2014 2015 Training Program by Position Training Competency Training Continuous Learning Employment Status Age Ratio Regular 6,495 6,366 6,188 Classification Business Management (Unit: person) Total Number of Executive Breakfast Forum(Economy, Career DevelNon-regular 326 1,445 1,479 Level Housing Urban Local Housing Strategic Business Employees Officer ICT, Humanities, History, etc) opment Path 2,186 2,105 Unlimited Contract Workers 168 250 310 (1, 2, 3) Welfare Regeneration Development Project Project Management 1,894 Key Competency Develop(Job Expert) Ratio of Female Regular Employees 1,225(18.9%) 1,243(19.5%) 1,219(19.7%) Promoted ment for Grade 2 and Gender Equality 3 Promoted Ratio of Female Managers 101(1.6%) 111(1.7%) 138(2.2%) 313 Practical Knowledge, Fostering Core Talent Socially Vulnerable Groups Ratio of Physical Disabilities in Regular Employees 4.9% 4.0% 4.0% Grade 6 or Teamwork and Customer Less Youth Interns 546 318 350 Satisfaction Improvement At LH, we established various training courses in line with our training strategies to develop our human resources. To 20s 30s 40s 50s Creating Jobs Senior Employees 3,000 2,000 1,000 Employees without Land & Housing University strengthen our management strategies for resolving management issues and future business development, we Workers in Short-term Employment 102 2,274 603 (First 4 Year Degree Course College for Public Corporation) have created 11 training programs in such areas as debt reduction, promotion, new growth driver, business strategy, New Regular Recruits Degree (Unit: person) new business model and technology as well as 40 training programs in 4 key areas including housing welfare, Understanding Public & Meanwhile, LH is increasing job opportunities for socially vulnerable groups to embrace equal opportunities and Privileged Personal Affairs, Organizabusiness and technology, fundamental job task and specialized expertise. In addition, we support our employees to Natural Science and Position Engineering Majors 2 diversity in the workplace. In response to the increase in aging population and poverty of senior citizens, we have tional Loyalty Improvement get qualified for Housing Welfare Agent to improve their expertise in housing welfare. MOT Competency Imhired senior citizens (55 years of age or older). In 2015, 1,000 senior employees were assigned to social welfare Dispatched provement, Mobility Service Female 1 services including tenant research and support for senior citizens living alone. Position Competency Improvement Customizing Training Program 10 Local Talents 4 We customized our training programs by identifying the needs of employees and the demands for job training by High School Fair HR Management Training Program by Career team while developing the key expertise through competency analysis. Rather than focusing on theoretical training, Graduates 1 Experience we have implemented more practice-based training programs as well as programs in a more advanced level. We At LH, we established performance-based HR system and ensure equal opportunities and fair performance also introduced mobile and cyber training, and interactive open learning program known as “Doggaebi” as part of Employees Health, Parental evaluation while preventing any discrimination based on their gender and disability. For employees with the same in their Education, Financial our continuous training system while establishing programs by position and career experience for more timely Ratio of Female Managers job grade, we apply the same wage and welfare benefits. Each employee is evaluated by others whose grade is 10 15th Year Planning (Unit: person) training performance to meet the demands of trainees. 2.2% higher, lower and the same for more objective performance evaluation and we have introduced Clean HR System Financial Planning, 1.7% Employees 1.6% Business Startup which allows our employees to report any prohibited activities concerning promotion and resolve any irrational in their 135 15 25th Year & Reemployment, LH University (Internal Training Institute) 111 elements in our HR system. The first and second grade promotion applicants can promote their job performance Health 101 and achievement using the “PR Plaza” which any employees can access and leave their comments as part of our Employees Financial Planning, LH University is the first 4 year university founded by a public corporation. With approval from the Ministry of Business Startup efforts to ensure more reliable and fair evaluation. We have increased the number of female managers and in their & Reemployment, Education, Science and Technology, it was established in 2012 in line with the government’s “Employment First & 25 30th Year established a goal to reduce the time it takes for female employees to get a promotion since 2014. As a result, the Farming Business Training Later” policy to foster talented individuals and promote educational culture in a workplace. The university ratio of female managers keeps increasing each year. Potential Job Transfer, Business helps its students advance their theoretical understanding as well as gain experience in the field of land and housing Retirees 2013 2014 2015 Startup, Retirement while developing ethical and global mindset. There will be the first graduates in February, 2017 and the institute will (including Wage and Change Planning Peak System) set a new standard in internal training and talent development program while building a foundation to grow as a global corporate university helping employees reach their full potential and realize their dreams. 24 36 44 56 40 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 41 HR-centered Practice Fair Labor Practice Ethical & Transparent Practice Work-Life Balance Fair Labor Practice Result of Flexible Work Balancing Personal and Professional Life Schedule System (Unit: person) As we relocated our headquarters to Jinju, many of our employees had to move from their home and some of them Varied Start/Finish Time System Work Hour Option System took a temporary leave. We were concerned about the availability of human resources and their productivity and 1,071 level of satisfaction being compromised. To help our employees balance their professional and personal life, we improved the flexibility in our working and leave system. We added more types to our Varied Start/Finish Time System 147 for employees living in Seoul Metropolitan Areas and lifted the limitation on the reasons and terms of our Work Hour Labor Practice Strategies Option System to increase their flexibility. In addition, we have introduced a time-based leave system so our 14 employees can use their leave based on time instead of day and defer their unused annual leave to the next year. As a At LH, we are creating a corporate culture which promotes mutual success for both labor and management based 12 LH Labor Unions result, we helped our employees improve the quality of life as 1,071 employees used the flexible work system in 2015, on trust and cooperation. Under our long and mid-term plan for labor affairs improvement strategies, all our a significant increase from last year’s 147 employees while 38% of the leave usage was based on time. Korea Land Corporation Labor Union employees are working together to build a mutually beneficial labor-management relationship. 2014 2015 • ‌Previous Organization Korea National Housing Corporation Result of Leave System Making Healthy Workplace • No. of Union Members 3,160 Labor Affairs Improvement Strategies • ‌Managing Organizations – Federation of Korean Trade Unions, At LH, we are creating a healthier and more family-friendly workplace environment through such programs as Federation of Korean Public Trade Unions Vision for Labor Practice Create more sustainable labor practice based on communication, trust and cooperation. Use of Leave maternity protection, gender equality and family harmony programs. With more effective guidelines for our based on Time maternity leave programs, three childcare facilities are currently available for female employees. In addition, we have Strategic Enhance LaborPromote Communication Build Partnership for Fulfill Social 38 % strengthened our sexual harassment prevention system in nine areas including anonymous reporting and the Plan Management System and Understanding Shared Growth Responsibility punishment of violation based on independent analysis to create a better working environment for our employees. • Respond ‌ to the govern• ‌Enhance on-site communi• ‌Implement labor-manage• ‌Produce better results We held a workshop to boost the productivity of employees in emotional labor and reduce their work stress while ment policies cation ment partnership program through cooperation organizing family support programs such as parent camp, family camp, and couple camp. Action Plan ‌ • Re-establish labor-manage‌ • Improve communication • ‌Monitor labor-management • ‌Jointly fulfill social LH Labor Union ment strategies channel monitoring system cooperation responsibility • Rational group agreement • ‌Enhance corporate-wide Securing Healthcare and Safety of Employees • ‌Previous Organization Korea Housing Corporation labor affairs management • ‌No. of Union Members 1,945 At LH, we established the Industrial Safety and Health Committee to implement guidelines for the safety and • ‌Managing Organizations healthcare of our employees in compliance with Occupational Safety and Health Act, Labor Standard Act, and Federation of Korean Trade Unions, Federation of Korean Rational Labor-Management Relations National Health Insurance Act. Public Industry Trade Unions We also maintain the safety of our workplace according to the our internal safety and disaster prevention Our labor-management relations are based on the laws and principles as we meet demands if they are acceptable LH Integrated Labor Union regulations while conducting Workplace Risk Analysis and Occupational Safety and Health Training on a regular from the public perspective and improve any unfair labor practice through continuous monitoring. We acknowledge • ‌Previous Organization basis. We also carry out a regular health checkup at least once a year and established the “Occupational Safety and New employees hired on the 1st multiple labor unions as LH integrated union consisting of the employees employed the first and second year was and 2nd year after the integration Health Center” to improve the level of healthcare for our employees. Our obesity control program and stress established creating a new paradigm in our labor-management relations since the integration between Korea Land • No. of Union Members 243 counseling program are also available as part of our employee healthcare plan. • Managing Organizations None Corporation and Korea National Housing Corporation. At LH, we comply with the labor laws protecting the rights to organize and engage in collective action or collective bargaining. We also promote fair competition between unions to support new unions. In addition, we established Number of Labor Union Members the Standard Collective Agreement (Draft) and signed the uniformed working condition agreement to encourage lawful union activities and prevent conflicts to ensure fair labor practice. Best Practice First Large Public Corporation to Introduce Wage Peak System At LH, we organized a task force to introduce the Wage Peak System by taking a corporate-wide Labor-Management Communication initiative through open communication. The management openly communicated with 5,348 employees through regional division presentation, special conversation with all employees, and (89.9%) At LH, we promote more effective communication by screening channels based on their practicality. We verify the an emergency management meeting while we discussed the ways to reach an agreement effectiveness of each communication channel and decide whether to maintain the channel and are building a more through the labor communication channel and joint labor-management council. With the efficient communication system by ensuring direct communication with the management, communication across decision from the union for public benefit, we were able to introduce the system on August 28, generations and origins, and bottom-up communication. In this way, we enable our employees to deliver their two weeks earlier than expected. opinions to the management. 24 36 44 56 42 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 43 HR-centered Practice Fair Labor Practice Ethical & Transparent Practice Ethical & Transparent Practice Creating Ethical Business Culture For anti-corruption practice using a proactive prevention system, we are operating ethical training programs customized for LH. With five new programs for ethical practice, we offer online training for all the employees along with one-on-one CA (Clean-up Agent, On-site Integrity Leader) sessions in 24 locations nationwide as part of our onsite training plan. We have established or reinforced our demotion system, group responsibility system, and incentive deduction system while setting a bribe return and report system, and an integrated reporting center “Green Light” as part of our anti-corruption efforts. Ethical Management System At LH, we are also working hard to create ethical culture which encourages participation of all our employees. We established the 2nd day of June and the 1st week of June as Ethics Day and Week, and reward participants with Strategies miles under One Case per Day Program to promote employees’ voluntary participation. We also organized a contest for ideas on ethical management, where we collected ideas from 466 employees. The winning idea, “Ethical Login At LH, we ensure that all our decision making processes and conduct reflect the highest level of ethical standards System”, will be reflected in our ethical management plan next year. We mandated the Redface Test, which had been based on transparent and fair corporate culture. We fully comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and treat prepared to raise more awareness of those who are dispatched or on short-term employment to include the every individual fairly with respect according to our ethical practice guidelines. relevant employees, in order to check their understanding in the code of ethics and promote our ethical culture. Ethical Management System Ethical Culture Promotion Activities Vision for Ethical Management Implement the clean LH culture with people Training Programs & Activities Creating Culture External Communication Goal for 2015 Strengthen and promote our ethical management system. LH Ethical Corporate Culture Employee-oriented Ethical Management Social Awareness Strategies & Action Plan • ‌Improve the External Lecture Reporting System • Establish Ethics Day and Week • ‌Promote private, government and public • ‌Enhance the effectiveness of the Integrity • Improve the ethical management index governance • CEO Special Lecture • Integrity Mileage • Ethical Management Brief Ombudsman Program • Continue sustainability efforts ‌ • On/Off and Customized Integrity • One Integrity Practice Task per Team • Participation in Policy Council Training • Integrity ‌ Council for Construction Sites • Participation in UNGC • Integrity Academy (Clean-Society) Plan Do Check Action Evaluation & • Ethical management plan • 3 Strategies, 11 Tasks • ‌Analysis of the ethical manage• Reflect team evaluation Action • Anti-corruption measures • 7 Implementation Tasks ment index Integrity rating by team • ‌Integrity Ombudsman • ‌Operation council, practice • ‌Integrity Survey (internal/external) ‌Use the Integrity Performance & Monitoring Program operation plan support group • ‌Monitoring of the Integrity OmOmbudsman Program budsman Program At LH, we have strengthened our integrity monitoring process to manage our progress and performance. With preSustainability Survey monitoring request process for the Integrity Ombudsman Program regarding ethical practice, we are using an external Organization pre-monitoring system while reinforcing our ethical management system in response to external evaluations such as sustainability evaluation, anti-corruption measure evaluation and integrity survey from Civil Rights Commission. We Our organization for ethical management practice is divided into the roles of general management and monitoring. scored 7.77 for our Overall Integrity Survey in 2015 which is slightly lower than the previous year (7.82 in 2014). We The Integrity Practice Special Committee and the Integrity Practice Secretary which report directly to CEO were promise to further improve our ethical practice and build our reputation as an ethical public corporation by taking organized to implement ethical policies corporate-widely, and increase the level of ethical practice. Achieved Excellent necessary anti-corruption measures and addressing our vulnerability in five key areas, as well as carrying out various Corporation (AAA) for 4 Consecutive activities including the outside participation of disciplinary committee and status check of subcontractors. Years Ethical Management Organization Integrity Ombudsman Civil Rights Commission Overall Internal Integrity Rating Anti-corruption Evaluation Result Program Integrity Rating 8.11 Ethical Practice Integrity Practice Integrity Practice Secretary (Head of Head of Ethical 7.82 9.68 Board of Directors CEO (Grade 4) 7.77 9.58 9.58 General (Grade 4) Special Committee Management Administration Office) Management Management (Grade 4) High Medium High Monitoring Office Ethical Practice Anti-corruption Practice Team Implementation Standing Auditor MCA/PCA (Head of Auditor Office) & Monitoring LH Integrity Planning Group 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 44 2016 LH Sustainability Report 45 Strategic Focus for Sustainability Strategy Ⅲ Quality of Life Improvement through Social Responsibility Why is this strategy important to LH? What are the achievements? 【 Public-service Customer 【 Shared Growth 】 【 Contribution to Local Community 】 Our business operation has a significant influence, either directly or indirectly, on our customers, partners, and local Satisfaction Index 】 Purchase from Small and Total Community community as well as the general public. We recognize our responsibility to conduct our business in line with its Service Hours Public-service Customer Medium Companies consequence as the public trust, and our sustainability depends on it. Although each group of our stakeholders has different demands, we understand that our value sharing starts from identifying and meeting their needs and ultimately Satisfaction Index 54,233 hours 90.7 KRW Social Responsibility 6,496.8 billion improve the quality of people’s lives. The goal is to understand our stakeholders and fulfill our social reasonability and roles as a public corporation to earn their trust and respect. Spending (Grade A) (59.2%) KRW 7.2 billion How do we make our approach? LH’s Commitments The most important value we create for our customers is satisfying them with the products and services we deliver while stabilizing the housing supply in the market. To this end, we have created a customer feedback process which serves as a platform for customizing our service and improving its quality. Maintain Grade A in customer satisfaction index by improving the quality of our service. We also share our expertise and competitive advantages with our partners and public organizations as part of our contribution to our country’s economic growth. Undertaking the tasks identified by our shared growth plan, we optimize Protect the customer data and information by building separating networks. our business practice to help small and medium-sized companies to develop their technological expertise. We also Explore and develop tasks for shared growth in line with LH’s business strategies. purchase their products while increasing their opportunity to participate to build a collaborative culture between public corporations and small and medium-sized private companies. Develop performance index for social responsibility program to build a foundation for sustainable future. It is also important for corporate citizens to fulfill its social responsibility and strengthen the support from local community. We are building trust and confidence in our social responsibility programs by improving the quality of living for our local residents and promoting the values of sharing and participation. 24 36 44 56 46 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 47 Customer Satisfaction Shared Growth Contribution to Local Community Customer Satisfaction Customer Communication Number of VOC Handling Cases VOC Management Process Suggestion/Regulatory Reform To integrate our VOC (Voice of Customer) management process including consultation, purchase and complaints, (Unit: case) we have established a VOC process. Feedbacks from customers are collected in real-time through various 457 426 communication channels for prompt response and review. Complaints and suggestions we identify through the 324 VOC system are shared with relevant divisions for their reflection in LH’s long and mid-term strategy planning. Customer Satisfaction System VOC Handling Process Public-service Customer Strategies 2013 2014 2015 Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Participate in and Monitor Corporate-widely (Unit: score) We are striving to achieve the highest level of customer satisfaction for a public corporation under 2030 Business Public Complaint (Unit: case) 95.6 86.1 90.7 Management Goals as part of our corporate-wide management strategies. To this end, we have established long and (Grade A) (Grade A) 41,948 (Good) mid-term customer satisfaction (CS) management plans and aligned our business practice with the focus on our 41,369 customers to improve the quality of our service. Each year, we evaluate our customer service based on the result of 29,631 Corporate-wide Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance and reflected it in our Collect Handle Apply Feedback Management Resourcing business plan. We will take a corporate-wide initiative to enhance our service quality and customer satisfaction. Take Actions and Evaluate 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Customer Satisfaction Strategies Call Center (Unit: case) Communication Channels CS Training Status (Unit: person) CS Vision Satisfy customers and earn their trust and respect. 2,390,000 2,080,000 2,160,000 At LH, we always listen to our customers and provide both online and offline communication channels through 335 310 Focus on customer Promote which they can voice their complaints or suggestion for improvement while keeping them informed of the result of 302 Satisfy Provide customerStrategic demands communication customers oriented service our review. We receive their suggestions on our business operation all year long and reward those selected. During Priority Improve product Build positive Deliver services Build infrastructure the fact-finding process or investigation, we keep the identity and secrets of the reporters confidential for their values reputation 2013 2014 2015 protection. We will continue to listen to our customers and create values based on their input. 2013 2014 2015 Organization Customer Communication Channels LH’s Commitments Our management organization for customer satisfaction includes the CS Management Committee, CS Management Advisory Committee and CS Practice Committee which report directly to CEO. The CS Management Committee Serve our customers in a friendly, establishes long and mid-term CS strategies and action plans while the CS Management Advisory Committee— prompt, and efficient way and see things from their perspective. consisting of academic institutes and consulting firms—proposes the plan for improvement and assesses the Improve and correct any progress. Meanwhile, the CS Practice Committee, organized with practitioners, helps create a collaborative system inconvenience we may cause to between the worksites and the headquarters. In addition, CS leaders and managers are designated by the our customers and prevent their recurrence. Administration Innovation Division to build the CS Management System while monitoring the progress and creating a performance incentive system to motivate our employees on CS service and practice. Always listen to our customers Regulatory My Home Public Reports Public Suggestions Public Complaints and reflect their input in our Reform Hot-Line Call Center business practice. Report on unauthorized Listen to creative Handle complaints Communicate Share information about CS Organization budget spending, ideas on our and requests for the directly with the the lands, houses and illegal/unfair practice business practice for protection of customers’ management on unfair housing support we at a worksite, illegal improvement through rights and benefits. regulations regarding provide and respond to transaction of rental open communication compensation, design, questions. CEO housing and unethical channels. construction, sale, rental practice. and maintenance work. CS Management Committee CS Management Advisory Committee CS Practice Committee General Customer Regional Divisions Headquarters Satisfaction Office Business Divisions 24 36 44 56 48 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 49 Customer Satisfaction Shared Growth Contribution to Local Community Customized Service Product & Service Quality One-stop Housing Welfare System Innovative of Maintenance Work Establishing Culture for Shared Growth and Fair Practice Process In December 2015, we launched the one-stop housing welfare information system “My Home” (http://www. At LH, we introduced “Tenant Reverse Evaluation Program” where customers participate in repair service to improve Defect Handling Rate myhome.go.kr) so people can access the information about housing welfare. My Home is an upgraded version of the quality of houses and service. The system allows tenants to evaluate the repair service of the construction the Rental Housing website service which provides information about public rental housing allowing people to company, and we use the results to reward and penalize the companies. In 2015, we conducted the evaluation on 32 more easily access the information spread across the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, LH, Korea apartment complexes with 26,148 units for a total 51 times (1st and 2nd). 31%p 92 % My Home Portal Housing & Urban Guarantee Corporation and local governments according to their needs. We have integrated the We held LH Customer Quality Award to present awards to companies, staffs and managers with superior 61% Improved government’s housing policies in five key areas including Happy Housing, New Stay, Housing Allowance, and Fund performance and issue a letter of warning to the companies responsible for material defects and poor workmanship Before After Loan in addition to the information provided by the Rental Housing Portal about public rental housing (location, and increase the penalty system for tender qualification. We conducted service training programs for the staffs in size, eligibility, rent), rental announcement, annual supply plan, and waiting list. contact with customers to ensure that each customer receives prompt, professional, friendly and courteous service. Average Defect Fix Time We have established a call center and offline service center for those who cannot access the internet. We have They include maintenance service managers, CS managers from our suppliers and purchasers and they were trained upgraded the LH Call Center to My Home Call Center and provide the information on general housing policies on dealing with customers, conversational skills, mind reading and importance of communication. In 2015, we provided through My Home Portal including New Stay, Housing Allowance and Happy Housing. In addition, we are 24.4 14.9 days 9.5 conducted 4 training sessions in 5 regions and 549 people completed the training, and 104 of them were qualified operating 36 My Home Call Centers nationwide with professional service representatives to provide more days days as excellent managers. As a result, we managed to reduce the maintenance period from 24.4 days to 9.5 days by 14.9 shortened comprehensive offline consultation. Before After days and increase the completion rate from 61% to 92% by 31%p, thanks to our process innovation. We expect to raise more awareness among construction professionals when it comes to the overall maintenance work process. Mobile Web Service for Jeonse Rental Safety of Housing Complex As the number of rental housing units reached 100,000 and the supply cannot keep up with increasing demands, we have launched the Jeonse rental mobile service to help tenants share information. The Jeonse rental housing At LH, we are committed to improving the quality and value of our houses by increasing the safety in the designing system allows tenants to choose the house they want to rent, and LH arranged the contract and re-rents to the phase. “LH Housing Complex Safety Guidelines” includes the design guidelines, explanation on relevant laws and tenants. Despite its popularity, as the market trend is shifting to monthly rent, people are having a difficult time regulations and concept and detail drawings by guideline. They are fully implemented to ensure the safety of the finding the Jeonse houses. With the Jeonse Rental Mobile Web Service, anyone can search rental listings, read news complex. In addition, we further enhanced our safety management system by establishing “Rescue Safety Center” as and rental announcements, and look up legal information on rental housing free of charge by using their mobile a facilities safety inspection team to prevent disaster and improve the quality instead of relying on external devices. It helps tenants to save their time and cost while increasing the level of customer satisfaction. organizations for the safety of our facilities. Housing Complex Safety Guidelines Information Security System As cyber security threats and the risk of hacking continue to grow each year, the government is strengthening their Crime Safety Fire Safety Living Safety Result of Personal Information Protection Evaluation security policies. In response to these security measures, we built an information security system and organized a • Restrict access of outsiders. • Design ‌ in consideration of fire • ‌Prevent accidents by installing safety (Unit: score) task force to enhance our management system. We upgraded our response system to prevent security compromise Key Issues • Install guard offices, lights and CCTVs prevention and evacuation rails and information security infrastructure while raising security awareness and monitoring performance as part of our • Design to ensure natural monitoring • Plan the accessibility of fire engines • Prevent slip and door pinching 94.25 • ‌Install air safety mats and descending • ‌Separate the traffic of pedestrians, 87.48 four key strategies; we also designated an information security supervisor and security manager for each division. To life lines bicycles and vehicles increase the security awareness of our employees, we conduct an audit on information security and training program while providing instructions on security vulnerabilities and personal information protection on PC on the Cyber Security Day each month. In addition, we distribute the manual for personal information protection and • Apply ‌ the vehicle entry control • Install fast response smoke detectors • ‌Change the material for living room protocol for the use and disclosing personal information and conducted training sessions 14 times in 2015. In each Safety Design system in Seoul Metropolitan Areas. ‌ • Design the disaster announcement lights (reinforced glass to acryl) to for Zero • Install ‌ the playground monitoring system in parking lots reduce fall damage Organizations under LH quarter, we perform “Personal Data Clean Day” to raise awareness in security related matters and a self-check Accident system. • Adjust ‌ the height of life lines and • ‌Prevent electric shock with safety Central Ministries Average Score program. In 2015, we achieved zero security accident following the last year and scored 94.25, an “Excellent” rating, install platform outlet for Personal Information Protection Evaluation as recognized by the Ministry of Interior. 24 36 44 56 50 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 51 Customer Satisfaction Shared Growth Contribution to Local Community Shared Growth Progress in Shared Growth Culture for Shared Growth and Fair Practice At LH, we are creating a culture that promotes shared growth and fair practice by improving our system and supporting small and medium-sized companies. In 2015, we reduced the license fees for our technological development support projects and improved our payment system for supplies under trial operation conditional contract to help small and medium-sized companies maintain financial stability. In addition, we reduced the land Shared Growth System size for the Innovation City Cluster to help small and medium-sized companies move in. We also supported the testbed for new technology for reducing the noise between floors while increasing the opportunities for them to Strategies undertake projects by including their expertise and reliability in addition to the construction capacity when selecting sub-contractors. At LH, we established a shared growth system to promote the sustainable development of public corporations and small and medium-sized companies and contribute to the economic development of our country based on the Building Foundation for Shared Growth government policies and organizational missions. Each year, we set our goals and missions and reflect them in our business plan while fulfilling our social responsibility through fair distribution of profit and business operation. Shared Growth Evaluation As the industrial complex plan for Pangyo Creative Economy Valley has been approved, we expect to see the In 2015, we selected 32 action tasks with 4 strategic goals and completed 30 of them. We will continue to for Public Organizations construction of Public Knowledge Industry Center (KRW 140 billion) and Enterprise Support Hub (KRW 290 billion) strengthening our corporate-wide shared growth system in line with our business plans and goals while developing Improved Improved Good in 2017 while supporting small business startups and their growth. In addition, we signed the agreement for private tasks for shared growth that distinguish us from other organizations. and public joint investment at an amount of KRW 6 billion and financed KRW 1 billion for two corporate proposal tasks and one demand research task. If successful, the technologies will be purchased. We expect to improve quality 2014 2015 Goal for while reducing cost, and small and medium-sized companies can secure their sales channels as well as financing for Shared Growth Strategies 2016 their technological development. These efforts will further enhance the cooperation between public corporations Shared and small and medium-sized companies. Growth Goals Achieve the highest level of shared growth and cooperation. Strategic Creating Culture for Shared Building Foundation for Building Cooperation Creating Ethical Ecosystem Purchase from Small and Implementing Cooperation Development System Goals Growth and Fair Practice Shared Growth Development System for Construction Industry Medium-sized Companies At LH, we are complying with our purchase quota of small and medium-sized companies under the government Rate of Purchase (Unit: %) policies by designating the public purchase support manager. In 2015, we purchased KRW 6,496.8 billion from small Organization 57.2 59.2 and medium-sized companies, exceeding our target of KRW 6,289.1 billion. With The Green, we are operating an 54.7 exhibition center to promote 12 new technologies and materials and 12 new NEP certified products while providing At LH, we hold quarterly meetings and occasional unscheduled meetings with Shared Growth Committee as a an opportunity to promote 33 technologies from small and medium-sized companies by organizing a festival for central coordinator to track and support the progress. The Small and Medium-sized Enterprise Support Group and technological innovation as part of the share growth plan. task managing teams are in charge of securing the resources for shared growth through regular review and We established “Construction Technology Center (http://sjj.lh.or.kr/)” to help small and medium-sized companies to monitoring as well as feedback process. In addition, we have established an effective framework for cooperation and 2013 2014 2015 promote their technologies with strong financial and technological impact and excellent performance and quality Shared Growth Center as a communication channel to collect feedback from small and medium-sized companies. in real-time. At the Construction Technology Promotion Room, companies can register their eco-friendly products Total Purchase Amount certified for environmental protection, excellent recyclability (GR), new technologies in transportation, fire(Unit: KRW 100 million) LH’s Commitments prevention, electric power and technological development products such as NET, NEP and EPC certified materials 64,968 and processes for the purchase from public organizations (mandatory). We review and purchase the listed products 59,928 60,911 and encourage the use of superior construction technologies of small and medium-sized companies. Deliver our best efforts to create a sustainable management system to pave the way for our future. Achieve the following goals to create a sustainable corporate ecosystem and ensure cooperation with small and medium-sized companies for creative economy. Creating Ethical Eco-system for Construction Industry Recognize small and medium-sized companies as our partners for sustainable future and provide support through continuous 2013 2014 2015 We are reinforcing the role of overseeing our payment process by promoting advanced payment system and fair communication and system improvement. business practice. We implemented Labor Cost Split Management System with banks to promote our payment Help small and medium-sized companies to gain a competitive edge in the global market through technological support and confirmation system while applying restrictions on companies which delay payment to their workers as part of our increase in the sales channel. efforts to prevent delay in paying labor cost. As a result, the number of delayed payment cases reduced by 70% in 2015, Promote communication among participants and prevent unfair practice while complying with laws and regulations to create a and the second trial system will be implemented in 2016 followed by corporate-wide full implementation in 2017. more sustainable culture for shared growth. We implemented special inspection programs to prevent violation of our subcontract regulations and uncovered 20 Create new values for shared growth, recognizing the growth of small and medium-sized companies as our own. With these missions as our top priority, we promise to put our best efforts in achieving the goals for shared growth and sustainable violation cases in 10 construction sites while strengthening our surveillance and preventive measures against unfair future with small and medium-sized companies. practice through a workshop for staffs from Unfair Subcontract Resolution Center. In addition, we held the Clean Council for Share Growth 16 times in 8 regional divisions nationwide and collected 50 feedback reports from 315 attendees including the site supervisors. Their feedback will be implemented in our organizational operation after review. 24 36 44 56 52 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 53 Customer Satisfaction Shared Growth Contribution to Local Community Contribution to Local Community Result of Social Contribution Service Hours Nanum Fund Budget Spending on Social Contribution (Unit: hour) (Unit: KRW 100 million) (Unit: KRW 100 million) Service Hours person 72 67 65,848 3.4 3.4 3.4 60 61,274 54,233 Social Contribution System 13 10 9 Strategies 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 As a corporate citizen that recognizes the value of sharing and caring, we dedicate our best efforts to fulfilling our social responsibility and building trust with the public. Based on our founding principles and areas of business, we created our social contribution system promoting the support and cooperation with our local community. 2015 Key Activities Social Contribution Strategies Strategic Focus of Social Improve the quality of people’s life. Fulfill corporate social responsibility. Contribution Shared Growth with 1 2 3 Housing Welfare Creating Jobs Social Service Local Community • ‌Improve the welfare for • ‌Resolve unemployment • Support ‌ local community • Increase ‌ the opportunity Action Plan tenants. issues with younger • Promote ‌ community for employee involvement. for Social • ‌Provide welfare benefits generations. involvement. • ‌Enhance the efforts for Contribution for children from low• ‌Create jobs for low• Build ‌ a local network. social service. income families. income population. • ‌Promote the culture of • ‌Stabilize people’s living • ‌Build a foundation for the sharing. conditions. creation of jobs. 4 5 6 LH Volunteer Group Organization & Foundation At LH, we are actively pursuing our social contribution programs with our CSR Corp and 25 nationwide LH Sharing Head of Group (President) Volunteer Corp and organized CSR Advisory Committee which serves the role of monitoring its progress. Deputy Head of Group (Vice President) Voluntary Resource Procurement of Employees, Nanum Fund 7 8 9 Our social contribution activities consist of employees’ voluntary involvement and service to local community based Social on LH Sharing Volunteer Corp. Our employees voluntarily donate from their monthly wage within 1-50 accounts ① ‌Kimchi Sharing ⑨ ‌Scholarship Fund for Contribution Campaign Rental Housing Families Advisory (KRW 1,000 per account), and LH donates the same amount to match their donation. The fund is donated for the ② Joint Wedding ⑩ Local Childcare Center Committee relief efforts of national disaster and social issues or used as a financial resource for LH Sharing Volunteer Corp, In ③ ‌Serving Meals during ⑪ Yeolin Concert 2015, 4,968 employees (79%) donated KRW 340 million. School Vacation ⑫ ‌Keeping Warm Secretary (Head of ④ Sharing Briquettes Campaign Public Relations Office) ⑤ Keeping Winter Warm ⑬ Sharing of Rice Increasing Employee Involvement ⑥ ‌Vegetable Garden ⑭ ‌Tteokguk for Lunar Volunteer 10 11 12 Sharing New Year Group To encourage more employee involvement, we are managing the performance indicator for their social contribution ⑦ Child Mentoring ⑮ ‌Donation for Korean Operation such as One Brand per Division Campaign and Level of Social Contribution Efforts based their social service hours ⑧ ‌Eco-Friendly Thanksgiving Day Committee Communities while introducing an incentive system through which we reward our teams or individual employee for their social 25 Chapters contribution efforts. In addition to our corporate-wide social contribution efforts including LH Happy Loan, School (Regional Divisions) Meals for Children, and Sharing Love and Filling Happiness Campaigns, each regional and business division develops their own social contribution campaigns such as bathing, distribution of food, and donation of talent. In 2015, we completed a total of 54,233 hours in community service with 9 hours per employee. 13 14 15 24 36 44 56 54 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 55 Customer Satisfaction Shared Growth Contribution to Local Community LH’s Social Contribution Activities Local Formed cooperative relationships Jinju City Organized social contribution campaign NGO Our social contribution activities are divided into areas of housing welfare for fulfilling the needs of rental housing with local NGOs. in cooperation with local governments. Improving Housing Welfare tenants, creating jobs and shared growth through cooperation with other organizations. As a corporate citizen that Creating Jobs LH provides support and sponsorship while Jinju City selected the recipients promotes the value of sharing and social involvement, we promise to fulfill our social responsibility and continue to local NGOs select recipients. and supported local farmers. Enhancing Shared Growth earn trust from the people. • Donated ‌ 100,000 briquettes for • ‌Donated KRW 30 million in Onnuri Gift 334 low-income families. Certificates for 300 households. (Sharing Briquettes of Love HQ) • ‌Installed heating facilities for 40 households ROK Air Force Gyeongsang • ‌Sponsored Jinju Namgang Lantern Festival. for the winter season. Education National Helped to local communities Provided medical service for children (Jinju Culture & Art Foundation) • ‌Donated 20,000 cabbages of Kimchi for & Training University through private and military cooperation and senior citizens from low-income • Renovated ‌ houses for 3 independence 6,000 low-income families. Command Hospital and mutual support. families in Jinju and Gyeongnam. patriots as part of the celebration of the • Organized a local trading market for 7 times. 70th anniversary of Independence. (Love Korea Foundation) Signed One-Company-One-Barrack Raised Happiness Fund (KRW 50 million). exchange agreement and held “New Year Musical Concert for Jinju Citizens”. • ‌Provided medical support and operated 6 patients with incurable disease. •‌More than 800 citizens in Jinju attended the event. • 50 people from vulnerable groups were invited. Youth Adolescents Adults Senior Citizens Established local childcare centers within Provided scholarship for college students from low-income Organized wedding ceremonies and honeymoon for rental Employed senior citizens for providing care for senior citizens living the public rental housing complex to provide childcare service families so they can focus on their education. housing tenants, multi-cultural families, and local residents. alone and facilities maintenance in the rental housing complexes. Local and education for low-income families. Scholarship Joint Senior Childcare Program for Wedding Number of Number of Social Number of Total Annual Annual Scholarship Number of Number of Weddings Number of Recipients Employment Number of Senior Citizens Employed Center Tenants for Tenants Operating Facilities Workers Employed Recipients Scholarship per Person Recipients Annually 29 57 638 KRW 350 million KRW 130 million 270 12 (accumulative) 300 1,000 Provided mentoring programs on education and College Developed venture business model and provided education and Child career counseling for children from low-income families in Students consulting to solve the crisis of youth unemployment. Mentoring collaboration with local colleges. Social Venture Program for Collaborating Colleges Number of Children Support Supported Teams Financial Support Number of Recipients Rental Housing 17 277 12 KRW 180 million 35 (KRW 15 million/team) Supported the establishment of community-type Provided meals for children living in public rental housing Meals for complexes with employee volunteer program. social corporation for creating jobs for rental housing tenants Children in Communityand providing social services. Rental Housing Type Social Complex Number of Number of Cooks Number of Corporation Number of Corporations Number of Job Recipients Complexes Employed Recipients 31 257 105 210 3,139 56 2016 LH Sustainability Report 57 Strategic Focus for Sustainability Strategy Ⅳ Green Value Creation for the Planet & Future Generation Why is this strategy important to LH? What are the achievements? 【 Energy Consumption 】 【 Greenhouse Gas Emission 】 As we recognize our inevitable environmental impact during our business operation, we embody environmental values Heating and protection of the rights for our future generation as our guiding principles to minimize such impact to our planet. 17.8 Possible Fuel Direct Emission We take necessary measures to protect our ecosystem and prevent air and water pollution and the production of waste and Gas 4,235 materials while ensuring green values in every urban and construction project we undertake as part of our Electricity 420.4 70.9 21,003 Indirect Emission environmental responsibility and mission. 331.7 (Unit: TJ) (Unit: tCO2e) 16,768 How do we make our approach? LH’s Commitments For the creation and sharing of green values, we are building eco-friendly urban environment and houses. By building Develop more renewable energy projects. more energy efficient houses and creating a system of reducing greenhouse gas emission, we apply eco-friendly values in all our business practices to make cities safer and more sustainable. We will share the value that we produce with our Increase the use of LED lights in our urban development projects. country and future generations. Make more efforts in our R&D activities for new eco-friendly housing technologies. 24 36 44 56 58 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 59 Eco-friendly Value Sharing Response to Climate Change Eco-friendly Value Sharing Our “Eco-friendly Value Sharing” is comprised of activities we undertake to create green values in our projects for the development of lands, cities and housing units for our planet and future generation. We are creating green values in our urban development projects based on Green City, Green Industrial Infrastructure and Green Transportation System. Eco-friendly buildings, renewable energy facilities, and recycling infrastructure are built to create ecofriendly cities. At LH, we are building green offices based on our Green Management System in response to climate change and carbon management. We promise to lead sustainable growth for our country. ① Green City ② Green Industrial Foundation ④ Carbon Emission Inventory ⑤ CDM Project Applied LID technology to Collective Generation of Energy Reduced Urban Greenhouse Registered to UN Framework 4 more cities Power 419,887 MWh Gas Emission by 2030 Convention on Climate Change CDM 7 Reduction by 37% 8,257 tons/year Steam 643,500 Gcal ③ Green Transportation System (2013~2015) 6 U-city Development 8 Completed 20 projects In Progress 18 projects Eco-friendly Technology and Construction Planned 15 projects 11 Bicycle Road Dongtan (20) 5 New City 198 km Happy City 355 km 4 Preparing for Climate Change 9 Energy Use Waste Recycle CO2 10 ⑥ Eco-friendly Construction Green Building Certification 1 37 projects Building Energy Efficiency Eco-friendly Corporate Culture Rating Certification 16 projects ⑨ Increasing Recyclability Technological Performance of 3 ⑦ Renewable Energy Facilities Recycling Waste Materials 3 Houses with Renewable Design (Processing Facilities) 2 Energy System KRW 23.7billion saved ⑩ Green Management System ⑪ Green Corporate Activities 112,166 units Research(Housing) Purchasing Eco-friendly Energy Consumption ⑧ Housing Complex with Products Building Eco-friendly Urban Network Low Energy Consumption KRW 600/household saved KRW 161 billion 420.4 TJ Installing LED Street Lamps Worksite (Development District) Greenhouse Gas Emission 21 districts KRW 30.9 billion saved 21,003 tCO e 2 24 36 44 56 60 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 61 Eco-friendly Value Sharing Response to Climate Change Green Value of Land and City Green Value in Houses and Buildings Building Green City Certification Status Expanding Eco-friendly Buildings (Unit: case) Green Building Certification Green City refers to not only cities with eco-friendly buildings but also those harmonizing with the ecosystem and Building Energy Efficiency Rating Certification At LH, we extend our efforts to construct more eco-friendly buildings with higher energy efficiency by incorporating the ways of the nature. At LH, we are creating Green Cities in consideration of the natural circulation, the quality of 70 environmental factors in our construction process. Through Land & Housing Institute, we focus our resources in life and sustainable future. 56 developing innovative design technologies in the areas of energy saving and residential space. As urbanization changes the use of lands causing flood and subsidence as well as the emission of contaminants, we In addition, we promote our efforts for adopting more sustainable construction practice through Green Building 37 increase the application of LID (Low Impact Development) in our development projects. LID is method of 26 Certification and Building Energy Efficiency Rating Certification. Green Building Certification analyzes the 16 minimizing the impact on the circulation of water using the penetration and undercurrent from the source of rain 10 environmental impact throughout the entire process including production of materials, design, construction, water and designing to ensure that runoff penetrates soil, increasing the natural circulation and creating an ecomaintenance and waste disposal while Building Energy Efficiency Rating Certification certifies buildings with a high friendly drainage system. We held a conference with the Ministry of Environment and Korea Environment 2013 2014 2015 level of energy efficiency from design and construction stage to their completion. We introduce and promote these Corporation to analyze the monitoring result of Ochang Science Complex and learned that the entire complex had systems to encourage eco-friendly construction practice creating green value for low-carbon growth. reduced the leakage by 46%. As a result, we decided to apply LID to four additional districts including Asan Tangjeong, Godeok New City, Hanam Misa, and Hwaseong Bongdam 2 to create a more effective water circulation Number of Housing Units Built Supplying Renewable Energy Housing system. We will continue our efforts to introduce LID to more development projects and create eco-friendly urban with Renewable Energy Systems environment by reducing the effect of heat island and managing the source of contaminants through the 18,120 (Unit: household) At LH, we have undertaken various renewable energy projects including photovoltaic power, solar thermal water penetration of rainwater into underground sources. heating system, fuel cell and small scale wind power generation to create more energy efficient residential complexes since 2006. In addition, we introduced renewable energy systems such as photovoltaic and solar thermal Result of Collective Energy Projects Creating Green Infrastructure power in the environment plant facilities to reduce energy costs. As of 2015, we built 112,166 households with 4,855 photovoltaic system in 157 districts and 12,053 households with solar thermal water heating system in 12 districts 2,439 Power Generation (MWh) At LH, we are solidifying the foundation for sustainable growth through collective energy projects which supply as well as 775 households with fuel cells and 327 households with small-scale wind power generation system. Steam Generation (Gcal) energy production facilities when building industrial, commercial or housing complexes and contributing to the 2013 2014 2015 216,727 225,297 201,476 government’s response to the increasing demands for electrical power. We built energy generation facilities such as Building Energy Efficient Complex 147,610 combined heat and power plant, PLB (Peak Load Boiler), resource recovery facilities in certain residential, commercial 138,537 133,740 Number of Energy Efficient and industrial complexes to supply the heat and electricity to a large number of users. These collective energy Complexes Based on the analysis on energy consumption pattern in school facilities, we established an energy saving plan and (Unit: district) projects help mitigate the peak load during summer season while reducing greenhouse gas emission and reliance incorporated in the design of new school to reduce energy consumption using photovoltaic control awning, high 35 on oil. We also use non-polluting refrigerant instead of gas refrigerant which causes global warming to protect the windows for lighting and ventilation, auto power shutdown system, 1st grade energy efficient windows and energy ozone layer while helping improve the quality of air by promoting the use of LNG, operating contamination 21 generation and heating/cooling systems using photovoltaic and solar power thermal energy. We tested new energy 2013 2014 2015 17 prevention facilities, and saving fuel. saving technologies including triple layered glass using low cost, high efficiency Passive+Active technology and smart LED system in Pyeongtaek Godeok District and managed to save 22% of the cost. We are creating more energy efficient complexes using various energy saving technologies including balancing valves and LED street Effect of Collective Energy Projects 2013 2014 2015 lamps while improving the insulation of the top floor with green roof. By incorporating these energy saving technologies in 18 districts including Shiheung Eungae, we saved 472,851TOE (approx. KRW 330 billion/year) and supported the government’s energy policies. Result of Waste Recycling Spreading Waste Recycling Technology Creating Contribution to Significant Reduction of Mitigation of Technology Eco-friendly Government’s Reduction of Reduction of Energy Greenhouse Peak Load during Consumption Gas Emission Residential Response to Increasing Summer Season Reliance on Oil In response to the increasing need for more efficient recycling of waste materials, we are improving the efficiency of Environment Demand for Energy Design recycling facilities and the recycling of resources in housing complexes to reduce landfills and buried wastes by (Disposal Facilities) diversifying our efforts and applying new technologies in practice. KRW Implementing Green Transportation System 23.7billion saved Research(Housing) Design Research Worksite At LH, we built 198㎞ of bicycle-friendly infrastructure in Hwaseong Dongtan New City 2 and used a new paving (Disposal Facilities) (Housing) (Development Districts) KRW system specialized for the use of bicycle road to create a “Bicycle-Friendly City”. The routes are networked by connecting wide lines, arterial lines, minor arterial lines and branch lines and it will be applied to more districts by 600 /household saved Apply zero food waste technology Optimize the waste (LH patent) for eco-friendly housing Recycle buried wastes to fuel monitoring its progress. We are building the Green Transportation System that increases the traffic flow and reduces disposal system (e.g. MBT*). complexes. Worksite in the districts. [Applied to projects [Including Daejeon Songlim greenhouse gas emission. At U-City, traffic volume is measured to provide an intelligent transportation system and (Development Districts) [Including Incheon Cheongna] ordered from 2016] Complex No. 4, and Suseo Permanent KRW Rental Complex] more convenient public transportation for residents. In addition, we are innovating our transportation system to create a safer and more convenient urban environment improving the quality of people’s life. 30.9 billion saved * ‌MBT (Mechanical Biological Treatment): waste recycling facility that combines a sorting process with a form of biological treatment. 24 36 44 56 62 2016 LH Sustainability Report Growth Driver Human-centered Corporate Culture Quality of Life Improvement Green Value Creation 63 Eco-friendly Value Sharing Response to Climate Change LH’s Green Value Response to Climate Change Eco-friendly Purchase Green Management System (Unit: KRW 100 million) At LH, we assess the environmental impact of all our decision making and work process in terms of organizational 1,675 1,610 operation and management activities. Each division considers the impact of their organizational activities when setting their environmental goals, and we are implementing our Green Purchasing plan for more eco-friendly 741 practice along with corporate-wide energy saving efforts. In addition, we apply stringent industrial standards and the environmental aspects of our organization, products Carbon Emission Inventory and services in our Environmental Assessment, Preliminary Disaster Inspection, and ISO14001 Certification to create 2013 2014 2015 more eco-friendly value. At LH, we manage carbon emission in terms of green areas including construction, renewable energy, transportation and natural resource using urban carbon emission inventory. Our employees can access the web-based LH carbon Energy Saving Activities emission analysis system (http://co2analysis.lh.or.kr) to monitor the carbon emission in each area and apply individual goals and financial analysis in the development process of CDM projects. We are incorporating Green City At LH, we use eco-friendly hybrid vehicles for our business operation and established energy saving campaigns such Carbon Emission Inventory in our urban planning and increasing the number of trial cities with the aim to reduce as carpooling, Vehicle Days, and shuttle bus for the transportation of our employees. Furthermore, we implemented urban greenhouse gas emission by 37% by 2030. corporate-wide energy saving plans under the government’s “Guidelines for Rationalizing Energy Consumption of Public Organizations”. We are maintaining our indoor temperature at 28℃ in summer and 18℃ in winter while limiting the operation of air-conditioning and ventilation systems. We also turn off the lights in our offices during lunch hours CDM Projects installed LED lights and other more energy efficient office equipment as part of our daily energy saving plan. Since the registration of the Pyeongtaek Sosabeol Renewable Energy Project in UNFCCC (United Nations Framework Eco-friendly & Energy Efficient Office Building Convention on Climate Change) as the first land development district in the world, we have continuously developed CDM projects and registered them in UNFCCC to earn carbon credits. In September 2011, we developed the In 2015, we moved our office building to Jinju Innovation City. Designed with “Thousand Years Old Tree” as its motif, greenhouse gas reduction through photovoltaic distribution in public rental housing complexes into CDM projects our new office building is intelligent and eco-friendly with renewable energy systems such as photovoltaic system and completed the registration of “Korea Renewable Energy System Program CDM for Multi-unit Housing” in and wind-power generation system, as well as green roof and certified the first grade in energy efficiency. UNFCCC in December 2012. Unlike one-time project, the Program CDM allows individual projects using the same With use of highly efficient PF (Phenolic Foam), triple-coated Low-E glasses, and awning in the direction of process to be registered in UNFCCC. As a result, we expected to secure approximately 180,000 tons of carbon credits Southwest for blocking the sunlight as part of the passive design, we minimized the energy consumption of the thanks to photovoltaic distribution projects we are undertaking: these carbon credits are equal to planting about 61 building while installing highly efficient energy systems and LED lights. In addition, we introduced renewable LH Office Building million pine trees. Currently, the carbon credit issuance and additional registration of CPA under Program CDM are energy systems such as photovoltaic, geothermy, solar and wind power generation systems which take care of 15% in progress. The revenue we generate through our CDM projects is invested in our R&D projects in renewable energy of the entire energy consumption while incorporating BEMS (Building Energy Management System) in our energy sectors and we are planning to develop various renewable energy projects using photovoltaic, fuel cells, small wind monitoring system. The annual energy consumption of our office building is estimated at 134.8kWh/m2 which is one power facilities and geothermy. third of other buildings’ 500kWh/m2 and it is the first building with a total floor area of 100,000m2 or more (LH Office Building: 109,520m2) to reduce the standard first grade building’s energy consumption by 55% (300 → 134.8kWh/ m2·year). Carbon Reduction through CDM Projects Meanwhile, the building is equipped with a water recycling system which allows us to use recycled water for landscaping, restrooms, and cleaning while installing water-saving facilities in our rooftop park and other areas as Pyeongtaek Sosabeol Multi-unit Housing part of our environmental value creation plan. Renewable Energy Project Public Rental Housing Renewable Energy (Photovoltaic and Photovoltaic CDM Program CDM Solar Power) CDM Minimizing Environmental Impact At LH, we use Geographical Information System to manage the information about our ecosystem and biodiversity 96,000 tons/21 years 24,000 tons/10 years 180,000 tons/20 years (UN Registration: February 2009) (UN Registration: September 2011) (UN Registration: December 2012) and preserve habitats to protect endangered species. In addition, we apply strict regulations and guidelines to our waste disposal process for every construction project we undertake and discharge all water into the local sewage treatment facilities to minimize environmental impact. 64 2016 LH Sustainability Report Environmental Performance Energy Consumption Appendix Fossil Fuel Gas Electricity Heating (Unit: TJ) 2013 23.0 30.7 237.9 22.7 314.4 2014 22.1 20.8 230.1 23.2 296.2 2015 70.9* 331.7 17.8 420.4 * Refers to the value combining the consumption of possible fuel and gas. Third Party Assurance Statement 66 Greenhouse Gas Emission GRI Content Index 68 UNGC Membership & Support 70 * ** Scope1 Scope2 (Unit: tCO2e) 2013 3,187 13,032 16,219 ISO 26000 71 2014 3,434 14,919 18,353 Awards / Membership 72 2015 4,235 16,768 21,003 * Scope1: fuel for heating the office building and work sites (fixed), fuel for vehicles (mobile) ** Scope2: electricity used by the office building and construction sites Water Usage and Recycling Water Usage (Unit: ton) Clean Water Usage Recycling 2013 199,011 11,755 2014 229,031 20,278 2015 208,052 15,410 Water Recycling Rate (Unit: %) 2013 5.9 2014 8.8 2015 7.4 Waste Materials Generated & Recycled General Waste Materials Designated Waste Materials Recycled Waste Materials (Unit: ton) 2013 293.9 89.1 169.8 2014 79.1 45.8 2015 220.8 21.9 66 68 70 71 72 66 2016 LH Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance GRI Content Index UNGC Membership & Support ISO 26000 Awards / Membership 67 Statement Third Party Assurance Statement To: The Stakeholders of LH MCSR Co. , Ltd. (the ‘assurance provider’ hereafter) has been engaged by Korea Land and Housing Corporation(LH) to • ‌Based on our work, it is our opinion that the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI Introduction and conduct an independent assurance of its 2016 Sustainability Report (the ‘Report’ hereafter). This assurance statement G4. Further detail is provided below; objective of work applies to the related information included within the scope of work described below. The information and its presentation in the Report are the sole responsibility of the management of LH. The assurance provider was not involved General Standard Disclosures in the drafting of the Report. Our sole responsibility was to provide independent assurance on its content. The assurance provider reviewed General Standard Disclosures, and believes that the Report meets the Core Option requirements of General Standard Disclosures. The assurance process was conducted in line with the requirements of the Assurance Standard AA1000AS (2008) Type1 Assurance standard assurance. GRI G4 guidelines and ISO 26000 were also used. The scope of work included: Specific Standard Disclosures and scope of work • Data and information included in the Report for the reporting period; The assurance provider reviewed Material Aspects, DMAs and Indicators, and believes that the Report meets the • ‌Appropriateness and robustness of underlying reporting systems and processes, used to collect, analyze and review Core Option requirements of Specific Standard Disclosures. the information reported; • ‌Evaluation of the Report against the main principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008); The following is a recommendation which does not affect our conclusions on the assurance statement. Based on the work Inclusivity Materiality Responsiveness Key areas conducted, we recommend LH to consider the following: for ongoing • ‌Each project area of the report reflects the positive aspects of the performances that LH achieved regarding the • Evaluation against GRI G4 ‘In Accordance’ Criteria; development sustainability issues. However, in order to maintain the balance of the report, it is recommended to also include The moderate level of assurance has been applied. deriving issues having poor performances, and efforts for resolving such issues; As part of its independent assurance, the assurance provider undertook the following activities: • ‌In order to integrate the material issues recognized from the stakeholders engagement into the corporate Methodology • Interviews with relevant personnel of LH; sustainability strategy, it is recommended to organize and operate a highest organization system such as a • Review of documentary evidence produced by LH; sustainability committee(CSR committee); • Audit of performance data; • Site visits; No member of the assurance team has a business relationship with LH. We have conducted this assurance independently, • Review of data and information systems for collection, aggregation, analysis and review; Statement of and there has been no conflict of interest. The assurance team consists of the best experts equipped with sufficient • Review of stakeholder engagement activities; independence, knowledge and expertise in the relevant areas. Our work was conducted against standard procedures and guidelines for external assurance of sustainability reports. impartiality and competence On the basis of our methodology and the activities described above, it is our opinion that: Our findings • ‌LH has established appropriate systems for the collection, aggregation and analysis of relevant information. The information and data included in the Report are accurate, reliable and free from material mistake or misstatement; • ‌The Report properly reflects the organization’s alignment to and implementation of the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008) principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness in its operations. Further detail is provided below; Inclusivity LH has processes in place for engaging with range key stakeholders including employees, customers, business partners, community, and government. LH has undertaken a number of formal stakeholder engagement activities. March 2016 Materiality Hyun Lee, CEO, IMCSR Co. , Ltd The Report addresses the range of environmental, social and economic issues of concern that LH has identified as being of highest material importance. The identification of material issues has considered both internal assessments of risks and opportunities to the business, as well as stakeholders’ views and concerns. Responsiveness Hyeran Kim, Expert Adviser Jiwan Kim, Expert Adviser LH has integrated material sustainability issues into organization’s strategy and operation. The Report properly reflects the organization’s response to the material issues which are defined through process for identifying material issues. 66 68 70 71 72 68 2016 LH Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance GRI Content Index UNGC Membership & Support ISO 26000 Awards / Membership 69 Statement GRI Content Index Index Number G4 Description Page Assurance Index Number G4 Description Page Assurance Strategy and Analysis G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. 2 ● 66-67 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of Stakeholder Engagement G4-1 4-5 ● 66-67 sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 18-19 ● 66-67 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 4-5, 17 ● 66-67 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 18-19 ● 66-67 Organizational Profile Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an G4-26 18-19 ● 66-67 G4-3 Report the name of the organization 12 ● 66-67 indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 8-9 ● 66-67 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics G4-27 18-20 ● 66-67 ● 66-67 and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 12-13 Report Profile Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that G4-6 12-13 ● 66-67 are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 2 ● 66-67 G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 12 ● 66-67 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 2 ● 66-67 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 8-9, 18-19 ● 66-67 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). 2 ● 66-67 Report the scale of the organization, including: G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 2 ● 66-67 Total number of employees A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Total number of operations G4-9 12-13 ● 66-67 B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) G4-32 2, 68-70 ● 66-67 C. Report ‌ the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. Quantity of products or services provided A. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. A. Report the total number of employees by`and gender. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. B. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. G4-33 2, 66-67 ● 66-67 C. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. C. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. G4-10 D. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 38 ● 66-67 E. Report ‌ whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals Governance other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for F. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-34 16 ● 66-67 decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 41 ● 66-67 Ethics and Integrity G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 18-19 ● 66-67 G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 42-43 ● 66-67 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-13 2 ● 66-67 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations) Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination Category: Economic G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 17 ● 66-67 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it Aspects Index Number G4 Description Page Assurance G4-15 70, 71 ● 66-67 endorses. DMA 24-25 ● 66-67 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 29 ● 66-67 Holds a position on the governance body G4-16 Participates in projects or committees 72 ● 66-67 DMA 24-25 ● 66-67 Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 30-35 ● 66-67 Views membership as strategic G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 30-35 ● 66-67 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries A. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. G4-17 12-13 ● 66-67 B. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 A. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. 21 ● 66-67 Category: Environmental B. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 21 ● 66-67 Aspects Index Number G4 Description Page Assurance For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: DMA 56-57 ● 66-67 Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization Energy If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two approaches and report either: G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 64 ● 66-67 G4-20 21 ● 66-67 a. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or DMA 56-57 ● 66-67 b. The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Water Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 64 ● 66-67 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: DMA 56-57 ● 66-67 Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 1) 64 ● 66-67 G4-21 If‌ the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect is material. In addition, 21 ● 66-67 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) 64 ● 66-67 describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization DMA 56-57 ● 66-67 Products and Services G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 2 ● 66-67 G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 58-63 ● 66-67 66 68 70 71 72 70 2016 LH Sustainability Report Third Party Assurance GRI Content Index UNGC Membership & Support ISO 26000 Awards / Membership 71 Statement GRI Content Index ISO 26000 Category: Social International Organization for Standardization (ISO) provides guidance on how organizations can incorporate their awareness in social reasonability, the stakeholders’ involvement, key topics and issues in their business practice in ISO 26000. At LH, we manage the key topics and issues on social Aspects Index Number G4 Description Page Assurance responsibility according to ISO 26000. Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work DMA 36-37 ● 66-67 Key Topic Issue Article in ISO 26000 Page Training and Education Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees G4-LA10 39 ● 66-67 and assist them in managing career endings Organizational governance Decision-making processes and structure 6.2.3 16 Sub-Category: Society Due dilligence 6.3.3 DMA 44-45 ● 66-67 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, G4-SO1 52-55 ● 66-67 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 and development programs DMA 36-37 ● 66-67 Resolving Grievances 6.3.6 Anti-corruption Human rights 36-38, 40 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 42-43 ● 66-67 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 Supplier Assessment for DMA 44-45 ● 66-67 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 Impacts on Society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken 50-51 ● 66-67 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 DMA 44-45 ● 66-67 Product and Service Labeling Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 46-49 ● 66-67 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 Labour practices Social dialoque 6.4.5 39-41 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 The environment 56-64 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 UNGC Membership & Support Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats Anti-corruption 6.5.6 6.6.3 Responsible political involvement 6.6.4 42-43, Fair operating practices Fair competition 6.6.5 50-51 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 As a member of the UN Global Compact since June 2010, LH reports its fulfillment of the Global Compact’s ten principles. Respect for property rights 6.6.7 Principle Practices by LH Page Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 6.7.3 Principle 1 Businesses shall support and respect internationally declared human rights. Creation and operation of basic principle on 38, Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 Human Rights Principle 2 Businesses shall make utmost efforts to avoid involvement in human rights violations. human rights protection (ethics charter) 42-43 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 Businesses shall support freedom of association and endorse practical application Fostering communication channel between labor Consumer issues Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution 6.7.6 44-49 Principle 3 of the right for collective bargaining. and the management 40-41 Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 Principle 4 Businesses shall exclude all kinds of forced labor. Labor and management collaboration program Rule of Labor Access to essential services 6.7.8 Principle 5 Businesses shall abolish child labor efficiently. Expansion of education for labor and management 39-40 Education and awareness 6.7.9 Observation of Labor Standards Act and Community involvement 6.8.3 Principle 6 Businesses shall eliminate discrimination in employment and business. 38 employment rules Education and culture 6.8.4 Establishment of a system to reduce greenhouse Principle 7 Businesses shall support preventive approach to environmental issues. Employment creation and skills development 6.8.5 gas emission Environment 56-64 Community involvement and Principle 8 Businesses shall perform measures to promote environmental accountability. Purchase of ‘Green Products’ Technology development and access 6.8.6 52-55 development Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 Principle 9 Businesses shall promote development and dissemination of eco-friendly technology. Building eco-friendly green cities Health 6.8.8 Creation and operation of Ethical Standards and Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses shall be opposed to all kinds of corruptions including illegal acquisitions and bribes. 42-43 strengthened internal control system Social investment 6.8.9 72 2016 LH Sustainability Report Awards / Membership Awards Award Organization Year 2015 Korean Housing Service Award, Community Category First Prize Moneytoday 2015 The 10th Asian Construction Award, Housing Culture Category Grand Prize The Asia Economy Daily 2015 2015 Asian Urban Landscape Award Grand Prize UN-HABITAT 2015 2015 Aju Economy Housing Construction Award, Rental Housing Category Grand Prize Ajunews 2015 2015 Korean Eco-friendly Practice Award Ministerial Commendation Ministry of Environment 2015 Green Housing Award Green Smart Grand Prize (Hankook-Ilbo Presidential Award) The Hankook-Iibo 2015 2015 H2 Hankyung Residential Culture Award, Customer Satisfaction Category -Grand Prize The Korea Economic Daily 2015 2015 Herald Business Green Housing Culture Award Grand Prize (Ministerial Award) The Herald Business 2015 2015 Disaster Response Safe Korea Training – Top Organization Central Safety Management Commitee 2015 Construction Disaster Response – Top Organization/Prime Ministerial Commendation Ministry of Employment and Labor 2015 Korea’s Most Influential CEO in 2014, Corporate Social Responsibility Category TV Chosun 2014 The 1st Gyeonggi-do City Kitchen Garden ContestParticipation Prize Gyeonggi Green & Agriculture Promotion Foundation 2014 2014 New Technology Application Contest, New Technology Product Distribution Category Meritorious Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE) and Korean Agency for Technology and 2014 Organization Standards (KATS) Top Public Corporation for Preparation for the Future Ministry of Strategy and Finance 2014 Public Rental Housing REITs Best Practice Contest Second Prize Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2014 Housing Welfare Organizations Presidential Commendation Presidential Office 2013 The 38th Censorship Award for Civil Defense Corps Anniversary First Prize Ministry of Security and Public Administration 2013 The 13th Natural Environment Award Grand Prize Ministry of Environment 2013 Human Resource Development Organizations – Top Organization Ministry of Education 2013 VE Contest, Public Category Second Prize Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 Ministerial Best Practice Contest Competition Prize Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 Job Creation Support Ministerial Commendation Ministry of Employment and Labor 2013 Land and Transport Operation Ministerial Commendation Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 Revision of Housing Construction Act Ministerial Commendation Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport 2013 NIS Management Practice Commendation National Intelligence Service 2013 Korean Management Award Korea Management Association 2013 Technological Innovation Management Award Second Prize Korea Software Industry Association 2013 Highest Grade in KoBEX-SM (2 consecutive years) The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy) 2013 UNICEF Child-Friendly Management Best Practice Unicef & Save the Children 2013 2013 Korean Shared Growth Conference, Shared Growth Corporation Category Sedaily 2013 Most Ethical Corporation in Korea (2 consecutive years) The Korean Ethics Studies Association, Sisa Journal 2013 Sarang Nanum Social Contribution Award ChosunBiz 2013 2013 CSR Leadership Award for Shared Growth JTBC 2013 Membership Korean Network on Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Korean Society of Civil Engineers Architectural Institute of Korea and Transparency Korea Institute of Ecological Architecture The Korean Institute of Illumination Korea Planners Association Korean Association for Housing Policy Studies and Environment and Electrical Installation Engineers The Korean Housing Association Korea Construction Promotion Association The Korean Institute of Landscape Architecture Urban Design Institute of Korea The Society of Air-conditioning and Korea Industrial Technology Association Korean Society of Transportation Korea Concrete Institute Refrigerating Engineers of Korea The Korean Society for Noise The Korean Institute of Power Electronics Korea Industrial Safety Association Korea Electric Engineers Association and Vibration Engineering The Korean Society for Noise Korea Personnel Improvement Association Korean Society of Water and Wastewater Korea Fire Safety Association and Vibration Engineering Korean Geotechnical Society Korea Water Resources Association Korean Society of Road Engineers International contractors Association of Korea Korean Association of Air Conditioning Refrigerating The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers Korea Ubiquitous City Association Korea Smart Grid Association and Sanitary Engineers Korea Electric Association Korea Electrical Contractors Association Korea Association for ICT Promotion The Korean Society for Elevator Engineering Architectural Institute of Japan Japan Society of Civil Engineers The Japanese Geotechnical Society American Society of Civil Engineers American Concrete Institute American Planning Association www.LH.or.kr 19, Chungui-ro, Jinju-si, Gyeongsangnam-do, South Korea (52852) TEL +82-55-922-5114
