INTEGRATED SUSTAINABILITY Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Securing Your World Overview Introduction Introduction and contents G4S is the world’s leading global, SECURING YOUR WORLD OUR CSR STRATEGY OVERVIEW integrated security company As a global leader in security and related services, corporate social responsibility forms G4S at a glance 2 specialising in the provision of a key part of our strategy. We are trusted to care for some of the world’s most valuable Introduction by the Group assets and to ensure the safety, protection and welfare of people around the world, often Chief Executive Officer 4 security and related services in difficult or complex environments. Social impact 6 to a diverse range of customers Ensuring that we undertake our business in a way which is ethically responsible, safe and in CSR performance 8 line with the company’s values and standards is an essential element of our strategic model. Key metrics 10 across six continents. We expect our managers and colleagues to uphold our standards in whatever role they play CSR Chair’s statement 12 for our business or our customers. In return, our commitment is to provide fair reward for Materiality and stakeholders 14 We play an important role in the work undertaken and the opportunity to develop and grow for those colleagues who society – our 585,000* employees wish to do so. HEALTH AND SAFETY We recognise that our employees work in an inherently hazardous environment. We seek to deliver services that create a safe equip and train our employees to ensure they are safe, but the environment in which we and better environment in which operate is fluid and can become hazardous in an instant. Health and safety 16 millions of people live and work. OUR PRIORITY AREAS HUMAN RIGHTS In this report we feature the We regularly ask stakeholders from inside and outside the company to provide input into Human rights 20 important work carried out an analysis of our material CSR issues. See page 14 for more information on this review. by our colleagues that makes us Our CSR strategy covers a broad range of areas, but we have three material priorities: ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION proud to be securing your world. HEALTH HUMAN ANTI-BRIBERY Anti-bribery and corruption 24 AND SAFETY RIGHTS AND CORRUPTION SUPPORTING DATA Supporting data 28 Reporting frameworks 29 OUR VALUES Our people and values underpin our strategy and play a key role in creating a sustainable business. We act with… This report and our collective sustainability reporting INTEGRITY framework were published in April 2017. Together, they AND RESPECT represent the CSR activity of G4S plc and its subsidiaries, associated undertakings and joint ventures for the year We are passionate about… ended 31 December 2016. SAFETY, SECURITY The audited Integrated Report and Accounts of G4S plc AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE for the year ended 31 December 2016 contains further information about the company and should be seen as the definitive source for investment decisions. We achieve this through… Visit: www.g4s.com/csr for No significant changes from previous reporting INNOVATION more information on our periods have been made, including the boundaries AND TEAMWORK approach to sustainability and measurement methods, unless stated. * Includes 27,000 employees in businesses to be sold or exited. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 1 Overview G4S at a glance OUR STRATEGY SECURING OUR BUSINESSES G4S is the world’s leading, global, integrated security company specialising Our strategy addresses the positive, long-term demand for security and related services and our enduring strategic aim is YOUR WORLD to demonstrate the values and performance that make G4S the in the provision of security and related services across six continents. company of choice for customers, employees and shareholders. We offer a broad range of services on a standalone basis or in conjunction with other We aim to do this by delivering industry-leading, innovative services to provide customers with valuable integrated solutions. Technology, software solutions and outstanding service to our customers, by providing and systems accounted for 13% of the Group’s continuing business revenues in 2016 engaging and rewarding work for employees and by generating and technology enabled security services contributed more than an additional £1.5 billion sustainable growth and returns for our shareholders. These aims are revenues in 2016. underpinned by the key programmes in our strategic plan: SECURITY SERVICES AND PEOPLE AND VALUES CUSTOMERS AND GROWTH AND SECURE SOLUTIONS (83% OF REVENUES) Market leading security solutions that are SERVICE EXCELLENCE INNOVATION SYSTEMS (78%) G4S operates an integrated security innovative, reliable and efficient. business in more than 90 countries Our scale and focus on productivity across the globe. The global security supports our cost competitiveness and market is highly fragmented; there are our sustained investment in professional Our solutions few international suppliers and our staff, technology, software and systems competitors are typically smaller local enables us to provide innovative and Analytics and and regional companies. OPERATIONAL FINANCIAL AND reliable solutions for our customers on Intelligence a stand-alone or integrated basis. Managed Systems: design, build EXCELLENCE AND COMMERCIAL Our approach and integration We design, market and deliver a wide service Technology and PRODUCTIVITY DISCIPLINE Incremental value added software range of security and related services and Consultancy and risk our global footprint provides valuable management access to a highly diversified customer base Monitoring and in markets around the world. We aim to response Integrated differentiate G4S by providing industry Manned and mobile solutions security Margin CARE AND JUSTICE SERVICES Market we can maintain a qualified talent pool Our solutions (5%) G4S’s Care and Justice services are and where the political, legal, human rights OUR VALUES AND ‘ONE G4S’ concentrated in the UK and Australia. and regulatory framework is consistent Electronic monitoring with our Group values and results in The care and justice market is fairly Managed Our people and values underpin everything we do. Our ‘One G4S’ acceptable operational, commercial and service Custody, detention and consolidated with a small number of large rehabilitation model brings all areas of our business together and is designed to reputational risk. providers. Larger companies are usually Incremental value added Secure health ensure that the way we go about our business is consistent across better equipped to deliver the highly our global operations and is strongly aligned with our strategy and specialised services in this sector. Forensic medical and our values. police support Our approach Integrated We believe that this approach will generate significant benefits for Secure transport G4S will only offer custody, detention, solutions our customers, employees and shareholders. rehabilitation and care services where Margin CASH SOLUTIONS CASH SOLUTIONS (17% OF REVENUES) Market Our approach G4S Cash Solutions is one of a small We transport, process, recycle, securely number of large, global cash businesses store and manage cash and we provide and is the market leader or number secure international logistics for cash and two in 41 of its 44 markets. Each market valuables. Our strategy is designed to is highly regulated, often by central banks, enable us to accumulate volumes through Our solutions and the business requires significant cost leadership and product and service infrastructure and expertise. G4S competes differentiation. To do this, we invest in Cash management with local, national and a small number of technology and develop and sell software and systems international competitors. Cash usage in proprietary cash management systems Managed Cash recycling most developed markets is mature, with which combine skilled professionals with service International secure flat or gradually declining volumes at an software, hardware and operational Incremental value added logistics aggregate market level. Cash usage support in an integrated managed service. ATM Replenishment continues to increase in emerging markets. and engineering We operate around the globe, focusing on Cash processing markets where we are able to build and Integrated sustain a material market share in our key Cash in transit solutions service offerings. Margin 2 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 3 Overview Introduction by the Group Chief Executive Officer CREATING Embedding our values Underpinning our culture are the Group values. These are the standards that we set for ourselves SUSTAINABLE and the organisation which are reflected in our every-day behaviour. Early in 2016 we completed a review of our values and VALUE we launched new values in March. Feedback from across our key stakeholder groups has been very positive and we are now embedding them across the Group – making sure our standards and practices are aligned. We have commenced an employee communications programme aimed at making sure colleagues understand the new values, what they mean in practice and what we expect of our colleagues as a result. We are developing a training programme for managers and a new and engaging method of introducing colleagues to the values when they first join the Group. We are embedding our new values into existing processes such as the Group’s competency framework In 2017, we will also be undertaking a global – which assesses management performance and management and employee survey, which will be linked capability against an agreed set of criteria. Performance to the company values. This is a very important means contracts for senior managers and the incentives of gaining feedback from colleagues around the world associated with them include a clear requirement on what the values mean in practice and how well to carry out their role in accordance with the Group’s they are being embedded in our organisation. required standards of behaviour. This ultimately See page 15 on employee engagement impacts how individuals are rewarded through incentive schemes. Employee safety Where specific actions are required – for example an One area of our business which continues to concern improvement in the safety performance of a particular me and my executive team is that of employee safety. business – leaders and managers will have specific We have made good progress in improving our safety Ashley Almanza, Group Chief Executive Officer non-financial objectives in order to make sure the standards, resources and accountability for safety issues, actions are given the right level of priority and focus. safety performance remains unsatisfactory and I regret Commitment to sustainability We expect our leaders and managers across the to report that although we achieved a significant As a global company operating in many different and Group to take personal responsibility for working In addition, we are encouraging colleagues to “Speak improvement in road safety, 47 colleagues lost their lives sometimes complex environments it is important that in a sustainable way which meets or exceeds the Out” if they are aware of or witness wrongdoing or in the course of their duties last year. This was principally we work in a way which is sustainable and ethical and company policies and standards. We also expect behaviour which is not in line with our values. In 2016 as a result of sharply higher levels and greater intensity has a positive economic, social and environmental them to understand where risks to sustainability we completed the global implementation of Speak of armed attacks on our employees. We are working impact on society. may exist and put in place plans and actions to Out, our whistleblowing hotline and case management closely with peer companies and law enforcement ensure that any risks are mitigated. system for the most serious of issues. Whilst we still agencies to mitigate these attacks. The number of road See our social impact assessment on pages 6 and 7 have some way to go to ensure all cases of wrongdoing traffic-related fatalities has decreased by 20% since 2013 We demonstrated our ongoing commitment to Our business processes have in-built standards to are being reported through the appropriate channels, when the road safety programme was launched. sustainability through signing the UN Global Compact ensure that we are making the right choices for the we have seen a growing willingness of employees to six years ago. The core principles of the Compact company based on an understanding of where raise concerns via Speak Out. We will continue to We will continue to focus on safety on the front line, continue to be reflected in our policies, values and sustainability risks may exist. For example, investment remind colleagues of the options open to them for where it matters the most, where we can have the most business activities today. proposals are assessed not just on the basis of reporting their concerns. impact on the behaviour of our colleagues and where appropriate operational delivery and financial returns, lives can be saved and injuries avoided. See page 29 for more information on our but also on whether they can be achieved in line with See pages 22 to 27 for information on Speak Out association with the UN Global Compact See employee safety section on pages 16 to 19 our company values and standards and whether the appropriate risk versus reward balance can be achieved. A sustainable future A sustainable business Whether we are protecting assets and people, managing This takes place formally, such as those involving We continue to make positive progress in all areas cash and valuables or playing our part in rehabilitating our Group Investment Committee, and I am also of our CSR strategy, but recognise – as part of our those in custody, it is important that we do so to the encouraged by the informal discussion which takes place ongoing transformation of the Group – that there is highest standards and with integrity and respect. across the organisation, reflecting an understanding of more we can do to continuously improve our our important role in society and the creation of a sustainability performance. It is essential that our customers can be sure we will sustainability culture across the group. always do the right thing and that our shareholders have This will continue to be a focus for the management the confidence to invest in our sustainable business and board as the group continues to develop in the model. In many emerging markets our high standards of coming years. ethics and values are a differentiating factor which contributes to our achieving leading market positions in key sectors. That is one of the reasons why sustainability Ashley Almanza is at the heart of our strategy. Group Chief Executive Officer See our materiality analysis on page 14 for more information 4 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 5 Overview Social impact DEFINING OUR SOCIAL IMPACT SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACTS We play an important role in society. In our Care and Justice operations, we develop Working with an expert panel, we have identified 15 These are the specific areas through which G4S innovative programmes to rehabilitate offenders We make a difference by helping and provide them with the encouragement and skills social, economic and environmental areas within the makes a positive difference to society and communities people to operate in a safe and secure SDGs where G4S makes its most significant impact. around the world. needed to help them rebuild their lives once released. environment where they can thrive Read about Debating Matters Beyond Bars on and prosper. Interest and dividends paid page 23 Through its services and organisation, G4S delivers Our colleagues work with governments and nona wel es p governmental organisations in high risk environments, lbei ng a broad range of significant and far reaching social, such as former conflict areas, to support humanitarian, Tax economic and environmental benefits to the e stabilisation and economic reconstruction efforts. id and communities in which we work, many of which Pe rim are helping to realise the United Nations Visit g4s.com/business4peace to read the case study o ple lth o fc de Hea n Sustainable Development Goals. Our focus on safety has helped to reduce the risk ve t io lo en We create employment opportunities, and invest in of injury and fatality among our employees and pm rev en P those in our care. t and develop our employees. We directly benefit stem them and our suppliers through the salaries, benefits See pages16 to 19 Emp usti ce sy loyee i nal j and payments we make for goods and services. wage crim We encourage industry standards to be raised. s and or ting See our Skills India case study on page 23 By embedding our policies and practices into less bene fits Supp developed regions, as well as by supporting new approaches such as the Ethical Employment Partnership Providing care or the International Code of Conduct for Private tion Security Providers, we have helped to improve Job crea Pri of vac industry standards around the world. ds yv dar ec ss ecu on n y sta rity ustr om bal anc ind ic g Prot e isin SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Ra rec ec Consu on tio no The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In this report we have mapped our key sustainability Suppo str fa rt in p uc lting o call upon business to advance sustainable development programmes against the SDGs in order to provide a clearer Su sse pp through the investments they make, the solutions insight into the impacts we have in this regard and to highlight or t ost-co tio ts nflict z n Relevant significance they develop, and the practices they adopt. the SDGs which G4S is helping to advance through our ones n risks programmes and operations. High Medium Low Prevention of crime: ongoing programme to enhance the safety culture of G4S delivers a wide range of specialist security the company and achieve its goal of zero harm. services that mitigate the risk or impact of criminal Job creation: behaviour and help to create safer communities. A key G4S provides direct employment to 585,000 people focus of our Care and Justice operations is to confront around the world. Through its supply chain and and address offender behaviour and work towards employee expenditure, G4S indirectly supports their rehabilitation. the creation of hundreds of thousands of further jobs Health and wellbeing: worldwide. In helping to create safer environments in The nature of G4S’ work and the environment which businesses may prosper, G4S can also contribute in which we operate may become hazardous. to the attractiveness of investment by businesses Mitigating this risk so that our people and those in into new communities and the creation of further their care can return home safe every day is a strategic employment opportunities. priority for the Group. G4S is investing in safety awareness, training and intervention as part of an We direct our sustainability activities through the three priority areas identified in our materiality review. Our focus on these areas enables us to maximise the positive elements of our wider socio-economic impact and helps to protect against negative impacts. Together, our materiality review, social impact mapping and priority areas present a complete picture of how we identify, understand and manage the impacts which we have. Visit sustainabledevelopment.un.org for more information on the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals See our materiality analysis on page 14 for more information 6 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 7 Overview CSR performance OUR PERFORMANCE We made good progress in a number of key CSR areas in 2016. In this section, HUMAN RIGHTS IN 2016 we cover some of the key actions undertaken in the last year. • Conducted a global human • Undertook four human rights rights assessment. risk assessments relating to new • Completed human rights business opportunities under self-assessments of review by the Group businesses operating in Investment Committee. CSR HIGHLIGHTS high-risk environments. • Business units across the Group have undertaken local human rights risk assessments. 3.6% Reduction in 13 “Top Employer” 402 Cases reported 7 Deep dive 4 Human rights 3,000 Managers have carbon intensity certifications in and managed via reviews of safety risk assessments completed online since 2015 countries our global in high-priority of major business health and safety ANTI-BRIBERY across Africa whistleblowing countries opportunities training modules AND CORRUPTION system Speak Out during 2016 HEALTH • Improved awareness of the Speak Out whistleblowing • Completed review of the Group’s anti-bribery AND SAFETY system, resulting in a marked and corruption policies. increase in the number of issues raised. • 402 cases reported and managed via Speak Out during 2016. • Introduced a new online safety training module covering minimum health and • Completed a review of our safety requirements – since PEOPLE & VALUES Group values, resulting in the 2015, over 3,000 managers development of a core set of have completed online values which are more closely health and safety modules. aligned to our strategy and • Conducted health and safety business model. control self-assessments • Launched the new values across in all countries as part the Group with an internal of the Group’s risk and Our Group strategy and communications campaign compliance systems. sustainability performance are highlighting our key values • Completed seven Group-led underpinned by our people and and behaviours. deep dive reviews of safety values. In 2016 we achieved a • Commenced the development in high-priority countries. number of important milestones: of values training and awareness • Introduced safety • Refreshed our human materials for new colleagues improvement programmes resources core standards and joining the Group. for specific risk areas such delivered training to regional • Achieved certification as a as motorcycle safety. and country-level HR managers “Top Employer” in 13 countries • Road traffic related fatalities to ensure their understanding across Africa by the Top have decreased by 20% since of the Group’s requirements. Employer Institute. 2013 when our road safety programme was launched. 8 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 9 Overview Key metrics OUR PEOPLE G4S is a global business with operations Diversity Employee retention Our employee diversity is a source of competitive High employee turnover is a risk which we seek to in more than 90 countries. We employ advantage to G4S. We believe it helps us to innovate mitigate through the HR core standards. It impacts not over 585,000* people, making G4S one and stay ahead of our competition. To harness our great only our ability to deliver excellent service, but also the of the world’s largest private employers. diversity and enable all our employees to realise their costs of doing so. The causes and potential solutions of potential, we encourage our businesses to create high turnover in our businesses are many and varied. inclusive working environments. Tools including online Retention was identified as a priority in 2016, and we cultural awareness training and cultural calendars are have focused significant efforts in key countries, where available to employees, and we encourage colleagues to 32% Frontline gender diversity (%) it was clear that employee turnover has made a material Employees by geographical segment Male seek, acknowledge and value differences. Robust policies Female impact on the business. These priority businesses are in place, which make it clear that we do not tolerate have increased reporting and sharing of information. any form of discrimination. If employees believe they are A new HR practitioners’ toolkit is under development Africa 91.4 8.6 unfairly treated we offer multiple channels for raising employees which will provide guidance on the analysis and tackling concerns, including our global reporting hotline, covered by of employee turnover issues. Asia Pacific 82.2 17.8 Speak Out. collective The efforts and focus on retention appear to be having agreements The Group’s diversity metrics are reviewed regularly, Europe 82.4 17.6 an influence, with the percentage of voluntary turnover and we take the opportunity to reach out to underacross the Group reduced by 7.1% in 2016. Latin represented groups through our recruitment at all levels. 76% America 84.8 15.2 This reduction has been particularly noticeable in Africa, Whilst security continues to be seen as a less attractive Latin America and the Middle East & India regions. Middle East 93 7 career opportunity for women, we are making progress & India In 2017, we will continue to focus on retention, and in other areas of diversity. For example, we continue to Africa 127,000 (22%) North seek opportunities to strengthen our recruitment 72.5 27.5 receive recognition for the employment opportunities Asia Pacific 59,000 (10%) America employees have activities using similar toolkits and targeted approaches. offered to military and law enforcement veterans. Europe 55,000 (9%) more than one Latin America 72,000 (12%) UK & Ireland 71.5 28.5 year’s service Employee screening Middle East & India 181,000 (31%) Collective agreements Screening our employees appropriately is vital to North America 57,000 (10%) With 32% of our employees covered by the terms UK & Ireland 34,000 (6%) 0 20 40 60 80 100 ensuring that we safeguard our customers’ assets and of a collective agreement, unions and representative our reputation as a trusted supplier. Our processes for forums are important mechanisms for employee screening have evolved over time. Security regulations involvement and help provide the organisation with vital Employees by role Manager gender diversity (%) Male have changed, new risks have emerged and access to feedback on matters of importance to our employees. Female different sources of screening data, such as social Such agreements exist at a local, regional and global media, have become available. level and we work hard to maintain constructive Africa 78 22 dialogue. We believe our Ethical Employment During 2016, we reviewed our screening policy and Partnership with UNI and the GMB remains a practices, particularly for high risk employees such as Asia Pacific 76.1 23.9 differentiator in the security industry. those carrying firearms or working in hostile environments. This will lead to the development of a Europe 82.3 17.7 Group-wide training programme for HR and Latin recruitment practitioners. The new programme will be America 75.3 24.7 mandatory and delivered online, supplementing existing Middle East training related to our HR core standards, regulatory & India 90.1 9.9 and customer requirements. North 69.4 30.6 America Frontline 89.7% UK & Ireland 64.9 35.1 Supervisory 5.8% Admin 3.3% Collective agreements (%) Employee turnover (%) Length of employee service (2016) Managerial 1.2% 0 20 40 60 80 100 36 36 Human resources core standards management systems. The system provides a common platform for managing risk and streamlines the process 30 33.0 During 2016, the HR core standards, with which every 32.0 30 30.0 30.8 business must comply, were revised. Originally developed for completing, monitoring and reporting compliance 29.7 24 27.6 in 2006, the standards are not new, but had over time against the standards. As with previous years, any 24 become increasingly complex and less relevant. The gaps identified are followed up via both regional updated standards are simpler and shorter, and align and group HR teams and through business audits. 18 18 with the current business and people risks. HR leaders As well as investing time and effort in ensuring our 12 12 across the Group have participated in online training existing operations are fit for purpose, we are also sessions and have been provided with copies of the developing a new HR system which will be piloted in 6 6 <1 year 24.0% revised policies and the procedures that underpin them. Ireland in 2017. 1-2 years 16.8% Since the relaunch of the HR core standards, every 0 2-5 years 25.2% 0 business has completed a self-assessment of compliance 5-10 years 19.5% 14 15 16 14 15 16 >10 years 14.5% with the core standards using our enterprise risk * Includes 27,000 employees in businesses to be sold or exited. 10 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 11 Overview CSR Chair’s statement CSR COMMITTEE Now that our enhanced whistleblowing process – AN INTEGRATED Speak Out – is embedded across the Group, we are seeing increased levels of reporting, which is very encouraging. However, there is more work to do to APPROACH TO promote the service to colleagues across the Group and to monitor and evaluate trends and causes of alleged non-compliance with G4S standards. SUSTAINABILITY The CSR Committee will continue to monitor progress in this area. Our first modern slavery statement will be published shortly on our website. With such a diverse business Clare Spottiswoode Winnie Kin Wah Fok CSR Chair Non-executive director which operates in such a wide variety of markets and countries, acknowledging our commitment to fair and open labour practices in this important area 2016 membership is a demonstration of our ongoing commitment CSR Committee meetings are also to an ethical and sustainable business. attended by the group corporate affairs director, group human More information about our modern slavery resources director and the regional statement can be found on page 22 president of the UK & Ireland region. The meetings are also Values and culture attended by internal and external Having agreed the new Group values in 2016 and experts as required. commenced the programme of embedding them in company practices, I and my CSR Committee colleagues Paul Spence will be keen to see what impact they have on our Non-executive director Clare Spottiswoode, CSR Chair sustainability progress in 2017. See page 5 for more information on Our approach to CSR CSR focus culture and values Both as a founding member of the CSR Committee Our CSR focus continues to be on health and safety, The global employee engagement survey will be an The committee will continue to work with and as Chair over the last four years, I have seen the human rights and anti-bribery and corruption, although essential part of this feedback, as will our improved executive management colleagues to ensure that positive impact of having a committee dedicated to our overall programme covers a much broader range visibility of whistleblowing cases, actions and outcomes. good sustainability practices are further embedded into sustainability and how it has become embedded in of areas. Towards the end of 2017 we will conduct the Group across a broad range of areas and I am a further review of material issues with input from Being passionate about safety is a core value of the the Group. We will scrutinise sustainability performance proud of the progress which has been made. internal and external stakeholders to ensure that Group. We have made significant progress in embedding and ensure that the strategic priorities are being the Group continues to focus on the most important a safety culture and have seen strong improvements in addressed appropriately. For example, ensuring that a new area of business and material issues. key areas such as reducing the number of road traffic I also hope that our constructive dialogue with conforms to and is consistent with our core values is accidents across the Group. Whilst these improvements our employees, investors, customers and other key a deciding factor in whether to move forward with an You can find more information on our materiality are positive, we must continue to focus our efforts on stakeholder group’s will continue in order to further opportunity. The fact that managers bring opportunities review on page 14 reducing the risk of injury to our staff and ensuring that develop and focus our sustainability agenda. to executives to check compatibility with our values CSR progress all employees think about safety every day – how they at an early stage is an encouraging sign of how these Throughout the pages of this CSR report we provide can keep themselves safe and what they can do to standards are becoming embedded in the organisation. updates on our progress across many of our key areas protect each other. Clare Spottiswoode Stakeholder engagement of sustainability performance. You will see from the This safety culture is being driven right from the very Chair The Group’s progress in sustainability has been informed information provided that, although our CSR strategy is top of the organisation with a significant focus from CSR Committee by a number of factors – an important element of which relatively mature, we continue to make positive progress the group chief executive and group human resources is stakeholder engagement. and to challenge the business to improve continuously. director and the full and active support of the board In the past, as part of our open approach to addressing and Executive Committee. The committee is very grateful to G4S colleagues and external stakeholders who have helped the Group focus human rights issues, the Group has reported within the CSR report on current issues and challenges. The CSR Committee its CSR strategy in the appropriate areas and for such This report does not include a section on current In 2016, the CSR Committee met on three occasions positive and active engagement on the most issues as (at the time of writing) there are no further in person and once by telephone and received regular critical issues. developments or new issues to report. However, that updates from members of the management team on I find our annual meetings with socially responsible does not mean that we have changed our position key sustainability issues such as health and safety reports, investors and ethical social and governance groups on being open in relation to live challenges faced progress on developing and implementing the Group of particular value and their continuous engagement by the company in this area. values and the causes, effects and learnings resulting with the Group’s management, investor relations and from operational incidents which may have raised CSR colleagues is also highly valued. questions about sustainability or ethics. See page 15 for feedback from Hermes EOS 12 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 13 Overview Materiality and stakeholders COMMUNITIES INDUSTRY AND NGOs BODIES CSR MATERIALITY To help ensure that G4S’ approach to CSR remains focused on the areas that ENGAGING WITH CUSTOMERS MULTILATERAL ORGANISATIONS AND GOVERNMENTS OUR STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT are of most relevance to the business REVIEW and its stakeholders, we carry out a wide-ranging materiality review of ethical and sustainability issues PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS EMPLOYEES INVESTORS INDEPENDENT EXPERTS AND SRI ANALYSTS every two years. Customers Communities We are investing in and NGOs a more rigorous approach We provide a wide range to customer satisfaction of positive social impacts monitoring and in the communities in Further information on relationship management which we live and work SRI ENGAGEMENT: UK & GLOBAL HIGH Ethics the methodology used Environment Economic to determine our 2016/17 materiality Partners and suppliers Employees Values: • Integrity Community We have strengthened We engage with our Geo-political matrix can be found in • Respect our risk and internal audit employees through a Employment our CSR Report 2015 systems and processes global employee survey • Service excellence www.g4s.com/csr2015 Health, safety and a variety of SDGs: and protection representative forums of employees and people Human rights under G4S care Industry bodies Multilateral “A regular in newspaper headlines the centralisation of key processes We aim to raise standards organisations over the last few years, the company’s such as major contracts, procurement reputation had taken a hit through and recruitment of business unit through membership of and governments executive teams since he took over Anti-bribery its implication in several high-profile Transparency and corruption industry bodies such We participate in relevant incidents, which had aggravated our – all issues which we had raised as the CBI and UN consultations and support concerns about group-wide risk in previous discussions. Labour relations Global Compact events at which we may oversight and management, IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS effectiveness of internal controls, G4S has also realised that health and Corporate demonstrate our expertise as well as broader corporate culture. safety is an important focus of this on security-related issues cultural transformation. It has taken governance Government relationships We believe that G4S’ previous steps to fortify its practices through Employee standards federal business structure had been increased managerial accountability Employee recruitment and behaviours and screening Investors and Independent experts a key factor in the issues which have and awareness.These measures, impacted it during recent years. together with its strengthened human SRI analysts We seek independent The company’s past focus on rights framework, should help to Risk Value and developing We proactively seek expertise on key issues acquisitive growth and flag-planting prevent incidents in the future. employees management feedback from socially has created a security conglomerate, Moreover, acquisitive growth is Data protection and Customer trust Legal and regulatory responsible investment not an integrated company. no longer the company’s main focus. compliance information security and delivery analysts and shareholders We have engaged heavily with G4S The strategic emphasis is now on Promoting industry standards Secure and stable communities at all levels. We met the company’s organic, sustainable growth and a Technology and CEO, chair of the corporate portfolio rationalisation programme, innovation Emerging market growth For further information on our stakeholder social responsibility committee, as which has already led the company Economic engagement see www.g4s.com/csr well as non-executive directors. Health to dispose of 25 of its business units, GHG emissions impact and safety performance and employee with more underway. Diversity and inclusion Employee engagement behaviour were crucial issues that we Tax The feedback from over 449,000 employees who discussed extensively with the company. Contract discipline has also Responsible procurement and been strengthened as part of supply chain management completed the employee engagement survey in 2015 In light of the company’s embroilment the leadership’s commitment to Community provided many ideas on how to improve employee in several custodial and detention centralisation. A crucial aspect of Environmental engagement retention. We believe that motivated and highly engaged service controversies, which most this improved discipline has been the Resource use management notably culminated in the company’s explicit consideration of reputational employees are more likely to work harder and stay exiting of young offenders work in risks. Positively, and in contrast to and waste longer, so the survey is a critical opportunity to assess the UK, we also visited two G4S-run earlier meetings with the company, the levels of engagement and find out what really matters prisons in the country to gain more new CEO was able to give examples to our employees. We want to know what they think insight into its operations on the where he put cultural alignment ground.These were largely reassuring, before purely commercial interest. of G4S as an employer and what they feel the company with G4S making significant efforts needs to do more of, less of, and differently in order to to ensure constructive relationships With many of its initiatives still in their LOW IMPACT ON G4S HIGH improve their working day. During 2016, we have been between its officers and the prisoners early stages, G4S still has a long way through its focus on prisoner to go, something which it has openly implementing action plans in response to feedback admitted. Ultimately, however, we are rehabilitation. However, from a Core priority areas from the last survey. resourcing and security point of view, encouraged by the progress made to HEALTH Health and safety – The safety of our employees ANTI-BRIBERY Anti-bribery and corruption – We will continue to develop and The next engagement survey is being prepared for we still have material concerns about date under the new leadership and AND SAFETY AND CORRUPTION the sustainability of the UK prison believe that many of the necessary and those in our care is one of our corporate encourage a workplace culture in which all employees are clear distribution during 2017. This time the questions will foundations for safer operations industry as a whole. values and remains a key priority for the Group. about the company’s standards of ethics and feel confident that be aligned to the new group values as a way of further have been laid.” they may raise any ethical concerns. embedding them in our processes and gathering We have seen positive changes at G4S. An important catalyst for this change Leon Kamhi, Head of Responsibility at Hermes HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights – Our respect for human rights is core employee feedback on how well G4S lives up to these was the appointment of its new CEO. Investment Management and Maxine Wille to the sustainable success of the business and continues values and what needs to change. Access to the survey The new CEO has recognised the need of Hermes EOS. to be an important part of our risk assessment and is being extended this year through wider use of mobile for cultural transformation through This case study is an extract from Hermes EOS technology and more language options. We look the consolidation of the company’s Annual Report: http://ow.ly/QMIU309E9yJ mitigation process. business structure. We have welcomed forward to reporting on the results in 2018. 14 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 15 Health and safety Our priority areas: Health and safety FOCUS ON SAFETY: USA HEALTH Values: • Safety AND SAFETY SDGs: • Service excellence G4S is committed to providing its employees with a safe working environment and achieving its goal of zero harm. To help achieve these goals, G4S Regulated Security Solutions (USA), a leading provider of security services to the nuclear power industry in North America, has initiated a comprehensive safety programme that is built upon the foundation of management involvement, employee awareness and employee participation. It is an active and ongoing programme comprised of awareness training, supervisory skills training, safety observation documentation, accident and injury event analysis and employee safety evaluations. In developing our safety culture and employee behaviour, G4S Regulated Security Solutions 2016 PRIORITIES Complete (USA) has implemented: Ongoing • A safety awareness training DVD • Weekly “safety moments” • Computer based training courses • Industrial safety programmes Introduced additional Introduced health • Specific safety handbooks and exams covering key risk areas training modules on and safety control specific health and safety self-assessments as • Specific safety campaigns covering key risk areas risks and developed part of the Group’s risk The safety programme has shown measurable compliance controls. and compliance process. effectiveness in the nuclear environment, recording over 10 million hours of operation without a single lost time incident. Completed planned work Conducted interventions on the development and critical country of the online incident reviews in specific management programme. businesses to improve health and safety performance. Issued guidance on managing safety risks pertinent to our industry. 16 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report G4S plc 17 Health and safety Our priority areas: Health and safety continued FIREARMS SAFETY: GLOBAL The safety and wellbeing of our We recognise that our businesses operate in different Values: • Safety contexts and face varying levels of risk. The Group employees and those in our care health and safety strategy sets the framework and • Service excellence is one of our key priorities. provides a vision of how each business can progress SDGs: Our goal is zero harm. from a level of compliance with health and safety regulation to a level of differentiation where G4S To enable us to secure the world for our customers and leads the industry in health and safety practice. In some regions it is necessary for G4S security officers the communities we serve, we must prioritise the safety to carry firearms as a means of additional protection for as well as the health and wellbeing of our employees. It All businesses within the group assess their performance themselves and those in their care.Therefore, we have against a set of core health and safety standards. a comprehensive policy on firearms covering a range of is our responsibility to ensure that our colleagues return issues relating to firearms safety, including their control, home from work safely every day. Compliance is monitored and periodically audited with procurement, storage and transportation. reviews of performance at regional, group and board The nature of our work and the environments we level via the CSR Committee. Regular firearms maintenance, refresher training and the 20% operate in mean that security and safety present a appropriate screening of employees help to ensure the safety of both employees and the firearms they use. strategic risk to our business. We believe that setting Progress in 2016 the highest standards for health and safety across our The process of building capability to continuously The implementation of this policy is reviewed through industry helps to keep our colleagues safe and builds decrease in road a process of compliance audits and review, both by improve our management of health and safety, traffic fatalities the local businesses and by group internal audit. loyalty and commitment to G4S among our employees. eliminating fatal incidents and potentially fatal risks, Leading by example and having expertise in health since 2013 See page 11 for more information on our continued during 2016: and safety gives not only our employees, but also our approach to the screening of our employees customers and other stakeholders, confidence in the • Improvement programmes targeting high priority values of the company that they are working with. countries have continued, with support and oversight provided by both the Group and the regions. Deep dive reviews of safety were conducted in ROAD SAFETY AWARENESS: MOZAMBIQUE seven priority countries and programmes were also introduced for specific risk areas, such as 0.33 Work-related fatalities by region 2015 motorcycle safety. 2016 Values: • Safety • The Group’s core health and safety standards were 50 • Service excellence 46 47 revised in 2016. The implementation was supported lost time SDGs: by the introduction of formal guidance as well as incidents 40 training for health and safety practitioners across per 100,000 the Group. working hours During 2015, G4S Mozambique suffered 27 road traffic 30 29 • A further online training module was introduced incidents, posing a serious risk to the safety of our employees. covering the minimum health and safety In response, and to help achieve the organisation’s objective 22 of zero harm, a new road safety action plan was implemented. 20 requirements for G4S businesses. Since 2015 over 3,000 managers have completed online A new driver training and evaluation programme, covering 12 health and safety training modules. theoretical and practical tests, has been rolled out this year, 10 which is supported by a wide range of safety awareness 5 6 5 7 5 • All businesses completed health and safety control booklets, posters and videos as well as regular ‘toolbox talks’. self-assessments based on the group’s core standards 3,000 1 1 0 The results have been positive, with a reduction of 51% in 0 a ia c a pe ica d l as part of the Group’s risk and compliance systems. road traffic incidents during 2016. Actions and timelines were drafted to address any ric Ind cifi er ic ro er lan ta Af Pa To & Am Eu Am Ire st As ia in th & issues that arose. managers have Priorities for 2017 Ea le La t Nor UK completed attacks, particularly in our Cash Solutions businesses, has idd • Online incident management and action M online health increased. Action plans to prevent further incidents have During 2017, we will continue to work towards tracking was introduced in selected businesses. and safety been put in place. Each G4S business is required to our goal of zero harm, by: This programme will only continue in businesses training modules have a process for reporting and investigating workplace Work-related fatalities by category 2015 where it is considered that it will deliver a tangible • Drafting action plans for businesses which have had 2016 injuries. Improvement targets are set at business level improvement in health and safety performance. multiple fatalities, as well as monitoring 50 and are based on factors such as the business risk their implementation. 46 47 During 2016, 47 of our colleagues lost their lives in profile and local statutory reporting requirements. • Enhancing the performance management process work-related incidents, principally as a result of attacks During 2016, the Group’s lost time injury frequency rate 40 through tracking incidents which have the potential by third parties and road traffic incidents. This is a tragic was 0.33 per 100,000 hours worked, based on reporting to result in a fatality, and to improve the coverage loss for their families, friends and colleagues and reminds that covered 96% of employees. This is compared to a 30 of lost time incident reporting to 98%. us of the importance of our efforts when it comes to rate of 0.36 in 2015. The reduction is due to both an health and safety. increase in coverage of reporting and a reduction • Continuing to build health and safety capability within 20 20 20 in the rates in some of the businesses which the group, which includes a review of frontline health 17 17 All fatal and permanently disabling incidents are and safety training. reported at a Group level and investigated through had previously higher rates. • Revising the G4S Golden Rules of Safety to ensure 10 9 10 a specific process, led by the managing director of There were nine non-natural deaths in custody in 2016. that they reflect the potentially fatal hazards front the business concerned. All deaths in custody are investigated by the relevant line employees face. 0 On a comparative basis, work-related fatalities increased authorities, who make a determination of the cause ck ta ck ta tra l ta to 47 fatalities in 2016 from 46 fatalities in 2015. of death. Seven of these incidents were due to self-harm. At -a ffic To Pronouncements will be made by the relevant coroner The number of road traffic-related fatalities has t inc on ide N nt decreased by 20% since 2013 when the road safety on the two remaining incidents following Road programme was launched. However, the number of fatal their investigations. 18 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report G4S plc 19 Human rights Our priority areas: Human rights HUMAN RIGHTS 2016 PRIORITIES Complete Ongoing Conducted an annual Conducted a human review of human rights control rights risks across the self-assessment for Group and updated our businesses operating human rights heatmap. in high-risk countries. Carried out human Undertook a review of rights risk assessments policies, standards and in key business areas. business processes to help ensure that we do not allow modern slavery to occur within our business or supply chain. WHITE RIBBON: AUSTRALIA Continued to AND NEW ZEALAND build awareness of human rights issues and responsibilities Values: • Integrity across the business. • Respect SDGs: G4S was proud to announce in 2016 that its Australia and New Zealand businesses had become White Ribbon accredited workplaces, having over the past 18 months taken active steps, and driven best practice, to help prevent and respond to violence against women. “We are committed to the health and wellbeing of all our employees. We cannot ignore the statistics and we want to make sure that G4S as an organisation can be trusted to support the brave steps taken by our people as needed. Over the next three years, our aim is to continue to create a safer and more respectful workplace, supporting employees across all spheres as well as contributing to a national cultural change in the hope of preventing and responding to violence against women.” Dennis Roach, MD G4S Australia & New Zealand. 20 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 21 Human rights Our priority areas: Human rights continued SKILLS INDIA: INDIA Values: • Respect • Service excellence SDGs: G4S’ human rights policy and its related • Reviewed 107 geographic regions for our human DEBATING MATTERS BEYOND BARS: UK framework are based upon the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human rights heatmap. The 2016 review identified 47 regions in which human rights may be at high or very high-risk. The risks in these environments may 107 human rights We are supporting Skills India, a government initiative which aims to train 400 million people in different skills by 2022. G4S is a major employer throughout India, with more than 120,000 employees. Every month we recruit Values: • Integrity Rights. Alongside our values of Integrity commonly include restrictions on civil liberties, reviews nearly 4,000 people, providing each employee with a high levels of corruption and the local attitude to conducted as minimum of 160 hours training delivered via 32 training • Respect and Respect, the framework reinforces the labour rights and standards. The findings of this part of our centres across the country.This alone equates to nearly 8,000,000 hours of training provided by G4S to new • Service excellence continued development of a business review are integrated into our risk and compliance geographic recruits every year, in addition to the ongoing • Innovation model which aids the realisation of the processes and may trigger additional levels of heat-map training provided to all employees. assessment and internal audit where necessary. assessment • Teamwork Sustainable Development Goals through SDGs: • Began a programme to embed our updated the improvement of industry standards, supplier code of conduct into our global community support and job creation. procurement processes. Working in partnership with Debating Matters, G4S • Engaged with a broad range of stakeholder groups, hosted a pioneering new prison debating initiative at including government bodies, non-governmental HMP Birmingham in the UK during the summer of 2016. We are proud of our role in society and the positive organisations, investors and customers to address Six teams, comprising of 40 prisoners, were judged in an contribution we make to the realisation of human concerns relating to human rights. Whilst this 2016 intense series of debates on topics such as drugs in sport, rights through the range of services we offer and report does not include a section on current issues the criminalisation of non-payment of the television the standards we apply to our employees. licence fee, votes for prisoners and whether free speech as (at the time of writing) there are no further has its limits. Following a programme of preparation and However, we also recognise that we have a duty to developments or new serious issues to report, training, provided by the Debating Matters team, the ensure that we are not at risk of violating human rights we have not changed our position on being open debates were judged by a distinguished and high profile panel. Prisoners, their families, prison staff, and local through the services we provide, the customers we in relation to live challenges faced by the company agencies with an interest in prison reform, education work with, the suppliers we use, or through the in this area. and rehabilitation formed an audience for the events. treatment of our own employees and others who • Carried out four human rights risk assessments “Debating Matters Beyond Bars challenges the notion that prisoners are in our care. relating to major business opportunities for aren’t willing or able to research and argue about the ethical rights and review by the group investment committee. wrongs of the big issues facing society, using reasoned, well-evidence Progress in 2016 argument and we hope it will be an important addition to Birmingham’s • As part of our global risk management process, 2017 priorities educational work.The project is an exciting opportunity to demonstrate We have implemented our human rights framework and a broad assessment of operational and other that debate can flourish in unexpected places and that no idea should embedded its standards and awareness into our During the course of 2017, we will continue to business issues has been carried out against implement our human rights framework and further be beyond critical discussion or contest.The Institute of Ideas team was business policies and processes. our ‘risk universe’, which includes human rights thrilled that Birmingham’s prisoners and staff were up to the challenge.” develop our approach to human rights in line with During 2016, we have: and other CSR risks. emerging good practice. Claire Fox, founder and director of the Institute of Ideas behind the Debating Matters initiative. • Refreshed the human resource core standards • Continued to build awareness of human rights We will: training package and delivered training on its standards and responsibilities into company key policies and practices to all G4S HR • Commence a review of our supply chain to assess communications and processes. managers and directors. and help ensure that all suppliers meet the standards of our supplier code of conduct and develop action plans to address any that do not. MODERN SLAVERY • Instigate a new process for conducting internal audits of G4S businesses operating in countries identified as high or very high risk in our human rights heatmap. We have a duty to ensure that, either through our business or supply chain, we do not risk violating an individual’s human rights by • Review human rights risks across the group’s supporting forced, bonded or compulsory labour, human trafficking or other kinds of modern slavery. geographic footprint and update our human We will shortly publish our first statement in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. In our statement, we will report on the rights heatmap. actions we have taken to help prevent modern slavery within our business and supply chain, specifically highlighting the development • Conduct human rights control self-assessments and implementation of: of businesses operating in high-risk countries. • Our supplier code of conduct – setting out G4S’ requirements and expectations with respect to key areas • Carry out human rights risk assessment in of responsible resourcing, including respect of international standards and the prohibition of forced or coerced labour. key business areas. • Our migrant workers policy – developed to safeguard migrant workers from unscrupulous recruitment practices and • Continue to build awareness of human rights help to prevent and manage any risks arising from their employment and accommodation. responsibilities across the business. The statement will also describe other key policies which relate to the prevention of modern slavery – our business ethics policy, Further information on our commitment and human rights policy and Speak Out whistleblowing channels. approach to human rights can be found online at www.g4s.com/humanrights Our statement in compliance with the Modern Slavery Act 2015 for the year ended 31 December 2016 will be available shortly at www.g4s.com/modernslavery 22 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 23 Anti-bribery and corruption Our priority areas: Anti-bribery and corruption ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION 2016 PRIORITIES SPEAK OUT: GLOBAL Complete Ongoing Values: • Integrity • Respect Completed the Completed our review • Service excellence global implementation of the Group’s antiSDGs: of the Speak Out bribery and corruption whistleblowing policies to ensure that hotline and case they are in line with Every G4S employee has a responsibility to ensure that we uphold our core values, adhere to the law management system. current best practice and deliver against the important commitments and to implement any set out in our business ethics policy and ethics code. changes as appropriate. See www.g4s.com/ethics One of the key methods of ensuring that we maintain Conducted annual Continued to create an high standards of ethics, respect and integrity is to ensure that employees are able to report concerns that they control self-assessments environment in which may have about the business, or the activities of of key issues, including G4S colleagues can be individuals, which they feel contravene the ethics business ethics, health confident that they can code or our core values. and safety and human Speak Out and raise Launched in 2015 and implemented during 2016, rights using the concerns and that Speak Out is our global whistleblowing system, group risk and they will be taken hosted by an independent specialist hotline and compliance system. seriously without case management provider. fear of retaliation. All employees who wish to raise a matter of ethical concern are encouraged to contact the free telephone hotline or make a report online. Both channels are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and are completely confidential. IF YOU S EE OR SU WRONG S DOING… PECT …do the right thin g and spea k out! 0808-234-8 852 www.g4s-sp eakout.com IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK You are enc OUT! ouraged to issues with report any SPEAK OU out serious raised in goo fear of retaliation. All wrongdoing T is for rep orting seri d con ous treated with faith will be taken seri cerns as pay que . Any other concerns (suc respect. ously and ries, h employment uniform issues or gen grievances eral to your line ) should be manager, or dire resolution. HR for a quic cted k Securing You r World 24 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 25 Anti-bribery and corruption Our priority areas: Anti-bribery and corruption continued PRISON CONTRABAND DETECTION: UK Values: • Safety • Security • Service excellence • Innovation Behaving with integrity and respect are Number of whistleblowing cases • Teamwork key to G4S’ core values – they are an SDGs: integral part of the Group’s strategy and 500 form an essential foundation on which At HMP Altcourse, G4S has begun a trial of new technology 400 we carry out our business. 402 which is designed to help prevent organised criminals from throwing contraband over the prison’s walls to their We believe that being a responsible and ethical business 300 associates inside. partner, employer, customer and supplier is not just The technology incorporates a sophisticated video analytics a reaction to the challenges of legal compliance, but 200 system linked to cctv cameras on the prison perimeter, an important means of doing business and provides which is programmed to discern and differentiate between 158 people, vehicles and other moving objects. a clear market differentiator for G4S, particularly 100 The new system alerts officers to identified areas of concern in many developing regions. 65 39 48 so that they can determine if people caught on camera look likely to launch an object over the wall. Prison officers can Business ethics 0 then be dispatched to the package’s precise location inside We have a group-wide business ethics policy and ethics 12 13 14 15 16 the facility and the police are called to apprehend the code which clearly define what is considered to be criminals on the outside. acceptable or unacceptable business behaviour. We demand compliance with this policy and code from all Whilst we believe that we must continue to raise managers and employees across the Group. awareness of Speak Out and further encourage our In order to ensure that everyone in the Group employees to report any concerns or wrong doing, understands their obligations in relation to this we are pleased that the number of reports has increased since we introduced the new hotline. 2017 priorities policy, we carry out the following: 2016 Speak Out cases by intake method During 2017, we will: • Regular updating and improvement of the G4S All matters reported to Speak Out are reviewed and directed to the most appropriate channel for action. • Implement further initiatives to drive risk business ethics policy, incorporating evolving management awareness and mitigation actions standards and legislation and evaluating any Many of these matters are grievances which are transferred to the relevant HR department to follow up, and embed these within our businesses. risk to the Group’s ethical standards. as they are best placed to investigate and resolve the • Continue to increase awareness of Speak Out • Distributing the policy to senior managers and and create an environment in which colleagues matter promptly. Concerns regarding operational instructing them to review the policy and personally are confident that they may raise concerns procedures are investigated by local management to sign up to playing their role in ensuring its without fear of retaliation. ensure that relevant standards are being followed. implementation and therefore the Group’s compliance. Investigations relating to other matters, such as bribery, • Improve our analysis of whistleblowing reports to ethical or financial issues may be conducted by our better identify trends and themes and where • Ensuring that all employees are aware of their necessary put in place strategic action to prevent obligations under the ethics code, through various internal network of investigators or independent experts. similar issues in the future. communications channels, including values and Matters of a serious nature are investigated at a senior Speak Out website 44% induction training, employee magazines, awards and independent level, with 55 investigations completed Telephone hotline 39% programmes etc. during 2016. Manager report form 14% • Providing specific training to all managers and The ethics steering group has continued to oversee Speak Out email 3% supervisors on business ethics and preventing case management of whistleblowing reports and bribery and corruption through a tailored conduct regular reviews of serious cases, the programme available in a variety of languages investigation’s progress and resulting actions. and formats. • Reinforcing our values and the importance of Risk management ethical behaviour through induction, employment Our risks, including ethics and sustainability risks, are contracts, staff handbooks, training and captured in a global risk reporting information system, communications practices. These risks are formally reviewed annually by every business unit and head office function. An overview of We have now completed the global implementation of our principal risks can be found in our integrated annual our new whistleblowing hotline and case management report www.annualreport.g4s.com system and have received a total of 402 reports from our employees during 2016. 26 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 27 Supporting data Reporting frameworks SECURING OUR ENVIRONMENT REPORTING We recognise the impact that our business activities can have on the environment and are committed to managing this impact in a responsible manner. FRAMEWORKS G4S’ total carbon footprint during 2016 equates to 503,821 t/CO2e. These CO2e emissions, including emissions generated by services which our customers have outsourced to G4S, have decreased by 1.01% since 2015, against a 6.3% growth in the business during the same period, reflecting the efforts made to increase the efficiency of our business. Key performance indicators 68.4t/CO2e 931kg/CO2e 108.7kg/CO2e 11.9t/CO2e t/CO2e per £m revenue kg/CO2e per average employee kg/CO2e per average building (m2) t/CO2e per average vehicle (including refrigerant) (including refrigerant) 100 1,000 120 12 UN Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project 11.9 11.9 931 931 11.1 G4S became a signatory to the UN Global Compact Since 2009, G4S has reported on the progress of 908 100 110.3 108.7 10 80 800 100.7 in 2011. The world’s largest CSR initiative, the Global its environmental management through the Carbon Compact sets out 10 universal principles on human Disclosure Project (CDP). 73.6 70.9 80 8 rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption to 60 68.4 600 In the latest CDP report, Tracking Corporate Climate which businesses must align their strategies and 60 6 Progress, G4S achieved a CDP performance band of operations, and calls upon companies to take actions 40 400 (B) against a programme average of (C). Reporting to that advance the UN’s Social Development Goals. 40 4 the CDP helps to demonstrate a company’s awareness G4S is proud to reaffirm its commitment to these of their greenhouse gas emissions, allowing for reduction 20 200 20 2 principles, which continue to be reflected in our core targets to be put in place, as well as addressing the values. G4S is a signatory of the Business for Peace risks and opportunities that are associated with 0 0 0 0 initiative and remains active within the UK Network climate change. 14 15 16 14 15 16 14 15 16 14 15 16 of the UN Global Compact – continuing to participate as a member of the governing Advisory Group. CSR Index: A full index of our key sustainability programmes and Within our collected sustainability reporting framework other ethical and social policies and practices is available Emissions split by scope (%) Emissions split by source (%) we have described the actions we have undertaken to on our website at www.g4s.com/csrindex build upon and further integrate the Global Compact Further and its principles into our business strategy, culture, information on values and daily operations during 2016. our environmental impact and the UN Global Compact Communication On Progress Index methodology used CSR framework pages: to determine our Statement of continued support by CEO 4 performance can Human Rights: Principles 1& 2 6, 7, 9, 14, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24 be found online at www.g4s.com/env + www.g4s.com/humanrights Labour: Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19 + www.g4s.com/people Scope 1 70.2% Vehicles (including refrigerants) 63.5% + www.g4s.com/humanrights Scope 2 26.3% Buildings (including refrigerants) 33.0% Environment: Principles 7, 8 & 9 8, 14, 28, 29 Scope 3 (air travel) 3.5% Air travel 3.5% + www.g4s.com/env Anti-Corruption: Principle 10 9, 14, 24, 25, 26, 27 + www.g4s.com/ethics 28 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2016 G4S plc 29 SUSTAINABILITY Our sustainability reporting framework is led by our Integrated Report and Accounts and this Corporate Social Responsibility ONLINE Report. These documents are supported by our website, which contains a greater range of information on wider ethical and sustainability issues. This includes our environmental reporting, labour relations and other human resource core standards, community investment and more. A full index of sustainability-related issues can be found online at www.g4s.com/csrindex Visit: www.g4s.com for more information G4S plc Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. 5th Floor, Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Southside, Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 105 Victoria Street, 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press London, chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% SW1E 6QT of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. United Kingdom This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk; a paper containing Telephone: +44 (0) 207 963 3100 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre Email: csr@g4s.com sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. Registered in England No. 4992207 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
