REPORT United nations global compact Communication on progress report – 2017 CONTENTS CEO Statement and Commitment ................................................. 04 Locations of Genpact .................................................................................... 06 Ownership and Financial Performance .................................... 07 Corporate Governance ................................................................................ 07 Risk Assessment Framework .............................................................. 08 Code of Conduct ................................................................................................ 09 Human Rights Practices............................................................................ 09 Operating Ethically .......................................................................................... 10 Robust Governance .......................................................................................... 11 Complete Accountability ............................................................................ 12 Ethical Supply Chain ...................................................................................... 13 Sustainability & Materiality ..................................................................... 14 Community Impact ........................................................................................ 24 Celebrating Diversity ..................................................................................... 32 Awards and Accolades ................................................................................. 34 Genpact | Report | 2 “Note of Thanks Genpact would like to acknowledge the team that helped put this report together. Lavanya Shrinagesh, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Diversity, and Sharbani Ray, CSR, for their valuable insights. Immense gratitude must be expressed to Amit Ganguly, who worked tirelessly to bring various teams together. Thanks also to Sasha Sanyal, Insurance, CSR and Diversity as well as Vidya Srinivasan, Senior Vice President, Infrastructure and IT, for all of their support. Diana Lurie Boersma, Head of Compliance at Genpact must be thanked for her support for this report, along with Kanika Jindal, Manager and Gail Marold – Vice President, Communications, who helped in the structuring and formatting of this report, and Kavita Yadav, Senior Manager, Content Marketing for help design and development. ” Lastly, a special thanks to Sanjay Bhatia, Senior Manager, CSR and Radhakrishna Patel, Manager, CSR who helped bring together all the content into a cohesive whole. Genpact | Report | 3 CEO Statement and Commitment I am delighted and proud to present Genpact’s sixth public sustainability report based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3.1 guidelines. This report is an extension of our commitment to transparently disclose our performance to all of our stakeholders. Through this report, we wish to showcase what sustainability means for Genpact and how committed we are to achieving our vision. Our approach has allowed us to contextually define what sustainability is and how it relates to our day-to-day business. This report focusses on our sustainability performance and achievements between January and December 2016. We are a young and dynamic organization – 20 years in operation and 10 years as a publicly-traded company on the NYSE. The enthusiasm and precision with which we approach our business also apply to our zeal for championing sustainability. The senior leadership at Genpact has long stood behind our sustainability endeavors because we understand the impact we can generate and the long-term value we can create for our stakeholders through sustainability. We have not only taken inspiration from global frameworks such as the United Nations Global Compact but have also tried to mirror our internal business prowess in areas such as Six Sigma and Lean while drawing out our sustainability endeavors. This is one of the reasons why we feel that over a period of time, we have widely integrated sustainability to an extent into our business and thinking, as our approach has partially evolved organically through our business expertise and skills. Sustainability transcends several dimensions as does our approach. Every day we generate impact for our clients, for our employees, for our business partners, for the environment, and for the communities in which we work. Transforming business We have been able to create a unique space for ourselves in the crowded and competitive professional services market through our unwavering focus on quality and ability to offer a palpably differentiable experience to our clients. We serve more than 700+ clients around the world, with approximately one-fourth of them being Global Fortune 500 companies. We create a tangible and lasting impact for them through our host of Genpact | Report | 4 services and products and have generated billions of adequately leveraged to deliver exceptional outcomes dollars’ worth of cumulative impact since 2006. Today, for the company. It is difficult for a rapidly growing there are heightened expectations of companies when it organization such as ours to curb its environmental comes to ethics and transparency. We have always upheld footprint, but through our determination and hard work these principles across our business practices around the we have been able to significantly drive down our energy, world, no matter how strong or lax the regulations are water, carbon, and waste-related impact. Our innovative in regions where we operate. We encourage this through ideas have not only reduced our environmental footprint all our engagements with our clients, suppliers, and but have also brought in tangible annual cost savings of employees as well. Information security and data privacy almost 0.5 million USD. have emerged among the most challenging issues facing our sector in recent times. This poses great risk to us as we Transforming community deal day in and day out with sensitive client information. Our robust internal management systems, policies, and Our corporate social responsibility (CSR) efforts are protocols ensure that we remain immune from such threats characterized by the unparalleled enthusiasm displayed and deliver our work with the utmost business integrity. by our employee volunteers. More than 15,000 unique Genpact volunteers across the globe selflessly work towards making a difference to the world. We are simply a conduit to Transforming people channel their intentions and goodwill towards generating Talent is what drives our business, especially in current enduring social capital. Our volunteer program is the times when the kind of work we do is undergoing hallmark of our entire global CSR program. The changing significant transformation. As our client pipeline regulations around CSR in India have actually reinvigorated encompasses increasingly complex and transformational the organizational spirit into doing much more than what work, including leveraging and integrating the latest digital the law requires us to do. technologies, our talent strategy has been adequately calibrated to steer this trend. Hiring, training, and Sustainability: What’s next? retaining are the three imperatives addressed through our focused approach when it comes to managing our Sustainability is not a destination but an endless journey talent. Diversity is also one of our key priority areas, where that presents many opportunities to capitalize on and create we’ve been working hard through a number of programs a competitive edge. There will always be room to innovate to increase our gender diversity across the organization, more, save more, do more, and make more difference in including programs to retain female employees who have the world around us. For us, sustainability is now a natural returned from maternity leave. While women constitute extension of our business and we have embodied it in our approximately 38% of Genpact’s global workforce today, we mantra of “transformation happens here.” are aiming for 50%. As we look ahead, we commit to exploring newer areas, expanding our existing efforts, and continuing to deepen Transforming environment our engagement with all our stakeholders on sustainability. The list of achievements and interventions undertaken at NV “Tiger” Tyagarajan Genpact to check our environmental footprint is endless. President and CEO, Genpact Our culture of Six Sigma, Lean and innovation has been Genpact | Report | 5 Locations UK Poland Ireland Slovakia The Romania USA Netherlands China Japan Mexico Guatemala Israel India Philippines Brazil South Malaysia Africa Australia 700+ 70+ 18 clients countries delivery served countries 70+ 30 77,000+ employees1 delivery centers languages 1 As of Q3 2017 Genpact | Report | 6 Ownership and Financial https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/ data/1398659/000156459017006276/g-def14a_20170509. Performance htm#SECURITY_OWNERSHIP_CERTAIN_BENEFICIAL_OW The address of the organization’s headquarters is below. Genpact Limited is a Bermuda company whose shares are Canon’s Court publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange (ticker: 22 Victoria Street G). Genpact Limited is a global enterprise. Please see the Hamilton HM 12 Company’s 10-K filed with the SEC on March 1, 2017. Bermuda https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/ The table below presents selected historical financial and data/1398659/000156459017003076/g-10k_20161231.htm certain operating data. For significant changes during the reporting period The Company prepares its consolidated financial regarding ownership, please see the beneficial ownership statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP. table on page 10 of the Company’s Proxy Statement filed with the SEC on April 10, 2017. The financial table set forth above is taken from our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. Corporate Governance The Genpact Board We believe that good corporate governance is critical to our Our corporate governance practices begin with our success. We adhere to the highest levels of ethical business independent Board of Directors. All of our directors practices, as embodied in our Code of Ethical Business have rich multi-industry experience and are recognized Conduct, which sets out the guidelines for ethical conduct for their contribution in their chosen professions. They by our directors, officers and employees, as well as our bring to our Board varied perspectives and insights. integrity handbook, Integrity@Genpact. Our Board has established an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, and a Nominating and For more details, follow this link: Governance Committee to assist in fulfilling its duties http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/IROL/20/209334/ and responsibilities. Code_of_Ethical_Business_Conduct-Oct_5_2016.pdf Genpact | Report | 7 Risk Assessment Framework ongoing maintenance of ERM at Genpact. The risk and compliance leads are responsible for identification of risks in their respective area in consultation with their While we assess risk and monitor compliance at various vertical/function/region head. Responsibilities of the levels in the organization, Genpact created a formal Risk Risk Council and the Enterprise Risk Management Office Council in 2016, which reviews the organization’s risk are detailed in the Charter. profile periodically and reports the key business risks to the Genpact Leadership Committee and Genpact Board. The risk management process at Genpact can be The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Office is headed represented in a systematic 6-step process: by the Enterprise Risk Leader who is responsible for Continuous monitoring Ensure the strategic and related of the ERM activites in objectives are consistent with the organization the entity’s risk appetite Monitor Set objective Deciding the activities Identifying those to be carried and incidents, occurring Control Continuous internally or externally, controls to be put in Identity activities that could affect strategy place to ensure risk process events and achievement of are mitigated objectives Risk response Assess risks To decide if risk need to Prioritize risk on a be accepted, mitigated, impact and likelihood transferred or avoided to shortlist key risk Genpact has a multi-tier risk and compliance the CEO and independent auditors—reporting directly monitoring process: to the Audit Committee. The frequency and coverage of the audits get decided as part of the Annual Audit 1. The Business Operations and Functional teams work as Plan. Operational, Financial, and Compliance related per their standard operating procedures with in-built audits are conducted measuring compliance with controls and necessary checks and balances. Quality the company’s policies and procedures, laws, and measurement tools and procedures are run to assess the regulations; reliability of financial reporting; efficacy of effectiveness as a first line of defense. operations; safeguarding of assets, etc. High-risk items are reported to the Audit Committee. 2. The Business Compliance team aligned to each client operations acts as a second line of defense and conducts 4. Genpact engages third-party independent external audit internal assessments on the process/controls within firms to conduct ISAE 3402 examinations, certifications client operations especially on key controls provided by like ISO 27001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 22301, and the client and reports the performance to the client on other security audits on its control environment. an agreed frequency. 5. Clients conduct their own audits per the agreed schedule 3. Genpact has an independent internal audit group (the on operations related to the service agreement and third line of defense), with the Chief Internal Auditor— Genpact provides reasonable assistance throughout. who has direct link to senior management, including Genpact | Report | 8 Code of Conduct Human Rights Practices We have adopted a Code of Ethical Business Conduct As a responsible corporate citizen, we recognize and that applies to all employees together with a handbook acknowledge that it is imperative to protect, promote, and further explaining our expectations, Integrity@Genpact. uphold the human rights of all our stakeholders across Every employee is responsible for his or her own actions, the organization and beyond. We are cognizant of the and proper business conduct and ethical behavior are role businesses can play in enforcing the above and have fundamental conditions of employment. Any employee, instituted policies and mechanisms for them. Our Code of regardless of job or title, who observes or becomes aware Conduct and Integrity@Genpact policies embody globally of unethical or unlawful activity, is obligated to report recognized human rights principles. We are thoroughly such activity immediately. Employees are also urged to committed to providing our employees a workplace discuss any concerns regarding improper conduct with that is safe, congenial, and free from harassment of any the appropriate individuals. We believe that our actions kind. Such a workplace fosters creativity, openness, and should always be guided by our core values of honesty, innovation, all of which are essential when it comes to trustworthiness, integrity, dependability, respect, and building an effective organizational culture and delivering citizenship. Our clients choose to work with us because uncompromising quality to our clients. we provide them with services that drive business value A snapshot of our practices related to fair employment, in an ethical, honest, and transparent manner, supported child labor, forced labor, right to freedom of association, by a strong governance framework. Our rigorous internal investment screening, privacy, discrimination, and controls, business values, and focus on controllership help harassment is provided here. us create enduring client trust. Fair Employment: Child Labor and Forced Labor: Discrimination and Harassment: ●● Zero tolerance for nepotism or [comment – I ●● Genpact strictly prohibits employment ●● Genpact prohibits basing any employment don’t know what is meant by adverse bias] of all forms of forced, compulsory, and decisions on race, color, religion, sex, child labor either directly or through caste, sexual orientation, national or ●● Merit qualifications (for example, contractors regional origin, or any other characteristic education, experience, or skill sets) and other job related criteria are the sole basis ●● For vendor employees, date of birth proofs protected by law for all employment related decisions taken and audited in areas of high risk. ●● Where harassment occurs as a result of effecting employees and applicants Regular audits are conducted to mitigate an act or omission by any third party or any instance of child/forced labor outsider, Genpact will take all steps that ●● No allowances are given to any discriminatory practices regardless of are reasonable and appropriate to prevent the harassment from continuing what cultural practices may persist in the Freedom of Association: wider society ●● Genpact does not prevent any employee ●● Genpact’s goal is to maintain a congenial from exercising the right to freedom Privacy: and productive working environment of association or collective bargaining. conducive for all We adhere to all necessary regulations ●● Genpact respects employee privacy related to collective bargaining and with respect to personal information freedom of association in regions where or communications stored on official Investment Screening: we operate systems with the provision that Genpact ●● Thorough diligence process before may access such any files/information ●● In Brazil and the Czech Republic, taking a decision to acquire a stake in for business reasons. For example, in 100% of the employees are trade union a company, including compliance with the course of performing maintenance, association members. In Romania, we international norms security/ compliance issues or for a legal have employee representatives instead request etc. ●● Checks are conducted for compliance of a trade union and 100% of our with statutory obligations, employee employees are covered ●● Genpact gives its employees notice that benefits, human resource compensation it may monitor, investigate, copy, and ●● All local laws are observed with respect and benefits, leave policy, bonus policy, inspect files/information (personal or to providing a minimum notice period policy related to salary increases, etc. otherwise) in instances mentioned above regarding specific operating changes Genpact | Report | 9 Operating Ethically Not all locations still have the Ombuds boxes; as more and more Genpacters are becoming more familiar with electronic means of communication (email), they are Genpact is united globally on a foundation of unyielding choosing to report via email, where they can receive a integrity. This uncompromising integrity is why our response usually within a day. Employees are permitted clients entrust their business to us. An essential channel of to report anonymously; when an employee wishes to projecting our principles and integrity directly in our work do so electronically, the employee creates a new email is through our employees, who are the true ambassadors address via one of the free email providers. Employees of our values and commitment to unyielding integrity. can also directly write to ombudsperson@genpact. Our Code of Conduct communicates ethical practices com. All employees raising concerns are free to report and company expectations to all our employees, officers, anonymously and are protected under our No Retaliation directors, and agents. We conduct year-round programs Policy. By reporting non-compliant behavior, employees to embed these values into our employees’ regular work play a key role in preserving the integrity of the workplace. routine. These include training sessions and direct Those concerns that have an established response may communication from the leadership. It is always conveyed be handled directly; those that do not are submitted for to all our people that our business vision is to be achieved final decision to a regional Policy Compliance Review without compromising our ethical values and integrity. Board (PCRB), which then decides the relevant appropriate Besides our Code of Conduct, our Integrity@Genpact mitigation measures. All communications and decisions handbook also serves as a guiding map for employees when are subject to review by our Global Compliance Review it comes to ethical conduct. The handbook is a reflection of Board, which is composed of the CEO, CFO, Human how we have upheld integrity in our business conduct over Resources head, and General Counsel. The Audit the years and how we intend to continue doing so in the Committee of the Board also reviews all violations on a coming years. The Integrity@Genpact framework consists quarterly basis. A total of 725 cases were reported globally of five principles and nine policies grouped under four in 2016 as compared to 637 in 2015 through the Ombuds themes. The nine policies directly flow from the principles program. In the first half of 2017, 460 concerns were and serve as the means to achieve the goals rooted in these raised by employees. Approximately half of all concerns principles. A dedicated training course on Integrity@ raised are, on their face, unrelated to Genpact integrity Genpact is mandatory for all Genpact recruits. An ongoing polices but arise out of unrelated concerns, such as proper training module is also run for all employees. In 2017, as of handling of requested leaves, interpersonal issues, or other the date of finalizing this publication, 94% of our workforce matters generally referred to human resources. Such a including senior management had undergone this training high%age of unrelated concerns demonstrates employee within the previous year; this understates the number of trust that this avenue will resolve issues. people who have taken the training, as it does not include A part of the increase in cases reported may be anyone who is even a single day late in completion of the attributed to the significant expansion of our compliance annual requirement. communication program which strives to create more Genpact has also supplemented its ethical framework awareness about the Ombuds program. In 2012, we had with a transparent and effective grievance redressal instituted a compliance communication program and have mechanism. Employees can access several modes to been leveraging it to effectively deliver the message to our report any instances of violation of Genpact policies. employees straight from the leadership that integrity and Employees can report the same to their immediate business success goes hand in hand. Under this program, a supervisors, management representative, human resource member of the leadership across regional offices is assigned personnel, local compliance contact, and member of the task of communicating each and every month to the legal department or local/global ombudsperson. In employees about the Ombuds program, our no-retaliation addition, most of our major operating facilities have an policy and another substantive compliance policy. A “Ombuds box” which can be used to report violations. compliance calendar is prepared with a compliance theme Genpact | Report | 10 for every month (October is “Fair Employment Practices,” and sustainability of our operations. Regular and stringent for example) and relevant materials are provided by the review processes along with methodical auditing practices global compliance leader at the start of each month to ensure the percolation of our core business principles and respective regional leaders. The primary communication standards across the organization. mode is meant to be personal and not just email messages. Our proactive approach is evident in our extensive risk Leadership engages with employees on respective themes management systems. Risk factors are identified, measured, through town halls, executive meetings, floor walks, and managed continuously and responsibly via our or huddles. These are then supplemented with detailed governance framework at the entity level, business segment written communications. We also share actual instances level, and business process level. This ensures compliance where our employees or business partners have fallen with not only applicable statutory guidelines but also with short of Genpact’s ethical expectations. Recent events and our internal policies and process compliance parameters. news items are also brought into the picture to portray The overall monitoring of risk levels is the responsibility real-world examples and enable better understanding for of our diverse board of directors accompanied by the our employees. Compliance with this program is reported management team which is responsible for implementing monthly to Genpact executive leadership. recommended mitigation measures. As we chart our ambitious growth plans over the coming Robust Governance years, our operations and processes will invariably become increasingly complex, and preserving our stakeholders’ Business excellence and long-term value optimization trust will become even more critical. Our complex global go hand in hand with ethical business conduct. The operations subject us to regulation in many jurisdictions principles of transparency, accountability, and equity set around the world, which are, themselves, changing. Our the tone for our business relationships and underlying robust and agile systems are designed to withstand this practices. Our robust corporate governance framework change and dynamically adapt to meet these new and ensures complete accountability, fair treatment towards challenging requirements. We have always looked beyond all stakeholders, transparency, and ethical conduct, while what the law requires of us when it comes to our best-inat the same time creating an enabling environment for class governance practices. sustainability to thrive in. This is imperative for the success The World Economic Forum Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) In April 2013, as members of the World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption Initiative (PACI), we participated in the Anti-Corruption Workshop in India. 44 companies from 11 countries took part in the workshop with Genpact being one of the four signatories from India. Pramod Bhasin, our Vice Chairman, played the role of a discussion leader in one of the plenary sessions on the link between corruption and competitiveness, the challenges of engaging small and medium-sized enterprises in anti-corruption programs, the role of collective action and current government initiatives. The World Economic Forum Partnering against Corruption Initiative (PACI) is a global, multi-industry, multi-stakeholder anti-corruption initiative set up to raise business standards and to contribute to a competitive, transparent, accountable and ethical business society. http://www.weforum.org/issues/ partnering-against-corruption-initiative Genpact | Report | 11 Complete Accountability ●● A majority of the members of the board of directors shall be independent directors; Genpact’s diverse board of directors embodies skill and ●● The independent directors shall meet at least twice a experience of the utmost caliber, making them well suited year in executive session; to provide oversight and strategic direction for realizing our ●● Directors shall have full and free access to management long-term vision. The board is composed of 12 directors, and, as necessary and appropriate, independent 11 of whom are independent.2 The board of directors has advisors; and adopted corporate governance guidelines to assist in the ●● At least annually, the nominating and governance exercise of its duties and responsibilities and to serve the committee shall oversee a self evaluation of the board best interests of our Company and our shareholders. These of directors to determine whether the board of directors guidelines, which provide a framework for the conduct of and its committees are functioning effectively. the board’s business, provide among other things, that: Our Code of Ethical Business Conduct and Integrity@ ●● The principal responsibility of the directors is to Genpact Guide also apply to all directors of the board to the exercise their business judgment to promote the extent they are representing or acting on behalf of Genpact. long-term interests of the Company’s shareholders by providing strategic direction to the Company and Directors are expected to report any actual or potential to oversee management in the performance of the conflict of interest to the chairman of the board’s Audit Company’s business activities; Committee and the General Counsel. ●● Additional responsibilities include reviewing, The board structure consists of several committees: an approving and monitoring significant financial and Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a business strategies as developed by management, Nominating and Governance Committee with composition evaluating the performance of the Company and its in line with applicable independence requirements of executive officers, approving CEO succession plans and reviewing and approving material transactions the NYSE and any other applicable legal requirements. and corporate activities not entered into in the Additional committees may be established by the board if ordinary course of business; deemed necessary or appropriate.3 2. For more information on our board of directors, please visit: http://www.genpact.com/home/about-us/leadership/board-of-directors 3. Information on our corporate governance guidelines, our code of ethics and the charters of each of the board committees are available at: http://investors.genpact.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=209334&p=irol-govhighlights Genpact | Report | 12 Ethical supply chain Vendor governance framework We recognize that managing the environmental and Our approach social impacts of our supply chain has manifold benefits – mitigating and addressing business continuity risks, meeting the changing demands of our clients and other At Genpact, we believe in building relationships stakeholders, increasing cost-efficiency and operation with business partners that understand and efficiency of the supply chain, protecting our reputation live up to our high standards on responsible and brand value – resulting in long-term economic growth. business conduct. Given our extensive supply chain ecosystem, this is a challenging task comprising two elements – ensuring As a responsible business, we endeavor to stringent compliance to our standards and requirements, cultivate sustainable practices across our and eliminating any risks associated with our supply chain. supply chain – encouraging and engaging with our suppliers not only delivering the best-inOur supplier selection processes route all purchase class services but also better manage their requisitions through a centralized Global Sourcing team. environmental and social performance. Genpact optimizes its sourcing footprint based on total cost of ownership including environmental impact and sustainability factors when shortlisting a vendor. Our supply chain standards As an extension of our operations, our supply chain is a Our supply chain reflection of our pride in doing business the right way – giving due consideration to our ethical, environmental ●● 5,000+ vendors globally and social obligations as we pursue business excellence. ●● Procuring nearly 150 categories of goods and services We expect our vendors to comply with the same high level of standards on business ethics, legal compliance and ●● Comprises two broad categories – IT-related services and sustainable practices that we subject our operations to. products (such as IT hardware, software, IT professional Accordingly, our vendors are contractually expected to services) and infrastructure and operations-related comply with Genpact’s environment, health, and safety services and products (such as catering, transport, office maintenance, and equipment) (EHS) standards, all applicable regulations such as labor laws, fundamental human rights and any other statutory requirements. Specific criteria are also laid down based While our existing measures ensured compliance on the nature of the vendor. For example, our food vendor through site audits and screening processes (such as must comply with specific health-related requirements, police verification, background checks, etc.) with vendor and our vendor for chairs has to comply with specific violations resulting in suspension or dismissal, we ergonomic requirements. recognized the need to further bolster the screening Further, we have also adapted our Integrity@Genpact policy process. We enhanced the process to Supply Chain for our suppliers – Supplier Integrity Policy. This extends the Sustainability in 2013. Recently, we structured the risk principles of responsible business ethics, fair employment and compliance elements under a Vendor Governance practices, and prohibition of discrimination, confidentiality Framework. The framework renders a holistic approach and data privacy across our supply chain, including all to risk identification, assessment and mitigation, with third parties acting on our behalf. We have drafted and vendors being categorized for risks subject to the nature of implemented the Sustainable Supply Chain policy that serve their association/engagement with Genpact. All vendors as a guide to ensuring a responsible supply chain. are subjected to this assessment prior to being on boarded. Genpact | Report | 13 Vendor Governance Framework Assessment Audit, reporting Vendor risk Actual risk Control against & exception categorisation assessment safeguards safeguards handeing Rated against risk Risk assessment of List of safeguards Assessment of Reporting, catagories defined vendor to identify to be considered vendor against the monitoring and (info sec Client high, medium and for the vendors agreed safeguards mitigation of information, info low risk vendors depending on their on its existence and execeptopns sec Genpact risk ratings and risk operation identified information, BCP, catagory and compliance) Vendors are required to declare their approach and present term of service with Genpact. In the event of a grievance the supporting artefacts, which along with the safeguards being brought up for redressal, the sourcing point of contact are reviewed and audited by our sourcing team. One of can bring on board the experts from legal, compliance, the key risk areas assessed as part of the Compliance risk or other subject matter experts in the organization, in category is evaluating vendors’ compliance to the local addressing the issue, and appropriate remedies and action infrastructure norms/regulations and EHS requirements. A plans are thought through. Appropriate tracking points are signoff is required for the vendor to be on-boarded. defined to track towards closure of the issue, to assure full accountability on our part to address the concern. We ensure that all the elements of the Vendor Governance Framework including Sustainability aspects are Green Procurement continuously updated to stay relevant with the industry practices and global norms. A committee comprising Our sourcing team is also actively involved with procuring of Senior Leaders oversee the effectiveness of the Risk green products for Genpact facilities. The sourcing team framework and are informed and consulted for course of collaborates with Infrastructure and Logistics, EHS, and IT action if a risk is foreseen. Also there is audit conducted to teams in order to procure products that help save energy and ensure that the suppliers are adhering to the safeguards conserve resources. When procuring we prefer products that that were committed. are greener, given all required technical specifications are met. A database of green products has been developed with a Vendor grievance mechanism recent addition for green building materials. Expanding the green cataloguing of products to the key product categories Our governance structure, defined at the point of on is a continues activity in Genpact. boarding the vendor, oversees the health and performance of the engagement. A periodic governance touch-point gives Supplier Diversity an opportunity for both parties to discuss status and address any concerns. Also, this allows for structured tracking of any At Genpact we prefer to empower new vendors from diverse action plans that may be in place for addressing issues. groups, provided they meet required VPQ, cost, quality, and delivery timeline requirements. Suppliers have a point of contact in the business as well as the Sourcing team, whom they can reach out to during their Genpact | Report | 14 Sustainability @ Genpact “The focus now is not on “IF” a company should be sustainnable, but on “how” a company Genpact has always considered Sustainability as a businessgoes about being sustainable, if done right, critical initiative that drives long-term business viability. Sustainability can be a competitive advantage” This also spearheads us further on our sustainability journey as we progressively integrate sustainability into NV “TIGER” TYAGRANJAN our business strategy. President and CEO, Genpact Transformation Transforming Transforming happens here business environment Transforming Transforming people community Genpact | Report | 15 Approach ●● Sustainability Governance Framework: Steering and monitoring our sustainability performance, is the sustainability governance framework holding our Embedding sustainability as an essential element of our leadership accountable to this task. We developed day-to-day decision making is a continual endeavor. In an Environment, Health and Sustainability Policy in doing so, we extend our business creed – (Generating 2010, which was revised in 2012. To further streamline Impact) – to our sustainability approach that incorporates the sustainability operations, we have proposed an exclusive sustainability governance structure pending social progress and environmental stewardship into a more implementation. We are in the process of drafting a responsible economic growth for Genpact. At the core of Sustainability Policy, which is instrumental in defining this philosophy, is the importance we hold to improving the organizational culture towards our sustainability the quality of life for our stakeholders, both internal and visions as well as holding all employees responsible and external, as we approach our stakeholder relationships accountable towards the same. – be it clients, employees or suppliers – with utmost ●● Sustainability KPIs (Key Performance Indicators): integrity and respect, utilize our naturally Lean approach Supporting the monitoring of our sustainability to operations to minimize our environmental footprint, performance and keeping it in line with our and proactively engage with communities to positively sustainability vision, are our organizational impact their progress. Thus, translating into the pillars of sustainability KPIs (tracked in Summary of key our sustainability approach – Generating Business Impact, performance indicators). The responsibility of tracking these have been mapped and communicated to the Generating People Impact, Generating Green Impact, and relevant business functions. We are currently, in the Generating Community Impact. process of determining baselines and targets against each KPI, to measure our sustainability performance. Reinforcing this further, is the unrelenting commitment of Genpact’s management and senior leadership in providing ●● Sustainability Action Plan: Paving the way ahead, is strategic direction to Genpact’s sustainability vision to our sustainability action plan that defines the key meet underlying goals. The A+ rating of our sustainability sustainability activities that need to be undertaken report, which is assured for conforming with GRI G4 along with the respective roles and responsibilities aligned to them. Guidelines, indicates the highest level of transparency and robust sustainability practices across people, economic and environmental dimensions. Strategy framework In 2014, we commenced an internal exercise to reformulate Sustainability our sustainability framework in order to benchmark governance our performance and communicate the same to our stakeholders in the future. Consequently, we outlined a viable strategy framework that rendered further clarity to Sustainability our sustainability journey. vision Sustainability Sustainability Our strategy framework consists of: KPIs action plan ●● Sustainability Vision: The four pillars, mentioned earlier, form the foundation of our sustainability journey, addressing the basic tenets of sustainability – economic, Sustainability strategy framework environment and social growth. Genpact | Report | 16 Journey ahead developed a progressive and actionable sustainability roadmap for Genpact in 2015. Moving forward, our aim would be to completely operationalize our sustainability In 2013, we undertook a maturity analysis of our strategy across the organization, along with implementing sustainability journey to ascertain our desired maturity the supporting governance framework and communication level. Building upon this and utilizing our materiality strategy to take us to a sustainability leadership state assessments and feedback from internal and external amongst our peers. Having identified areas where we excel, stakeholders, we identified the gaps that need to be the task that lies ahead of us is that of maintaining this addressed in order to achieve sustainability leadership state for those areas, while closing in on our gaps to emerge status. In line with this, we developed the above key as a sustainability frontrunner. elements of our Sustainability Strategy Framework and Maintain leadership state for environmental sustainability, talent development & engagement, business integrity, and information security Sustainability roadmap Cement Genpact’s reputation and position as Operationalize sustainable brand amongst sustainability strategy all stakeholders across the organization Expand engagement and communication program around sustainability Detailed action plan proposed to address gaps observed vis-a-vis the desired sustainability Strengthen leadership state sustainability governance Proposed sustainability governance structure & sustainability policy Genpact | Report | 17 Stakeholder Engagement key stakeholders, mutually identified in consultation by the Company’s management, include our employees, our clients, our investors, our vendors, the communities Our sustainability journey is fueled by fostering we interact with, and the government. In all our meaningful stakeholder dialogues and empathizing with dealings with our stakeholders we foster an ongoing their concerns. Our engagement with our stakeholders two-way communication channel between us and them, makes us cognizant of matters that are most important to represented in the figure. We endeavor to promote them and informs our strategic decisions and policies. They environmental, social ethical, health and safety related are provided with adequate avenues to voice their concerns best practices through engagement platforms designed for about their engagement with Genpact, and we make it a each stakeholder group. Further, we also actively involve point to fairly and objectively address these issues. It sets and inform them about our sustainability approach, the tone for the way we manage our business – making our goals and performance. Such consistent and structured engagement more pertinent. engagements have helped us nurture enduring and Our stakeholders comprise of those who are both mutually beneficial relationships with our stakeholders. impacted and impact our operations and activities. Our Our stakeholders EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS INVESTORS ●● Employee satisfaction survey (annual) ●● Net promoter score based on process ●● Quarterly calls with investors and owner questionnaire (semi-annual) shareholders ●● Performance appraisal (biannual) ●● CXO questionnaire (annual) ●● Annual IOK report ●● Corporate social responsibility volunte ●● Governance meetings at account ●● Annual general meeting e ring (o ngoing) level between different levels of the ●● Email alerts for SEC-related ●● Regular formal/informal discussions organization (ongoing) information, reports, webcasts and with managers (ongoing) presentations, scheduled events and ●● Training and development company news (ongoing) programmes (ongoing) ●● Online information request/contact ●● Grievance cell (ongoing) us form VENDORS/SUPPLIERS CUSTOMERS INVESTORS ●● Vendor prequalification process ●● Community intervention/ employee ●● Engagement through memberships of (ongoing) volunteering activities (ongoing) industry bodies like NASSCOM, CII , Business Processing Association of the ●● Vendor risk analysis and rating process ●● Planning exercise with NGOs (ongoing) Philippines (BPAP), Association of the (ongoing) ●● Limited engagement with NGOs Business Services Leaders (Poland and ●● Engagement with vendor employees on strengthening their processes Romania) etc. (ongoing) during sessions on promoting health (ongoing) and safety related pra ctices (ongoing) Genpact | Report | 18 Materiality currently being faced by us, some of our global and local peers, the IT/ITeS industry as a whole and global issues highlighted by the international community (business, Materiality assessment is a principal component of NGOs, development agencies, leading international sustainability efforts, defining the issues that are of organizations, etc.). Through internal discussions, we the utmost importance to all our stakeholders as well zeroed in on the most relevant sustainability issues for as Genpact’s business. In doing so, it imparts focus and Genpact. The materiality assessment was then conducted direction to not only our reporting endeavor but also to our in two prongs – discussions with internal stakeholders sustainability approach. Keeping in line with our previous to ascertain the impact of these issues on Genpact’s materiality assessment in 2013, we actively interacted with business in the near future and in-depth dialogues with our stakeholders on sustainability to understand their representatives of our key external stakeholder groups perspective and concerns about their engagement with (suppliers, clients, NGOs, etc.) to assess their level of Genpact. At the outset of 2015 materiality assessment, we concern on these issues. We then collated the inputs to compared our earlier assessment with sustainability issues arrive at Genpact’s materiality map. Operational excellence Client excellence Talent excellence ●● Carbon management ●● Business continuity ●● Recruiting/ Creation of talent pool ●● Green buildings ●● Qualityof services ●● Talent development ●● Green IT ●● Data privacy & information security ●● Diversity & inclusion ●● Water management ●● Transfonnational solutions for ●● Occupational health & safety ●● Waste management sustainability ●● Employee engagement & ●● Biodiversity ●● Innovation satisfaction Ethics, transparency and Supply chain excellence Corporate citizenship governance ●● Social/ environmental ●● Human rights ●● Corporate social responsibility assessment of suppliers ●● Business integrity Anti●● Employee volunteering ●● Supplier engagement corruption/ Ant-bribery ●● Supplier diversity ●● Responsible policy advocacy ●● Transparent disclosures Genpact | Report | 19 Materiality Map Reporting our Sustainability Through this report, we endeavor to communicate our In this report, the four pillars of our Sustainability Strategy approach as well as our performance on all material Framework form the various sections of the report that issues identified. The top-right corner here represents highlight the relevant material aspects as well as our all the issues that have the highest impact on our sustainability progress in FY 2015. These pillars along with stakeholders as well as on our business, and hence will the relevant topics are depicted below. be the focus of this report Business impact People impact Responsible business conduct Employee wellbeing commitment to quality diversity and inclusivity responsible advocacy upholding human rights Reporting framework Green impact Community impact environmental stewardship Societal impact responsible supply chain Genpact | Report | 20 Business impact At Genpact, our pursuit towards Embedded in our corporate culture is a maniacal client centricity that strives to not only meet but exceed our responsible economic growth is what clients’ expectations. permeates through our business culture. For us at Genpact, we do not just stop at providing quality Our commitment to quality and services but also assure our clients that as an extension of responsible business conduct their team we have their best interests in mind, keeping ourselves constantly abreast of their needs and priorities – act as our compass in building and measuring their pulse. navigating our fruitful long-term client relationships. Action plan Through responsible advocacy we seek to create a fair and transparent market place that represents the best Responsible Business Conduct interests of our industry as well as Commitment to Quality our stakeholders. Responsible Advocacy Major clients are leaders in their respective a wider range of functions and geographic zones. In this industries – Ahold Europe, AstraZeneca, Citigroup, constantly changing environment, our clients turn to us GE, GlaxoSmithKline, Hyatt, Ironshore, Kimberlyfor transforming their businesses to not only adapt but Clark, Merck, National Australia Bank, Nissan, outperform the competition. Symantec, Walgreens, and Wells Fargo Our LeanDigitalSM approach extends our reach with clients – tapping their unmet potentials end-to-end, including the middle and back offices, ensuring a seamless connection to the front end. Our service delivery model Our Approach strives to create a virtual extension of the clients’ own environment with dedicated employees and management as well as infrastructure at our delivery centres. All An Extension of our Client personnel, be it our employees, contractors or vendors, are To our clients, we are not just another service provider familiarized with not only the processes but also with the but an integral part of their organization – an extension client’s business environment in which the process is to be of their operations. This reflects our commitment and executed. In recent times, in dealing with sensitive client efforts towards creating long-term relationships with our information our sector has been continuously battling clients – often beginning humbly with the outsourcing the threat to information security and data privacy. Along of isolated processes or with shorter engagements in with our robust internal management systems, policies analytics and research, business consulting, enterprise risk and protocols, sensitizing our personnel to these threats consulting, or reengineering, and over time develop into a safeguards us from such risks, while delivering quality multiple business processes engagement encompassing service with utmost business integrity Genpact | Report | 21 Investing in marketing analyst/influencer relations and event marketing) but has significantly increased digital marketing activities including social media, an enhanced website, inbound and Genpact’s spend on Marketing activities has traditionally outbound outreach campaigns to clients and prospects, been modest, especially compared to our competitors, and some paid targeted marketing and advertising. but our investment in marketing as a%age of sales has Genpact Marketing has also built up its capabilities increased steadily in the past several years, and these in targeted content marketing, research projects, investments have helped the team directly increase the marketing automation and supporting technologies, company’s brand awareness and deal pipeline. We have and an integrated approach to supporting large client always used the Net Promoter Score (NPS) of existing deals. Genpact Marketing has been instrumental in the clients as an incentive for the top management, effectively company’s rebranding launches, messaging platforms, encouraging the reference ability of client names during and product and capability launches such as its Lean deal pursuits. DigitalSM approach, Genpact Cora platform (June The existing marketing approach encompasses on a lean 2017), and its most recent logo and tagline launched in foundation of traditional activities (public relations and September 2017. Testimony to our clients trust our blueprint strategy NPS growth: 7% CAGR 68% 67% 65% 64% 57% 58% Over the years, our clients have increasingly 55% seen the value we bring towards their 47% transformation and have sought to work with 39% us year after year. A consistently upward moving NPS, from 39% in 2007 to 67% in 2015, is a testimony to the trust our clients place in us and the value we create for them. 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Genpact | Report | 22 Our performance Client impact NPS Top Fortune 500 insurance 77% company in US (2013) Impact We have generated billions of dollars Challenge 70% 100+ MN USD business of business impact while maintaining the highest level of Adverse product performance (2014) impact and ~3 MN USD client satisfaction in the industry. productivity impact Declining revenue and delivered in last 6 years profitability 75% (2015) LeanDigitalSM across Industries Member of the GE ~ 2 BN USD in yearly Digital Alliance Lean Six Sigma Dedicated consulting impact for Program, with 100+ ~ 1.5 BN USD in yearly ~ 700 USD in yearly practice generating and digital teams infrastructure, resources working on impact for banking & impact for life 2-3X value beyond focused on driving manufacturing & the GE Predix financial services sciences traditional arbitrage innovation services platform for IIoT Financial assistance from Indian corporate income taxes for their export profits under the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) Scheme through March 31, 2011. In the absence of this tax We benefit from tax relief provided by laws and regulations holiday, income derived from our Indian operations is taxed in India, China, Colombia, the Philippines, and Guatemala. up to the maximum tax rate generally applicable to Indian During the last nine years, we established new centres that enterprises, which, as of December 31, 2015, was 35%. we believe are eligible for tax benefits under the Special Economic Zones Act (SEZ) of 2005. The SEZ legislation introduced a 15-year tax holiday scheme for operations Year ended December 31 established in designated special economic zones or SEZs. US$ (‘000) 2013 2014 2015 Under the Indian Income Tax Act of 1961, our delivery centres in India, from which we derived a significant Tax benefit from 39,785 35,868 38,039 tax holiday portion of our revenues, benefited from a 10-year holiday Genpact | Report | 23 Transforming community Transforming social impact by leveraging earnest efforts of our workforce to make a difference in the world beyond their desks, running structured programs within our limited capacity to address relevant social and environmental issues, making a contribution towards solving the bigger sustainable development puzzle as a responsible corporate citizen and ensuring the growth of the community along with ours by virtue of our overall business impact. Our CSR Philosophy At Genpact, giving is a way of life. We have institutionalized this culture among our employees through a number of global platforms, programs, projects, and social initiatives. Corporate citizenship has a critical role to play in shaping We believe that the core of a sustainable and socially viable our company’s success. As we grow, we will harness the company is a strong and motivated volunteer base. We are energy and talent of our employees and leverage our proud to have a network of over 15,500 unique volunteers distinctive strengths to contribute to the economic, social, worldwide who support our various projects and initiatives. and environmental betterment of our communities. Our In India, Genpact has been a clear leader in the Give India special focus is on development through Education and Payroll Giving Program and the first company in the Employability, Women’s Empowerment and generating country to have over 15,000 people donating from payroll Sustainable Social Impact. through this platform. Guiding principles of Genpact cares Focus on a few areas of development to create deep impact in society US FO C N RT Harness our specific PA Build strong partnerships skills to transform the SH with a chosen set of ER areas of education, IPS nonprofit organizations employability, and to drive change in women’s empowerment SKILLS communities Genpact | Report | 24 ●● Focus on a few areas of development to create deep us to do transformational work and bring about change in impact in society the country and community. ●● Harness our specific skills to transform the areas of education, employability, and women’s empowerment Education and Employability: ●● Build strong partnerships with a chosen set of nonprofit Our priority is to help create education and employability. organizations to drive change in communities India has the largest youth population in the world. A third of Indians are between the ages of 15 and 29. The country is set to be the world’s youngest with 64% of its Objectives population of working age. By 2020, the average age of the country will be 29. Genpact is committed to giving back to the community through projects and initiatives under three pillars that Genpact has strategically focused on developing an align with our strengths, core expertise, and causes that ecosystem to: our employees are passionate about: ●● Improve Student Learning Outcomes: Create equitable ●● Education and Employability education between Government and Private schooling sector ●● Women’s Empowerment ●● Improve employability by developing domain relevant skills to youth ●● Sustainable Social Impact Under each pillar, we run projects independently or in Key Projects: partnership with institutional or nonprofit organizations. ●● School Centered Community Development Project We believe that our work under each of these pillars enables (SCCD): Partnership between Genpact, United Ways, Pillars of Genpact Cares Education and Women’s Sustainable employability empowerment social impact Providing access to Running development Capacity building of quality education and and training programs non-profits through top-class training for girls to build skill based programs for better women leaders volunteering employment prospects Genpact | Report | 25 Teach For India and multiple skilled NGOs to create ●● Genpact Centre for Women’s Leadership (GCWL) with sustainable holistic impact by: Ashoka University in India: A leading platform to develop, and support women leaders through ecosystem −− Building infrastructure and policy changes −− Teacher development & training ●● Udayan Shalini Fellowship in India: Supports girls for −− Principle Mentorship advanced education, personality development skills and −− Additional Classes enable employment −− Community Development −− Genpact runs a mentorship and scholarship program for 419 girls from low income backgrounds ●● Programs like “Adopt a Classroom,” “Paint a School’, ‘Create Teaching Aids” in partnership with schools across ●● Olympic Gold Quest (OGQ) in India: Training and India, Europe, the US, Guatemala, and the Philippines: development of women athletes with OGQ to get them ready for the Olympics −− Transforming Filinvest Annex Elementary School in Philippines to better the learning experience for 800 −− Impacted 31 senior and junior athletes in FY 16-17 students through infrastructural developments −− Successfully achieved 3 Bronze Medals and 2 Silver −− Mount Carmelo School in Guatemala: Supporting Medals in International Sports Championships the education of 310 students for the past five years ●● Touched Romania in Romania: Leading the vision of through infrastructural development, mentoring and transforming the lives of high risk mother and babies career support through infrastructural and emotional support −− Junior Achievement in New York: Teaching business lessons at low income schools in New York for the Sustainable Social Impact: past six years At Genpact, we leverage our people power and process ●● The Reach Higher Program with NASSCOM Foundation excellence skills to transform non-profit organizations so in India to create a model, best-in-class program that that they can create a greater impact on the community. demonstrates how employability can be created effectively. We also deeply care for the environment and help conserve −− 2033 people Trained it through frequent plantation and awareness drives. We abide by the global “Environment Health Safety and −− 1606 people Certified on F&A and Communication Sustainability Policy” (EHS&S) which is clearly displayed in −− 1288 people placed all our projects across locations. Women’s Empowerment: Key Projects: Under this pillar, we focus on empowerment of women, ●● Genpact Social Impact Fellowship (GSIF) with EdelGive enabling them to succeed in their chosen paths to Foundation in India: This is a unique one year program accelerate gender equality and inclusive growth. This has in partnership with EdelGive Foundation, where always been close to the hearts of our employees and is Genpact extends its core business skills to non-profits evident through the plethora of volunteering initiatives with an aim to transform the social sector. In the first that they undertake around the globe each year. batch (2016-2017) of the program, six fellows worked with three leading non-profits and re-engineered the Key Projects: existing processes, transforming the lives of 70,000+ students. The second batch has been scaled up by 180%, ●● Dress for Success in US: Empower women in their quest with 15 fellows and eight non-profits. The vision of this for economic independence, along with providing them program is to create diverse project opportunities across a network of support and resources Genpact | Report | 26 our CSR pillars, explore social entrepreneurship model children and neglected communities. Some of our through incubation, and spread across key Genpact projects include: India locations ●● Sponsoring a Primary Health Centre for the ●● Klopperpark School in South Africa: Providing support underprivileged at minimal cost, and engaging our large in IT and using data analytics to understand academic volunteer base to participate in blood, organ, and stem data so as to improve the learning curve of students. cell donation drives ●● Care for Kere in India: Partnering with non-profits and ●● Supporting disaster relief through donation drives with the local community to rescue and rejuvenate Sowl Kere partner nonprofit organizations a 48-acre lake in Bangalore. This lake was on the verge ●● Restoring water bodies, planting trees and driving of dying but now boasts a quality score of 61.49% (up environment conservation from 37.24% in 2015). ●● Supporting rehabilitation of street children ●● Plant a Million in India: In five years, 7000+ Genpact volunteers have planted 22,000 trees in the Aravalli Our areas of focus are supported by the Biodiversity Park the largest contribution among following key drivers: all corporations. This abandoned mining site has transformed into a flourishing city forest. ●● Volunteerism – the cornerstone of our CSR program ●● Payroll giving and donation programs Highlights ●● Partnership with nonprofits and strong client engagement and support ●● Apart from the focused work under the three pillars, ●● Powerful communication engine that helps build a we also work for the development of underprivileged culture of giving Genpact | Report | 27 Each of our major sites conducts a CSR program based on an adaptation of the above framework taking the local context Our people make a difference into consideration. Each location or region drives the CSR program, through a CSR leader/champion supported Volunteering and payroll donations by a team of single point of contacts (SPOCs). The global CSR leader is responsible for supervision and oversight of Human capital is undoubtedly our most valuable asset, and the overall CSR program. Management, execution, and we utilize it to generate social capital by investing it in our governance of our CSR endeavors are also taken care of CSR programs. As a company of more than 77,000 people, through this structure. employee contributions are the foundation of our CSR program. Genpact’s role is to provide effective platforms Our CSR program engages employees across the that allow our motivated employees to channel their organization, including our senior leadership, which we monetary and non-monetary contributions to causes that feel is the key to success of our CSR efforts. Leadership are close to their hearts. Employee volunteering and payroll involvement provides a sense of organizational ownership are thus the backbone of most of the CSR programs we run. of the CSR vision and acts as a great motivation tool for employees. The unflinching commitment of our volunteers Over the years, we have instilled these values within our in turn motivates the leadership. Genpact’s leadership cultural fabric and have ensured that they are maintained is committed to investing in the CSR program, which is by focusing on volunteering and payroll at the beginning of evident from the program’s expansion over the years. In the employee life cycle in our orientation programs. Such 2016, Genpact spent 2471416 USD on its CSR programs. exposure also allows new Genpacters to get a sense of the organizational culture and values. Genpact donated USD 300,000+ to non-profits across the world in 2016 via the payroll donation program Payroll Giving at Genpact $ 5 15,500+ 300,000+ Countries Employees signed up on Dollars donated to Guatemala, India, Mexico, Payroll giving program nonprofits across the world Romania, US Genpact is the largest corporate donor to GiveIndia, the payroll giving program in India Genpact | Report | 28 Overall, volunteering at Genpact includes 15,500+ unique a collaborative bond that strengthens as we move forward. volunteers (22% of our employee base), 65000+ volunteer We encourage our clients to visit our facilities, engage with hours, spanning 16 countries, impacting the lives of 16,000+ our people, and participate in the Genpact experience. people through our range of initiatives and projects. Our During client visits to our facilities, we expose our clients volunteers get involved in activities such as teaching to the CSR programs at that particular site. Such visits allow and mentoring children, planting trees, volunteering in us to explore participation opportunities for clients in our orphanages and old age homes, cleanliness drives, etc. We CSR programs. We have received positive feedback from partner with leading non-profit organizations (charities such clients and feel that this allows us to forge an informal bond as Give India, United Way, Dress for Success, and American that extends beyond the workspace and allows our clients Cancer Society) to provide flexible and transparent platforms to get first-hand experience of Genpact values and culture. that enable employees to donate to credible local charities. Over the years, numerous clients have pitched in and made These programs are voluntary, and employees are free to a contribution to our CSR programs. Clients’ contributions change or discontinue their contribution. have included teaching underprivileged children, sponsoring infrastructure at schools, and providing volunteers for teaching, among others. We extend this CSR Involving our clients and partners engagement to clients by regularly updating them not only on business issues but also on Genpact’s CSR initiatives, At Genpact, we do not treat the relationship we share with strategies, and opportunities. our clients as purely transactional. We believe in fostering Volunteering at Genpact 65,500+ 15,500+ 16 16,000+ volunteering hours volunteers countries lives impacted Aline Antobel (Brazil) Erin Mc Fadden (US) Sahnik Banerjee (India) “Being a volunteer makes me “By volunteering, I have been “Volunteering exposes me feel so good, especially when able to directly impact many to new experiences and each I see employees engaged, and lives and form new friendships experience is a new learning.” see children having fun.” along the way.” Genpact | Report | 29 Increasing impact through Genpact also has active CSR communities on the company intranet and social media, as well as an external blog communication where we report out our stories of impact and engage with our volunteers. Volunteer penetration and payroll penetration Penetration figures for our unique volunteer program and Leveraging our expertise and payroll program stood at 22% and 27%, respectively, in 2016. One of the ways we encourage more of our people skills to become part of our CSR programs is through targeted Through the Genpact Social Impact Fellowship (GSIF) and effective communication. Impactful and consistent program in partnership with EdelGive Foundation we communication permeates the culture of giving within the leverage and contribute our process excellence and organization, which we do by implementing an effective expertise to transform the social sector. We have helped communication plan laid out at the start of every year. Our leading non-profits improve their Impact through efforts include creating standard CSR branding, newsletters introduction of a strong rigor and systems of governance highlighting volunteers’ experiences and the impact of and monitoring of Success Metrics and Fund Utilization. our CSR activities, adequate exposure of CSR activities, This enables the NGO and their staff to focus on Success and recognition for our ace volunteers in town halls and Metrics and desired outcomes of the projects. By through Genpact leaders. The communication is not just meant to inform employees about how and where they conducting comprehensive process diagnostics of all can make their contribution but also to provide that extra existing processes—and then re-engineering them to nudge and motivation to more actively and consistently maximize outcomes—NGO and their staff can ensure timely become part of such activities. and adequate fund utilization on the ground. In order to deepen our volunteer penetration, in 2017 The first batch of GSIF fellows partnered with three leading Genpact launched an internal platform called “p3 Employee non-profits and worked on projects that led to improving App.” This is a mobile app which enables employees to student learning outcomes of 70,000+ children in India. discover and register for volunteering opportunities at the click of a button. It also gives an opportunity to employees to instantly share their stories of impact with the Genpact Our Performance community making their volunteering experience much more fulfilling. P3 employee app has led to steep increase in our volunteer base in 2017 and has increased the level of Impact measurement engagement of employees with CSR activities. We at Genpact have a strong Governance and Audit The CSR teams at each location work as a team with the Mechanism for all that we do. We strongly believe central CSR group for executing the communication plan in “what gets measured gets done.” Our governance designed for that year. Effort is also made to connect CSR mechanism involves reviews and monitoring by the CEO, teams across the globe to share best practices. This is done Board members and senior leaders who are part of the through monthly calls and an annual CSR global meet. Genpact CSR Councils and Committees at various sites/ We always encourage our people to look beyond their regions. The senior leadership team not only approves the desk and make a difference in the world. We also feel that strategy, policy and projects but also regularly reviews the participation in such activities inculcates the values and implementation and whether the funds committed are leadership skills that we look for in our future leaders. being utilized effectively. Genpact | Report | 30 For India, per the requirements of the New Company’s Act, Community investment (in USD '000) a CSR spend report is also a part of the Annual Board of Directors report. We are also committed to the International CSR areas 2015 2016 Standards of reporting and Audit (UNGC & GRI Reporting). Spend on activities related to CSR 1531 2471 For our CSR and Sustainability approach, we adhere to GRI focus areas standards and are part of the UN Global Compact Reporting. Total 1531 2471 Beneficiary speak Unique Volunteering and payroll giving ●● Naghma Mulla, COO, EdelGive Foundation “Combining penetration 2016 the philanthropic expertise of EdelGive with Genpact’s No of Volunteering Payroll Lean Six Sigma proficiency, the Genpact Social Impact Site volunteers penetration (%) penetration (%) Fellowship goes beyond traditional funding. The first National edition of GSIF has yielded wonderful results and we 5384 24 27 capital region hope to continue this journey well into the second year.” Jaipur 1128 24 13 ●● Brendy Lissette, Principal, Mount Carmelo School Hyderabad 2271 14 31 “Because of Genpact’s various interventions, our school is now influencing a larger number of students. Genpact Bangalore 1441 32 45 has become a part of the educational community.” Kolkata 810 31 24 ●● Deepanshi, Teach For India Fellow “Genpact has truly China 983 25 NA left an impact on all the stakeholders at our school – the students, parents, teacher and even the community around” Philippines 799 18 NA ●● Nidhi, an Udayan Shalini Fellow and now a Genpacter Romania 878 28 13 “The Udayan Shalini Fellowship program has given many Czech aspiring girls like me the opportunity to study further 16 52 NA Republic and work in top organizations.” Krakow, 62 6 NA Poland ●● Viren Rasquinha, CEO, Olympic Gold Quest “More than Wormer, 83 38 NA 40% of OGQ supported athletes are women and with the Netherlands help of Genpact, we are helping create not just champions South Africa 107 67 NA but role models for millions of girls across the country.” Bratislava 35 16 NA ●● Mihaela, Beneficiary, Touched Romania “As a mother of five beautiful children, I am thankful to Touched Mexico 358 33 39 Romania and Genpact for giving us many opportunities London 65 11 NA and reasons to smile.” Guatemala 370 38 26 ●● CV Naido, School Principal, Klopperpark School “For seven years, Genpact has helped provide quality public Brazil 95 100 NA education to our students. They are excelling academically Australia 21 26 NA and have gone ahead to win several scholarships.” USA 604 14 NA ●● Venkat Krishnan, Founder and Director, GiveIndia “The design thinking workshop was a wonderful Overall 15510 22 27 experience. Our team is really excited about the conclusions and is charting out a path to implement Amount contributed by global Genpact employees through payroll programs and other initiatives for CSR objectives: 353,042 USD. many of them over the next 6 months.” Genpact | Report | 31 Celebrating diversity of our serve. We target our efforts towards fostering an inclusive culture where every individual has an equal opportunity to people contribute, develop and grow. We ensure no discrimination in compensation on grounds of gender. Genpact values the unique attributes that make each It has always been our endeavor to promote gender diversity person who they are. We believe that the collective strength across the organization. The overall representation of of a diverse and passionate talent pool is and will continue women in our global workforce is 39%, and rising. Of this to be a crucial competitive advantage that helps us total representation, 33% are at the mid-management generate the desired impact for our clients. As a responsible (managers and senior managers) level and 24% are in corporate citizen, Genpact works towards creation of a the senior management (AVP and above). Due to our balanced workplace that respects, celebrates and advocates efforts over the years, we have seen significant increases diverse perspectives and provides equal opportunity to in representation of women at our very top levels of all based on merit, without discriminating on grounds of leadership, with 23% women at SVP level, 15% women in the race, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation or Global Leadership Council (our highest level of leadership any other form of differentiation. Our mission is to be a consisting of 20 key executives from across our global company whose employee demographics reflect those of operations including the CEO), and 25% women on board. the countries in which we operate and the clients that we 39% 24% 33% of our total workforce of our senior management (AVP and of our middle management (Manager above) and Senior Manager level) Representation of women in our workforce Our strategy on gender diversity is focused on five pillars: organization ‘women-friendly’ – right from flexi-work Create a Supportive Ecosystem, Drive Sensitization, Build policies to onsite childcare centers to systems and Women Leaders, Attract Diverse Talent, and Cultivate an infrastructure. Genpact offers six weeks of fully paid External Network. These pillars are supported by regional parental leave in the US, for all new parents. Effective as well as a business-level strategy and dedicated plans January 2017, we have increased paid maternity leave in around governance, communication and partnerships. India from 12 weeks to 26 weeks for birth mothers, adopting Each business vertical and region has diversity and commissioning mothers. Our Returning Moms ambassadors who are passionate advocates for the diversity program, currently operational in India and Philippines, agenda. Diversity Ambassadors are responsible for driving helps ensure that women returning from maternity leave diversity and inclusion initiatives on the ground, track have a smooth transition by making the best effort to the health of diversity metrics within their regions and accommodate their shift timing and location of choice. verticals and provide contextual and regional feedback to We were one of the first few companies in India to offer the central team. on-site daycare facilities. Currently we have six onsite facilities in India and Philippines as well as tie-ups with Creating a supportive and safe ecosystem: near-office facilities in India and Europe, in which a total At Genpact, we do whatever it takes to make our of 265 children are enrolled. Both onsite and near-office services are available to employees at the same cost, and Genpact | Report | 32 the company also provides a subsidy to make the services Aparajita L&D program for women since 2014. In available at a nominal and affordable fee. recognition of these efforts, Genpact’s BFS business leader won the “Noon Award” at the Gender Equality Driving sensitization and Diversity Conference in London and the “WiLL We are committed to creating an inclusive workplace Women’s Choice” Award in India in 2015. The initiative where all our employees are recognized and valued for was also showcased at the Gender Equality and Diversity their specific attributes and contributions. We realize the Conference in London and at Catalyst India’s D&I Logues Conference in Mumbai in 2015. In 2017, the program importance of driving sensitization in building a more received an Honorable Mention Citation at the ATD inclusive workforce. We regularly host networking forums Excellence in Practice Awards for Diversity and Inclusion. for our employees to engage with women leaders both inside and outside of Genpact and explore the power of Attracting diverse talent people talking about diversity and inclusion – creating awareness and making it a part and parcel of their work life. We hire top women talent by incorporating best practices for diverse hiring particularly at the mid-management to We are aware of the fact that managing unconscious senior levels of leadership when women tend to drop off the bias is an important step towards building an career ladder. Our flagship initiative, Career 2.0, targets this inclusive organization. A good part of the effort that exact pain point by proactively seeking an often overlooked we undertake to drive sensitization comprises of segment of the corporate talent pool: women with strong identifying our unconscious biases, bringing them to experience who have been on sabbatical or on a career the forefront, and addressing them effectively. We have break. Career 2.0 runs solely on social media (Facebook, specific training programs that are mandatory for all Twitter, LinkedIn), and its content has collectively received manager and above employees, we track and report approximately two million views. completion details periodically. Cultivating external network We have a zero tolerance towards harassment of women In 2015, we launched the Genpact Centre for Women at the workplace and stringent policies in accordance Leadership, a unique academic-industry partnership with the law. with Ashoka University to drive gender-inclusive growth Developing women leaders with a vision to create a balanced distribution of income, resources and decision-making powers across sectors. At Genpact we believe in nurturing talent to become fantastic leaders. Mentoring is a key component of To ensure that Genpact is leveraging all available best continuous learning and development. It plays a vital role practices to help build an even more gender-inclusive in breaking barriers, providing opportunities to network workforce, we partner with leading organizations. Our with experienced leaders, and taking proactive ownership President and CEO Tiger Tyagarajan serves on the Boards of one’s own career trajectory. With this in mind we have of Catalyst and the Center for Talent Innovation (CTI), partnered with the US and UK Chapter of the 30% Club on and is one of the founding members of the US chapter their exclusive cross-mentoring program. of the 30% Club, a global group of business leaders across industries who are working together to achieve We also ensure 40% gender diversity for all of our better gender balance at all levels of organizations existing internal Global Leadership Development (GLD) including corporate boards. We work closely with the programs. Business functions have also launched their Catalyst team and leverage their expertise to inform own Leadership and Development (L&D) programs our communication and programs. In 2017, we kicked addressing networking, training, and sponsorship. In off a series of workshops in partnership with Catalyst – particular, Genpact’s Banking and Financial Services which deal with topics such as engaging men in gender (BFS) function has successfully been running the initiatives and mitigating unconscious biases. Genpact | Report | 33 Our practices take a holistic approach in furthering ●● “Winner Circle” in Application Development & gender diversity at every level of the organization – with a Management Services BP 2017 particular focus on leadership — and are structured around ●● “High Performer” in Strategy and Consulting attracting, developing, advancing, and retaining top talent. Blueprint 2017 As Tiger Tyagarajan states in his blog, gender diversity ●● “High Performer” in ITMS and Enterprise Cloud BP 2017 is critical to the success of any company and is not just another box that a company checks off of a list. He has also ●● “Early Leader” in AI-Powered OneOffice Premier written extensively about global talent development and League, 2017 the need for inclusiveness, especially by increasing the ●● “High Performer” in Design Thinking As-a-Service number of women in the workforce. Economy, 2017 ●● #9 in HFS Digital OneOffice Premier League, 2017 Use of Communication ●● “Winner’s Circle” in Capital Markets Operations, 2017 We recognize communication as a powerful tool – and rally ●● #6 in HFS RPA Autonomics Premier League, 2016 for support and create awareness around gender diversity ●● “Winner’s Circle” in Intelligent Automation, 2016 through compelling campaigns and communication series. We use various channels of communication such ●● “Winner’s Circle” in Procurement-As-a-Service, 2016 as videos, emails, theatre performances, and have active ●● “Winner’s Circle” in F&A BPO , 2016 communities on the company intranet and social media. ●● “Execution Powerhouse” in digital marketing These channels help us engage with our employees and operations, 2016 re-enforce messages around our initiatives. Inspiring ●● “Winner’s Circle” in BFS Analytics, 2016 stories showcasing our women leaders and how men in the organization act as important catalysts are regularly ●● “Execution Powerhouse” in IoT services, 2016 published to bring about a change in the mindset. ●● “Strong High Performer” in Pharma Core Operations BPO, 2016 In 2017, we ran a month-long campaign which led our leadership team as well as over 700 Genpacters to take an ●● “Strong High Performer” in Supply Chain Services, 2016 actionable pledge in support of gender diversity. These ●● “High Performer” in Mortgage-as-a-Service, 2016 pledges included signing up for our on-going initiatives such as being a buddy or mentor to new female colleagues, Forrester Vendor Landscapes: participating in and hosting diversity networking forums, sponsoring and guiding women, and helping them achieve ●● “Advanced Analytics” Player in Customer Analytics their ambitions and more. We are now tracking the pledges Vendor Landscape, 2017 made and partnering with the employees to ensure that ●● Strong Performer in Customer Analytics WAVE 2017 they get the opportunity to fulfil their pledges. Gartner Magic Quadrant Rankings: Awards & Accolades ●● “Visionary” in Intelligent BPM Suites, 2017 (PNMsoft) ●● “Visionary” in Managed Workplace Services for North America, 2016 HfS Research Capability Blueprints: ●● “Leader” for 6th consecutive year in F&A BPO, 2015 ●● “Winner’s Circle” in HfS F&A-as-a-Service Blueprint, 2017 ●● “Winner’s Circle” in HfS Insurance as a Service Everest Group PEAK Matrix Rankings: Blueprint 2017 ●● “Leader” in Banking BPO Services, 2017 Genpact | Report | 34 ●● “Leader” in Supply Chain Services BPO, 2017 Management (HCM) Excellence Awards for global talent ●● “Major Contender” in Procurement Outsourcing development practices Services, 2017 NelsonHall NEAT Rankings: ●● “Major Contender” in Banking ITO Services, 2017 & 2016 ●● “Major Contender” in Capital Market ITO Services, 2017 ●● “Leader” in P&C Insurance BPS, 2017 & 2016 ●● “Leader” in Fintech Services in Banking, 2017 ●● “Major Contender” in Contact Ctr. Outsourcing Services, ●● “Leader” in RPA & AI in Banking, 2016 2017 & 2016 ●● “Leader” in Life, Annuities & Pensions BPS, 2016 ●● “Major Contender” in Life Sciences BPO Services, 2017 ●● “Leader” in Wealth and Asset Mgmt. BPO, 2016 ●● “Major Contender” in Business Process Services Delivery ●● “Leader” in Analytics BPS for BFS, 2015 Automation (BPSDA) Services, 2017 ●● “Leader” in Mortgage and Loan BPO, 2015 ●● “Star Performer and Leader” in Analytics BPS, 2017 ●● “Leader” in Procurement BPO, 2015 ●● “Star Performer and Leader” in P&C Insurance BPO, 2017 ●● “Leader” in Marketing BPS, 2015 ●● “Star Performer” and “Major Contender” in Life & ●● “Leader” in Healthcare Payer BPO, 2015 Pensions BPO, 2016 ●● “Major Contender” in Insurance AO, 2016 IDC MarketScape Rankings: ●● “Star Performer” and “Leader” in P&C Insurance, 2016 ●● “Leader” in Finance & Accounting Services, 2017 ●● “Major Contender” in Capital Markets BPO, 2016 ●● “Leader” in Worldwide Life Science Social Media ●● “Leader” in F&A BPO, 2016 Analytics, 2017 ●● “Star Performer” in Source to Pay BPO, 2016 ●● “Major Player” in Industry Cloud Collaborative Services, ●● “Major Contender” in Healthcare Payer, 2016 2017 & 2016 ●● “Leader” Zinnov Zones: ●● “Leader” in Worldwide Business Analytics Services, 2016 ●● Leader in RPA Services, 2017 and 2016 ●● “Leader” in Worldwide F&A BPO, 2015 ●● “Leader” in IoT Services, 2017 & 2016 ●● “Major Player” in Life Sciences Sales and Marketing Strategic Consulting, 2015 Aecus Innovation Award: ●● Innovation award for Genpact-Mondelez partnership, 2016 Association for Talent Development (ATD): ●● BEST Award for enterprise-wide commitment to Brandon Hall employee learning and development (L&D) and its talent ●● 7 2017 and 10 2016 Brandon Hall Group Human Capital function, 2015 Genpact | Report | 35 About Genpact Genpact (NYSE: G) is a global professional services firm that makes business transformation real. We drive digital-led innovation and digitally-enabled intelligent operations for our clients, guided by our experience running thousands of processes for hundreds of Global Fortune 500 companies. We think with design, dream in digital, and solve problems with data and analytics. We obsess over operations and focus on the details – all 77,000+ of us. From New York to New Delhi and more than 20 countries in between, Genpact has the end-to-end expertise to connect every dot, reimagine every process, and reinvent companies’ ways of working. We know that rethinking each step from start to finish will create better business outcomes. Whatever it is, we’ll be there with you – putting data and digital to work to create bold, lasting results – because transformation happens here, at Genpact.com. For additional information contact, info@genpact.com and visit www.genpact.com Follow Genpact on Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, and YouTube. © 2017 Genpact, Inc. All rights reserved. 148525_report_UNGlobalCompactReport_US_121217
