2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TRANSFORMING THE FUTURE CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 2 WHO WE ARE 6 OUR PEOPLE 20 ENVIRONMENT 26 COMMUNITY 32 MARKETPLACE 36 APPENDICES 42 K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 2 INTRODUCTION A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO ABOUT THIS REPORT KMG International is Dear friends, committed to reporting on the progress we make each On behalf of everyone at KMG International, thank In addition to the actions taken to address this specific you for your interest in our sustainability report. As incident, we continue to focus on contractor safety, year toward a sustainable a major player in the global oil and gas industry and vehicle and machinery safety and fall prevention and future, and this is the third a worldwide system that includes operations in 16 protection with a newly improved and much more addition of the sustainable different countries, we are committed to positively comprehensive safety training system. development report. contributing to our local communities, keeping our Even though this was a terrible tragedy and no employees safe and protecting the planet we all share. As we look back on 2016, success can compensate for loss of life, we are Sustainability is at the core of everything we do. fortunate that aside from this incident, the remainder it’s a time to share the of the highlights are mostly positive in nature. Whether it’s employee safety, ethical business achievements we’ve practices, or social progress, we will continue to push made, while also honestly We are proud to report some significant steps forward and establish KMG International as a leader forward in how KMGI treats our greatest asset: our reflecting on the gaps in weaving sustainability standards into the fabric of people. 2016 was the third straight year where and what can be done to daily operations. no suppliers were identified as having a potential improve going forward. negative impact for labor practices and there were Despite our diligent efforts to improve overall safety no grievances or complaints filed against KMG As we continue toward our management, we regret to report that on August 22, International concerning human rights. Additionally, 2016, two Rominserv contractors lost their lives due sustainability goals in the to a vacuum gas oil (VGO) leak. Our hearts go out to KMGI established a personal development and wellcoming years, we remain their families, and along with that comes a promise being platform to provide additional benefits for committed to and excited each of our employees. that we will work our hardest to ensure something about making positive like this never happens again at KMGI. To prevent In regard to caring for the environment and doing and lasting impacts on our this from happening in the future, we spent months our part to reduce our carbon footprint we have employees, communities, analyzing the situation and have since implemented made great strides as well. In 2016, there were multiple new policies and procedures to better not environmental grievances filed against KMGl and the environment. protect our employees and contractors. or any of our subsidiaries, and the Petromidia 3 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T INTRODUCTION Refinery achieved an Energy Intensity Index score of 97.9 points, down from 98.7 in 2015, and our best score to date. We continue to take an active part in our communities as well. 2016 marked our seventh year as a sponsor for the prestigious George Enescu International Competition, KMGI sponsored the second annual Kazakh Film Festival, a cultural event for cinema enthusiasts and one of the largest events of its kind in all of Europe, and last but not least, over 150 KMGI employees volunteered to plant 2,200 trees in our local communities. From a financial perspective, 2016 was a remarkable year as well. Even with a harsh pricing environment in the oil and gas industry, KMGI ended the year with an operating income of $239 Million USD, the highest ever recorded in company history. Overall, I believe we are making progress in most areas of sustainability. However, we still have a long way to go and plenty of work ahead to be done. As we move into 2017 and beyond we plan to double down on safety and sustainability. These are the two pillars that will guide everything we do. Thank you again for your interest in our sustainability report and we invite all stakeholders to continue working with us in the goal of sustainability and corporate responsibility. Whether employee, governments, communities, or investors, please join with us in building a better future. Very best wishes, Zhanat Tussupbekov Chief Executive Officer, KMG International K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 4 INTERVIEW WITH Another example is our desire to help women to succeed and receive and equal opportunity in our industry. We ALEXEY GOLOVIN, are doing this by making every effort to attract qualified VP CORPORATE female employees across all areas and functions of our DEVELOPMENT business, and the numbers are starting to show this. 29% of the employees hired in 2016 were female, a much higher & STRATEGY percentage compared to our industry counterparts and even from our previous years. How do you gain buy-in from employees and stakeholders Part of corporate sustainability regarding your sustainability involves social progress. What is actions and goals? KMG International doing on this front? Honestly, getting buy-in from employees and stakeholders That is exactly right. Social progress and even human hasn’t been very difficult because at the end of the day, rights is quickly moving to the forefront of topics to sustainability is in everyone’s best interest. We are working be addressed by our industry, and at KMGI we are not to improve safety of employees, take better care of our only confronting this issue head on, we are taking environment, support our community, and much more. social progress and human rights down to a personal These are goals that most people are generally in favor level. At the end of the day, social justice and human of. Knowing this, the question then becomes, “how do we rights essentially means treat other people the way you show our progress and help stakeholders and employees would like to be treated, and think about the impact know that progress is a step-by-step process and doesn’t your actions have on others. Right now, we operate in necessarily happen overnight?” 16 countries, and each has its standards on what human rights and social justice is. This means we need to be To help them see this we are incorporating shortdiligent about taking a stand and saying, “this is what term goals as well as longer term goals to help keep we believe in, and this is how we will operate no matter everyone focused, motivated, and proud of the small where we are in the world.” achievements along the way. We try to focus on the fact that sustainability is about incremental positive change largely in part to the local talent that feeds our factories and Examples of that are our focus on creating an equal and will be accomplished in small manageable chunks. business operations, and for that we are grateful. opportunity for all people no matter their background, ethnicity, or personal preferences. We focus on creating How is KMGI giving back to the We understand that just like any other resident of a an environment were all are accepted for who they are town or city, we get back what we put in, and that is and judged on their abilities instead of unrelated biases. community and improving the exactly why we try to contribute as much as possible to Although we are far from perfect in this area, our efforts communities they operate in? the local communities where we do business. For us at are paying off, because no discrimination cases were Let me begin my answer by first saying, we are very thankful KMGI, community involvement isn’t just a formality we’re reported in 2016. This is a statistic we are just as proud of, to the communities that support our operations across the required to do. We are truly committed to giving back in if not more so, than our financial successes. globe. We have been able to run a successful business a way that makes our communities a better place. To do 5 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T INTRODUCTION this we support and sponsor employee-driven initiatives community members, but the key is that we reach out How important is for KMGI to be and fund annual cultural events such as the George early, address concerns promptly, and communicate our Enescu International Competition, a world-renown desired path forward. Often, we have public meetings transparent about its CSR activities? music competition for young pianists that takes place in where stakeholders and community members can speak We view transparency as a good thing, not a bad thing. Bucharest, and the Kazakh Film Festival, a cultural event directly to our engineers, scientists, environmentalists, It’s a motivator and a way to keep us accountable to our for cinema enthusiasts that draws audiences from across safety experts and regulatory representatives. This stakeholders on results and progress toward a more Europe. We also partner with SMURD and local hospitals give members of the community a chance to receive sustainable future. We decided to make a commitment to improve healthcare, provide internship opportunities immediate answers and provides an avenue for us to have to transparency with our sustainability goals a few for local students, and much more. open dialogue and gain their trust and confidence. We years ago and are extremely pleased with the results so are transparent with all our actions and results whether far. This will be our third annual sustainability report, How are you creating a safe work good or bad, and this goes a long way in building trust and we appreciate the fact that such helps us make environment for your employees? and credibility with stakeholders. commitments to the public, and then bear the pressure to deliver on those commitments. This topic has really hit close to home because of the In your opinion, what is the unfortunate event that occurred this last here where current state of corporate Additionally, transparent and regular sustainability a contractor lost his life. We have vowed to never let reporting is a great source of pride for employees and gives social responsibility? them an opportunity to see the progress their company is an incident like this happen again and learn from the mistakes that led to this tragedy. We believe that safety is Corporate sustainability is definitely a dynamic and making toward a brighter and sustainable future. a culture, not just an action, and we’re doing everything changing concept that is gaining more and more we can to create a culture of safety first. We have momentum in recent years, and we are happy to be at What is KMGI doing to reduce implemented and continue to reinforce safety behaviors the forefront of this movement. I think companies are its impact on the environment? that align with our core value of safety first and hold all realizing sustainability doesn’t just mean giving money In an industry not typically known for being employees responsible for ensuring we operate safely to charities and calling it good, but it’s a completely new environmentally friendly, we are making big strides to and reliably. We want everyone to go home safe, happy, way of doing business – one that is becoming more and lead the way toward reducing our figurative footprint. and healthy each night. Companywide we’ve recorded more critical for the survival of companies. Every year we’ve been improving, and last year was nearly 40,000 hours of safety and health training in 2016, The days are gone where a business could not care about no different. A specific example I can think of is the and will continue to emphasize this important issue their employees, the environment, and the social impact Energy Intensity Index. In2016, the Petromidia Refinery to employees, contractors, site visitors, and even the they have. However, if a company operates like that now… achieved an EII score of 97.9 points; our best results ever. community as a whole. it’s only a matter of time before they will be irrelevant. This is down almost a point from last year, and just as a reference, in 2010 our EII score was 119.5 points. This How are you involving and On top of that, regulation is getting tighter in many is nearly a 20-point improvement in just seven years – engaging the community countries and carbon emissions, energy, water and something we’re very proud of. in your sustainability efforts? other natural resources are becoming more and more expensive each day. It’s a smart social and financial I think it all comes down to communication, education decision to embrace sustainability and we’re seeing and responsiveness. Wherever we can, we proactively that reality as more and more companies are starting to engage the public in our sustainability goals. It may embrace the idea. be elected officials, landowners or other important K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 6 WHO WE ARE INTERNATIONAL REACH, LOCAL VALUES KMG International N.V. is a major player in the global You will find that both our workforce and our supply oil and gas industry, with operations in 15 countries. chain span the globe, and being a global business means we have a diverse community of employees The KMG International Group’s activities are primarily that contribute to our success, each bringing their concentrated in the refining, retail, marketing and unique perspective and solutions to the table. Yet, trading areas; however, the Group conducts additional even though our locations are spread abroad and operations in the exploration and production our people come from different backgrounds, at segments, as well as other oil industry services (such KMGI we all hold true to our corporate values and as upstream services, industrial services, drilling etc.). HIGHLIGHTS principles. Safety, preservation of our environment The KMG International Group also performs business and delivering the highest quality products are KMGI ended 2016 with an and management consulting services. always our focus. operating profit of USD 239 million, the highest ever recorded by the DIVISIONS company. & MAIN ENTITIES As a result of the complex modernization program of the Petromidia refinery Corporate Entities Trading & Supply and the increase of the & Parent Company Upstream Chain Management processing capacity to KMG International (Netherlands) Oilfield Exploration Business Solutions KMG Trading 5 million tons/year, the KMG Rompetrol (Romania) Rompetrol Well Services Midia Marine Terminal Group registered a series Rompetrol Turkey KazMunayGas JSC (Kazakhstan) of operational records. 7 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE COUNTRIES OF MAIN OPERATIONS Romania The Netherlands Republic of Kazakhstan Switzerland Bulgaria Republic of Moldova Georgia Turkey France Spain Singapore BRANDS Rompetrol Full Full Full regulatory Full health 100% 67 pts. 63/100 Dyneff REACH RAR compliance & safety customer rating of drivers Efix regulatory certification for for marketing and compliance satisfaction for staff satisfied with our Fill&Go compliance fuels & additives communication for products for Vega and promptness fuels (market leader) Hei and services Petrochemicals & courtesy Rominserv As a competitive player in the global oil and gas business, KMG International is a vertically integrated company with main activities concentrated in the refining, retail, marketing and trading areas, but we also conduct operations for third-parties in the exploration and production segments, as well as upstream services, Refining and Industrial Retail & industrial services and drilling. Petrochemical Services Marketing The bulk of our operations is located in Romania, where KMG Rompetrol Rafinare Rominserv Rompetrol Downstream (Romania) International owns and operates its largest and most modern (Petromidia, Rompetrol Vega) Palplast Rompetrol Gas (Romania) refinery, Petromidia Năvodari. This refinery is considered the Petrochemicals Division Rominserv Valves IAIFO Rompetrol Moldova most modern refinery in Romania, with a Nelson Index of Rompetrol Quality Control Rompetrol Bulgaria 10.5, and exclusively produces Euro 5 fuels. When combined Rompetrol Georgia with our Vega refinery in Ploiești, these two locations cover Dyneff France & Spain 40% of Romania’s processing capacity. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 8 2016 LEGAL ENTITY NAMES Incorporation of KazMunayGas Trading FOR ALL KMG INTERNATIONAL A.G. Branch in Singapore SUBSIDIARIES On January 26th, 2016, KazMunayGas Trading A.G. established a branch in Singapore. The limited liability company entirely held KMG International N.V. operates under Dutch laws, by KazMunayGas Trading A.G. in Singapore, i.e. KazMunayGas having its headquarters located in Amsterdam and Trading Singapore Pte. Ltd., is in course of liquidation. together with its subsidiaries is referred to as the KMG Change of name of Rompetrol International Group. In total, we are comprised of 58 entities, six of which were in the process of being Exploration and Production S.R.L. into liquidated throughout 2016. KMG Rompetrol Services Center S.R.L. Significant changes during 2016 regarding the organization The shareholders of Rompetrol Exploration and Production size, structure, ownership of the Group: S.R.L. approved on May 11th, 2016 the change of the name of the company into KMG Rompetrol Services Center S.R.L. Divestment of 51% share in KMG International N.V. and its subsidiaries to Incorporation of two new companies CEFC where Dyneff holds 50% interest: On 15th December 2016, the National Company • Bio Advanced Energy PROD SAS; and ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC (‘KMG’), headquartered in Kazakhstan, • Bio Advanced Energy SAS and China Energy Company Limited (‘CEFC’) signed a set of Acquisition by Dyneff Espagne SL of transaction documents whereby CEFC acquires 51% of the 100% of the shares of BIONEFF shares in KMG International and the two parties agreed on their framework of cooperation in relation with this transfer. On 30th April 2016, Dyneff Espagne SL acquired 100% of the The completion of the transaction is subject to certain share capital of Bioneff SL. regulatory and competition approvals, which the parties are in process of obtaining. The estimated completion date is 31 Change of name of Bioneff SL into Dyneff May 2017. In the event conditions are not satisfied by 31 May Trading SL 2017, but completion is expected to occur within a reasonable On October 7th, 2016, BIONEFF SL changed its name into period after 31 May 2017, the parties should agree upon the Dyneff Trading SL. extension of completion date. Change of participation in Rompetrol Acquisition by National Company Energy S.A. ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC of 100% interest Starting with June 2016, KMG International N.V. has become in KMG International N.V. from holder of 98% of the share capital of Rompetrol Energy S.A. and Coöperatieve KazMunaiGaz U.A. Rominserv S.R.L. has become holder of 1% of the share capital On May 9th, 2016, National Company ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC thereof. Uzina Termoeletrica Midia S.A. holds the remaining 1% became sole shareholder of KMG International N.V. of the share capital of Rompetrol Energy S.A. 9 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE OWNERSHIP WITHIN KMG INTERNATIONAL GROUP SUBSIDIARIES Rominserv S.R.L. is the holder of 1% of the share capital. Uzina Termoeletrica Midia S.A. holds the remaining 1% of the share capital of Rompetrol Energy S.A. AS OF DECEMBER 2016, FROM company entirely held by KazMunayGas Trading A.G. in CORPORATE PERSPECTIVE Singapore, i.e. KazMunayGas Trading Singapore Pte. Ltd., OPERATIONAL PROFILE is in course of liquidation. Divestment of 51% in KMG International KMG International N.V. (formerly named The Rompetrol Incorporation of two new companies Group N.V.) was incorporated in November 1999, its N.V. and its subsidiaries to CEFC where Dyneff holds 50% interest. entire issued capital being 100% held by National On December 15, 2016, the National Company Company ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC since May 9, 2016. ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC (‘KMG’), headquartered in Kazakhstan, • Bio Advanced Energy PROD SAS • Bio Advanced Energy SAS As of December 2016, the KMG International Group was and China Energy Company Limited (‘CEFC’) signed comprised of 58 entities (sub-divided into 47 legal entities transaction documents whereby CEFC acquired 51% Changed the name of Rompetrol – joint stock or limited liability companies/partnerships of the shares in KMG International and the two parties Exploration and Production S.R.L. into and 11 branches, representative’s offices and joint agreed on their framework of cooperation in relation to this transfer. The completion of the transaction is subject KMG Rompetrol Services Center S.R.L. ventures), headquartered in 16 countries (i.e. Romania, The Netherlands, Republic of Kazakhstan, Switzerland, to certain regulatory and competition approvals, which The shareholders of Rompetrol Exploration and Bulgaria, Republic of Moldova, Georgia, Turkey, Ukraine, are in process. The estimated completion date is May 31, Production S.R.L. approved a name change on May 11, France, Spain, Singapore, Libya, Iraq, Oman, Gibraltar). 2017. In the event conditions are not satisfied by May 2016 to KMG Rompetrol Services Center S.R.L. The four Albanian companies, KazMunayGas Trading 31, 2017, but completion is expected to occur within a reasonable period after 31 May 2017, the parties will Acquisition by Dyneff Espagne SL of Singapore Pte. Ltd. and Rompetrol Well Services S.A. Kazakhstan Branch are in course of liquidation. agree upon the extension of the completion date. 100% of the shares of BIONEFF The Articles of Association and the regulations applicable Acquisition by National Company On April 30, 2016, Dyneff Espagne SL acquired 100% of to each entity comply with local legislation and provide the share capital of Bioneff SL. ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC of 100% interest the rules underlying the conduct of business, as well in KMG International N.V. from Change of name of Bioneff SL as the proper administration and management of Coöperatieve KazMunaiGaz U.A. into Dyneff Trading SL each entity. In Romania, the main applicable corporate regulations are comprised by Company Law no. 31/1990, On May 9, 2016, National Company ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC On October 7, 2016, BIONEFF SL changed its name into as further amended and supplemented and by Law became the sole shareholder of KMG International N.V. Dyneff Trading SL. no. 297/2004 on the capital market (the latter being Incorporation of KazMunayGas Change of participation applicable to stock exchange listed companies). Trading A.G. Branch in Singapore in Rompetrol Energy S.A. Management On January 26, 2016, KazMunayGas Trading A.G. Starting in June 2016, KMG International N.V. is the holder The management system of KMG International N.V. established a branch in Singapore. The limited liability of 98% of the share capital of Rompetrol Energy S.A. and includes three levels of approval, in accordance with its statutory documents and applicable Dutch law: • Sole Shareholder As of December 2016, the Sole Shareholder of KMG International N.V. • Board of Managing Directors is National Company ‘KazMunayGas’ JSC of Kazakhstan • Chief Executive Officer (CEO). K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 10 The Board of Managing Directors is composed of six KMG International N.V. is mirrored at the subsidiary level managing directors, of which one is the executive as well. As a result, the decision-making powers within Audit Committee Composition as of December 2016: managing director (CEO) and fiver are non-executive most subsidiaries are divided into multiple layers: managing directors. Ramon Diego Mendes de Leon Chairman In accordance with KMG International N.V. Board Johan Frederik Lodewijk Frowein The non-executive managing directors include three Regulations, the company’s Board approves the Anargul Kairulla independent directors. Independent members are of appointment of general managers (CEO) for KMG paramount importance from a Corporate Governance International N.V.’s affiliates, as well as the organizational Appointment and perspective, as they provide well-grounded opinions structure of Rompetrol and the appointment of Chief Remuneration Committee in their area of expertise in support of management Officers by business units. Therefore, the nomination Composition as of December 2016: decisions, offering as well an increased protection of the process of key people within the Group is approached, Johan Frederik Lodewijk Frowein Chairman interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, and an discussed and approved by the highest governance Ramon Diego Mendes de Leon adequate guarantee for third parties. body, based on criteria such as expertise, knowledge, Mihaela Ungar skills, needs that fall in line with the Group’s current In accordance with KMG International N.V. Articles of Association and Board Regulations, the CEO, business needs. Strategy and being the sole executive member of the Board, is As per the above-mentioned Board Regulations, all Innovation Committee responsible for the day-to-day management of the transactions in which there is a conflict of interest among Composition as of December 2016: company. He is responsible for reviewing, defining and KMG International N.V. and a Board Member, this will be Azamat Zhangulov Chairman submitting strategic options that may contribute to resolved with previously agreed upon terms that are Johan Frederik Lodewijk Frowein the development of the company and its subsidiaries. customary for arm’s-length transactions in the branch Emile Eduard Wolff The CEO is authorized to independently represent KMG of business in which the company and its subsidiaries Alexey Golovin International N.V., which includes the ability to delegate are active. Such Regulations also lay down rules and his managing function for certain operations/categories requirements concerning a conflict of interest. Board of Directors of operations to third parties if needed. Composition as of December 2016: The Appointment and Remuneration Committee The non-executive members of KMG International N.V. established by the Board of Managing Directors at Daniyar Berlibayev Board mainly have the following duties: the level of KMG International N.V. is responsible for Chairman advising the Board and the General Meeting (i.e. Sole Zhanat Tussupbekov 1. to participate in determining the strategy and CEO Shareholders) in matters related to remuneration general policies of the company; policy, terms of employment, total compensation, and Azamat Zhangulov 2. to supervise the management position and the performance criteria for top management. They are also non-executive managing director general affairs of the company and its subsidiaries. responsible for the creation and implementation of any Johan Frederik Lodewijk Frowein compensation plans, and the monitoring and assistance independent non-executive managing director In support of its activity, the Board of Managing Directors in the implementation of remuneration policies and has established specialized committees, such as the Emile Eduard Wolff plans at the Group level. The decision-making powers of independent non-executive managing director Audit Committee, the Appointment and Remuneration any remuneration policies and plans applicable at Group Committee, and the Strategy and Innovation Committee. Ramon Diego Mendes de Leon level would rest upon the KMG International N.V. Board independent non-executive managing director The unified management system existing at the level of of Managing Directors. 11 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE RECORD RESULTS IN 2016 From a production and retail standpoint, we reached the following operational performances: Petromidia Navodari Refinery processed a record amount, 15,750 tons per day, summing up a total of 5.4 million tons of feedstock last year, and our Vega Ploiești SETTING THE SCENE • raw materials processed increased 9% over 2015; Refinery processed 354,000 tons, an 8% increase from • products sold in Romania increased 13% over 2015. In terms of financial results, technological 2015. Vega Ploiești Refinery also scored historic levels for performance and production quantities, we hit KMGI’s record results can largely be attributed to: bitumen production with 91,000 tons produced in 2016. record levels and further established ourselves as an • Implementation of operational improvements: The petrochemical division performed at record levels important and growing player in the regional and we were able to cut processing costs to the lowest as well, by processing 189,000 tons of feedstock in 2016 global oil and gas markets. level in the last 10 years, of USD 16.7/ton; (propylene, ethylene). This is an 8% increase from 2015 We attribute our results to the performance of two • Reduction of operating costs: we were able to and the highest level recorded in the previous 5 years. refineries operated by KMGI, Petromidia Năvodari reduce our electricity consumption from 2015, by 0.016%, from 0.61 to 0.60; IMPROVEMENTS IN RETAIL and Vega Ploiești. Beyond those facilities, our entire workforce contributed to this year’s success • The continuation of our “Change for Good” KMGI’s retail activity registered record sales in 2016. Sales by further implementing our “Change for Good” program launched in 2014. of petrol, diesel and liquefied petroleum gas were up to program that was launched in 2014. This program put 2.9 million tons, 14% higher compared to 2015. We also shattered records with our production specific targets and measures in place to increase the of automobile gasoline. In 2016, our production We attribute this increase to the implementation of our efficiency and improve the entire flow of operations increased to 1.25 million tons, and our diesel gas new commercial policy, the continuation of our extension at our refining facilities by 2018, and we are well on production reached 2.52 million tons. programs for distribution networks and the remodeling track. and rebranding of our Rompetrol stations. • Technological losses were reduced to 0.91% wt While in 2016 we reached our financial and production • The Energy Intensity Index reached 97.9% (the CONTINUING OUR FINANCIAL goals, we also acknowledge that our growing regional best yearly level obtained by the refinery so far) SUCCESS INTO THE FUTURE and international status in the oil and gas industry • Mechanic availability increased to 96.9% 2016 was a year where we saw historical production and brings along with it a responsibility to manage our Reaching these milestones shows that while we experienced record growth. We plan to build on the impact on the economy, environment and society. continue to make improvements and refine our accomplishments of 2016 and make the years ahead With this in mind, we have also taken steps to further process to improve financial results, we also improve even better than the last. By increasing the volume of define and improve policies that promote a culture of our efficiency in a way that reduces our impact on the processed crude oil, lowering our energy use in the safety and responsibility in everything we do. environment. process and improving the quality of our petroleum products, we will achieve even greater financial profits in EXCEPTIONAL RESULTS IMPROVEMENTS IN REFINING the future and still maintain our minimal impact on the When speaking of financial performance, the AND PETROCHEMICALS environment, extensive support of local communities difference from 2015 to 2016 is significant. We Last year KMGI made significant steps to improve and safety of our workforce. increased our Management Accounting EBITDA to processes and increase capacity. The success of Within this framework and with these goals in mind, we USD 239 million, an increase of 50% year over year. these projects was seen through the results of will continue implementing the ambitious “Change for Additionally, our net profit computed in accordance our total processed quantities of feedstock which Good” Transformation Program to further improve our with management accounting increased to USD 88 increased from 5.45 million in 2015 to 5.95 million in refineries’ efficiency and increase sales and margins million from only USD 4.6 million in 2015. 2016; a 9% increase. within controlled channels. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 12 Third consecutive year of record operational results Major player locally and worldwide Rompetrol Rafinare is the third Synergy of operations largest exporter in Romania Petromidia and Vega refineries and country’s leading exporter operate as excellence centers, together of oil products. with the Petrochemical division, the Together, Petromidia and Vega sole producer of polymers in Romania. account for 40% of Romania’s Their activities are intertwined with refining capacity. those of the Trading and Supply Chain Niche products made by Vega division, creating an operational refinery reach Germany, Czech synergy which highly contributes to Republic, Hungary, Egypt, increasing efficiency and reducing Pakistan and India. operating costs. 2.9 million PETROMIDIA 1.25 million 2.52 million tons of gasoline, REFINERY 96.9% diesel and LPG G tons of gasoline (new record) D tons of diesel (new record) mechanical availability sold in Romania, 5.4 million Bulgaria and Georgia Rebranding tons of 85.1% 47% 4.4% 15.75 USD 16.7 feedstock white diesel jet fuel Kt/day A new visual per ton brand identity was products yield yield processed refining cost 1.76 million yield capacity tons of fuel developed in 2013, delivered to in order to reinforce filling stations one single and fresh image of Rompetrol PETROCHEMICALS 150,000 125,000 USD 39.7 in Romania in Romania and in DIVISION tons of polymers produced tons of propylene produced per ton the Black Sea region. processing cost 1.12 million tons of fuel The network was delivered to continuously VEGA 1.1% expanded based on weight lost wholesalers REFINERY 91,000 83,000 in Romania the new concept. tons of bitumen tons of n‑hexane in processing produced produced Rompetrol. Getting Further 354,000 Unique advantage This is the main marketing initiative that tons of 40,000 55% Vega is the sole producer follows the extensive station rebranding feedstock tons of solvents hexane of n‑hexane and bitumen process. This focused on Efix as the leader produced yield in Romania and a major in the fuel market and Fill&Go as a unique supplier in the CEE region. pay‑at‑the‑pump service in Romania. 13 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE ENVIRONMENTAL COMMUNITY Civil OUR SUSTAINABLE STANDARDS INVOLVEMENT Society DEVELOPMENT 2,200 trees planted Gala USD >13 billion Rompetrol Rafinare Main partner for contribution to the produces only Euro 5 fuels 160 KMGI employees the last 14 years volunteered state budget of Romania between 8% lower 18% lower George Enescu 2007 and 2018 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions 7 years of SMURD at Petromidia at Petrochemical partnership Festival and USD >2 billion refinery Division Competition investments in >10,300 flight hours and >5,800 lives saved Main partner for Romania since 2007 the last 7 years 23% less 7% less water used at water used Petromidia + at Vega Rompetrol #1 exporter Petrochemical refinery Run & Care Kazakh Film of petroleum 4 editions Festival products in Romania 4% lower 0.62% higher 7 social causes supported Sponsored the energy energy >1,000 participants second edition consumption at consumption at 6,000 Vega refinery Petromidia refinery business partners (3,500 in Romania) PEOPLE & SAFETY 100% emptied and co-incinerated 100% 15 years of 6,000 employees included employees the waste in the historic internships sludge lagoon no.3 of in performance and (>5,000 in Romania) >1,000 participants Petromidia refinery career programs 30,000 persons indirectly 97.94 pts. 38,112 hours >500 recruited impacted in Romania Energy Intensity Index of health and from among the (Solomon methodology) safety training participants of Petromidia refinery USD >8 billion 11.7 hours >50 managers invested in CSR 17 pts. of training per currently working in >200 projects decrease in the Energy employee, up the company were >300,000 Intensity Index since 2012 from 8.2 in 2015 once interns beneficiaries K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 14 Model of our vertically integrated operations REFINING & SUPPLY CHAIN RETAIL & PETROCHEMICAL MANAGEMENT MARKETING Rompetrol Downstream over 700 fuel stations in Romania PETROMIDIA Rompetrol Rafinare PLATFORM SUPPLY Group retail CHAIN Rompetrol Gas (Romania) Petromidia LPG distribution refinery Midia Marine Terminal gasoline, diesel, offshore buoy Rompetrol Moldova jet fuel 77 fuel retail stations, 4 LPG stations 1 fuel depot for wholesale (Chişinău) feedstock Petrochemicals petroleum Division Rompetrol Georgia products exports polypropylene, 71 fuel retail stations polyethylene 1 fuel depot for wholesale (Batumi) (HDPE, LDPE) Rompetrol Bulgaria feedstock 63 fuel retail stations Vega Byron Shipping 1 fuel depot (Ruse) refinery port services and n-hexane, bitumen, Dyneff France & Spain solvents, additives, ship assistance in NICHE Midia Port PRODUCTS see expanded chart on next page heating oil TRADING TRADING KMG Trading Rompetrol Turkey Group-wide and wholesale third-party trading primary secondary crude oil third-party Group logistics logistics imports trading wholesale INDUSTRIAL KMG Engineering SERVICES industrial services (Kazakhstan) Rompetrol Rompetrol Well Services Quality Control Rominserv Rominserv Valves IAIFO well services: cementing, lab analysis services for Rompetrol Oilfield Exploration EPC/EPCM project production of castiron and steel sand control, stimulation, Rafinare (Petromidia refinery, Vega Business Solutions management for pipes, fittings and valves testing, slickline, nitrogen refinery, Petrochemical Division): drilling division oil & gas industry services, tubular running, testing for water, soil, air, oil products, Palplast tool rental. pollutants, weather, microclimates. HDPE pipes & fittings 15 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE Overview of Dyneff France & Spain In 2015, KMG International N.V. and CEFC 2,450 tanks 35 loading sites China Energy Company Limited have finalized in storage at business supplied by sea, rail and the takeover of 51% shares in Dyneff group of clients’ sites oil pipeline companies. KMG International continues to Le Havre hold a 49% participation share in Dyneff. 100 fuel stations 2.5 million m3 under Dyneff and of petroleum products Dyneff is a major trader in the French and Rompetrol brands brought to the market every year Spanish markets, operating significant capacities of import, storage and distribution 13 retail agencies 75 tank trucks in ports such as Port‑La‑Nouvelle, Barcelona, 11 in France, 2 in Spain owned and rented Valencia, Bilbao, Bordeaux and Le Havre. fully certified ISO 9001 2 wholesale and fully ADR compliant Dyneff sells more than 2.5 million m3 of agencies petroleum products every year, through three in France (Montpellier) 75 tankers distribution channels: filling stations, a network and Spain (Girona) chartered every year Bordeaux of commercial agencies, and two wholesale agencies (Dyneff covers three quarters of France, as well as Northern and Eastern Spain). Bilbao Dyneff offers a full choice of motor fuels, biofuels, Montpellier heating fuels, supplementary products and Port-la-Nouvelle services that fulfill all the market requirements. Girona The company has evolved from an oil products distributor to an energy supplier in a number of Barcelona fields. In July 2015, Dyneff obtained the license of a natural gas supplier for individuals and companies in France. EUR 2.3 96% market penetration The objective of KMGI and CEFC is for Dyneff to billion Valencia for consumers of natural gas in France become a development platform in Western Europe, benefiting from extended access towards turnover 2nd largest sources of supply and from shareholders’ strategic Major player in the company in the Languedoc-Roussillon support necessary for continuing and expanding Southern France region of France its operations in the energy sector. and Northern Spain K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 16 RISK MANAGEMENT MEETING OUR GOALS AND million in modernizing our gas stations and transitioning PLANNING FOR THE FUTURE them to a newer and more contemporary retail concept. Although we posted record numbers in 2016, it’s KMGI’s development and evolution over the past EMBRACING ELECTRIC CARS important to always be cognizant of the risks we face – years show our commitment to becoming one of the even when times are good. By the nature of its activities, sustainable companies in the global and regional oil and The electric car market in Romania is still at an early stage, KMG International is exposed to multiple risks: gas industry. An outside evaluation of our investments, but the growth is coming and KMGI plans to be ahead strategies and operating models will show our ability to of this trend. In 2015, only 496 electric cars were sold. In • Volatility of crude oil and petroleum products pricing 2016, that number doubled to nearly 1,200 electric cars • Commodity price risk adapt and take advantage of every opportunity placed before us. With the growth and positive trends of nearly sold. To take advantage of this trend and also reaffirm our • Liquidity risk commitment to preserving our environment, Rompetrol • Credit risk all our metrics over the last decade, we are confident and optimistic about our future. We will continue to expand Downstream, the retail company of KMG International, • Operational risk intends to open its first gas station with electric vehicle and remain sustainable for years to come. In order to reduce price volatility risk for crude oil, petroleum charging point in early 2017. and commodities, KMGI has put safety measures in place SAFETY FIRST that such as financial hedging. Our teams closely monitor STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP the pricing of all commodities and ensure each contract is Despite two fatalities in 2016, following the incident on August 22 at Petromidia Năvodari, when two Rominserv After the initial partnership, we made with CEFC China negotiated with favorable terms that allow us to be flexible Energy Company Limited, which began with our Western if significant price changes occur. contractor employees (foreman) lost their lives and 2 other were injured, safety and worker health are our top European division Rompetrol France/Dyneff Group, we To minimize liquidity risk, our management teams priority and we are determined to zero injuries, incidents will subsequently extend this partnership to the entire constantly check daily liquidity levels and ensure the and spills at our operational sites. The incident occurred Group by having signed a set of transaction documents fulfillment of obligations to suppliers, the state budget after a pipeline that suffered a vacuum gas oil (VGO) leak on December 15, 2016, in which CEFC China Energy and any other local tax authorities. ruptured, igniting the VGO, also damaging equipment Company Limited acquired 51% of the shares in KMG and causing the system to shut down. The thin pipe International. CEFC China Energy Company Limited Credit risk is monitored at regular intervals, through is one of the top ten private companies in China and creditworthiness/solvency assessments of customers (88.9 mm diameter) ruptured due to internal corrosion, jeopardizing the pipe wall’s integrity. ranked no. 229 in the Fortune Global 500; a strategic and by requiring guarantees on delivery. alliance with them will give us the resources needed to Operational risk is the possibility of accidents, errors, 100% safety is our goal. To do this we are striving to continue our European expansion. malfunctions or any other environmental factors that a culture of safety where all employees understand would impact financial results. To protect our company the risks they face every day, and are fully trained to OBJECTIVES AND FUTURE PLANS from this risk, KMGI has implemented several policies mitigate these risks for their safety and the safety of their KMGI’s development and evolution over the past years and strategies. colleagues and community. is testimony for our efforts to become one of the most Whilst we continue to improve and upgrade technology, MODERNIZING OUR STATIONS sustainable players in the oil and gas industry on the that translates into increases of production abilities, national and regional market. also reducing accidental and costly shut-downs in the KMG International will continue to expand and modernize its gas stations and retail business in Romania and other The investments conducted and implemented so far, our manufacturing process, we have also implemented business model that proved adaptable to every impediment and continuously trained our employees on a strict and markets in the Black Sea region, such as Moldova, Georgia and Bulgaria. Since 2014, we have invested over USD 7 and opportunity that has been offered, together with our comprehensive safety policy. 17 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE business partnerships constitute the main factors that give existing stations, the investments until now amounting The Code of Ethics establishes norms of behavior in us confidence and make us optimistic about continuing to to over USD 7 million. interaction with colleagues, government bodies, our sustainably grow our activities. shareholders, affiliates, business partners, communities Also, even if the market of electric cars in Romania is at an and the media. Reaching new achievements in the years to come, that will early stage, important transformations are taking place confirm once again the sustainability of our business and (1183 electric and hybrid cars were sold in Romania at A TOOL FOR EMPLOYEES relevance of our business model, is what we strive for. the end of December 2016, compared to 496 units in TO REPORT GRIEVANCES 2015). To take notice of these changes and show our care In order to achieve this, we, at KMGI are determined to AND SEEK ADVICE for the environment, Rompetrol Downstream, the retail have zero injuries, incidents and spills at our operational company of KMG International intends to open its first We employ various advice seeking and grievance sites and to improve safety performance we work to gas station with electric vehicle charging point in the first mechanisms so that every employee, business partner create a positive safety culture based on an improved part of 2017. and stakeholder can feel confident in sharing any nonunderstanding of the risks at all levels of the Group. compliance incident, environmental concerns or social Based on the initial partnership we made with CEFC China As a result of the outstanding performance achieved injustices with our corporate ethics and human resources Energy Company Limited, which began with our Western in 2016, this year being the most successful year in the departments. Concerns about unethical or unlawful European division Dyneff, we managed to extend it to the history of the company according to official results, we behavior and matters related to integrity can also be entire Group by signing a set of transaction documents will continue to focus on improving our operational reported directly to our Compliance Department. on December 15, 2016, whereby CEFC acquired 51% performance and financial results. We will do that by of the shares in KMG International, thus bringing the Our procedure for reporting grievances or seeking increasing the volume of processed crude coupled with resources needed to continue our European expansion. advice begins with the employee seeking guidance the lowering of the energy used in this process, and by from their immediate supervisor. If he or she can not selling more quality petroleum products. CEFC China Energy Company Limited is one of the top address the issue, they then go to their next level ten private companies in China and ranked no. 229 in the Within this framework and with these goals in mind, manager. If they are not able to handle the problem, Fortune Global 500. we will continue implementing the ambitious “Change then functional teams such as HR and compliance for Good” Transformation Program to further improve departments will step in. However, if any persons in the refinery’s efficiency and increase sales and margins BEYOND THE NUMBERS. this chain of command are part of the problem, there within controlled channels, thus reaching full scale WHAT MAKES US GREAT. are dedicated email addresses (and also external transformation, that will be confirmed by results. emails) made available to each employee for them to report concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior. KMG International will also continue to expand and OUR CODE OF ETHICS All reports are treated in a strictly confidential manner, modernize its gas stations and retail business in Regarding ethics, human rights, advice-seeking and without fear of retaliation. We provide regular Romania and other markets in the Black Sea region, grievance mechanisms, anti-corruption / anti-bribery training on this process so that employees know how such as Moldova, Georgia and Bulgaria, thus extending policy, and risk management, KMG International has to access the reporting mechanisms. the enterprise it has assumed in 2014 and confirmed put policies in place that apply to all subsidiaries within by investments in 2015, when the Group started to our organization, and all organizations we do business implement the program of modernization of its gas with, both domestic and international. These policies are stations and, implicitly, the transition to the new applicable to all employees, contractors and stakeholders retail concept. The KMG International Group, through with direct or indirect relation to KMG International. Rompetrol Downstream, will continue to modernize the K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 18 PREVENTING CORRUPTION way to grow as a company is to have our employees grow with the local communities, we aim to ensure that AND BRIBERY with us. For this reason, we constantly provide continuous our business practices contribute to long-term improvement opportunities for all employees. economic and social development. We are pleased to report that in 2016, no criminal Education and leadership We promote leadership among all High quality We are committed to quality in cases of corruption or bribery were registered and employees, especially through activities that encourage social everything we do and we strive to continuously reported against KMGI. We hope to preserve this responsibility and entrepreneurship. improve. We are passionate about achieving results trend, and are working toward this by training our Respect for the local community We respect, protect and that not only satisfy, but exceed expectations. workforce on our Anti‑Bribery and Anti‑Corruption Policy. With these policies in place and with regular promote the human rights, the culture, the traditions and Commitment to leadership We use our employee training, we look to prevent bribery the values of the local communities where we undertake our experience, our technology and our perseverance and corruption through the increase of employee activities, and we also give back to our communities through to be an example for all others in our industry. We awareness and understanding on these topics. social involvement. are committed to leadership in all our actions. Our anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies promote Best practices We adhere to the best global practices.The integrity, accountability and proper management of principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the KMG International has also created a Supplier Code the business in an ethical and transparent manner. It OECD guidelines for multinational enterprises guide all our of Conduct that details the company’s values and is the only way to do business and going forward our activities. approach with regard to integrity, human rights, labor employment agreements and internal documents now In addition to our Code of Conduct, we have a well‑defined set standards and environmental responsibility. All suppliers have informative amendments on anti-corruption topics. of values that guides our actions. and partners that wish to do business with us must comply with this code. OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Our people We place the highest priority on the needs of our employees. Our actions are always determined with their What sets KMGI apart is the values that guide our daily safety and well-being in mind. actions. Working at KMGI is not simply a job; it’s a privilege Care, integrity and responsibility We are a trusted global that we hold dear. We have a set of principles and values partner and a valued corporate citizen. We are honest with all that we commonly share as employees of this great stakeholders and take responsibility for all our actions. company. We uphold them every day and when others work with us, they see our values in the way we act. Determination The strength of our business stems from our strong will and determination to succeed and deliver Health, safety and security The health, safety and excellence in everything we do. security of our employees, suppliers and communities are priorities over everything else we do. Environmental protection As a company and throughout our entire supply chain we adhere to all the national and Risk management We strive to identify, evaluate European laws and regulations governing the environment and manage the risks that may impact our host and proper management of resources. communities, our employees, our contractors, our business and the environment. Sustainability We support the principles set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and maintain those Respect for our employees We respect our employees high standards of integrity. Through the development of and provide support for their constant improvement. profitable business operations and also active engagement Continuous involvement We believe that the one true 19 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T WHO WE ARE MEMBERSHIPS Conservation of Clean Air and Water Romanian Association of Drilling AND AFFILIATIONS in Europe (CONCAWE) Contractors (ACFR) Managing all petroleum products, based on REACH Member of the International Association of Drilling KMGI is an active member of multiple organizations. regulations (the European Community Regulation Contractors – IADC, the International Society of Oil In a spirit of collaboration and unification, we on chemicals and their safe use), within ECHA – Engineers – SPE, both of them with headquarters in regularly meet with other companies, government European Chemicals Agency. Rompetrol Rafinare has Houston-USA, as well as a member of the Association of organizations, and local entities to improve our been a member since 2008. Oil and Gas Engineers. industry and stay integrated into our communities. Foreign Investors Council (FIC) Romanian Petroleum Association American Chamber of Commerce (ARP) Committed to facilitating the dialogue between (AmCham Romania) policy makers and the foreign investment community. Aiming to provide the framework required to facilitate Operating different working committees and cooperation between oil companies in Romania. task forces on environment, energy, corporate International Advertising Association governance, taxations, competition, labor market etc. (IAA) Romanian Petroleum Exploration A unique strategic partnership, which defends and Production Companies the common interests of all subjects in the entire Association (ROPEPCA) spectrum of marketing communications from Aimed at achieving a transparent working environment advertisers to media companies, agencies and direct in the upstream oil and gas sector in Romania, and marketing firms and individual practitioners. maintaining the highest standards and latest technology. KazEnergy The Petroleum Club of Romania Promoting the creation of favorable conditions for the Romania’s most exclusive gathering of energy dynamic and sustainable development of the fuel and professionals, allowing industry players to explore new energy sector in the Republic of Kazakhstan. opportunities as well as to provide a conduit for dialogue National Agency of Exporters and with authorized Romanian and international entities. Importers (ANEIR) Kazakhstan Chamber Of Acting to create a legislative economic, financial and International Commerce (KAZCIC) banking framework, likely to expand the export-import A branch of the Kazakhstan National Chamber of volume of Romania. Entrepreneurs, its mission is to contribute to the Romanian Advertising Council (RAC) development of Kazakhstan through the support of domestic companies in foreign trade. A professional, non-governmental, nonprofit and independent organization. The main activity of the Council is represented by self-regulation in advertising. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 20 OUR PEOPLE GROUP QHSE KPI 2015 2016 FTL Fatalities 0 1 FTR Fatality Incident Rate 0% 8.16% LTI Loss Time Incident 4 12 LTIF Loss Time Injury Frequency 1.61% 0.98% TRI Total Recordable Injuries 4 12 TRIR Total Recordable Injuries Rate 1.61% 0.98% DAWC Days Away from Work Case 11 HIGHLIGHTS FR Frequency Rate (DAFWCR) 1.61% 0.90% RWDC Restricted Work Days Case 0 This year KMG International MTC Medical Treatment Case 0 established a personal FA First Aid Cases 0 5 development and wellbeing platform to provide additional benefits for MOTOR VEHICLE CRASH RATE each employee. 2010-2016 Also in 2016, there were no grievances or complaints 2010-2015 rollover 1.27% filed against KMG International concerning human rights. 2016 target 1.25% 2016 results 0.64% 21 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR PEOPLE EVERYTHING BEGINS WITH THE SAFETY AND WELL‑BEING OF OUR EMPLOYEES At KMG International, each member of our team To prevent this from happening in the future, the is a talented and unique individual, and nothing following actions have been taken: surpasses our desire to see them healthy, safe and 1. Rompetrol and Rominserv work instructions to be proud of the work they do each day. 100% safety is modified to reflect risk assessments that must be our goal, and nothing less will ever be the standard. conducted for all Safety Critical Operations (SCO). We know each employee is more than a number. 2. A policy has been implemented regarding To ensure the safety and well-being of each employee piping system comprehension. If an employee we have not only implemented safety standards and or contractor does not fully understand the procedures across all areas, but more importantly, we piping system, a temporary option is no longer continue to build a culture of safety first. We believe acceptable. The immediate area and operation are each of our team members have a fundamental shut down until a viable replacement is selected. right to safety in the workplace, and it’s our duty to preserve and protect that right. 3. When working in potential fire and scalding risk environments, all employees and contractors are SAFETY ABOVE ALL ELSE now required to wear fire retardant PPE at all times. 4. Before a work permit (WP) is issued, all risks are As the message of safety first continues to flow down assessed from a beneficiary and contractor’s from KMGI leadership, and we aim at implementing perspective. industry’s best safety programs, increasing leadership engagement, always advising workers to stop unsafe 5. Rominserv has agreed to check that all behaviors and meticulously analyzing the causes sub‑contractors have well‑documented risk of the incidents in an effort to stop them from ever assessments in their HAZID procedures. occurring again in the future. 6. Rompetrol will be piloting and testing an e‑PTW system that will allow operational personnel to Despite our diligent efforts to improve overall safety spend more time checking risks are mitigated management, we regret to report that on August rather than filling out excessive paperwork. 22, 2016, two of our colleagues lost their lives, and two other contractors were injured. The incident 7. Moving forward, HSE personnel are now invited to occurred when a pipeline suffered a vacuum gas oil and will be present at daily operation meetings. (VGO) leak and ruptured, igniting the VGO. A followThese seven safety measures were developed up investigation revealed that the thin pipe (88,9 and implemented as part of a thorough incident mm diameter) ruptured due to internal corrosion, evaluation, and to this point, all but one of the final jeopardizing the pipe’s wall integrity. recommendations have been implemented. Only K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 22 the Electronic Permit to Work on the Petromidia Refining OUR FOCUS ON SAFETY AND EMPLOYEE platform remains open as an action item to be • General Director (President of CSSM) WELL-BEING EXTENDS TO EVERYONE implemented. We anticipate this will be completed WE WORK WITH within 90 days, resulting in 100% implementation of • HS Coordinator (Secretary of CSSM) all recommended safety precautions. Since 2014, KMGI has required each supplier to operate in • Employee management representatives accordance with our code of conduct. Each supplier reviews with responsibilities for safety and SAFETY TRAINING WILL ALWAYS health at work (Refinery Plant Director, and commits to respect the ethical principles stated in in the BE PART OF OUR CULTURE Petrochemical Plant Director, Utilities Code of Conduct. Plant Director, Plant Inspection Director; In addition to the actions taken to address each of TAKING CARE OF OUR QHSE Manager, HR Manager) these specific incidents, we continue to focus on GREATEST ASSET contractor safety, vehicle and machinery safety and • Employees with specific responsibilities fall prevention and protection. Our safety training in the field of security and health At KMGI we know that nothing is possible without the system is robust, ongoing and consistent. Here are hardworking individuals that come to work each and every day. • Doctor of Medicine some of the safety training achievements of 2016: We aim to develop the talents of our employees, offer them the • The degree of unionized employees was best opportunities and help them reach new levels of success • 38,112 training hours of health and safety training; 95.74% (944 employees are members of in both their career and personal lives. • 2 training sessions were provided for employees the Trade Union). working at height; Working to provide the best Trading compensation and benefits • More than 800 contractors have been trained on Petromidia and Vega’s most important procedures; • General Director (President of CSSM) Across all locations within our company, our goal is to provide • Safety project 1.Life/1.Viață continues to be woven • QHSE Coordinator (Secretary of CSSM) our team with the most competitive compensation and benefits into day-to-day business activities in an effort • Employee management representatives packages in the market. We do not discriminate by gender, to build a culture of safety for all employees and with responsibilities for safety and health age, nationality or any other factor that has no bearing on subcontractors. at work (Logistics Manager, Offshore how an employee can perform their job. Our pay packages are Manager, HR Manager) generally composed of base salary and variable pay bonuses. Additionally, functioning and active health and safety • Employees with specific responsibilities Employee bonuses are structured in a variety of ways and committees continue to meet on a regular basis. in the field of security and health may take the form of performance bonuses, bonus schemes In accordance with law no. 319/2006, the committee for production, operational, sales and projects jobs, and also • Doctor of Medicine is comprised of representatives from leadership, labor bonuses stipulated in the Collective Labor Agreements (profit administration and employees, and looks to incorporate • The degree of unionized employees sharing, overtime allowance and/or night shift allowance). everyone’s opinions on how KMGI can continually was 82% (Union of Free Petrochemists 25%, Union Free Vega -10%, SLPIMNIn addition to compensation, we believe a highly competitive improve health and safety topics. They also work to 46%.) benefits package is just as valuable for our employees. Providing ensure KMGI transforms Quality, Health, Safety and a comprehensive benefits package is another way to thank our Environment (QHSE) legislation into day-to-day practice. Also, both Retail and Upstream sectors have employees for all of their hard work and contributions. As part The minutes from each meeting are recorded and kept health and safety committees composed of of their benefits package, and depending on their individual for future reference. Since our business is multifaceted, representatives from labor administration situation, each employee may have access to: we have two major committees; Refining and Trading. and employee unions. 23 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR PEOPLE • Paid time off also hear constructive feedback on how they can improve Non-Discrimination • Significant life events allowances and reach their goals. In 2016, nearly 100% of our employees participated in this annual review. All locations, all genders We are pleased to report that during 2016, (marriage, child birth, death) and all levels of management get this opportunity and we no discrimination cases were reported. If • Relocation assistance such cases were to be reported, a designated look forward to continuing this in the future. • Kindergarten allowances management group will act immediately, • Pregnancy and postpartum support OUR EMPLOYEES HAVE A VOICE get involved and offer solutions according to • Medical care the laws applicable and KMGI’s own Code of Grievance Reporting Conduct. • Retirement planning and management services In 2016 there were no grievances concerning human Freedom of Association • Life, illness and disability insurance rights filed through our formal grievance mechanisms. • Transportation and commuting reimbursement We attribute this to proper training and the high caliber and Collective Bargaining • Discounts for company products or of our workforce. We focus on the importance of respect, At KMG International we fully acknowledge other third‑party suppliers. courtesy and proper behavior in all we do. We have put our employees’ legal right to form trade unions several mechanisms in place to allow our workers to report and join other third-party organizations Beyond traditional any human rights offense or complaints. We have trained without fear of coercion, and during our compensation and benefits our workforce on how to report offenses and encourage 2016 operations, we did not identify any As a means to help our employees further, in 2016 we them to report any complaints without fear of repercussion. operations and suppliers in which the right to established a personal development and well-being Below are just a few of the major tools we have made exercise freedom of association and collective platform for each employee to use as they wish. This available to our employees: bargaining was violated or at significant risk. will be a tool to support each individual as they work to balance corporate and personal goals. Among the • Whistle Blower Hotline/Portal – When an employee Child Labor notices anything unethical or any misbehavior of initiatives included into this platform, some of the any kind, we have provided an avenue for them to KMG International respects all minimum age more popular services are: make a formal complaint and escalate the matter laws in countries where it operates. In 2016, to management’s attention. The reporter can stay KMGI did not resort to, and will never resort in • Family and work balance coaching anonymous if he or she wishes and a designated any way to hiring children or putting them in • Stress management consulting working relations with KMG International. management group will investigate and address the • Health-themed workshops problem as needed. Forced or Compulsory Labor Providing a clear path for career • Compliance Hotline/Portal – This reporting mechanism development and progression KMG International did not resort to and does is specifically designed to report non-compliance to not condone the use of forced or compulsory We believe it is our corporate responsibility to both company and government rules and regulations. labor within our company. We also enforce this ensure each of our employees have a clear vision of As with our other reporting mechanisms, this hotline standard on all of our prequalified suppliers. where they want their career to go and how they allows the reporter to remain anonymous if they wish can get there. To facilitate this objective, each of our and will kick‑off an investigation from management. employees participate in an annual performance and • My Voice Hotline – This hotline is for personal and career development review. This is their opportunity specific complaints to be addressed by the Human to share their goals and desires with their leaders, but Resources Department. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 24 OUR WORKFORCE IS GROUP HEADCOUNT WHAT MAKES US GREAT BY COUNTRY Doing More With Less ROMANIA: 4,291 As KMGI continues to grow, the need for a talented At the end of 2016, our workforce was comprised of GEORGIA: 775 MOLDOVA: 708 workforce grows with us. We are always looking for 35% female employees, up from 34% in 2014 and BULGARIA: 66 the best talent, but more importantly, we are looking 33% in 2015. We look forward to increasing that OTHER: 289 to develop and deploy our own internal talent in a percentage and improving gender diversity within way that allows us to be agile, lean and successful. our operations. We are making every effort to attract TOTAL: 6,128 As of December 2016, our total headcount was qualified female employees across all areas and 6,128. This is a 9% decrease from our December 2015 functions of our business. This effort can be seen in headcount number. This decrease is attributed to the our new hiring practices with 29% of the employees fact that our gas stations have been transferred to hired in 2016 being female. dealers along with employees. Also, in terms of age diversity, nearly 12% of our new ROMANIA HEADCOUNT hires in 2016 were over the age of 46 (14 of them over BY NATIONALITY We Value Diversity the age of 60), and almost 40% of our new hires were As a truly international company, we understand under the age of 25. the value of diversity within our workforce. Different ROMANIAN: 4,291 OTHER: 775 ideas and perspectives help us think outside the box and develop real solutions in the oil and gas industry. NEW HIRES As we embrace diversity of thought, background and BY GENDER culture, our business grows stronger and our ability ROMANIA 179 221 400 to deliver superior products and service increases. GEORGIA 404 7 411 MOLDOVA 274 116 390 As a Romanian based company, the majority of our workforce is Romanian. However, as of December BULGARIA 6 2 8 2016, we had employees from eight other countries represented in our workforce (Georgia, Moldova, Bulgaria, Kazakhstan, Hungary, Russia, Austria NEW HIRES and Germany). Citizens from these eight countries BY AGE <18 18-25 26-35 36-45 46-60 >60 ROMANIA 0 123 183 65 29 0 KAZAKH: 47 represent 30% of our employees. MOLDOVAN: 2 In a typically male dominated industry, we are also GEORGIA 0 190 97 55 58 11 UCRAINIAN: 2 MOLDOVA 1 168 111 67 40 3 RUSSIAN: 2 focused on bridging the gender gap and providing AUSTRIAN: 2 opportunities for female employees to succeed and BULGARIA 0 0 3 2 3 0 GEORGIAN: 2 build a career with KMGI. 25 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T OUR PEOPLE Building Our Internal Talent and Many of our interns are still with us today, and have our workforce. By country, the voluntary employee gone on to build very successful careers with KMGI. turnover in 2016 was Romania 316, Georgia 259, Supporting Our Communities Moldova 247 and Bulgaria 6. In 2016, we welcomed 128 interns into our program As a company, we are promoting employees from and ultimately hired 21 to continue full-time upon the In 2016, KMGI had 141 employees that were entitled all backgrounds and countries to leadership and completion of their internship. The variance of interns to parental leave (73 women and 68 men), 75 of which management roles. This benefits our business hired year over year depends on our company’s specific took the leave. This was down from 93 employees in two significant ways. First, we are able to tap workforce needs at the time, the level of talent within the that took parental leave in 2015. Of the 75 that took into the experience and expertise that the local intern class and finding the proper fit for specific skillsets. parental leave, 41 returned to work after parental leave workforce possesses. And second, by hiring locally, ended, 35 being still employed 12 months after their and promoting local talent, we demonstrate our We consider the 2016 internship program a success return to work. These numbers are quite similar with commitment to sustaining the growth of our host once again, and look forward to welcoming a new those from 2015, when 39 staff returned to work after communities. group of interns next year. parental leave ended and 36 were still employed 12 Bringing In New Talent Employee Turnover and Leave months after their return to work. Since 2002, we’ve had more than 6,000 In 2016 KMGI experienced a voluntary employee TURNOVER undergraduates and graduate students take part turnover of 828. As a company, we have worked to ALL REASONS in the KMG International Internship program. This use these vacancies as opportunities to improve our BY GENDER program is a great opportunity for them to put workforce by adding even higher caliber team members. ROMANIA 681 562 1,243 what they learn in the classroom to work and get Our Human Resources personnel have worked GEORGIA 331 8 339 “real life” experience in the field of their choice. It’s diligently and filled these positions in a timely manner MOLDOVA 209 56 265 also a great investment for KMGI, as it allows us and in many cases we have used the natural attrition to BULGARIA 7 0 7 to fill key positions with the very best candidates. redistribute workload and become more efficient with VOLUNTARY INTERNSHIP RETURN TO WORK RETENTION DEPARTURES PROGRAM RATE RATE BY GENDER 2016 ROMANIA 161 155 316 REGISTERED: 128 GEORGIA 251 8 259 RECRUITED: 21 MOLDOVA 194 53 247 2015 BULGARIA 6 0 6 REGISTERED: 129 55% 85.4% RECRUITED: 45 PARENTAL LEAVE ASKED FOR PARENTAL LEAVE 68 73 141 TOOK PARENTAL LEAVE 6 69 75 RETURNED AFTER LEAVE 4 37 41 *Retention rates following parental leave include only numbers connected to the Romanian operations. STILL EMPLOYED AFTER 12 MO. 4 31 35 K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 26 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND SAFETY IS OUR PRIORITY KMGI fully embraces its role as a leader, both Below are the strategies we’ve developed to keep internationally and within the Romanian market when it our promise of minimal environmental impact: HIGHLIGHTS comes to environmental protection and safety. In 2016, we • Align activities and facilities with national continued to lead the way in reducing the environmental and international environmental regulations No environmental impact and any negative aspects of our operations. As and requirements. grievances were filed we review the progress we’ve made toward reducing our waste and complying with all environmental regulations, • Minimize environmental incidents and against KMG International it will be apparent that KMGI is committed to protecting consumption of natural resources through or any of our subsidiaries. Earth for the next generation. proper training, improved processes and advancements in technology. Our petrochemical division at the Petromidia Refinery A PROMISE TO • Improve the certified environmental in Năvodari produced FUTURE GENERATIONS management system (ISO 14001) implemented in all of our facilities. the highest quantity of We’ve made a promise to ourselves, our stakeholders, polymers of the last 5 years • Reduce various pollutant emissions and employees and customers to run our operations and greenhouse gases by optimizing our and also developed three develop our products in complete conformity with the operations and technologies for greater new grades of polymers. environmental legislation applicable for each country energy efficiency. where the KMGI operates. Petromidia Refinery • Provide regular training for our employees on To accomplish this promise, we have developed internal achieved an Energy environmental strategies that we follow and update ways to reduce our environmental impacts. Intensity Index score of regularly. By following these internal guidelines, we are • Reduce the amount of waste we produce 97.9 points. This is down better able to address our operational and business from operations, especially hazardous waste. from 98.7 in 2015, and our objectives while still being fully compliant to the strictest best score to date. environmental rules and regulations. 27 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T ENVIRONMENT 2016 WAS A BANNER YEAR FOR IMPROVEMENT As we focused on improving all aspects of our operations in a way that protects the environment and upholds our goal of safety first, we were able to make incredible achievements and advance toward a better future for KMGI and the environment. Below are just a few of the major accomplishments we achieved in 2016: • We obtained the lowest Energetic Intensity Index in the history of Petromidia, which measures the energy efficiency at 97.94%; • We experienced the lowest processing cost in the last 10 years, at 16.7 USD/t; • At Vega, we had the lowest technological loss ever obtained – 1.1% wt, coupled with lowest processing cost ever attained by the refinery, of 39.7 USD/mt; • Also at the Vega Refinery, we obtained 968 tons throughput/day with a total energy input of 10,057.3 MW. This was an energy consumption decrease of 4% (to 2.71 GJ/t), compared to 2015; • The fuel gas consumption and the power and steam consumption reported by the ton (GJ/t) also decreased 4%. From 2015 to 2016; MEETING OUR • The Petrochemical Plant consumed 2.5% less energy ENVIRONMENT compared to just one year ago, producing 149,030 PROTECTION tons/year, while consuming 20.14 GJ/t; OBJECTIVES All automotive fuels produced in 2016 by Rompetrol • Petromidia Refinery, including the Petrochemical Rafinare were certified by RAR (Romanian Plant, consumed 23% less water compared to 2015, As in years past, 2016 was once again a year where Automotive Register) and even though we exceeded while Vega’s water consumption decreased by 7% KMGI demonstrated respect and responsibility our initial annual production plan and Maximum compared to 2015; for our environment by continuing to reduce our Flow Rate for Crude Unit per day, we remained • The CO2 emissions from the Petromidia Refinery impact and assuring our products always meet the below our impact limits by improving operational decreased by 8%, while those coming from the highest desired quality. performance parameters. Petrochemical Plant decreased by 18%; K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 28 • And last, the wastewater outputs at Vadu decreased significantly and now we have less PROTECTING OUR REFINING THROUGHPUT THOUS. TONS wastewater discharge at that location. In fact, ENVIRONMENT WHILE 2016 companywide we have also kept the quantity STILL PRODUCING CRUDE OIL: 4,702 of water used in the process of obtaining fuel at nearly the same level as in 2015. This continues our AT RECORD LEVELS OTHER: 647 TOTAL: 5,349 trend of staying on course, using approximately The fact that we care about the environment doesn’t 2015 0.21 m3 of water for one metric cube of fuel, an mean that our production quality and quantity have to CRUDE OIL: 4,426 increase of 0.01%, with respect to 2015 (0.2 m3). OTHER: 627 take a back seat. The throughput for Rompetrol Rafinare Each of these accomplishments are significant reached 5,407,928 tons in 2016, an amount that exceeds TOTAL: 5,053 improvements from 2015 and stand as a testament our initial production plan by 58,648 tons. that KMGI is committed to minimizing our impact on Out of 5,407,928 tons processed, 4,707,837 tons was the environment and looking forward to a future of crude oil and 700,090 tons other raw materials. environmentally friendly production, manufacturing PETROMIDIA MECHANICAL and refinery processes. This throughput not only exceeded our goals for 2016, AVAILABILITY but is also an improvement from 2015 by 458,275 tons. PROJECT-BASED In both April and June of 2016 we reached a Crude Unit 2016 IMPROVEMENTS capacity of 15,150 thousand tons/day, beating 2015’s top 96.9% month last year, of 14,550 tons/day in June 2015. 2015 In 2016, we also continue multiple projects that are centered around environmental clean-up and PETROMIDIA REFINERY 96.9% protections. One such project is cleaning the historical In 2016, the Petromidia refinery, which exclusively sludge from lagoon no.2 (belonging to Petromidia produces Euro 5 fuels, and is the most modern refinery 15,700 t/d Refinery) which was co-incinerated at CRH through in Romania, with a Nelson Index of 10.5 (a reference average processing Ecomaster. The completion of this project has greatly capacity in 2016 term used to assign values to oil refineries based improved the natural habitat of the area, and we look on their complexity level), achieved exceptional forward to keeping it clean as long as our operations operational performance: remain at the location. • We also saw our highest production of MTBE • Nearly 5.41 million tons, an equivalent of 15.700 (Methyl tert-butyl ether) ever at the Petromidia Additionally, as part of our efforts for reducing thousand tons per day of processed raw material. Refinery with 41,000 tons in 2016. greenhouse gas emissions and caring about the • Produced 1.25 million tons of auto gasoline. • Scored a 97.94 Energetic Intensity Index, as environment, we continued our annual employee service project of planting trees. In 2016, we planted • Produced 2.52 million tons of diesel fuel, continuing opposed to 98.6 in 2015. willows and oleaster trees in Corbu village, Constanța our upward trend year over year. (2.43 million tons in • Recorded the lowest processing cost in the last 10 County. 2014, 1.91 million tons in 2013 and 1.6 million tons years USD 16.7/t. in 2012). • In 2016, our mechanical availability remained flat • 2016 was our highest year for production of at 96.9% vs. 96,9% in 2015. propylene at 125,000 tons. 29 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T ENVIRONMENT VEGA REDUCING OUR ENERGY PETROMIDIA ENERGY BASKET GJ/TN OF THROUGHPUT REFINERY CONSUMPTION MEANS 2016 2016 was also a great year for our Vega Refinery. At this facility, we continued to improve throughput and REDUCING OUR IMPACT FUEL GAS: 1.92 COKE ON CATALYST: 0.62 processes. The total throughput for 2016 was 354,306 At KMGI, we know that continuous improvement in STEAM: 0.08 tons, a 13.7% increase from 2015. Seen from a monthly our efficiency will help us reduce our impact on the POWER: 0.60 perspective, the results were also impressive and showed environment. With this in mind, we focus on using our positive improvement. The monthly value of 29,525 tons 2015 resources in the most effective way, and measure that use FUEL GAS: 1.91 was over 2,000 tons per month greater than the 2015 on a regular basis to ensure we are improving each year. COKE ON CATALYST: 0.60 number of 27,395 tons. STEAM: 0.06 Our main point of reference in this effort is the Energy POWER: 0.61 In 2016, the Vega Refinery in Ploiești also registered very Intensity Index (EII), and we are pleased to announce that good operational performances: in 2016, the Petromidia Refinery achieved an EII score of 97.9 points; our best results ever. This is down from 98.7 VEGA ENERGY BASKET • Historic levels for our bitumen production – 91,000 GJ/TN OF THROUGHPUT tons per year vs. 80,000 tons in 2015. in 2015, and we attribute the reduction to the reduction • Record levels for hexane production – 83,000 per of the operating costs, in parallel with the increase of the 2016 year vs. 71,000 tons in 2015. mechanical and operational availability. FUEL GAS: 2.45 POWER: 0.26 • Highest production of ecological solvents ever at To give even more perspective to the significance of this 40,000 per year in 2016. achievement, in 2010 our EII score was 119.5 points. This 2015 • Lowest ever processing cost of 39.7 USD/mt. is nearly a 20-point improvement in just seven years. FUEL GAS: 2.56 POWER: 0.27 It is important to note, even though our energy consumption PETROCHEMICAL went down, we were still able to maintain approximately DIVISION the same level of output from our operations. Rompetrol Rafinare also includes a petrochemical The Petromidia Refinery was able to achieve 15,760 tons division at the Vega Refinery in Ploiești, which is the of throughput/day with a total energy consumption of PETROCHEMICAL ENERGY BASKET only Romanian producer of polymers. It also surpassed 3.20GJ/t, bringing the energy consumption reported by GJ/TN OF PELLETS 2015 production levels by producing 149,030 polymers the ton (GJ/t) almost in line with the previous year. And vs. the 142,000 polymers in 2015. This year’s polymers the Vega Refinery recorded 968 tons of throughput/day 2016 production was the highest in the last 5 years. with a total energy input of 10057.3 MW, a decrease of STEAM: 11.02 4% from the previous year. Our Petrochemical Plant POWER: 6.75 The petrochemical plant at Vega also created three new OFFSITE POWER: 2.37 grades of polymers in 2016, and registered a record for recorded 149,030 tons/year, while consuming 20.14GJ/t, Conversion cost of 269 $/mt. which translates into a decrease of 2.5% vs. 2015. 2015 STEAM: 10.36 POWER: 6.91 OFFSITE POWER: 1.95 K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 30 DECREASING OUR EMISSIONS AND WASTE In an effort to combat global warming and reduce the release of Greenhouse Gases into our atmosphere, KMGI is taking all precautions necessary to comply with EU, international and Romanian legislation. We PROTECTING have permits for Greenhouse Gas emissions until 2020. OUR WATER Our GHG emissions are being tracked and reported by a competent outside source, and below are the actions Water is life, and at KMGI we understand our duty By reducing the amount of water used in our refining we’ve taken this year to show we have met all of our to protect and preserve this precious resource as processes we are reducing the risk of contamination and obligations in regard to reducing our emissions. part of our environmental commitment to our conserving more. In regard to the treatment, discharge • In January, KMGI fully supported and participated shareholders, employees and the communities and reuse of waste water, we are making progress as well. in our annual CO2 audit for 2015 emissions. we operate in. We are determined to reduce At our Petromidia Refinery, 8,795,755 m3 of treated waste • In February, the Ministry of Environment our impact on freshwater use and recycle our water was used, of which 6,581,703 m3 of treated water downloaded the CO2 certificates for 2016 into water consumption in compliance with water was discharged at VADU and 2,214,052 m3, or 25.17% Rompetrol EU-ETS accounts. and environmental permit requirements. Our of treated waste water was reused. Compared to 2015 goal to use less water is rooted in the reduction • In April, the CO2 certificates for 2015 emissions numbers, this shows that we are treating more wastewater, of our consumption. In 2016, the Petromidia were returned to the European Register of discharging less, and recycling more. All positive steps in Refinery and the Petrochemical Plant consumed Greenhouse Gas emissions (EUTL European the right direction. 23% less water compared to the year before, Union Transaction Log). and the Vega Refinery consumed 7% less water At our Vega Refinery, we held steady at 914,900 m3 of treated Above just conforming to minimal regulations, compared to 2015. waste water discharged, the same as the previous year. we are also pleased to announce the following improvements from 2015 to 2016: GROUP WATER USAGE PETROMIDIA WASTEWATER THOUS. CUBIC METERS MM CUBIC METERS • Our Petromidia Refinery recorded an 8% reduction of CO2 emissions in 2016 compared to 2015. 2016 2016 • Our Petrochemical Plant recorded an 18% reduction REFINING: 6,979 TREATED & DISCHARGED: 6.58 TREATED & REUSED: 2.21 of CO2 emissions in 2016 compared to 2015. RETAIL: 160 NON-CORE: 55 • Regarding other waste generation, at our TRADING: 1.8 2015 Petromidia Refinery our waste recovery rate for TREATED & DISCHARGED: 6.07 TREATED & REUSED: 2.29 2016 was 96%, an improvement from 67% in 2015. • Unfortunately, our Vega Refinery location registered one pollution spill each, but measures have been put in place to ensure these incidents never reoccur in the future. 31 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T ENVIRONMENT PETROMIDIA EMISSIONS THOUS. TONS TREATING OUR LOCAL PRODUCTS, SERVICES, TRANSPORTATION RESOURCES WITH RESPECT 2016 Below are the results from 2016 in regard to the CO2: 6,979 We are lucky at KMGI to have operations within a products reclaimed during the year: NOX: 160 close distance to the Black Sea. This beautiful sea is SO2: 55 • Our Petromidia Refinery recorded 0.088% of total a regional and national treasure. With its abundance PM: 1.8 reclaimed auto gasoline production. of wildlife and picturesque scenery, it comes as no • Our Petrochemical Plant recorded 0.4% of its PP 2015 surprise that it is our top priority to preserve this material (Polypropylene) reclaimed, and 0.11% CO2: 6,979 incredible habitat and resource. It is home to over of its LDPE material (Low-density polyethylene) NOX: 160 4,000 species, and it can easily be said that the Black SO2: 55 reclaimed. Sea is a true biodiversity museum, and a historical PM: 1.8 No significant environmental impacts due to part of our natural heritage that must be preserved. transporting products and other goods and materials We are doing everything we can to preserve the 96% PETROMIDIA WASTE were registered in 2016. beauty and health of the Black Sea, and constantly RECOVERY RATE monitor the groundwater surrounding our plants to ensure its safety. In 2016, we are happy to announce SAFETY POLICY, that monitoring revealed no toxins or contaminations OF UTMOST IMPORTANCE at levels that exceeded limit values imposed by environmental regulations. While our upstream activities at KMG International did not register any incidents, or receive any penalties ENSURING OUR TREATMENT in 2016, we report that following the incident in our PROCESS IS SAFE DAV plant on August 22, our Petromidia Refinery received one environmental penalty (USD 3,846.2) We are protecting the Black Sea and its diverse applied by the environmental authorities. This marine life with a two-step treatment process. The incident was a terrible event, and made us improve Rompetrol Rafinare Waste Water Treatment Plant our policies for the safety of our employees and takes both the wastewater from our Petromidia contractors going forward. Platform and the domestic waters from the city of Năvodari, and treats it in three stages (mechanical, Also, State Environmental Authorities fined Vega chemical, biological). The process filters the water Refinery with USD 6,000 in environmental penalties. through two ponds situated in the National In the Retail activities, Romanian Water charged KMGI Reservation of Danube Delta before the treated with environmental penalties worth 4,580 USD for the water is discharged into the Black Sea. Mogoșoaia and Craiova depots. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 32 COMMUNITY HIGHLIGHTS WE BELIEVE IN OUR PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES 2016 marked our seventh year as a sponsor for the Corporate responsibility goes far beyond providing positive returns to shareholders. As a major oil and prestigious George Enescu gas company in the Romanian and global marketplace, International Competition, we understand that where much is given, much is a world-renown music expected. We have responsibilities and commitments competition for young to employees, families, habitats, communities and much pianists that takes place in more. It’s through this additional community outreach Bucharest, Romania. and sponsorship that we truly remain a sustainable company that will not only be profitable, but maintain a KMGI sponsored the positive brand perception in the minds of our employees, second annual Kazakh Film customers and communities where we do business. Festival, a cultural event For us, community involvement is not a box to check. for cinema enthusiasts and For us, it’s a way to give back in a manner that improves one of the largest events of the communities where our employees live, giving them a higher quality of life and the ability to follow their its kind in all of Europe. passions outside of work. That is why each year, we spend In 2016, over 150 KMGI millions of dollars to support and sponsor employeedriven initiatives, in the areas of healthcare, environmental employees, alongside protection, culture, education and leadership. community members, local authorities and journalists, As we review each of our major initiatives, it’s exciting to see the difference they are making in our communities volunteered to plant and the lives of our employees. This is truly what 2,200 trees in our local responsible corporate citizenship looks like, and we’re communities. thrilled to share the progress we’ve made in this area. 33 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T COMMUNITY GEORGE ENESCU INTERNATIONAL COMPETITION 2016 marked our seventh year as a sponsor for the prestigious George Enescu International Competition, a world-renown music competition for young musicians that takes place in Bucharest, Romania in September of every other year. It has helped launch the careers of many young talents, and among its list of first-prize winners are some of today’s greatest musicians. Some of the activities supported by KMGI in this year’s competition included the competition’s inaugural Gala, on September 3, and the event-concerts held at the Romanian Athenaeum. We are proud to say that with our support of this wide-scale cultural project, KMG International has succeeded in bringing together and promoting talented young pianists, helped them as they look to establish their musical career, and helped transform the George Enescu International Festival and Competition into a national and internationally known event. THE KAZAKH FILM FESTIVAL After the successful debut of the Kazakh Film Festival in 2015, KMG International once again sponsored this great event in 2016. The second annual Kazakh Film Festival is a cultural event for cinema enthusiasts and movie lovers alike, and one of the largest events of its kind in all of Europe. It was also particularly special because it fell on the commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Kazakhstan’s independence. The festival was co-sponsored by the Embassy of the Republic of Kazakhstan in Romania and KMGI, and was held from September 29th through October 1st, at Cinema Elvire Popesco (The French Institute in Bucharest). Some of the most popular films from the festival were The Voice of the Steppe (with Gerard Depardieu and Natalie Dessay), So the Stars Aligned, The Gift to Stalin, The Old Man, and Kunanbai, a film that showcased the history and evolution of the Kazakh society and state. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 34 PARTNERSHIP WITH SMURD “ROMPETROL RUN AND CARE” EMPLOYEE BLOOD DRIVE AND LOCAL HOSPITALS This year we once again sponsored our third annual According to a report by the Regional Development In line with our commitment to safety and community Rompetrol Run and Care event, a charity race that Center for Blood Safety, Romania has the second lowest betterment, we have once again invested in improving gives our employees, their families and our business number of blood donors in Europe (1.7% donors in our local healthcare infrastructure in Romania and partners a chance to run in support of M.A.M.E the country). When KMGI was made aware of this, we other locations where we operate. This investment Association. M.A.M.E (Maternity, Advocacy, Medicine, have been working diligently ever since to remedy is achieved by continuing our close partnership with Education) is a non-profit organization with a goal this problem. Starting in 2014, we have sponsored a SMURD, Romania’s emergency rescue service. to benefit children diagnosed with cancer and other yearly blood drive at our headquarters in Bucharest, severe illnesses. and we did this once again in 2016. We were able to Through our partnership with the SMURD Foundation, donate around 50 liters of blood to be used in hospitals KMGI was able to donate an extracorporeal membrane This year, over 300 employees from various companies across the country. These donations save patients oxygenation device (ECMO), worth EUR 55,000, to the within KMGI ran alongside family members and undergoing surgery, receive oncological treatments or Emergency and ICU unit of the Floreasca Emergency business partners for distances of 5, 10 and 15 km, who require other similar treatments where donated Hospital in 2016. and each kilometer they ran was matched with a $3 blood is required. donation to support the M.A.M.E. Association, and Over the past few years, we’ve observed that there more specifically the “Center for Little Stars project” Additionally, in 2016 KMG International acquired and are few ECMO devices in the Romanian healthcare (M.A.M.E Association’s most premier project dedicated donated two plasma freezers to the National Institute system, and have since taken the initiative to buy and to provide social and medical aid to chronically ill and for Blood Transfusions. donate ECMO equipment for multiple hospitals in the socially disadvantaged children from Bucharest and area. This began back in 2013 when KMGI donated surrounding areas.) funds for the Marie Curie Hospital to implement – for the first time in Romania – the ECMO technique for In addition to providing the necessary funding to the the neonatal patients who suffered severe respiratory M.A.M.E. Association for all of their needs, this event and cardiac disease and were not responding to also addressed the need and well-being of employees, standard reanimation methods. We continue to by promoting health and well-being through regular donate similar equipment today, and this equipment exercise and a healthy diet. helps provide cardiac and respiratory support to patients hospitalized in the intensive care unit, as well as during their transportation by SMURD teams. Additionally, we donated over 750 uniforms for SMURD medical volunteers in 2016. 35 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T COMMUNITY PLANTING TREES BUILDING LOCAL PARTNERSHIPS As part of our efforts to reduce Greenhouse Gas Over the past few years, we have also worked to build emissions, we continued our tradition of planting long-term partnerships with our local communities trees both at our facilities and in the neighboring and businesses to help support their specific needs. communities where our operations reside. This year’s This year KMG International provided monetary and event surpassed previous years, and was a great manpower support to complete many local projects: opportunity for KMGI to show its commitment to • First respiratory rehabilitation center established the environment and our planet. Over 150 of our with the Constanța Pneumophtisiology Hospital. employees from KMGI headquarters in Bucharest and the Petromidia platform, alongside community • Donation of funds for equipment needed at members, local authorities and journalists, the dental office that serves the local schools in volunteered to plantwillows and oleaster trees in Năvodari, Romania. Corbu village, Constanța County. • The implementation of a photovoltaic-powered lighting system at the Grigore Moisil School in Năvodari, Romania. • Sponsorship of multiple clean-up activities in the degraded areas of our local communities. KMGI INTERNSHIP PROGRAM In the last 15 years, KMG International has had over 6,000 students participate in our internship program, and we look forward to continuing this program long into the future. Each year we look forward to bringing young talent into our refineries and business operations. It’s a chance for them to learn and grow, and it’s a chance for us to develop and discover new talent that can contribute to our success and become the future leaders of KMG International. We welcomed 128 interns in 2016, over 15% were hired upon completion of the internship. We have plans to bring in a similar number in 2017 and foresee the KMGI internship program continuing to be a valuable tool to connect with the local community and bring fresh talent into our company. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 36 MARKETPLACE SETTING THE STANDARD WHILE IDENTIFYING AREAS TO IMPROVE The marketplace in which KMGI operates is complex and multifaceted. In many areas, we excel and lead the way, in others, we recognize the need for improvement. Assessing our place in the market means evaluating our responsibility to multiple parties HIGHLIGHTS and asking real questions that when answered lead to action and improvement. All KMGI organizations • Are we a responsible steward of our resources and providing are following our MSDS maximum value to our shareholders? and safety labeling • Are we a responsible member of our supply chain and do we regulations. There has procure, manufacture and sell our products in a manner that been no identified holds true to our values of environmental protection, fair labor non-compliance to practices and honesty? regulations and voluntary • Are we listening to what our customers are telling us and codes concerning health making improvements based on their feedback and desires? and safety impacts of • Are we showing leadership in the marketplace by establishing products in 2016. This a safe workplace for our employees and taking steps to continues our trend of influence other companies to do the same? no identified concerns in These are just a few questions that must be answered to truly define 2015, 2014 and 2013. our place in the marketplace. In 2016, we asked ourselves these questions and can honestly report that in some areas we are exceeding In 2016, there were no expectation, while in others we have need for improvement. complaints of breaches in Regardless of where we stand, our goal is to improve each year going customer privacy or loss forward, and with a solid self-evaluation, we can not only see how far of customer data. we’ve come, but also clearly identify the path forward. 37 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T MARKETPLACE A RESPONSIBLE STEWARD OF OUR RESOURCES The key to providing shareholder wealth is doing more with less. Whether the market is good or bad, if we take responsibility to improve our own area of expertise, success and profitability is bound to follow. As we closed 2016, and looked back at how we upheld our responsibility to shareholders and key financial stakeholders, we can see that we were able to make improvements and improve our efficiency in multiple areas. Here are a few examples: • According to 2016 numbers from KazMunayGas Trading (KMGT), the trading arm of KMG International, although the amount of crude purchased increased by 4.759 million tons (13%) from 2015, KMGI’s U.S. dollar investment for these purchases decreased by 6%. • Similarly, alternative feedstock (gasoil, fuel oil) purchased in 2016, was down by 18%, but KMGI’s U.S. dollar investment for these purchases decreased by 34%. These figures are a testament to the hard work our procurement department is doing on a daily basis to negotiate better pricing and secure more favorable contracts for KMG International. FEEDSTOCK ACQUIRED THOUS. TONS 2016 CRUDE OIL: 4,759 GASOIL & FUEL OIL: 440 TOTAL: 5,199 2015 CRUDE OIL: 4,200 GASOIL & FUEL OIL: 538 TOTAL: 4,738 K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 38 BUILDING A RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN As with all other aspects of our business, we uphold As a major player in the International and regional legislation (GD no. 1121/2013 regarding the use of the highest degree of corporate responsibility when oil and gas industry, we acknowledge that managing biofuels and bio liquids). it comes to our supply chain. From the raw materials and monitoring compliance to a such a high standard These are just a few examples of the steps KMGI is we source, all the way through final delivery to our is challenging and complex; however, as we stay true taking to reduce our impact on the environment customer, we want to be an example within the to our values, we are able to improve ourselves and through our procurement decisions and actions. marketplace. We do so by demanding the following our suppliers. from ourselves, our suppliers and our customers: IMPROVING OUR QUALITY BY SUPPLY CHAIN • Compliance with our corporate REDUCING OUR STANDARD This year, we made significant strides forward in guidelines and policies DEVIATIONS regard to reducing the impact our total supply chain • Greater safety for our employees has on the environment by increasing the amount of Another aspect of successful supply chain and contractors bio fuels used in our processing. management is continuous improvement and the In 2016, KMGI purchased 66,890 tons of bio diesel, consistent delivery of high‑quality products. KMGI • Continuous improvement in both up from 53,310 tons purchased in 2015. In regard to stands as an example in this area by complying with processes and quality of products bioethanol purchases, 18,439 tons were purchased and maintaining ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 14001:2004 • Environmental protection certifications. Not only do we meet the national and this year, compared to 17,664 in 2015, and 2,686 tons • 100% On-time delivery of Bio-ETBE, compared to 1,854 tons in 2015. Also, as local standards in terms of fuel quality, we go one step of January 1, 2016, our Petromidia Refinery produces further and work to eliminate all deviations outside • Fair labor practices of our tolerance limits by following ISO standards. For diesel with a biofuel content of no less than 6.5% by • Social justice volume, per the European Directive and Romanian us, ISO standards are not simply regulations we are required to follow, they are standards that have been fully imbedded within our manufacturing process. BIOFUEL BLENDED BIOFUEL SUPPLY SOURCES THOUS. TONS THOUS. TONS LEADING THE WAY IN 2016 KMG TRADING WORKFORCE SAFETY BIOETHANOL: 52.79 RO: 32.14 BIODIESEL: 18.39 EU: 2.68 Part of being a responsible member of our marketplace BIO-ETBE: 1.16 NON-GROUP is keeping our workers safe and healthy, and this is a 2015 RO: 35.26 responsibility we take very seriously. Every year we BIOETHANOL: 52.79 EU: 17.91 work to improve our processes and procedures so BIODIESEL: 18.39 that every employee can return to their family each BIO-ETBE: 1.16 evening safe, healthy and happy. 39 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T MARKETPLACE USING MATERIAL DATA SAFETY • NP 004/2003 a technical standard for design and Petromidia Customer Claim Indicator: 0.46 SHEETS AND PROPER LABELING operating the gas station TO REDUCE INJURIES, ACCIDENTS • Law no. 307/2006 for firefighting Vega Customer Claim Indicator: 0.00 AND MISTAKES • Law no. 319/2006 occupational health and safety • GD no. 928/2012 minimum requirements for While the Vega Refinery kept its customer claim When looking back at 2016, one area of improvement market introduction of fuel indicator at zero year over year, Petromidia Refinery that helped reduce the risk of accidents was our experienced a slight increase going from 0.28 in continued use of Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). After a rigorous audit and compliance check, all KMGI 2015 to 0.46 in 2016. We have assigned additional These documents are used to label and publicly display organizations are following our MSDS and chemical resources to look into the increase and anticipate the critical data for all of our manufacturing materials and labeling regulations. There has been no identified indicator to decline in the coming years. chemicals. All subsidiaries of KMGI, service companies, non-compliance to regulations and voluntary codes refining and petrochemicals and industrial services concerning health and safety impacts of products In the retail sector, we had 477 claims regarding fuel are complying with this regulation and all employees in 2016. This continues our trend of no identified quality and documents error, and all were resolved in are receiving annual training on how to properly concerns in 2015, 2014 and 2013. conformity with internal procedures. understand Material Safety Data Sheets. The MSDS of each product contain safety, fire hazard, PRODUCT NUMBER ONE recycling and disposal information, and these RESPONSIBILITY IN CUSTOMER sheets are being prepared and updated according to government and industry regulations. Also, SATISFACTION In 2016, there were no complaints of breaches in all chemicals used in our production process are customer privacy or loss of customer data. Also, there One of the major tools we use at KMGI to ensure registered, labeled and documented according to are no significant fines for non-compliance with laws customer and employee satisfaction is market European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) standards. and regulations concerning the provision and use of research and surveys. We use these to better Each label is documented and has publicly products and services. understand our market and then deliver services, displayed Standard Specifications (SS). Each SS benefits and products that increase customer, contains information about the product, a brief SATISFACTION WITH stakeholder and employee loyalty. Studies show that OUR REFINERIES description, properties, limits, test method, quality by conducting this research and then acting upon the control, sampling, handling, storage and transport findings we are better able to serve our customer’s information. needs, improve the benefits and safety our employees Our standard of our measurement is four-fold: receive and increase our profits for shareholders. In KMGI’s retail and services divisions we have created Quality, Health, Safety and Environment (QHSE). a set for minimum Health, Safety and Environment We measure satisfaction according to these criteria, In 2016, we performed an extensive customer survey (HSE) rules which are visibly displayed to warn our which also falls in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 that provided valuable information that pinpointed customer of any potentially hazardous materials. We and ISO 14001:2004. The calculation of customer where we stand in comparison to our competitors also follow a code of good practice whereby operators perception is achieved by comparing the number of and gave us areas of improvement that need to be are required to provide details of marketed products valid claims to the number of total claims. For 2016, addressed. in conformity with: those calculations provide the following results: K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 40 Rompetrol fuels ranked first with an overall NETWORK UPGRADES customer satisfaction parameter of 63 out of 100. In the same study, Rompetrol station’s ROMANIA rating on staff’s promptness and courtesy NEW STATIONS BUILT: 3 topped all other competitors at 67 points. KNOCKDOWN REBUILD: 3 INTERIOR REBRANDING: 9 Rompetrol stations also received ratings in line with other competitors when it comes BULGARIA to the aggregate score given by customers to EXTERIOR REBRANDING: 10 product variety, product quality, product prices MOLDOVA and visual store appearance. Despite these NEW DOCO STATIONS: 12 scores compared to other market competitors, INTERIOR REBRANDING: 15 EXTERIOR REBRANDING: 7 our goal is to get as close to 100 as possible and we are dedicated to improvement in the GEORGIA coming years. NEW DOCO STATIONS: 13 EXTERIOR REBRANDING: 32 Our solution to this is a commitment to differentiation. And we plan to improve in these ways: • Our staff must perform better, faster and with increased courtesy. • We must focus on emphasizing what makes us better and different. For example, we will capitalize on the variety of fuels we offer in comparison to our competitors. We can promote seasonal variants of diesel full and strongly promote Efix, a high-end fuel that improves engine performance. • We must improve the “atmosphere” of our stations and provide a better user and customer experience. • We must improve the variety and quality of the products and food within our shops. As we work to make these improvements, we are confident our future customer surveys will show improvement in customer perception and also separation from the competition. 41 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T MARKETPLACE 2016 LEGAL ACTIONS mutual agreement. The result of this investigation let to monetary fines for the eight accused organizations Litigation between Rompetrol – one of which being Rompetrol Georgia, a KMGI Rafinare and Navodari City Hall In terms of significant legal actions for 2016, subsidiary. The fine for Rompetrol Georgia was settled In November of 2015, Năvodari City Hall finalized their KMG International or its entities were identified for USD 4.9 million. In late 2015 Rompetrol Georgia local tax audit of Rompetrol Rafinare for the period of in the following cases: appealed the report before the Administrative Court, 2012 2014 and assessed a non-compliant finding of and a suspension of the fine was obtained and the roughly USD 5 million, out of which the principal is case was elevated to the Georgia Court of Appeals. On approximately USD 3 million and the penalties and Criminal case concerning Rominserv November 26, 2015, the Court of Appeal of Georgia accessories are approximately USD 2 million. SRL, Rompetrol Rafinare SA and their rejected the Competition Agency’s complaint and the Upon receipt of this fine, KMGI subsidiary, Rompetrol law suit returned to the first instance court. employees involved in the Petromidia Rafinare, filed an administrative complaint with the Refinery incident on August 22, 2016 Hearings are pending, and resolution is anticipated fiscal authorities. The administrative complaint was in 2017 if the court finds no additional research and dismissed; however, Rompetrol Rafinare continued On August 22, 2016, a technical incident occurred information are needed to settle the dispute. to challenge the decision by submitting to a claim when a fire broke out within the DAV plant. The with the local court and another request for partial fire was promptly extinguished by the refinery On August 14, 2017, the Court sent back the file to annulment of Năvodari Local Decision no. 435/2015. staff and firemen from private and public services. the Competition agency for additional investigation The first challenge is currently pending court Unfortunately, due to this incident, two Rominserv and research. investigation proceedings from the Constanța Court SRL (a KMGI subsidiary) employees passed away and Rompetrol Bulgaria LLC of Appeals. A verdict is expected in 2017. two other suffered burns. The Bulgarian Competition Authority canceled The second challenge for partial annulment of Following the incident, a comprehensive investigation Năvodari Local Council Decision no. 435/December the investigating proceedings against Rompetrol was launched to establish the circumstances 21, 2015 was admitted by the Constanța Tribunal. This Bulgaria A.D. in October 2016. and the causes that generated the technical solution has been appealed by the Năvodari Local incident. Following the completion of the criminal In terms of proceedings related to significant fines, Council in the Constanța Court of Appeals. A decision prosecution, Rompetrol Rafinare S.A., Rominserv KMG International or its entities were identified as on this is also expected in 2017. SRL and four employees of these companies participants in the following cases in 2016: were put on trial for the non-observance of labor, Rompetrol Rafinare also filed a request to suspend health and safety measures, bodily harm by Oilfield Exploration Business Solutions the enforceable effects of the imposing decision. negligence, manslaughter and accidental pollution. S.A. (formerly Rompetrol S.A.) The case is currently pending court investigation Simultaneously, Rompetrol Rafinare S.A. is involved Following a Court of Appeal decision issued on proceedings with the Supreme Court of Justice. The as party in the file. The outcome of this legal case October 7, 2014, the Romanian Ministry of Finance first hearing term before the Supreme Court has not cannot be estimated at the present time. submitted a computation of interest accrued from yet been scheduled. January 5, 2001 till March 2015 to the KMGI subsidiary Rompetrol Georgia LLC – Competition in the amount of USD 186 million. The amount was An investigation by the Competition Agency revealed challenged in Court and an amended settlement was that between 2008 and 2014, a series of oil companies issued on October 20th, 2016, reducing the amount sold fuel in their branches at a fixed price based on of interest to only USD 72 million. KMGI INTERNATIONAL 42 APPENDIX FINANCIAL BRIEF CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL POSITION 2016 (USD) 2015 (USD) Total assets 2,471,747,440 2,302,226,246 Total non-current assets 1,382,466,820 1,405,886,549 Total current assets 1,089,280,620 896,339,697 Total liabilities 1,710,325,399 1,525,901,553 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent 1,040,272,815 1,078,877,718 The abbreviated financial Non-controlling interest (278,850,774) (302,553,025) information is derived Total equity 761,422,041 776,324,693 from the Consolidated Total non-current liabilities 422,035,603 511,250,118 Financial Statements as of and for the year ended 31 Total current liabilities 1,288,289,796 1,014,651,435 December 2015 and should CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 2016 (USD) 2015 (USD) be read in conjunction with these audited Consolidated Revenue 5,706,141,433 6,359,848,215 Financial Statements. Cost of sales (5,339,380,432) (6,025,356,249) Gross profit 366,761,001 334,491,966 On the full consolidated Operating profit 46,314,949 (46,647,357) financial statements an Income tax 216,508 58,134,327 unqualified audit opinion was issued. Check our Profit (loss) for the year 14,020,538 (45,072,282) Group’s Annual Report for Profit (Loss) before income tax 13,804,030 (105,411,704) the full financial disclosure. Loss from continuing operations 14,020,538 (47,277,377) Loss from discontinued operations (2,205,095) 43 2016 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT APPENDICES STAKEHOLDER WHICH OF THE FOLLOWING Corporate Governance & Transparency FEEDBACK FORM INTERESTS YOU THE MOST? Corporate Responsibility Actions Please take a few minutes to fill (multiple choice) Environment out this questionnaire on the 2016 Sustainability Report. Health & Safety Human Resources We value your opinion as it helps us better manage our Stakeholders’ information (shareholders, efforts and improve our results. employees, neighboring municipalities, customers, suppliers, NGOs, etc) MARK THE STATEMENTS AS TO The principles and issues are sufficiently HOW MUCH YOU AGREE WITH covered in accordance with the company’s THE FOLLOWING sustainable development strategy. (1) strongly disagree The content is complete and clear. (2) disagree The report’s structure is functional and (3) neither agree nor disagree (4) agree sufficient. (5) highly agree The information presented is reliable and accurate. The tables and charts are easily understood and depicted in a satisfactory manner. The photographs and images positively enhance the report making it easier to read and more attractive. The printed version conforms to a Sustainable Development publication. I prefer the electronic version of the report. I will recommend the report to others. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 44 FIRST ŃAME ASSESS IN THE ORDER OF Safety PRIORITY FROM 1 TO 5 THE Workplace LAST NAME FOLLOWING AREAS IN WHICH THE COMPANY HAS Protecting the environment OCCUPATION DEVELOPED SIGNIFICANT Caring for society and the environment COMPANY INITIATIVES AND ACTIVITIES, Programs to support the local communities IN YOUR OPINION POSITION Transparency (choose five) Human rights PHONE E-MAIL TO WHICH OF THESE Employee WEBSITE GROUPS OF STAKEHOLDERS Local community member DO YOU BELONG? ADDRESS NGO (single choice) Media Please specificy any issues not included in the Supplier 2016 Sustainability Report and which you want Customer featured in the next report: Business partner Authority representative Other AFTER READING THE 2016 Positively influenced SUSTAINABILITY REPORT, Not influenced HAS YOUR OPINION OF KMG INTERNATIONAL BEEN Negatively influenced INFLUENCED AT ALL? (single choice) THANK YOU FOR The data we collect will help us improve our Sustainability YOUR FEEDBACK! Report and our Group’s Corporate Responsibility actions. csr@rompetrol.com 45 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX GRI ANNEX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS ST R AT E G Y A N D A N A LY S IS A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the G4-1 organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability not reported Who We Are The Environment G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities fully reported Our People Marketplace ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Introduction G4-3 Name of the organization fully reported Who We Are Introduction G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services Who We Are fully reported Environment G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters Who We Are fully reported Report number of countries where the organization operates and names of countries where either the organization G4-6 Who We Are fully reported has operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Introduction G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form fully reported Who We Are G4-8 Report the markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries) Who We Are fully reported Introduction G4-9 Report the scale of the organization fully reported Who We Are 1. Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender; 2. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender; 3. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender; 4. Report the total workforce by region and by gender; G4-10 Our People fully reported 5. Report if a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors; 6. Report any variations in employment numbers. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 46 CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements not reported G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain partially reported Report any changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain, including: • changes in the location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings and expansions; G4-13 partially reported • changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance and alteration operations; • changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization not reported List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the G4-15 fully reported organization subscribes or which it endorses List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy organizations in which the organization: • holds a position on the governance body; G4-16 • participates in projects or committees; fully reported • provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; • views membership as strategic. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Examples of stakeholder groups are: • civil society; • customers; Who We Are G4-24 • employees, Our Committee fully reported • other workers and their trade unions; Our People • local communities; • shareholders and providers of capital; • suppliers. Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage (Describe the organization’s process for defining its stakeholder groups and for determining the groups with which to engage and not to engage) G4-25 not reported Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement (Include frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder G4-26 Who We Are partially reported group and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken as part of the report preparation process) 47 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization G4-27 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that Who We Are partially reported raised each of the key topics and concerns Introduction G4-28 Reporting period for information provided fully reported Who We Are G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Who We Are fully reported G4-30 Reporting cycle Who We Are partially reported Appendices Stakeholder Feedback Form G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents fully reported Appendix Reporting Team and Contacts GRI Content Index: • report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen; G4-32 Appendix GRI Annex fully reported • report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option; • report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured Assurance: • report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report if not report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided, Appendix Independent G4-33 partially reported • report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers, Opinion • report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. GOVERNANCE Introduction G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body fully reported Our People Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest G4-35 Our People fully reported governance body to senior executives and other employees Report whether the organization has appointed an executive level position or positions with responsibility for economic, G4-36 not reported environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, G4-37 not reported environmental and social topics. K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 48 CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees Who We Are fully reported G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer Who We Are fully reported Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria G4-40 Who We Are partially reported used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed, whether G4-41 Who We Are fully reported conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the G4-42 organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental Our People partially reported and social impacts. Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of G4-43 not reported economic, environmental and social topics. Report the process for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of G4-44 economic, environmental and social topics; report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance not reported body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and G4-45 Our People partially reported social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management G4-46 processes for economic, environmental and social topics. not reported Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, Our People G4-47 partially reported and opportunities. Environment Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report G4-48 and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. not reported Who We Are G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body fully reported Our People Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body G4-50 Our People fully reported and the mechanism used to address and resolve them Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives; report how performance G4-51 criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, Our People partially reported environmental and social objectives 49 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in G4-52 Our People partially reported determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report how stakeholders’ view are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of G4-53 Who We Are partially reported votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of G4-54 not reported significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual G4-55 in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all not reported employees in the same country. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norm of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of G4-56 Who We Are fully reported ethics. Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to G4-57 Who We Are partially reported organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and G4-58 matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms Our People fully reported or hotlines E CON O M IC PER FO R MA NCE Report the direct economic value generated and distributed on an accurate basis including the basic components for Who We Are G4-EC1 fully reported the organization’s global operations as listed below Appendix Financial Brief Report risks and opportunities posed by climate change that have the potential to generate substantive changes in G4-EC2 Environment partially reported operations, revenue or expenditure G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Our People fully reported G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government not applicable MARKET PRESENCE G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Our People fully reported G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Our People fully reported K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 50 CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Who We Are G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported Environment fully reported Marketplace G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Who We Are fully reported PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation not reported SECTOR S PECIFIC G4-OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production Environment partially reported E N VI R O NMEN TA L PER FO RMANCE MATERIALS G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment fully reported G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Environment fully reported ENERGY G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Environment fully reported G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization Environment fully reported Who We Are G4-EN5 Energy intensity fully reported Environment G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Environment fully reported G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Environment fully reported WATER G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Environment fully reported G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environment fully reported 51 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Environment fully reported Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value G4-EN11 Environment fully reported outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of G4-EN12 Environment fully reported high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Environment fully reported Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by G4-EN14 not reported operations, by level of extinction risk EMISSIONS G4-EN15 G4-EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1,2&3) Environment fully reported G4-EN17 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity not reported G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Environment fully reported G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances not reported G4-EN21 NO x, SO x, and other significant air emissions Environment fully reported EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Environment fully reported G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Environment fully reported G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Environment fully reported Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel G4-EN25 Environment fully reported Convention 2 Annex I, II, III, and VIII and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habits significantly affected by the G4-EN26 Environment fully reported organization’s discharges of water and runoff K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 52 CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS PRODUCT S AND SERVICES G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services not applicable G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category not applicable COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with G4-EN29 Marketplace fully reported environmental laws and regulations TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s G4-EN30 Environment partially reported operation’s, and transporting members of the workforce G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Environment fully reported G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria not reported G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken not reported Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance G4-EN34 mechanisms not reported SECTOR SPECIFIC G4-OG2 G4-OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount of renewable energy generated by source not reported G4-OG4 Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored Environment partially reported G4-OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water Environment fully reported G4-OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon not applicable G4-OG7 Amount of drilling waste and strategies for treatment and disposal not reported G4-OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels not reported 53 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS SO C I A L PER FO R MA N CE: LABOUR P RAC TI C E S AND DE C E NT WORK EMPLOYMENT G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region Our People fully reported Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant G4-LA2 locations of operation not reported G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Our People fully reported L ABOUR/MANAGEMENT REL ATIONS G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements not reported OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help G4-LA5 Our People partially reported monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related G4-LA6 fatalities, by region and by gender not reported G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation not reported G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Our People partially reported TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Our People fully reported Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and G4-LA10 Our People fully reported assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by G4-LA11 Our People fully reported employee category DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age G4-LA12 Our People fully reported group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 54 CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR MEN AND WOMEN G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation Our People fully reported SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR L ABOUR PRACTICES G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria not reported G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken not reported L ABOUR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices field, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Our People fully reported SO C I A L PER FO R MA N CE: HUMAN RI GHTS INVESTMENT Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses G4-HR1 not reported or that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are G4-HR2 not reported relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken not applicable FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Our People fully reported may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights CHILD L ABOUR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to G4-HR5 Our People partially reported contribute to the effective abolition of child labor FORCED OR COMPULSORY L ABOUR Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures G4-HR6 Our People partially reported to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor 55 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS SECURITY PRACTICES Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to G4-HR7 operations not applicable INDIGENOUS RIGHTS G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken not applicable ASSESSMENT G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments not reported SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria not reported G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken not applicable G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Our People fully reported SECTOR SPECIFIC Operations where indigenous communities are present or affected by activities and where specific engagement G4-OG9 strategies are in place not applicable SO C I A L PER FO R MA N CE: SOCI E TY LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development G4-SO1 Community fully reported programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities Community partially reported ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified not reported G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Who We Are partially reported G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Who We Are partially reported K M G I N T E R N AT I O N A L 56 CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS PUBLIC POLICY G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary not applicable ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Marketplace fully reported COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and G4-SO8 Marketplace fully reported regulations SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society not reported G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Marketplace partially reported GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS FOR IMPACTS ON SOCIETY G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and through formal grievance mechanisms not applicable SECTOR SPECIFIC G4-OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples not applicable G4-OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned not applicable Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, the number of households resettled in each and how their G4-OG12 livelihoods were affected in the process not applicable G4-OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity not applicable SO C I A L PER FO R MA N CE: PRODUCT RESPONSI BI L I TY CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for G4-PR1 Marketplace fully reported improvement Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety G4-PR2 impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes not applicable 57 2 0 1 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T APPENDIX CODE DESCRIPTION REPORT STATUS PRODUCT AND SERVICE L ABELI NG Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information G4-PR3 Marketplace partially reported and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service G4-PR4 Marketplace fully reported information and labeling by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customers’ satisfaction Marketplace fully reported MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products not applicable Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing G4-PR7 Marketplace partially reported communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Marketplace fully reported COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of G4-PR9 Marketplace fully reported products and services SECTOR SPECIFIC G4-OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria Marketplace fully reported GLOSSARY ACCA Association of Chartered Certified Accountants GRI Global Reporting Initiative PEM Petrochemicals bn billion HCl Hydrochloric Acid PET Polyethylene Terephthalate BU Business unit HR Human Resources PMP Project Management Professional CFA Chartered Financial Analyst HS Health & Safety PSA of gases Pressure swing absorption of gases CLA Collective Labor Agreement HSE Health, safety, environment QHSE Quality, Health, Safety, Environment CONCAWE Conservation of clean air and water in Europe KMG KazMunayGas RAJA Autonomous County Water Authority COR Classification of occupations in Romania KMGT KMG Trading REACH Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and CSSM Workplace health and safety committee LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas Restriction of Chemicals DAFWC Days away from work cases LTI Lost Time Injury RPP Rompetrol Petrochemicals DMT Dimethyl terephthalate LTIF Lost Time Injury Frequency RPSA-Libyan Branch Rompetrol S.A. Libyan Branch E&P Exploration & Production mn million RRC Rompetrol Rafinare ECHA European Chemicals Agency MMSC Ministry of Environment and Climate Change RWS Rompetrol Well Services EPA Environmental Protection Agency MSDS Material Safety Data Sheets SO2 Sulfur Dioxide EU-ETS European Union-Emissions Trade Scheme MTC Medical Treatment Cases SR Injury Saverity Rate EUTL European Union Transaction Log NGO Non Governmental Organization SS Standard Specifications FAC First Aid Case NOx Nitrogen Oxides TRI Total Recordable Incidents FIR Fatal Incident Rate OECD Organisation for Economic TRIR Total Recordable Injury Rate FR Injury Frequency Rate Cooperation and Development WWTP Waste Water Treatment Plant FTL Fatalities OEG Ethylene oxide glycols GHG Greenhouse Gas OHS Occupational Health &Safety KMG International N.V. World Trade Center Strawinskylaan 807, Tower A, 8th floor 1077XX Amsterdam, The Netherlands Tel.: +31 205 75 23 90 Fax: +31 205 75 23 99 Email: office@rompetrol.com Web: www.rompetrol.com KMG Rompetrol 3-5 Free Press Square City Gate Northern Tower, 5th floor, room 2 013702 Bucharest, Romania Tel: +40 21 30 30 800 Fax: +40 21 31 22 490 E-mail: office@rompetrol.com Rompetrol Rafinare (Petromidia Refinery) 215 Năvodari Blvd. Administrative Building 905700 Năvodari, Romania Tel: +40 241 50 60 00 Fax: +40 241 50 69 30 E-mail: office.rafinare@rompetrol.com Web: www.rompetrol-rafinare.ro Rompetrol Downstream 3-5 Free Press Square City Gate Northern Tower, 2nd floor 013702 Bucharest, Romania Tel: +40 21 206 75 00 Fax: +40 21 206 75 80 Email: office.downstream@rompetrol.com Web: www.downstream.ro sustainability@rompetrol.com
