Introduction “I am pleased to confirm that Magin Pont Abogados y Asesores Trobutarios reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption.In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.” Yours sincerely, Magin Pont CEO 2. Magin Pont Abogados We are a legal and tax service firm focused on our client’s needs with all of our professional resources to achieve the best results, allowing us to grow alongside them in our daily operations. Professor Magín Pont Mestres proudly demonstrated this vocation throughout all his life, which is being kept at the very core of our firm today. Magín Pont Clemente, managing partner, continues to uphold these founding and distinguishing values. As a multidisciplinary firm, we provide first rate value services to our clients in all legal fields thanks to our excellent team, with a continued emphasis on tax law. OUR APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES In the spring OF 2016 , Magin Pont Abogados y Asesores Tributarios signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: • People (employees and members) • Society (locally). As lawyers, we offer our services pro bono to local NGO´s • Environment. Best practices regarding recycling and the responsible consumption of electricity 4. Contents of Magin Pont Abogados policyyear one The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organisation, has been initiatives concerning labour (employee rights) and environment. 4.1 The environment The environmental impact of a smaller business association and our scope for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to make an effort. We have therefore adopted a green purchasing policy, in which environmental considerations are essential. As lawyers, we are also trying to reduce the amount of printed documents and many of our communication nowadays is by email. With regards to lighting, we chose low-energy solutions wherever possible, buying energy efficient light bulbs. Goals We wish to continue to find areas where we can reduce our CO2 emissions Monitoring and evaluating performances We make a monthly assessment of our improvements MEASSUREMENT OF OUTCOMES More gender parity and new opportunities for youth Women: 1 new lawyer hired Youth: three young lawyers hired Saving of energy: 25% Printed material. Saving: More than 30% Work pro bono: Prop bono work for 2 non profits 5. Future initiatives Set the agenda for diversity and encouraging equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion. Actively inspire our members to give legal advise on Corporate Social Responsibility issues . As tax lawyers, promote ethical standards and work against corruption in all its forms.
