Sustainability report 2016 LTIFR Admissible % Female employees Tonnes of CO2 whistle-blower cases 1.5 23 14% 44,195 Down from 1.8 Down from 34 Up from 13% Down from 46,910 CONTENTS Key highlights 3 Letter from CEO 4 FLSmidth at a glance 5 Human resources 6 The Big Picture 7 Sustainability drives customer value 8 Supporting the Sustainable development goals 9 A Sustainable business model 10 Innovation and sustainability 11 Key innovations in 2016 12 Governance of sustainability 13 Stakeholders and materiality assessment 14 Safety 15 Compliance 17 People 19 Supply chain 21 Environment 23 KPI summary 25 UNGC table 27 ABOUT THIS REPORT The 2016 Sustainability Report describes the non-financial performance of FLSmidth & Co. A/S, based in Copenhagen, Denmark and supplements the 2016 Annual Report. The Sustainability Reports have been published every consecutive year since 2010 and is in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act section 99a. The quantitative information that is in compliance with GRI standards has been denoted as such in the summary of performance. The scope of this report is the area under financial control of FLSmidth, with the exception of the section on supply chain. It is possible to access previous year’s data on our website. Please go to www.flsmidth.com/sustainability. Contact: sustainability@flsmidth.com gos The reporting period is 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. logo with e below name and WE live branches ﬁxed and number of ork name cal network WE SUPPORT Network Australia a Light. WE SUPPORT 1 2 Flama nt local / 2 designed and FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 he UN go ﬁles is not orsers of the / BACK TO CONTENTS KEY HIGHLIGHTS LTIFR TRAINING HOURS ON SAFETY 1.5 186,715 Down from 1.8 Up from 165,945 ADMISSIBLE NUMBERS OF IN-DEPTH DUE DILIGENCE WHISTLE-BLOWER CASES SCREENINGS CONDUCTED 23 226 Down from 34 Up from 55 % FEMALE % EMPLOYEES WITH EMPLOYEES PERFORMANCE DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS 14% 86% Up from 13% Up from 85% SUPPLIERS ASSESSED FOR ENVIRONMENTAL % LOCAL AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE SPEND 161 61% Up from 0 Unchanged ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS, CO2 INTENSITY METRIC SCOPE 1 & 2 (IN tCO2 ) (IN tCO2 /COST OF PRODUCTION) 44,195 3.25 Down from 46,910 Up from 3.18 Please refer to the relevant sections for the definitions of the indicators FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 3 / BACK TO CONTENTS Letter from CEO Driving performance through sustainable Our Values drive our behaviour productivity enhancement Our values of competence, cooperation and responsibility empower our employees to deliver quality results. This means Sustainability is core to our business model and guides our promoting collaboration between teams and integrating a overall strategy for both the short and the long term. It culture of accountability at all levels. It means always being allows us to improve internal performance and to live up to ethical in our business dealings and being both honest and our values, while delivering compliant quality results to our transparent at all times. We, as a company, have always customers. By focusing on safety and environmental impacts embodied our Danish values; they make us who we are today throughout the value chain, and remaining committed to and who we have always been. the principles of the United Nations Global Compact we are well positioned to provide solutions to many of the world’s I would like to take the opportunity to say thank you to sustainability challenges. our employees and all partners and customers for making this progress happen. I am proudly convinced that we are on This year I am very proud to announce the significant the right track because of the great collaboration amongst progress we have made on many of our sustainability our global workforce and our partners. I encourage you all performance indicators relative to the targets we set. With to keep integrating the principles of sustainability into an increased focus on the risks and impacts within the your daily activities, so that we can all achieve tangible organization, we have defined in more absolute terms what outcomes. matters the most to us, our shareholders and to our customers. We can now adapt our sustainability program to be Copenhagen, February 2017 more inclusive, satisfying a greater number of stakeholders. Thomas Schulz Group CEO For the 4th consecutive year FLSmidth’s safety performance improved and I applaud the success of our staff in continuously developing our safety culture. As such, we will continue to strive for zero harm by setting ­another ambitious target for 2017. However, I am deeply saddened by the tragic loss of a sub contractor’s life, resulting from an unfortunate incident at one of our minerals sites. Since then, we have conducted a specific root-cause analysis to ensure that it does not happen again. Unlocking potential As sustainability is crucial to achieving our long-term objectives; we stand firmly by its integration into our corporate vision. Sustainability is how we operate as a business and what differentiates us in a competitive market. We are determined to unlock potential, be it the talent of our staff, through value engineering with our partners or by launching innovative products and services that improve our customers’ operations. Productivity is the key enabler for sustainability within FLSmidth, as well as with our partners and customers. It is what helps us become more efficient, while supporting customers to reduce emissions and lower operating costs. By building on the complementary nature of sustainability and productivity, we have established the capacity to get results, while being adaptive and resilient. FLSmidth: Sustainability Report 2016 / 4 / BACK TO CONTENTS FLSMIDTH AT A GLANCE FLSmidth is the market-leading supplier of productivity sustainability, and quality are focus areas for more than to the global minerals and cement industries. Headquar12,000 employees in FLSmidth. tered in Copenhagen, Denmark, FLSmidth delivers engineering, equipment and services solutions to customers For more information, visit www.flsmidth.com in more than 50 countries worldwide. Productivity, FINANCIAL RESULTS 2016 Revenue DKKm 18,192 EBITA margin 7.1% Order intake DKKm 18,303 FLSmidth Customer Product Minerals Cement Services Companies Revenue DKKm Revenue DKKm Revenue DKKm Revenue DKKm 6,555 5,015 3,185 4,286 EBITA margin EBITA margin EBITA margin EBITA margin 12.5% 11.2% -4.3% 0.6% Order intake DKKm Order intake DKKm Order intake DKKm Order intake DKKm 6,599 5,326 2,679 4,576 REVENUE SPLIT BETWEEN REVENUE SPLIT BETWEEN CEMENT AND MINERALS BUSINESS SERVICE AND CAPITAL BUSINESS Cement Minerals Capital Service business business business business 45% 55% 44% 56% EBITA margin EBITA margin 4.8% 8.7% FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 5 / BACK TO CONTENTS HUMAN RESOURCES EMPLOYEES FLSmidth is a learning organisation, and our people are our AGE DISTRIBUTION most valuable resource. In 2016, we continued to invest 6% 19% <30 years extensively in people development and leadership training 15% 30-39 years with a strong emphasis on selecting, attracting, developing 40-49 years and retaining the right people to support value creation in 50-59 years the Group. >59 years 24% 36% At the same time, the global organisation has been significantly impacted by the cyclical downturn and the changes in market conditions over the last four years. In 2016, this called for further efficiency improvements and business LENGTH OF SERVICE right-sizing activities in the entire global organization. 22% 20% <2 years 2-4 years The number of employees amounted to 12,187 at the end 5-10 years of 2016, representing a decrease of 6% compared to last >10 years year (end 2015: 12,969). The decline is primarily explained by business right-sizing, as mentioned above. 29% 29% The composition of the global workforce was more or less unchanged at the end of 2016. 55% of FLSmidth’s employees were below the age of 40 at the end of 2016 JOB FUNCTION (end of 2015: 56%). 80% of the employees have more 45% 55% Technical and than 2 years’ seniority (end of 2015: 78%). 14% of Engineering FLSmidth’s permanently employed staff is female (end of Sales, 2015: 13%). The relatively low proportion of female Administration, Management, etc. ­e mployees is explained by the fact that males continue to be overrepresented in the engineering profession and among engineering students. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION 52% 9% Denmark NUMBER 15% USA OF EMPLOYEES India Other 18,000 24% 15,000 12,000 9,000 GENDER 6,000 14% 86% Men Women 3,000 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Number of employees FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 6 / BACK TO CONTENTS THE BIG PICTURE Societies all over the world are growing and steadily responsibility. A significant portion of the world has combecoming more economically developed. Millions are mitted itself to sustainable development and encouraging moving from poverty to middle class, requiring better living nations, civil society and industry to commit themselves to standards, making urbanisation and industrialisation the uphold the values laid out in the United Nations Sustainable key drivers behind an ever-expanding infrastructure. This Development Goals and the Paris Climate Agreement. To expansion fuels an increasing demand for construction masurvive and prosper in the 21st Century, there is a clear terials, of which cement is one of the most important, and understanding that industry must play its part to support for material goods and energy production, for which minthe planet and its people to develop sustainably. erals lay the foundation. Amidst this growth, however, raw material and energy resources are becoming increasingly THE NEED FOR MATERIALS scarce, accentuating the need to remain competitive by beAs the global consumption of minerals and cement continues coming more productive. Adding to this, issues such as clito grow every year, there is greater need for source materials. mate change and public health are challenging traditional This presents various challenges and opportunities for FLSmidth production philosophies and steering the industry towards and the industry in general as well as potential areas of more inclusive growth, shared value creation and social value for customers. COPPER GOLD COAL 1,000 tonnes 1,000 kg 1 mill. tonnes 25,000 350 10,000 300 20,000 8,000 250 15,000 200 6,000 10,000 150 4,000 100 5,000 2,000 50 0 0 0 2000 2018 2000 2018 2000 2018 Reﬁned copper production Gold ore content production Coal production – world total – world total – world total IRON ORE FERTILISER CEMENT 1 mill. tonnes 1,000 tonnes 1 mill. tonnes 2,500 60,000 5,000 2,000 50,000 4,000 40,000 1,500 3,000 30,000 1,000 2,000 20,000 500 10,000 1,000 0 0 0 2000 2018 2000 2018 2000 2018 World production of Phosphate production World cement production iron ore Source: Bloomberg, International Cement review, FLSmidth estimates 2016. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 7 / BACK TO CONTENTS SUSTAINABILITY DRIVES CUSTOMER VALUE The challenge: The production of minerals and cement is expensive and resource intensive, resulting in impacts on the land, air, water and society. The opportunities: Society: A vision of zero harm to The Economy: Mining and cement employees and contractors sought production employs millions of through a strong safety culture. people around the world, many of Furthermore, FLSmidth guarantees them in developing countries. Mining human rights and ethical business activity increases the demand for throughout the value chain. By local goods, resulting in economic focusing on local hiring, this provides development of the region in which capacity, competency and social they operate. development to areas where the company operates. The Environment: Minimising the impacts of production is good business. By installing advanced technologies, waste and emissions can be mitigated, while increasing productivity. Customer Value: FLSmidth helps customers to maximise economic gains by improving their productivity. At the same time, FLSmidth help them to minimise their environmental impact using innovative technologies and maximise their positive social impact by focusing on safety and training. Everyone wins. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 8 / BACK TO CONTENTS SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS FLSmidth supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) that came into effect in 2016. As a provider of advanced sustainable technologies for cement and minerals, FLSmidth is strategically positioned to help countries achieve the SDGs by enhancing economic productivity, social prosperity and environmental excellence .The SDGs will also be used as guide the internal sustainability program. The SDGs provide an opportunity to impact the markets served, while simultaneously allowing FLSmidth to create part of the trillions of dollars of global economic growth that the SDGs are estimated to generate by 2030. As assessment of FLSmidth’s business model, strategy and sustainability program shows that the company is currently contributing to numerous of the SDGs and aims to do so to a greater extent in 2017 and 2018. Of the 17 goals, the following three were prioritized as those that FLSmidth will advance the most: With a focus on increasing both internal and external productivity, FLSmidth promotes financial and economic growth through its operations and the value chain. Within the organization, FLSmidth ensures working standards in all aspects of the operations, specifically in providing an enabling environment that promotes world class safety and human rights practices. Within the value chain, innovative solutions are launched that increase resource efficiency of customers, and can lead to a decoupling of environmental impacts and economic growth. Furthermore, with a due diligence program that includes human and labour rights in the supply chain, FLSmidth encourages the diffusion of the values of ‘decent work’ throughout the world. FLSmidth supports industries that provide the basic physical structures and materials essential for society to function. Offering products and services to any location in the world means that FLSmidth contributes to the sustainable development of technological capabilities. This is especially relevant when developing industrial activity in fragile states and lower-middle income countries. The amount spent on research and development that impact infrastructure also plays a key part in the business model and drives financial growth. FLSmidth is committed to improve responsible production and consumption. The commitment is managed internally and in the value chain by an effective governance system that not only ‘sets the tone from the top’, but also measures the impact. This is complemented by measuring and publically disclosing non-financial performance. The sustainability program aims to promote the effective management of natural and human resources. In the value chain, the sustainable production of products, projects and services for customers, as well as responsible sourcing result in diffusion of this goal. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 9 / BACK TO CONTENTS A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL LIFE-CYCLE APPROACH sheet of reliable solutions within the cement and mining A core component of the business model and strategy is a industries. In cement, this means from initial crushing and life-cycle approach. For customers, this means that the fogrinding of the limestone until final handling and packing cus is on the total cost of ownership of their assets, which of the cementitious materials. In minerals, FLSmidth is active is especially relevant for integrating environmental and all the way from in-pit crushing and conveying, through social considerations into their business. The impacts of to beneficiation and recovery of the valuable minerals. As building and commissioning equipment can pale in comworld class experts throughout the entire operations of parison to that of the operational phase of their life, which clients’ sites, it allows for a thorough understanding of the can last decades. By providing a full portfolio of products environmental impacts and safety risks that customers face. over the entire flow sheet, FLSmidth has a summary of the risks and impacts over the full life cycle of operations while FULL-SERVICE PROVIDER it is still in the design phase. This can support customers in As a full-service provider, FLSmidth supplies everything achieving cost effectiveness, while supporting them to adfrom single products and services to complete plants or here to ever more stringent environmental regulations over production lines and full operations and maintenance the product life-cycle. Optimised solutions can be found solutions. Customers can rely on FLSmidth’s safety culture, that maximise the uptime of the customers’ entire produchigh standards for business integrity, people development tion line, while ensuring that future impacts are minimised. expertise and world-class environmental technology through­ By assisting throughout the life-cycle of products, customout the entire production process. This is particularly vident ers can decrease their environmental impact while allowing in the ‘Design-Build-Operate’-model, where FLSmidth for best-in-class service for safety, ethical integrity and offers to design, build and operate customers’ plants, human resources from beginning to end. as well as in the ‘Engineer – Procure and Construct’ models of customers’ plants in which FLSmidth oversees FULL FLOW SHEET the ­development of entire production facilities, thereby A complete portfolio of core technologies and extensive decreasing customers’ business risk and environmental process know-how enables FLSmidth to provide the full slow impacts. SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL Urbanisation and Global demand for industrialisation drive cement and minerals. the need for infrastructure and improved standards of living. FLSmidth’s equipment Global demand for and services contribute to FLSmidth’s equipment the sustainable development and services to process of societies with the lowest cement and minerals. environmental impact. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 10 / BACK TO CONTENTS INNOVATION AND SUSTAINABILITY FLSmidth’s strategic advantage lies within the ability to solutions for the environmental and safety issues that supply productive and sustainable products and services. customers face, while strengthening their competitiveness As providers of best-available technology for the cement under the current market conditions. By balancing efforts and mining industries, FLSmidth has a significant role to across an ambitious range of objectives: introducing play in providing base materials that do not compromise major new technologies, continuously improving existing future generations to meet their own needs. Innovating products, delivering new productivity-enhancing offerproducts and services that mitigate environmental imings, and developing efficient digitalised work routines. pacts and safety risks is good business, and a core driver Meeting these objectives allows customers to ‘do more for profitability. Future results are not dependent on the with less’, thereby making them more resource-efficient. success of single innovations but on the continued stream of new developments to enhance existing strong offering. FLSmidth’s highly skilled and experienced employees are In 2016, FLSmidth spent DKK 202m on in-house R&D to the key R&D resource. At their disposal are world-class ensure productivity improving solutions that turn our cusfacilities at the R&D centres Dania and Salt Lake City as tomers’ everyday challenges into great opportunities. In well as in the Group’s nine product companies. Co-develaddition, project-financed developments have taken place opment with suppliers on value engineering projects is in cooperation with customers. also a key driver of effective innovation. Product development sometimes calls for innovation within non-core Resource productivity is the key element that FLSmidth technologies as well, and in those cases, FLSmidth will employs to drive the world’s sustainability agenda. look to partner with technology experts rather than Through established innovation processes that continu‘reinventing the wheel’. As an example, FLSmidth and ously bring environmental technologies and services to Haldor Topsoe are seeing mutual benefits in co-develmarket, customers’ ability to meet their sustainability oping a catalytic filter bag technology. Other examples expectations can be exceeded. With cement and mining are the joint development with BASF to overcome the industries currently focusing on improving productivity, arsenic challenge in the mining industry, and the coopnow is the ideal time for companies to improve their eration with GE to create enhanced digital solutions to production processes and subsequently reduce their increase productivity in the cement and mining indusenvironmental footprint per unit of output. This calls for tries. FLSmidth also partners with universities and firms to solutions that enable companies to minimise energy conaccelerate research. The MiCeTech (Minerals and Cement sumption, re-process previously discarded waste material Technologies) programme is a joint research project and minimising water usage – to name a few examples. between FLSmidth, Hempel and DTU (Technical University of Denmark) with the support of The Danish Advanced Whether customers need to meet ever more stringent Technology Foundation and with a clear aim to generate national emission standards, or improve their safety tangible outcomes. record, FLSmidth is at the forefront of product and service development. It is a differentiating factor, one on which future financial performance all actors involved is heavily dependent. FLSmidth has a legacy of leveraging its human resources and capital to innovate within the field of environmental protection technologies, while ensuring that its product portfolio promotes a safe work place. With a strong presence within the markets where it operates, FLSmidth is uniquely placed to apply its capacity to innovate, enabling FACTS customers to achieve their sustainability targets. Amount spent on in-house R&D FLSmidth brings to the market broad R&D capabilities, in 2016: DKK 202m enabling the development of innovative products and competitive offerings. A particular focus is on developing FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 11 / BACK TO CONTENTS KEY INNOVATIONS IN 2016 CO2 ORE QUALITY CLIMATE CHANGE WASTE & ENVIRONMENTAL CONTAMINATION Carbon emissions and operational expenditures are a direct For mining customers, a key challenge is managing the enconsequence of energy consumption. Fuel and electricvironmental contamination of soils, air and water. Over the ity can make up the highest cost of operating a cement course of time, deposits containing high concentrations plant or a minerals processing plant. These emissions can of copper have become scarcer, resulting in the need to be substantially abated through the use of best available extract lower grade ores. As the mines develop, sulphide technology, with a particular focus on maximising proore is exposed, which can contain toxic impurities such ductivity through increased equipment efficiency. In both as arsenic. These lower grade sulphide ores require the mining and cement, grinding is one of the most energy installation of a concentrator and a smelter before refining, intense processes, and consequently improving the grindwhich require substantial investments. It also results in ing efficiency has a huge impact. An additional way to piles of copper concentrates with more than 0.5% arsenic, save energy is by managing the overall plant consumption which are too high for smelting. and optimise processes though collection and analysis of performance data. In 2016 FLSmidth won the global Top100 R&D award at the R&D 100s for the Rapid Oxidative Leach process (ROL), FLSmidth’s OK® Mill is the world’s most energy efficient allowing copper producers with low to mid-grade copper vertical roller mill for cement grinding, improving energy ore to bypass smelting by utilising their existing processing efficiency by 10-15% and significantly mitigating clients’ infrastructure. The FLSmidth ROL process technology sig­ carbon emissions. Voted the most innovative product in nificantly improves the productivity of the mine, increasing the history of FLSmidth’s by its employees this year, the the output up to 3%, meaning that for a copper mine OK® 62-6 is the world’s largest mill. With the highest producing 200,000 tons per year, it would result in an capacity and the best product quality at the lowest energy additional 285m DKK per year. In addition to primary consumption, this enables up to a 40% saving in capital metal production, the ROL process technology allows for expenditures. In addition, the latest design applications efficient recovery of metals from waste recycle streams mean that the mill can be used both for cement and raw and leach residue. This means that piles containing arsenic meal grinding, allowing the customer to optimise maincan be processed at the site with complete control over tenance and spare parts inventory. The first mill has been arsenic bearing residues generated after leaching, making engineered and sold and is awaiting delivery. it possible to avoid potentially toxic emissions to soils, air and water. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 12 / BACK TO CONTENTS GOVERNANCE OF SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability within the FLSmidth Group is centrally govChanges in governance this year include: erned by the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Board • Changing the name from Group CSR to Group with decentralised execution. This blend of top-down and Sustainability, in order to reflect the ambition to bottom-up elements allows for oversight, while integrating employ environmental and social aspects of business necessary actions into the daily work of employees across to drive financial performance the organisation. The CSR Board provides the opportunity • Agreement to revise the governance structure in 2017 for sparring between its members and for the company in order to be more business and market driven to propose solutions that can be adopted and executed • The Board of Directors will be presented with the quickly. Group Sustainability prepares the agenda for overview and results of the sustainability programme the CSR Board meeting, provides decision support for its on an annual basis. members, supports in the implementation of the sustainability programme, and reports non-financial performance annually to shareholders in the Sustainability Report. The CSR Board is comprised of the CEO, as well as senior and executive vice presidents: • Supply Chain, quality and manufacturing • Human Resources • Communications, Marketing and Sustainability • Operations & Maintenance • Compliance In order to live up to the values of competence, cooperation and responsibility when conducting business, Group Legal presides over the Code of Conduct and the Group Compliance Manager reports progress directly to the audit committee of the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. This ensures that business is conducted with integrity and that issues of non-compliance are addressed at the highest level. The Risk Management Framework is set out in the Group’s Risk Management Policy, which describes its purpose, scope, principles, expectations, roles and responsibilities, policy authority and the monitoring and managing of risks. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for this policy, including defining the Group’s overall risk appetite and risk tolerance. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 13 / BACK TO CONTENTS STAKEHOLDERS AND MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT In order to prioritise resources and align expectations for to broaden the scope of stakeholder engagement sustainability improvements across internal and external by initiating dialogues with more tiers of internal stakeholders, a materiality assessment was conducted. The management, key customers, suppliers, and investors. assessment is based on input from key stakeholders, who By understanding their sustainability context and were identified as those who either significantly impact determining their expectations, it will be possible to FLSmidth’s operations, or are impacted by them. Material steer the sustainability program in an inclusive manner. topics were chosen by engaging decision makers and The primary focus will be on continuously incorporating benchmarking against stakeholders’ disclosures. A literature these dialogues into the sustainability program, so it can review of external communications of industry leaders in the periodically be course-adjusted, satisfying stakeholder cement and mining market was conducted, as well as with expectations as they develop. key suppliers, leading to a comprehensive understanding of the impacts that have been publically disclosed. Operating in the mining and cement industries presents a number of environmental and social challenges, most Executive management was surveyed to determine which notably relating to supplier and customer impact. By material aspects of sustainability supported the organization understanding the life-cycle of the portfolio of products to achieve its long term goals, in order to determine the brought to market, FLSmidth’s sustainability program ones that are core to business. This internal stakeholder can be further designed to promote best practices and engagement will be amplified in the coming years to include effectively meet customers’ needs. This will drive financial a broader base of stakeholders and to identify key actors growth and mitigate business risk, meaning that FLSmidth who can act as leverage points to diffuse the principles of will be strongly incentivised to continuously improve. sustainability to the greatest extent possible. The analysis revealed topics divided into three tiers This was supplemented by external input from financial according to importance to the business and the key analysts following FLSmidth. In 2017, it is planned stakeholders: MATERIALITY MATRIX Safety Importance to stakeholders Environment Compliance Supply Chain Communities People Innovation Human Rights TIER 3 TIER 2 TIER 1 Importance to core business The top two prioritised tiers have been selected as the material topics covered by this report. Tier 3 topics are included the Human Resource policy, but their implementation has not been addressed at a centralised level. It is expected that they will be reported as separate material topics in future reports. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 14 / BACK TO CONTENTS SAFETY POLICY The President’s Safety Award rewards special efforts within FLSmidth’s health, safety and environmental (HSE) policy safety, and in 2016, two FLSmidth units received this reis based on the company’s values of competence, coopward in recognition of exceptional safety performance and eration and responsibility, reflecting the essential role of safety best practises. HSE in ensuring sustainability within FLSmidth. FLSmidth is committed to excellence in safety by integrating an HSE A specially developed reporting tool enables country mind-set into the company’s culture and by maintaining organisations to upload safety incidents and data on a safety as a top priority. monthly basis. This reporting forms the basis for tracking of the safety performance on monthly, quarterly and The HSE policy’s core principle is to achieve excellence, for annual level across the Group. Special procedures exist for safety this means that all injuries and unhealthy conditions reporting fatalities and very severe incidents. can be prevented, the ambition of zero harm and that all stakeholders have the competencies to work safely and RESULTS share best safety practices with colleagues. The results for LTIFR (Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate) consider contractors at FLSmidth addresses, and the coverage POLICY IN ACTION for both is minimum 99%. For the safety training, 100% Each year, a different member of Group Executive Manemployees are considered, but not contractors. agement is appointed Safety Chairman, ensuring involvement at an executive level and to help determine strategy, ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS policies and objectives. In 2016, the LTIFR improved by 17% compared with the previously year and ended at 1.5, below the Group target. At FLSmidth, the local organisation in each country is reAnother safety KPI, TRIFR (Total Recordable Injury Fresponsible for HSE within that country, handling local policies, quency Rate) indicates that FLSmidth overall continues to targets, standards and legal compliance responsibilities. These improve its Health and Safety performance. But with 124 are then implemented in the business units and locations injuries in 2016, FLSmidth will continue its vision to strive within the countries. Policies, objectives, travel security, zero harm. relevant procedures and standards are established at a Group level. Safety training is a top priority for FLSmidth. This covers training in first aid, hazards/standards and job-specific subReflecting the company value ‘competence’, FLSmidth jects etc. The total work hours, shown in below table, spent leverages its strong capabilities within organisational HSE on safe training include both employees and contractors. and, in particular, safety awareness. Employees participate In 2016 FLSmidth employees in average used 10.1 hour on in extensive training, and each year, a Safety and Quality safety training. Week is being held during which employees take part in different relevant activities. Other initiatives include the deBy the end of 2016, approximately 22 percent of all velopment of the ‘10 Safety Rules’ booklet, the awareness FLSmidth employees worked under an OHSAS 18001programme ‘Look, stop and act’, and a safety leadership certified management system. guideline. RISKS FLSmidth employees are exposed to HSE risks in their work at mining and cement sites, particularly from heavy machinery, equipment and traffic. Rigorous standard safety procedures and best practises must be applied through all phases – construction, maintenance and operations. There are also potential safety risks at FLSmidth’s own manufacturing locations related to machinery, tools, mobile equipment, material handling and internal traffic, which must be controlled. In addition, high security risk in some countries requires strict travel safety procedures. Risks are mitigated in the Group Risk Management framework in Group Legal. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 15 / BACK TO CONTENTS SAFETY FUTURE EXPECTATIONS In 2017, a mandatory personal safety KPI will be introFLSmidth’s key ambition is to achieve zero harm for its duced for top managers. This will ensure agreement employees. The medium-term target is 1.0 in LTIFR by between personal objectives and FLSmidth’s policy for 2020. To ensure continuous improvement, LTIFR targets systems and a safety culture that supports the zero harm are set each year at all levels: Group, division, relevant ambition. countries, and business units. FLSmidth has decided to implement HSE-certified management systems throughout the business and the OHSAS 18001 standard has been chosen for HSE. Specific Group targets for 2017 are: • 60% of FLSmidth will be covered by a certified HSE management system • LTIFR target of 1.3 LTIFR TRIFR TRAINING HOURS Hours (’1,000) 3.9 10 4,0 10 200 187 3,5 8.1 166 8 147 3,0 150 2.7 2,5 6 116 5.4 2,0 1.8 100 1.6 4 1.5 4 1,5 1.3 1,0 50 2 0,5 0,0 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2013 2014 2015 2016 2013 2014 2015 2016 Target Target LTIFR LTIFR target TRIFR Training hours FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 16 / BACK TO CONTENTS COMPLIANCE POLICY Training has top priority. All white-collar employees, includThe Code of Business Conduct is the primary policy for ing directors and managers, as well as an increasing portion compliance and each employee has received a guidebook of blue-collar employees, are required to attend training. explaining the Code of Business Conduct in a simple In 2016, the third-party due diligence process created a language. Group Compliance is responsible for three database of third parties, with a focus on those acting as core areas of operation, each of which has its own policy: intermediaries. Each third party undergoes in-depth due anti-corruption, competition law and export control. Morediligence screening and an extensive approval procedure. over, detailed guidelines have been introduced for whistleThe screening includes inter alia trade sanctions, corruption blowing and conflict of interest. Inspired by the UK Bribery issues, litigation cases, adverse media, and basic company Act’s Guidance document, the key compliance-related registration documentation. activities cover the following areas: risk assessment; policies and organisation (proportionate procedures); top-level RESULTS commitment; due diligence; communication; training, The coverage of results is shown in the following text monitoring and review. and table: POLICY IN ACTION All governance body members and employees have had The FLSmidth Executive Management and Board of the Code of Business Conduct communicated to them. All Directors are highly engaged in the compliance programme. executive managers have received anti-corruption training. They were the first group of people to be trained in the There were no public legal cases regarding corruption brought Code of Business Conduct and the Group CEO has peragainst the organisation or its employees and there is one sonally delivered the key message of compliance through pending legal action regarding competition law. town hall presentations and videos. ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS Group Compliance is responsible for setting directions FLSmidth has a solid framework for enacting policy, with and providing appropriate tools. A team of 14 Regional an Executive Management team that is highly committed. Compliance Representatives within Group Compliance Following the outstanding achievement of more than – all company lawyers trained in key compliance skills – 240 in-person training sessions in 2015, the success of the are responsible for implementation in their region. Their Code of Business Conduct training was documented by main tasks are training employees on the Code of Business the positive feedback received through the 2016 survey. Conduct, screening third parties and conducting internal investigations. In 2015 and 2016, remarkable results were achieved by conducting more than 240 in-person training sessions, covering It is crucial to have a comprehensive understanding of the more than 80 percent of all white-collar employees worldrisks present when conducting business. Following a risk aswide. In-person training requires a significant investment in sessment based on in-depth interviews with key employees time and resources, but has a positive impact. For instance, in 2014, employees were surveyed to evaluate awareness the 2016 compliance survey revealed that almost 90 percent levels. It has been decided that the survey will be repeated of respondents knew the difference between a bribe and a periodically, yet the timeframe has not been decided on. facilitation payment. RISKS FLSmidth operates in countries with compliance-related risks. Avoiding fraud, bribery, corruption and conflict of interests is high on the agenda, which implies constantly monitoring and implementing mitigating actions to reduce such risks. Risks are mitigated through the Group Risk Management framework in Group Legal, as well as through quarterly updates to the Audit Committee. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 17 / BACK TO CONTENTS COMPLIANCE Description 2015 2016 2017 result result target Total number of whistle-blower reports submitted 35 25 …of which admissible, i.e. reports that were in scope with the whistle-blower hotline program 34 23 …of which in: Africa and Middle East 12 6 Asia and Oceania 3 10 Europe and former Soviet Union 7 1 North America 4 3 South America 9 5 a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. 22 29 a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization's anti-corruption 100% 100% 100% policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region b. T otal number and percentage of employees that the organization's anti-corruption policies 100% 100% 100% and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region d. T otal number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on 0% 0% 10 / 100% anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. T otal number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, 6,922 / 75% 7,414 / 81% 8,823 / 95% broken down by employee category and region. …of which managers or senior managers 1,247 1,303 1,551 …of which executive management team 100% 100% 100% a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding 1 1 1 anti-competitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as a participant. Numbers of in-depth due diligence screenings conducted 55 226 430 Due diligence is a recent addition to the FLSmidth comGroup Compliance also intends to investigate the pliance programme. Solid progress was made in 2016, applicability of the UK Modern Slavery Act to FLSmidth, with more than 50 percent of high-risk business partners with the view to incorporate it if and where it makes sense completing the full due diligence screening and approval procedure. FUTURE EXPECTATIONS In 2017, FLSmidth will improve its level of training by reaching 95 percent of all white-collar employees. It is expected that all high-risk third parties will be screened and the whistle-blower hotline will be revamped. The frequency of the awareness survey will also be determined according to business needs. This will play an important part on assessing the success of the training program, while highlighting areas of improvement that will be taken into account when delivering future training. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 18 / BACK TO CONTENTS PEOPLE POLICY tive awards with the performance of management. The The Group Human Resources (HR) policy envisions purpose of STIP is to ensure fulfilment of the company’s FLSmidth continuously strengthening its position by being short-term (annual) KPIs. CBM has recently reviewed the seen as an employer of choice. The aim is to achieve this STIPs to create further alignment between the three main by developing and encouraging a competent, knowledgeaprogrammes applicable to Group, divisional and country ble and innovative organization that empowers employees participants respectively. to reach their full potential. Employees are offered equal opportunities irrespective of gender, age, ethnic or national POD has developed several tools, processes and systems to origin and religious beliefs, disability, political or sexual support managers, while ensuring data protection. These orientation and family status. Being committed to creating include a recruitment process, a process for recording ema healthy, flexible and productive work environment allows ployee data in a consistent way, target setting and evaluaemployees to engage in a challenging career and attain tion, calibration evaluations of performance and potential, the important balance between work and personal lives. and a process for succession planning. Development needs FLSmidth offers competitive employment conditions, remuare identified, addressed and evaluated as part of the target neration and recognises employees’ right to be organized setting and evaluation process. Managers are accountable and bargain collectively, while supporting human rights for using the tools, processes and systems; compliance and and refusing to engage in child or forced labour. quality is monitored by Country HR. POD helps managers to improve the quality of leadership through the LeaderPOLICY IN ACTION ship Transition Training programme, which helps manager HR at FLSmidth consists of two areas: Compensation, understand what is expected of them. In addition, FLSmidth Benefits and Mobility (CBM) and People & Organisation delivers a programme for senior managers called Flying Development (POD). CBM supports the organisation by the Flag, which helps strengthen culture and reinforce the developing and defining best practices, tools, concepts competitive edge by developing and deploying values that and programmes. POD supports managers to unlock the provide a distinctive identity for the company. potential of their resources in line with Group strategy and ensuring sustainable performance. RESULTS The following results cover 100% of employees. CBM has developed a Group compensation and benefits model defining the pay mix between fixed pay, variable pay Description 2015 result 2016 result elements and other compensation elements and benefits Programmes for upgrading employee segmented according to the various position levels within skills and transition assistance the organisation. The compensation model is used as the programmes foundation for aligning compensation across the Group Leadership Transition Training approx. 512 280 based on the position level. Performance-based pay, which Flying the Flag (Top300) 190 96 makes up the variable pay elements, consists of long-term Percentage of employees receiving 85% 86% incentive programmes (LTIP) and short-term incentive regular performance and career programmes (STIP). Implemented at Group level in 2016, development reviews (calculated as reviews closed in 2016) the LTIP performance share programme aligns the incenRISKS: A key risk within the organisation is that the leadership pipeline will not be maintained. Furthermore, another risk is that the full potential of staff is not unlocked, due to holding one another accountable, maximising results within the matrix structure and supporting those who aspire to take-up senior management positions and who would need to transition at least two-layers in order to do this. These risks are mitigated through internal actions in Human Resources. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 19 / BACK TO CONTENTS PEOPLE ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS In terms of addressing development needs in 2017, CBM POD evaluates the quality of training through surveys when will engage in a policy project to identify and document a training is completed and then measures the impact of the Group-wide compensation philosophy. The philosophy will training by conducting preand post-training assessments, provide direction for the company’s overall position within and results have allowed the training program to be adjusted employee compensation. Further, CBM will work with the as to continuously develop. For the training programs, it is organisation to make career opportunities within FLSmidth floating based on nominations from managers for new hires more transparent. It is expected that by the end of Q1 and for promoted employees. The Flying the Flag program 2017 that targets will be set for these indicators. is for the Top300, meaning that these are constantly being adjusted. A very important issue that has not been systematically addressed in 2016 is that of the gender balance in the FUTURE EXPECTATIONS workforce. Over the course of the year, the target for women POD intends to support managers in helping them to on the Board of Directors was not met, nor the target for strengthen their accountability towards each other and women in the Global Management Forum. Furthermore, the helping them to unlock the performance of resources overall percentage of females in the workforce increased by within a matrix organization by facilitating workshops for only 1%. This has been recognized at a management level leadership teams. POD will continue to deliver Leadership and the topic will be addressed in the upcoming year. Transition Training and FLSmidth will build on the success of Flying the Flag with a programme called Flying more The Board of Directors of FLSmidth continuously evaluates Flags, which is intended to strengthen the pipeline of the diversity of the Board and the Group Executive Managesenior leaders. It is designed for employees who aspire and ment as well as among managers and employees, and in demonstrate the potential to take up senior management future recommendations and appointments will deliberately positions and who would need to transition at least two be taken into account when considering the profiles and layers in order to do this. qualifications of potential candidates. GENDER AND AGE DISTRIBUTION IN 2016 % WOMEN ON BOARD OF DIRECTORS % WOMEN IN GROUP EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 86% 14% Women 86% 14% Women Men Men AGE GROUP ON BOARD OF DIRECTORS AGE GROUP IN GROUP EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 14% 71% >50-59 years 14% 29% >40-49 years 14% >60-69 years >50-59 years >70 years >60 years 57% FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 20 / BACK TO CONTENTS SUPPLY CHAIN POLICY product delivered to customers, but where risk of poor In order to build strong business ties and long-standing quality is relatively high. These suppliers are therefore relationships, FLSmidth expects suppliers to hold an equally important to FLSmidth from a sustainability perspective. high regard for responsible business conduct. Crucial Assessment results are stored in a central database, proto this is the Code of Supplier Conduct, which clarifies viding Group Procurement with an overview of the state of expectations towards suppliers. Group Procurement owns the supply chain and an indication of which suppliers are the policy, which has been in place since 2012. The main eligible for a supplier development programme. points of this Code of Suppliers Conduct are: • Legal compliance – the supplier is expected to be Using a specially developed tablet app, inspectors assess in legal compliance with all applicable laws in all suppliers’ performance based on the following criteria jurisdictions in which they operate using a 1-5 scale: • Health & Safety– the supplier is expected to provide a • Safety system safe and healthy working environment for all employees • Work-related accidents • Basic Human rights • PPE • Environment – the supplier is expected to meet all • First aid applicable environmental laws, industry standards • Temporary workers and norms • Personal ID papers • Minimum age records FLSmidth currently does not have a policy that covers • Environmental policy increasing the amount of spend in local markets, how• Environmental procedures ever due to the nature of the business, especially in the Customer Service division; the market situation encourages this behaviour. The data gathered is then transferred to an FLSmidth database and suppliers are given an overall score. If non-comPOLICY IN ACTION pliance is revealed during a routine inspection, it will be Suppliers, defined as any entity from which FLSmidth buys reported to the Group Category team. A Group Category from, are informed about adherence to the Code of SupManager will then communicate the corrective actions plier Conduct and the consequences of non-compliance. that need to be performed by the supplier in order to be in If the supplier does not meet the expectations communicompliance. When the corrective actions are completed, a cated, they risk being blacklisted from FLSmidth’s list of further inspection is made to confirm completion. suppliers. RESULTS Approximately 100 inspectors have been trained, enabling Suppliers screened through on site audits account for them to rapidly assess suppliers during visits. On average, 13% of spend. The total amount of suppliers who present an inspector visits one to two suppliers a week, who are a social or environmental risk has not been concluded by deemed important to FLSmidth and the quality of the final the end of 2016. RISKS Supply chain sustainability risks include losing a stable position on the market due to impact of customers, loss of reputation, damaged public image, legal action and compromising compliance, business ethics and values. It especially includes the risk that lack of due diligence would result in harm to human health when outsourcing activities, as well as increased environmental impact. These risks are mitigated by centralizing all on-site audit information in Group Strategic Procurement, who can act upon the areas that require special attention. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 21 / BACK TO CONTENTS SUPPLY CHAIN Overall local average spending was 61%, which can be FUTURE EXPECTATIONS used as an indirect proxy for the impact on socioeconomic Local spend is dependent on market developments and development in the markets in which the FLSmidth entities will vary over time and there will be a continued focus on operate. The definition for “local spend” is: spend in a hiring locally. country where an FLSmidth entity buys from a supplier in the same country. Every country office is considered as a Improved performance in the supply chain is the desired significant location of operation. This result did not deviate outcome of these efforts. This involves a quarterly status since the previous year. report on FLSmidth’s supply chain sustainability performance and semi-annual report on supplier development ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS: programmes. These are presented to the CEO, CFO, CPO In Q3 2016 the procurement function underwent a large and the Sustainability department. FLSmidth expects conre-organization globally, which lead to a disruption of stant improvement and transparency within this program. sustainability auditing at suppliers’ sites. The new organisation has been implemented and the audits are getting back As the quality inspectors who conduct the in-person audits on track. So far no suppliers have received a score under have been trained and are carrying out the Responsible 50%. It is very encouraging that the suppliers selected Supply Chain audits, the expectation is that the numbers comply with the minimum standards set in the Supplier of suppliers assessed will increase, as will the coverage of Code of Conduct. Therefore no supplier relationships have spend of audited suppliers. This information will be relayed been terminated as a result of the program. As there are to the relevant members of the procurement function and still some suppliers that scored “Good”, they will require they are expected to use the information when managing additional development. These suppliers have been clearly the relationship with the supplier. identified, and improvement programs have been built and being implemented. The CSR audits are seen as critical to FLSmidth intends to investigate the supplier categories that ensure that the activities outsourced do not compromise present the most social and environmental risks. FLSmidth’s value of responsibility. The percentage of spend on local suppliers is considered appropriate for maintaining market competitiveness and the proper functioning of the company. ON-SITE SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS AVERAGE SUPPLIER SCORE Count Avegare score 80 80% 74 74 71 69 67 70 70% 61 60 60 60% 50 48 50% 40 40% 30 30% 20 20% 12 10 8 9 10 10% 0 0% Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Audit performance-great Audit performance-acceptable Audit performance-good Audit performance-poor Average supplier score FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 22 / BACK TO CONTENTS ENVIRONMENT POLICY is managed on a local level, where staff is in a suitable Global warming has become a defining and critical global position to oversee issue in the 21st Century and it has become common for local improve results. The tool also has data collection private sector organizations to include it into their busifor initiatives that have been undertaken that impact ness strategy and policies. As FLSmidth has been providcarbon emissions. ing technological solutions focused on energy efficiency for customers for as long as it has operated, this has Carbon Intensity is an important metric that can show constantly been incorporated into everyday business. As the extent to which internal efforts have an impact on the vast majority of emissions in the value chain occur at Absolute Emissions. In years with higher or lower commercustomers’ sites, the products brought to market are the cial activity, Absolute Emissions fluctuate according to the best means of combating climate change on a large scale. needs of the market. This gives a distorted picture of perHowever, in 2016 FLSmidth made an explicit internal formance however, as the lower emissions may not necescommitment to this end, incorporating climate change sarily reflect actions taken by FLSmidth. There is therefore mitigation into the Health, Safety and Environment Policy. a need to define a metric that can help decouple Absolute Doing so lays the groundwork for reducing the internal Emissions from commercial activity; measuring emissions in carbon footprint, which will present numerous opportusuch a way that internal efficiency can be emphasized. This nities. The environmental policy makes explicit reference was done for the first time in 2016 by relating Absolute to operational excellence by lowering the environmenEmissions to the Cost of Production for continuing activital impact of operations. FLSmidth’s policy commits ties, and comparing it to previous years. the organisation to prevent pollution, mitigate climate change and improve environmental performance by not Carbon is currently the only environmental impact data only complying with legal and other obligations, but also that is measured, aggregated and periodically reported in through sustainable utilisation of resources. a centralized manner. Other environmental impacts and pollution prevention measures are the responsibility of POLICY IN ACTION each legal entity within the Group, who are required to For the 9th consecutive year, FLSmidth has calculated its comply with local legislative requirements where carbon footprint. It will also disclose the carbon footprint they operate. in more detail to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Legal entities within the Group are responsible for disclosRESULTS ing their carbon footprint and can assign a staff member The following results cover emissions produced by 97% to implement mitigation actions. of the Cost of Production. The emissions guidelines used are those from the United Kingdom’s Department for Absolute Emission data, defined as fuels and transportaEnvironment, Food & Rural Affairs (DEFRA) Environmention (Scope 1) and electricity (Scope 2) are collected antal Reporting Guidelines from 2011, which was built nually in the financial reporting tool. The tool also ­allows in FLSmidth’s Enterprise Resource System. An internal for each legal entity within the Group to log their carbon investigation has shown that if the 2011 figures were to savings emissions. This means that emission reduction be updated, the outcome would remain extremely close RISKS Climate change risks include regulatory exposure to emission compliance schemes, carbon taxation, reputation considerations, and disruptions to business due to extreme weather risks, notably the 2016 flooding in Chennai where FLSmidth has the most employees. Environmental risks are currently not being addressed at a centralized level; each site is responsible for compliance with local legislation. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 23 / BACK TO CONTENTS ENVIRONMENT what are currently reported, and would not justify the FUTURE EXPECTATIONS time and effort needed to update them. Only CO2 is conIn 2017, FLSmidth will take a more proactive approach to sidered and not any other gas with greenhouse warming mitigating climate change, in order to reflect the impotential, nor biogenic CO2. portance of it to the organization, stakeholders and the planet. Responsibilities for measuring the carbon footprint, Due to a change in Group level travel agency in 2016, setting targets and driving performance have been more FLSmidth lost the ability to calculate scope 3 emissions, clearly assigned and a system to incentivise mitigation will which has been defined by the amount of airplane based be devised. A new reporting system will be implemented travel that the company undertook. allowing results to be measured more easily and more frequently, while using the most up-to-date Environmental ASSESSMENT OF RESULTS: Reporting Guidelines. Furthermore, FLSmidth is in the proFor absolute emissions, the sum of scope 1 & 2 emiscess of rolling out an environmental management system sions have reduced 6% from previous year. This has been across 28 locations, which will provide clear procedures for achieved by local level emission reduction programs, as acting on climate change, customized to the locations in well as being driven by market activity. which FLSmidth operate. FLSmidth will continue to report progress to the Carbon Disclosure Project in more detail. For carbon intensity, there was a slight increase by 2%, which was due to the 6% decrease in absolute emissions, matched by an even larger decrease in the Cost of Production of 8%. Although total carbon decreased, when put in the perspective of the Cost of Production, carbon intensity performed worse than the previous two years. The outcome of this analysis shows that carbon emissions were not decoupled from economic performance. ABSOLUTE CARBON EMISSIONS CARBON INTENSITY EMISSIONS Tons of CO2 Tons CO2 /COP 50,000 45,800 46,910 4 44,195 45,000 3,18 3,25 40,000 2,98 3 35,000 30,000 25,000 2 20,000 15,000 1 10,000 5,000 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 Scope 2 Carbon intensity FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 24 / BACK TO CONTENTS KPI SUMMARY This material references GRI Standards, 2016. The figures FLSmidth does not have a policy to seek external verification listed below are those provided internally, which are used for non-financial performance. for decision support at the highest level of the Group. SAFETY Description 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 target target LTIFR 3.9 2.7 1.8 1.5 1.6 1.3 TRIFR 10 8.1 5.4 4 Training hours 115,797 147,367 165,945 186,715 COMPLIANCE Description 2015 2016 2017 result result target Total number of whistle-blower reports submitted 35 25 …of which admissible, i.e. reports that were in scope with the whistle-blower hotline program 34 23 …of which in: Africa and Middle East 12 6 Asia and Oceania 3 10 Europe and former Soviet Union 7 1 North America 4 3 South America 9 5 a. Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption. 22 29 a. Total number and percentage of governance body members that the organization's anti-corruption 100% 100% 100% policies and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by region b. T otal number and percentage of employees that the organization's anti-corruption policies 100% 100% 100% and procedures have been communicated to, broken down by employee category and region d. T otal number and percentage of governance body members that have received training on 0% 0% 10 / 100% anti-corruption, broken down by region. e. T otal number and percentage of employees that have received training on anti-corruption, 6,922 / 75% 7,414 / 81% 8,823 / 95% broken down by employee category and region. …of which managers or senior managers 1,247 1,303 1,551 …of which executive management team 100% 100% 100% a. Number of legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding 1 1 1 anti-competitive behaviour and violations of anti-trust and monopoly legislation in which the organization has been identified as a participant. Numbers of in-depth due diligence screenings conducted 55 226 430 This material references Disclosures 102-17: Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics, 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption, 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices from GRI Standards: 2016. FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 25 / BACK TO CONTENTS KPI SUMMARY PEOPLE Description 2015 2016 2017 result result target Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes Leadership Transition Training approx. 512 280 Flying the Flag (Top300) 190 96 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 85% 86% (calculated as reviews closed in 2016) Diversity of governance bodies and employees % Women on Board of Directors 17% 14% 25% Age Group on Board of Directors 3 > 50-59 years 5 > 50-59 years 3 > 60-69 years 1 > 60-69 years 0 > 70 years 1 > 70 years % Danes in Board of Directors 50% 43% % Women in Group Executive Management 13% 14% Age Group in Group Executive Management 1 > 30-39 years 0 > 30-39 years 2 > 40-49 years 2 > 40-49 years 5 > 50-59 years 4 > 50-59 years 0 > 60 years 1 > 60 years % Danes in Group Executive Management 38% 43% % Women in Global Management Forum (Top70 managers) 10% 11% 15% This material references Disclosures 401-5 from GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity from GRI Standards: 2016 SUPPLY CHAIN Description 2015 2016 Result Result Local average spend (% of total suppliers) 61% 61% Number of suppliers screened for environment performance 0 161 Number of suppliers screened for social performance 0 161 This material references Disclosures 204, 308-2 and 414-2 from GRI 204: Procurement Practices and Disclosures 308-2: Supplier Environmental Assessment, Disclosure 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken from GRI Standards: 2016 EMISSIONS Description 2015 2016 Result Result Scope 1 emissions (fuel) 13,460 11,347 Scope 2 emissions (electricity) 33,450 32,848 Carbon intensity (scope 1 + 2 / Cost of Production) 3.18 3.25 This material references Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions, Disclosure 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions, Disclosure 305-4 GHG emissions intensity from GRI Standards: 2016 FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 26 / BACK TO CONTENTS UNGC TABLE UN Global Compact Principles Pages Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 19 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 19 Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 19 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 19 The effective abolition of child labour 19 The elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation 19 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 21-24 Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility 21-24 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 11 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 17 FLSMIDTH: SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2016 / 27 FLSmidth & Co. A/S Vigerslev Allé 77 DK-2500 Valby Denmark Tel.: +45 36 18 18 00 Fax: +45 36 44 11 46 sustainability@flsmidth.com www.flsmidth.com CVR No. 58180912
