Executive Summary We remain a committed member of the UN Global Compact and we reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This our fourth Communication on Progress. We strive to incorporate the UNGC and its principles into our strategy and day-to-day operations and pledge to adopt good practices and incorporate and deliver upon its fundamental responsibilities into our own framework and deliverables. Being a signatory to the UN Global Compact enables us to demonstrate to all of our stakeholders our commitment to being a sustainable business so that we can continue to be a trusted and respected global organisation in the eyes of our employees, clients and other stakeholders. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Introduction TPC Leadership is a dynamic global partnership specialising in leadership solutions that deliver transformational cultural and financial impact. We work side-by-side with our clients to enhance the leadership capability of their organisations. As a result of working with us: • Top teams and directors develop an understanding of the leadership culture and behaviours that will help them achieve their strategic goals • Organisations define and embed processes that enable the right leadership behaviours • Senior leaders and directors are able to communicate their vision and strategy to the rest of the organisation • Team leaders demonstrate behaviour that drives performance and results • People are more engaged and inspired, being able to clearly see how they can contribute more improved business performance and a higher capacity to attract and retain talent. • Our solutions are integrative, innovative and inspiring. They generate lasting value by building on the unique strengths of individuals and their organisations. Working in partnership We deeply believe in the power of listening as a way to ignite the human mind and unlock its hidden potential. Our projects start by listening to our clients’ objectives and taking the time to understand the unique challenges they face. These insights can then be taken forward to create a bespoke set of solutions for their organisation. Unlike other consulting firms, we don’t stop at creating a bespoke leadership strategy for your organisation. We walk alongside you to make sure you can effectively execute and embed its principles into your everyday business practices to boost performance and deliver excellent results. 1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals TPC Leadership aspires to be a leader in social accountability within the coaching and leadership development industry by promoting a positive culture with respect to human rights and the continuous improvement of working conditions. We believe that all companies have a responsibility to respect human rights in their operations, regardless of the sector, country or context in which they operate. We are fully committed to supporting the protection of human rights and promote and support its principles contained within the legislative policies in accordance with the countries we work in. Implementation We once again promote our commitment to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to all our stakeholders and openly communicate our objectives. Our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) statement is made available on our website. Our management team continue to be responsible for compliance within their respective departments and in their supplier relationships and have been trained accordingly. All employees receive an induction into the business where our policies, procedures and expectations are outlined. Every employee carries out a 12 monthly survey to monitor the wellbeing of employees and management reviews are regularly carried out All our policies are reviewed for suitability, sustainability and effectiveness on an annual basis or sooner should a significant change occur. Measurement of outcomes Under the Company Handbook and/or relevant policy documentation there are company procedures for addressing complaints or allegations with regard to Human Rights, which are reviewed annually by Senior Management. The Company Handbook has been reviewed and revised in the past 12 months to ensure all new and existing UK legislation and best practice is incorporated. There have been no legal cases or complaints made against the Company in the area of Human Rights. 2 Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals TPC Leadership complies fully with all aspects of UK labour law and/or in accordance with the country in which we are working in. TPC Leadership clearly sets out its policies to all employees by providing a contract of employment which makes reference to the Staff Handbook and/or relevant guide where additional information can be found regarding these policies and principles. Implementation TPC Leadership maintains a comprehensive recruitment procedure and all records are maintained within the HR department. We monitor all areas concerning Labour Principles and aim to continually improve processes and policies. All our employees and associates are provided with excellent working conditions, including payment of wages and benefits that comply with applicable laws and regulations. We are committed to ensuring that our operations do not contribute directly or indirectly to human rights abuses and will not engage with any organisation that does not uphold their social responsibility to basic human rights which includes any form of forced labour, physical punishment or other abuse. Measurement of outcomes There have not been any legal cases brought against the company in the area of labour relations. Labour principles are reviewed regularly by Senior Management. 3 Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals At TPC Leadership we recognise our responsibility towards environmental issues and the community. All our employees have a general duty of care and are required to take all reasonable steps to comply with our environmental policy and agreed procedures, and to demonstrate a personal commitment to a safe environment at all times. Implementation Our Environmental policy is made available to employees, associates and to all stakeholders and to the public upon request and whilst our environmental impact is minimal, we aim to recycle as much as possible. We have and continue to ensure our employees are aware of our environmental procedures in order to reduce waste and increase recycling. Measurement of outcomes The Environmental Management Policy is subject to annual review by Senior Management. 4 Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals We must conduct all our dealings with integrity. Bribery and corruption harms the societies in which these acts are committed and prevents economic growth and development. This is not just a cultural commitment on the part of the organisation; it is a moral issue and a legal requirement. TPC Leadership Coach has anti-corruption principles and procedures set out in its Company handbook and/or relevant policy documents. Implementation TPC Leadership has established anti-corruption training as a key component part of its induction and ongoing training programme for employees. TPC Leadership maintains financial control of all employee expenditure and other expenses, to ensure that spending is transparent. Our code of conduct states that bribery and the making of facilitation payments or ‘kickbacks’ are unequivocally unacceptable. We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption which is communicated to all suppliers, contractors and business partners at the outset of our business relationship with them and as appropriate thereafter. As an ethical business TP Leadership ensures that our business interactions do not infer any type of corruption. The organisation regularly bids for work through transparent tender processes and framework agreements TPC Leadership has a fully integrated finance system which will help to further eradicate any additional risks and enhance our procedures in this area. Measurement of Outcomes There have not been any legal or other cases brought against TPC Leadership during the company’s existence. Training on this policy forms part of the induction process for all new workers. All existing workers receive regular, relevant training on how to implement and adhere to this policy. The Managing Partner has overall responsibility for ensuring this policy complies with our legal and ethical obligations, and that all those under our control comply with it. 5
