C ape Town Inter nation a l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2017 In t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t WELCOME TO AFRICAN POWER, PANACHE AND PERFORMANCE For over 14 years, the Cape Town International Convention Memorable performance lingers Centre has been extending its reach, embracing Africa and welcoming the world, while also building on its Just as a sublime piece of music, an arresting artwork or a long-term commitment to promoting the knowledge majestic African animal can stop us in our tracks, so too are economy and Cape Town as a city of opportunity. This we in the business of crafting memorable experiences. Our year we remain focused on our proudly African offering, clients toil to create the experiences we are honoured to host as illustrated by the elegant Big Five motif illustrating for them. It is our role to offer a service that ensures their visions this report. But being in Africa is about more than are realised and their memories linger. We owe them that and exotic and, increasingly, endangered wildlife: it is about more. Indeed, our commitment runs far further and out into the demonstrating a world-class African style, stature and world around us. For this reason we continue to demonstrate service based on the dictum “always something new triple-bottom-line reporting with the Nurture our World (NOW) coming out of Africa: ex Africa semper aliquid novi”. initiative forming the platform for all sustainability initiatives, The power and elegance of African wildlife echoes the including key ISO certifications and transformation imperatives. state-of-the-art services offered by the expanding CTICC Finally, this report will continue to serve as the submission to the – world-class eventing, catering and conferencing from United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) for the Communication the ever-popular southern tip of Africa. on Progress, following its ten guiding business principles. As such, this 2017 Integrated Annual Report illustrates our ongoing African stature and panache pledge to preserve and sustain people and planet with power, panache and performance. This year we will enhance the power, panache and performance of our established conference and exhibition offering by opening the stylish new CTICC 2 expansion, boosting our value as a gateway into Africa and as a home for world-class African events. Our CTICC 2 expansion will also bolster our ambition to be one of the world’s top ten leading long-haul international convention centres by 2020. This vision further drives our mission to harness the power and performance of our people to maximise economic spin-off, contribute to job “The power and elegance of African wildlife creation, drive innovation, exceed service expectations, nurture echoes the state-of-the-art services offered by quality and be a world leader in sustainability. the expanding CTICC – world-class eventing, The power to please catering and conferencing from the everpopular southern tip of Africa.” The CTICC is a service-driven business. All the space in the world and the best facilities are nothing without the people who facilitate them and bring them to life for our discerning and demanding clients. The traditions of ubuntu and African hospitality are our trademark: our offering is nothing without partnership with the clients we seek to serve. Equally, in maximising that partnership, we seek to make the most of our expanding world-class facilities and the ever-popular city we are lucky to be at the heart of. It is this combination of factors – we call it power, panache and performance – that makes us unique. Ca pe To w n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n nu al R ep o r t ABOUT THIS REPORT: its scope and parameters This report is compiled annually and contains data for the 2016/17 financial year, which runs from 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017. As at the end of 30 June 2017, the CTICC consists of one operational building (CTICC 1) and the boundary of this report reflects the performance of CTICC 1 including CTICC 2 which was under construction. The most recent previously compiled report was made available at the CTICC’s Annual General Meeting on 25 October 2016 and contained information from the previous financial year (1 July 2015 – 30 June 2016). The contact persons for questions regarding the report are Olivia Bruce (olivia@cticc.co.za) and Susan Davis (susand@cticc.co.za). They are contactable on the following number: +27 (21) 410 5000. C ape Town Inter nation a l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2017 In t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t TABLE OF CONTENTS HIGHLIGHTS 2016/17 2 Enhancing staff performance through education and training 92 FOREWORDS 4 Knowledge exchange and professional Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Town 5 development programmes 94 Message from the Premier of the Western Cape 6 Developing the performance of the events and Message from the Chairperson of Convenco 7 hospitality sector 96 Review by the Chief Executive Officer 8 The power of training and promotion: How investing in our people benefits the CTICC 98 ABOUT THE CTICC 10 A WORLD-CLASS CONVENTION CENTRE WITH PANACHE 11 The power of customer feedback 103 Our vision, mission and values 11 Performing with panache: the CTICC’s new uniform 103 Who we are: our name, our structure and our services 12 Who we serve: our markets, our clients, our staff and our stakeholders 13 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 104 Our staff: the power behind our service 14 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE: Certifications: maintaining consistent PRESERVING OUR PLANET 105 quality performance 20 The power of nurturing our world 105 Awards: peer recognition of our performance 22 Responding to the need to save water in Memberships and associations: powerful partnerships 23 an ongoing drought 106 CTICC 2 24 Improving our environmental performance daily 108 WELCOME TO CTICC 2: Continuously powering down our energy usage 109 POWER, PANACHE AND PERFORMANCE PLUS 25 Maintaining our recycling power and CTICC 1 and CTICC 2: a bird's eye view 26 minimising our waste 111 Enhancing a Foreshore icon 28 Gathering support for our new powerhouse 30 Uncovering Cape Town’s historical pier 31 GOVERNANCE 112 ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS, EVENTS REVIEW 32 IMPROVING PERFORMANCE, REDUCING RISK 113 OUR EVENT REVIEW: A POWERFUL PERFORMANCE Directorate and administration for the year ended DELIVERED WITH PANACHE 33 30 June 2017 114 Event highlights of the year: delivering African power, panache and performance 35 Board committees 116 Stories from our kitchen: food and wine in performance 46 Compliance, good governance and risk management 119 Performance highlights from our Stakeholder engagement review 120 seven event segments 49 How we engage with our stakeholders ECONOMIC IMPACT 64 and shareholders 121 BUILDING AFRICAN ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 65 Stakeholder engagement: opportunities to A powerful financial and economic performance 65 enhance performance 124 The sixth element – driving the knowledge economy 66 How the CTICC has contributed to date 68 OUTLOOK 130 New key performance indicators powerfully achieved 73 POWERING INTO THE FUTURE WITH PANACHE 131 Empowering local enterprises to develop and perform 74 Capital expenditure: ensuring our ongoing performance 75 How our forward book is performing 131 Comprehensively prepared for the future 132 SOCIAL IMPACT 76 PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY: PROVIDING POWERFUL SUPPORT 77 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 Changing futures through passionate organisations 77 Empowering our partners through activations 79 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 182 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 1 highlights 2016/17 We have had a profitable year, with rising revenue, high levels of customer satisfaction and strong economic, environmental and social contributions. This is but a selection of our major highlights and accolades for the year under review. More awards and full details of all these aspects of our performance are available on the subsequent pages of the report.​ Economic Operations & Contribution Finance 7 824 482 Total jobs created Total events R3.7bn R3.1bn R215.6m Contribution Contribution to Revenue (including other income) to SA National Western Cape (R4.9m above target of R210.7m) GDP GGP R53m R36.3bn R32bn EBITDA Cumulative Cumulative (R32.5m above target of R20.5m) contribution contribution to to SA National GDP Western Cape GGP R57.4m Operating profit (R45.3m above target of R12.1m) R591.6m B-BBEE procurement (92.8% of net spend – an increase of 13.2% on the previous year) R43.4m After-tax profit (R34.7m above target of R8.7m) R593m Locally-based procurement (93.1% of total procurement spend – an increase of 13.6% 84% on the previous year) Customer Satisfaction Index (8% above target of 76%) 50.5% Women employed in the business (93 out of 184) 29% Women-owned enterprise suppliers (of total supplier base) 2 | C ap e Town Inter n a t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 201 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t HIGHLIGHTS 2016/17 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARDS & SUSTAINABILITY ACCREDITATION 84% 6% Finalist: Top500 Companies Award Waste diverted Reduction Exhibitions and Conference Facilities category from landfill in electricity (Award announcement in January 2018) consumption Winner: Business Traveller Africa Awards Best Large Conference Venue corporate social Winner: The Lilizela Tourism Awards investment B-BBEE Transformation Award for Large Enterprises Winner: Summit Marketing Effectiveness Award R1.2m Business-to-Business Collateral Materials category Value of community development support Winner: Summit Emerging Media Award Complete Branding Campaign category Winner: Build Innovation Award for Event Management Best International Conference Centre (Europe, Middle East and Africa region) ISO 9001 (Quality Management) ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management) Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 3 FOREWORDS 4 | C ap e Town Inter n a t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 201 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t FOREWORDS Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Town Cape Town remains a world favourite in many ways and continues to win accolades for both leisure and business tourism, thanks to the CTICC and many partners who are ambassadors in positioning Cape Town as a forwardlooking globally competitive business destination. To take our city to even greater heights, in August 2016, Council adopted the City’s Organisational Development and Transformation Plan (ODTP) which led to the establishment of the Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA). TDA will be the driving force in building on our previous successes of transforming Cape Town into a vibrant, inclusive city – a city that is ideal to live, work, play and invest in. The continued success and expansion of the CTICC is key to making this happen. An exciting tool at our disposal is our Transit Orientated Development (TOD) strategy which aims to reverse apartheid spatial planning by bringing residential and economic opportunities closer together and located close to transport corridors. A key strand in this strategy involves the mixed-use Foreshore Patricia de Lille Freeway Precinct project and the CTICC will be at the heart of Executive Mayor: City of Cape Town the great new opportunities it will bring. At one level, its new CTICC 2 expansion will enliven that very area; but, importantly, on another level it will create jobs and provide a community hub that will make progress possible for the CBD and the city as a whole. The CTICC has always been such a catalyst – embracing new knowledge, generating connections and facilitating memorable “The CTICC has always been such a catalyst events that encourage exchange and build economic – embracing new knowledge, generating opportunities. That is why it remains such a vital strategic asset connections and facilitating memorable to the City – helping us deliver on our commitment to provide a events that encourage exchange and build safe, caring, inclusive, opportunity and well-run city to citizens and visitors alike. economic opportunities.” Once again I have to congratulate Julie-May Ellingson, the Convenco Board, the Executive Team and each and every CTICC employee for such impressive results in challenging times. The CTICC continues to perform and will surely only build on that contribution once its CTICC 2 expansion comes fully on stream. I am looking forward to the growth of the Foreshore Precinct that is sure to follow. Patricia de Lille Executive Mayor: City of Cape Town Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 5 FOREWORDS Message from the Premier of the Western Cape The Province’s promise to its citizens is “Better Together”. This is also, of course, an invitation reflecting the collaborative approach essential to the delivery of an “Open-opportunity Society for All”. Progress will only be possible if everyone works together. We need competent government, active citizens who accept their responsibilities and committed leadership in all spheres of society to make our open-opportunity vision a reality. Opportunity and collaboration are central to the CTICC’s approach. The partnership with the Western Cape Government’s Project Khulisa specifically targets the tourism sector, which we know to be our fastest-growing sector, employing over 200 000 people and generating R17bn for our economy each year. The CTICC also continues to benefit from over half a million more two-way direct air arrivals into Cape Town, facilitated by the Air Access Project. I would like to congratulate the CTICC Board, its Executive, its staff and all its stakeholders for another impressive year in the face of considerable global change. May you remain stable in these stormy seas and a beacon Helen Zille of our commitment to make the region better together. Premier of the Western Cape Thank you. Helen Zille Premier of the Western Cape “I would like to congratulate the CTICC Board, its Executive, its staff and all its stakeholders for another impressive year in the face of considerable global change.” 6 | C ap e Town Inter n a t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 201 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t FOREWORDS Message from the Chairperson of Convenco The CTICC continues to be a growing and strongly profitable enterprise. This year its positive financial and economic contributions remind us that, when properly managed, publically-owned enterprises can make powerful social, environmental and economic contributions in delivering on their shareholder mandates. This success is the result of partnering and collaboration in the service of inclusive socio-economic development. Development is tough and getting it right is not easy. Partnering is one way to improve the process and the result. One of the ways in which the CTICC aligns with the City and Provincial development priorities is through its ongoing commitment to the knowledge economy. Its growth sectorbased events build intellectual capital, which is an essential foundation for sustainable economic growth and social development of any region. Now the CTICC has even greater capacity to deliver on that commitment, through the opening of CTICC 2. This will have multiple benefits. Our clients can now opt to host larger events across both sites. For our suppliers, increased opportunities will bolster the centre’s economic contribution to Andrew Boraine the region. Indeed, additional jobs have already been created Chairperson: Convenco to service the expanded facility. In addition, our shareholders will also benefit from the greater potential for growth the expansion offers. A key driver of this growth will be the established reputation of Cape Town as the number one city in Africa for business tourism, as recognised by the International Congress and “One of the ways in which the CTICC aligns Convention Association (ICCA) for the fourth year in succession. with the City and Provincial development This win can only boost the potential to fill both CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 in the future. priorities is through its ongoing commitment to the knowledge economy.” I wish to congratulate Julie-May Ellingson and her team on their impressive achievements this year. Their regular and steadfast commitment to the expanded CTICC will, I have no doubt, launch CTICC 2 proudly into the world with resounding success. After 11 years on the Board of the CTICC, I am stepping down. I would like to pay tribute to my fellow Board members, past and present, that have served with me, to the three CEOs that I have had the pleasure to work with, and to all CTICC staff, past and present, for contributing to the incredible business, economic, financial, destination marketing and social development success of the CTICC. I have no doubt that the people of Cape Town, the Western Cape and South Africa will continue to derive enormous benefit from the CTICC in years to come. Andrew Boraine Chairperson: Convenco Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 7 FOREWORDS Review by the Chief Executive Officer industries and sectors. Ranging from medical and information technology to geology, music and art, we pride ourselves on providing local and international platforms for people to meet, converse and expand our knowledge of the world we live in. Our commitment to the knowledge economy is well recorded and several of our case studies this year reinforce this contribution. Some first-time events at the CTICC have made us particularly proud. International associations, such as the dedicated and inspiring International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO), chose us to host their first conference in Africa, while the prestigious 35th International Geological Congress returned to Africa for only the third time in its 140-year history. Its geoheritage and geotourism legacy programmes have particular relevance for our continent and country. Newer clients such as FanCon, the Electronic and Gaming Expo and the South African International Tattoo Convention have also opened our eyes to growing millennial markets. The case studies on pages 35 to 45 will tell you more. In addition, we continue to fulfil our core mandate – maximising economic growth by driving the knowledge economy and contributing to job creation in the Western Cape and South Africa. In terms of measurable economic contribution, the CTICC contributed R3.7bn to national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) Julie-May Ellingson Chief Executive Officer and R3.1bn to the Western Cape Gross Geographic Product (GGP) for the year under review. Of the total of 7 824 jobs created or sustained, 3 384 jobs were in the local Western Cape I am pleased to announce that the CTICC has again economy and 4 440 jobs in the national economy. delivered another year of impressive financial performance as well as our fifth clean audit from the Auditor General. It is on the basis of our positive economic and financial performance that I am delighted to confirm that as a We achieved record-breaking revenues of R215.6m government entity, the CTICC remains a highly positive asset (R4.9m above target) while the centre’s profits remained to our public-sector investors here at Africa’s southern tip. equally creditable. Operating profit of R57.4m was R45.3m above target, while EBITDA also rose well above Promoting the people who provide the our target of R20.5m to R53m. Net profit of R43.4m was panache also achieved and R34.7m ahead of target. In a service It bears repeating: In a service business, it is not the buildings business, however, it is not only the figures that matter that matter most but the people. This year our training but the people. Through attracting and hosting 482 investment has risen to almost R3m, which is 6.4% of our world-class events, the CTICC sustained a total of 7 824 annual salary bill, and you will read about staff who have jobs. This 2016/17 Integrated Annual Report focuses as benefited from this commitment to our team’s growth in the much on the people who continuously go the extra mile following pages. to keep the business ticking as on our financial results. In addition, this year, we have included stories of those staff And now with the opening of the CTICC 2 expansion, the members whose passion, commitment to service excellence CTICC team’s enthusiasm and energy matter even more. and leadership abilities have paved the way for their promotion within the company. And then there are our graduate trainees Demonstrating African power, panache and – there is also a wonderful story to tell about them on page 96. performance Continuing to provide powerful community The CTICC hosted 482 events from across the world, support welcoming 416 733 delegates and generating a total of 789 809 visitor days. The events we host continue to promote Our social commitment also remains strong. There has the knowledge economy and showcase a rich diversity of been considerable and positive change this year with our 8 | C ap e Town Inter n a t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 201 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t FOREWORDS community-focused activations. A staff-driven consultation The installation of several storage tanks with a total capacity and nomination process culminated in the selection of three of 45 000 litres for rainwater and grey water recycling, as well new community partners – Ikhaya le Themba, Journey of as rigorous ongoing monitoring of water and electricity (down Enrichment and Mothers Unite – while retaining our long6%) consumption confirms our commitment to what we call established relationships with Abalimi Bezekhaya and the our NOW (Nurture Our World) initiative. That stewardship, Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR). together with our commitment to the UNGC principles in our These five non-governmental organisations play an important reporting, remains part of who we are. role in uplifting and enriching the communities they serve and, Collaborating to solve challenges for the future as a strategic asset of the City of Cape Town and Western Cape Government, the CTICC is committed to giving back to the Building our strong forward book in close collaboration with community as a responsible corporate citizen. Our contribution clients is our insurance against the ongoing unpredictability to the social fabric of Cape Town and the Western Cape of the economy. We may be trading in a recession here in included cash or goods donated to the value of nearly R1.2m South Africa but our focus remains both international and in support of these and various other non-profit organisations. national markets. Our marketing and sales efforts focus on understanding our national and international clients’ constraints and needs, while doing our best to attract them to the best Enhancing the Foreshore with the opening of city in Africa. We are very proud of the fact that Cape Town CTICC 2 was once again voted the top business events city in Africa for the fourth consecutive year by the International Congress To capture those growing markets, we now have the capacity and Convention Association (ICCA). These kinds of accolades to host large-scale conferences as I am delighted to announce help our case and are as a result of diligent research, delivery that our CTICC 2 expansion is now open for business. Indeed, and promotion by the City of Cape Town, as well as the work we have secured several such events already – including done by the Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau. the 20th Annual AfricaCom, which will be expanding into CTICC 2 for its 20th anniversary year this November; the We will continue to offer more in terms of our world-class 15 000-delegate World Ophthalmology Congress in 2020; facilities and services, as well as our vibrant food and beverage and the 18th International Congress of Immunology, whose offerings. Our consistently high customer service ratings forecast attendance of 6 000 will use both CTICC buildings confirm this entrenched service and innovation ethos. in 2022. Thank you The CTICC has been a key driver of the region’s knowledge economy, which makes the Cape a place where ideas are shared This is my third year as Chief Executive Officer of the Cape Town and investments planned. This focus on advancing knowledge International Convention Centre and, as before, none of the and promoting knowledge-based industries provides a above would be possible without the powerful support I receive platform for creativity where South Africans and Africans can from our Shareholders, CTICC Board, Executive Team and staff. take part in the co-creation of future scientific, technological Special thanks must go to Andrew Boraine, our Chairperson, and academic innovations. CTICC 2 will no doubt bolster the for his invaluable guidance over the past three years. To the centre’s credentials in this regard, contributing positively to Executive Team, for their unwavering support, passion and Cape Town and the Western Cape’s socio-economic growth. commitment. To the CTICC staff, for readily taking on additional The space itself is also, quite literally, a breath of fresh air. work even when it meant time away from your families. Natural light abounds; the building’s green credentials, built I cannot thank you enough. Your commitment to excellence is into the design from the start, are coming to life; and our first sincerely appreciated and evidenced by our excellent customer events are booked in for the end of this year. It has been a long service results and the overall success of the CTICC. road but finally we have arrived at CTICC 2’s debut. These are To the Mayor and City officials, who work tirelessly to ensure exciting times for us and for the burgeoning Foreshore district. Cape Town remains a destination of choice and without whose And we are proud to have been in at the start of it, building our support the completion of the CTICC 2 would not have been centre at the urban edge more than 14 years ago. possible. To our suppliers, who continue to perform way beyond the call of duty. We would not have achieved these results or Keeping the environmental faith opened CTICC 2 without your unwavering commitment. Finally, I must thank our most important partners of all, our Another area of great importance for the CTICC, and one clients, new and old, for their ongoing support. We know you which remains a focus, is its environmental performance. Here, have a choice – and now you have an even better one. We once more, our CTICC 2 expansion is leading the way with its look forward to hosting you and your delegates across our two 4-star Green Star rated design. But sustainability is not new to magnificent centres in the near future. the CTICC. We are constantly seeking new ways to reduce our energy and water consumption, as well as our waste diversion Julie-May Ellingson to landfill. Chief Executive Officer Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 9 About thE CTICC 10 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC A WORLD-CLASS CONVENTION CENTRE WITH PANACHE The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) was purpose-built to host international and local conferences, trade shows and exhibitions. It also offers stylish venues for banquets, concerts, film shoots and stage productions. Its world-class facilities range from large auditoria and exhibition halls to comprehensively equipped private boardrooms – all supported by highly advanced technology services. The centre is located in the Foreshore area of Cape Town and is only a 20-minute drive from Cape Town International Airport. A number of accommodation options are to be found within walking distance of the centre. OUR VISION, MISSION AND VALUES Vision As a leading convention centre, the CTICC’s vision is to become one of the world’s top ten leading long-haul international convention centres by 2020. Mission How we will bring our vision to reality: • Maximising economic spin-off and job creation; • Focusing on innovation and exceeding expectations; • Achieving service excellence by building capable and quality staff; • Being a world leader in sustainability. Values We will achieve our mission and vision by applying ourselves with: • Passion – We live to go beyond; • Innovation – We create magic that gives us the edge; • Integrity – We are transparent in all our actions; • Excellence – We create superior experiences; • Gratitude – We are appreciative of the opportunities provided by the company, the City of Cape Town and the country we live in. The CTICC continues to foster a culture of creativity, teamwork, and superior service delivery. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 1 1 About thE CTICC Who we are: our name, our structure and our services Cape Town International Convention Centre is managed by the CTICC 1 and CTICC 2: Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd our new combined powerhouse (RF), also known as Convenco. Our CTICC 1 facilities include: The Cape Town International Convention Centre Company • Two modern raked auditoria – which can seat 1 500 and SOC Ltd (RF) (CTICC) was formed in 1999. It is owned by three 612 guests respectively; shareholders, namely the City of Cape Town (which holds the • A sub-divisible, multifunctional ballroom of 2 000m2; majority of shares in the company: 71.4%), the Western Cape Government (23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd • Over 11 399m2 of dedicated exhibition and trade show (5.4%). space; • 33 breakout rooms varying in size and able to accommodate The main departments at the CTICC are Commercial & Business from 25 to 320 people; Development, Finance, Food & Beverage & Operations, Facilities • A roof terrace meeting room that seats 250 banquet-style & Operations and Human Resources. with an independent foyer and terrace; The CTICC is primarily an event venue and offers event-related • Three conservatories flooded with natural light and services typically required to host an event or conference. The indigenous flora; CTICC’s primary products and services include: • A marshalling yard of 5 000m2 with easy, drive-in access • International conference services; to exhibition halls; • National conference services; • Dedicated hot, cold and pastry kitchens, with 14 satellite • Food and beverage services; kitchens; • An in-house coffee shop – “Coffee on the Square”. • Exhibition services; • Operational services; CTICC 2 adds the following facilities: • Marketing and corporate communication services; • 31 148m2 floor area in total; • Event-related services such as IT, audio-visual and cleaning. • 10 000m2 of additional conference and exhibition space; • 3 000m2 of additional meeting space, composed of four We have two facilities – CTICC 1 and CTICC 2, the latter being meeting suites and five meeting pod rooms; under construction during the reporting year. • An additional marshalling yard of 1 267m2; • Three additional kitchens; • One additional terrace room; • A further in-house coffee shop – “Coffee on the Circle”; • A skybridge linking the two buildings (due for completion by 2019). 12 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC Who we serve: our markets, our clients, our staff and our stakeholders The CTICC serves several markets based on seven key event sectors: international conferences; national conferences; exhibitions; trade fairs; banquets; special events; as well as film shoots and other events. A total of 482 events were held during the past financial year. In the year under review, the CTICC hosted events from South 482 Events held in 2016/17 Africa and all over the world, including the United States of America (USA), United Kingdom (UK), Switzerland, Denmark, Mauritius, China, Japan, Kenya, Ireland, Ethiopia, Namibia, Bermuda, United Arab Emirates, Canada, Italy and Germany. Our executive and senior management team Front row left to right: Julie-May Ellingson: Chief Executive Officer Fairoza Parker: Chief Financial Officer Robert Hatton-Jones: General Manager: Commercial & Business Development Back row left to right: Tracy Mkhize: General Manager: Food & Beverage & Operations Craig Barrington: General Manager: Facilities & Operations Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 1 3 About thE CTICC OUR STAFF: THE POWER BEHIND OUR SERVICE 14 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 1 5 About thE CTICC 16 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 1 7 About thE CTICC The CTICC now employs 184 staff members Our people While the ERF focuses primarily on representing the interests of all employees regarding employment conditions, the EEC’s Our business is growing. That growth is reflected in our numbers mandate is to improve the employment equity process and – not just the financial statistics, but the people who make the its compliance with the Employment Equity Act. Members CTICC the successful enterprise it is. The CTICC now employs of the EEC received in-depth training in respect of the Act 184 staff in all, 168 of whom are permanent. We also employ in November 2016 to equip them for this role. In addition, 16 temporary staff, largely students (interns) and graduates. In the entire CTICC team were trained in respect of employment addition, we employ a fluctuating number of contract staff for equity in January 2017. events throughout the year. The bulk of our staff are skilled and semi-skilled and our commitment to upskilling and training our Preference is given as far as possible to Western Cape residents staff is consistent and comprehensive. See pages 92 to 102 of when recruiting staff and the centre continuously strives to this report for more information on our training programmes. ensure its staff complement aligns to the profile of the Western Cape’s economically active population (EAP). This allows us to Diversity contribute meaningfully to local job creation and economic The CTICC celebrates staff diversity and attempts to ensure that growth. the staff complement represents the richness of South African society. Our staff profile reflects our commitment to diversity, with 93 of our staff being female and 91 male. Our employment philosophy The CTICC’s commitment to employment equity addresses all 93 Female staff members aspects of equality as set out in the Constitution, with a particular focus on race, gender and disability. With this in mind, we have worked particularly hard this year on transformation and diversity through the ongoing supervision of our Employment Equity Committee (EEC) and Employee Relations Forum (ERF). These fora are charged with ensuring the CTICC complies with 91 all aspects of Broad-based Black Economic Empowerment, Male staff members Employment Equity and Labour Relations legislation, while empowering all our staff with opportunities to grow. 18 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC CTICC Staff Profile Employment Level 24 Middle 80 Management 4 Skilled Senior Management 1 Total Executive Management 184 4 Unskilled 71 Semi-skilled Ethnic Groups Age Groups 6 27 51+ years White 39 73 50 4 41–50 years African 20–30 years Indian Total Total 184 184 80 89 Coloured 31–40 years Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 1 9 About thE CTICC Certifications: maintaining consistent quality performance ISO internal auditing team The CTICC’s leading role in its sector is based on ensuring ISO internal auditor training powers up our we measure ourselves to the highest global standards. To this monitoring capability end we follow the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. We also use an Integrated Management System Our ability to facilitate and execute certifications has been (IMS) to ensure that quality assurance and sustainability greatly boosted this year by the official training of 12 of management are monitored and maintained at a high level. A our own staff as ISO Internal Auditors. This will allow us to similar dedication is applied to health and safety issues. monitor and manage our compliance with the two ISO and OHSAS standards in-house, which will simplify and speed up We have an equally strong commitment to maintaining our the certification process, which has to be completed annually. work processes to internationally recognised systems standards. Three people from each department were selected to do the In line with this, the CTICC continues to sustain its International nine-week training course, so that the auditing process can Standards Organisation (ISO) recognition through a SANAS be shared. certification body for the following standards: • ISO 9001 (Quality Management System); • ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System); • OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System BS). The CTICC also received: • AIPC Gold certification; • 5-star grading (Tourism Grading Council of South Africa). The CTICC continues to maintain its The centre further holds the SANS 10330:2007 HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) certification and follows the seven principles as set out for food hygiene and safety. 5-star grading The CTICC was recertified in 2016 and successfully maintained all of the above certifications. In addition, the CTICC achieved a Mobility Level 1 score for access to disability facilities in the centre. This audit was done as part of the Tourism Grading Council of South Africa’s assessment in November 2016. The CTICC achieved an overall score of 98% during the assessment. 20 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC UN World Data Forum Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 2 1 About thE CTICC Awards: peer recognition of our performance The CTICC is an award-winning world-class conference and exhibitions venue: the year under review continued that pleasing trend, with the centre receiving a number of industry awards. Top500 Companies Award, Exhibitions and Conference Facilities For the second year in a row, the CTICC has made the 2017 list of Top500 Companies and has been ranked as one of the top five finalist companies in the Exhibition and Conference Facilities category. The final announcement of the winner in this category will be in January 2018. Business Traveller Africa Awards, Best Large Conference Venue This award recognises the best large conference venue in South Africa catering for more than 100 delegates. The Lilizela Tourism Awards, B-BBEE Transformation Award for Large Enterprises The CTICC won the provincial and overall national prize in the B-BBEE for Large Enterprises category. Summit Marketing Effectiveness Award, Silver Award This is an international award and the CTICC won a Silver Award in the Business-to-Business Collateral Materials category for its Integrated Annual Report 2015. Summit Emerging Media Award, Complete Branding Campaign category The CTICC received recognition for its National Conference Campaign in the Innovator: Complete Branding Campaign category. Build Innovation Award for Event Management, Best International Conference Centre, (Europe, Middle East and Africa region) The 2017 Infrastructure Awards are endorsed by the international construction magazine Build. 22 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t About thE CTICC Top40 Women in MICE Award The CTICC CEO was honoured as one of the top 40 women who has made an outstanding contribution to the South African business events industry. Memberships and Associations: powerful partnerships The CTICC is a member of the following associations, many of which offer valuable data and training support to us and the South African event management and tourism sector: Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 2 3 CTICC 2 24 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t CTICC 2 WELCOME TO CTICC 2: POWER, PANACHE AND PERFORMANCE PLUS Our CTICC East expansion project will have been completed by the time you read this report. The stylish new building has been formally named CTICC 2 and will have hosted its first event in September 2017. CTICC 2 has been designed as a seamless extension of the original building, now called CTICC 1, to provide complementary space for large exhibitions or conferences. As such the integration of the two buildings will allow us to form an event venue complex that will affirm Cape Town’s commitment to developing business tourism and driving the knowledge economy of South Africa. However, CTICC 2 will also be able to operate as an entirely independent facility. Welcome to added panache The stylish new expansion is 31 148m2 in extent and consists of 10 000m2 of conference and exhibition space, as well as a further 3 000m2 of formal and informal meeting space. In addition, we will be constructing a dramatic skybridge across the Heerengracht to connect CTICC 1 with CTICC 2. This should be in place by 2019. In the interim, there will be direct access from CTICC 2 parking, as well as from street level. Construction of CTICC 2 was largely completed in the year under review, with elegant interior fitting and commissioning continuing throughout 2017. The renderings and photographs in this section give you a taste of this impressive new facility. The expansion will allow the CTICC to host much larger events and it will also increase the number of events we can host at the same time. Furthermore, the expansion will provide the necessary capacity for clients who wish to grow their events. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 2 5 CTICC 2 CTICC 1 AND CtICC 2: A bird's Eye View CTICC 1 1. Auditorium 1 15. Jasminum Conservatory 2. Westin Cape Town 16. Strelitzia Restaurant 3. Canal Head and Ferry Terminal 17. Meeting Suites 4. Coffee on the Square 18. Strelitzia Conservatory 5. CTICC 1 Main Entrance 19. Auditorium 2 6. Management Offices 20. Roof Terrace Room 7. Reception 21. Exhibition Hall 1 8. Main Foyer 22. Exhibition Hall 2 9. Boardroom 1.30 23. Exhibition Hall 3 10. Ballroom 24. Exhibition Hall 4A 11. Registration Foyer 25. Exhibition Hall 4B 12. Clivia Conservatory 26. Marshalling Yard 13. Jasminum Restaurant (lower level) 27. Convention Tower 14. Meeting Rooms (upper level) 26 23 22 6 21 17 4 15 9 2 7 14 8 12 5 3 13 10 11 1 26 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t CTICC 2 45 36 39 42 38 41 37 34 31 40 30 27 33 32 35 43 29 25 28 44 24 17 20 17 19 18 16 CTICC 2 28. Skybridge 37. Lower Hall 5 29. CTICC 2 Main Entrance 38. Lower Hall 6 30. Concourse 39. Lower Hall 7 31. Meeting Suites 40. Upper Hall 8.1|8.2|8.3 32. Blue Bell Terrace 41. Upper Hall 9 33. Mountain View Terrace 42. Upper Hall 10 34. Harbour View Terrace 43. Meeting Pods 35. Hall Lobby Entrance 44. Coffee on the Circle 36. Marshalling Yard 45. Netcare Christiaan Barnard Memorial Hospital Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 2 7 CTICC 2 Enhancing a Foreshore icon CTICC 2 – a welcome addition to the Foreshore Flanked by Cape Town harbour on one side and the A five-star welcome regenerating Foreshore area of the city centre on the other, the CTICC’s expansion project, CTICC 2, is a welcome addition CTICC 2 will be welcoming its first clients, delegates and to this 2.3km2 area reclaimed from Table Bay in the 1930s and visitors by the time you read this report. A state-of-the-art 1940s. One of the fastest developing areas of Cape Town, fusion of African sandstone, steel and glass will have opened according to the Cape Town Central City Improvement District its doors, quite literally, onto the streets of the burgeoning (CCID), the Foreshore is also home to an increasing number Foreshore district: its dedicated coffee shop, Coffee on the of residential units. In addition, there is the recently released Circle, is designed to spill out onto the pavement and scoop up six-hectare Foreshore Freeway site, which includes the famous, passers-by, enlivening this currently rather quiet area. unfinished Cape Town freeways. Spearheaded by CTICC 2 and Observant visitors will notice that CTICC 2’s design is in keeping the Netcare Christiaan Barnard Memorial Hospital, this small with its sister building, offering a seamless visual and event urban pocket is very much on the up. experience for those wanting to run events across the CTICC One of the driving forces making CTICC 2 possible is the City of complex. Conversely, a number of new features have been Cape Town, which recognised the importance of an expanded included to attract event managers and visitors alike. CTICC more than a decade ago. As a result of the CTICC’s The most striking feature of CTICC 2, when standing in the success, it became clear that expansion would be required luxurious reception foyer, is its impressive 28m floor-to-ceiling in order for Cape Town to remain globally competitive as a height. CTICC 2 is built on six floors – four levels above ground meetings and events destination. and two below. Exhibition halls span two floors with three It is this collaboration with the City that has inspired the halls per floor. The first mezzanine level houses meeting rooms design and systematic construction of CTICC 2. The City’s and meeting suites while the second mezzanine level offers a committed support steered us through construction milestone beautiful terrace room. The second floor also houses further after milestone. And as the City’s next catalytic project, the meeting suites. Foreshore Freeway Precinct Project comes on stream, the Below ground there are parking bays, kitchens and service CTICC will be at the heart of this positive transformation, too. areas; and right at the top delightful open-air terraces await. Technological highlights include the installation of the Dali individualised lighting system, an ultramodern high-resolution CCTV system and automated blinds in every meeting room and hall – all of which will enhance the comfort and security of CTICC 2 visitors. 28 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t CTICC 2 CTICC 2 pays homage to indigenous flora Elegant spaces aplenty The names include Aloe, Arum, Bluebell, Daisy, Disa, Erica, Freesia, Geranium, Hibiscus, Nerina, Orchid, Pincushion, Protea Over the years, the Roof Terrace venue at CTICC 1 has become and Watsonia. This design interpretation will also have been one of the CTICC’s most popular rooms, often used for cocktails applied to interior finishings in other parts of the centre. and evening functions. CTICC 2 adds a further terrace room to the CTICC stable. In addition, there is perhaps the most stylish Adding to our sustainable performance venue of all – our 500m2 Mountain View Terrace. CTICC 2 also with style has more exterior balconies than the original building. CTICC 2 earned a 4-star Green Star rated design in line with These will be exciting new additions to the CTICC’s inventory. Green Building Council of South Africa (GBCSA) guidelines. They invite the outdoors in and allow visitors to feel the This means it incorporates a number of conservation principles pulse and rhythm of the city. Indeed, thanks to its multi-level into its construction and interior layout. Across the globe structure, CTICC 2 offers views of both the harbour, Table consumers and event managers are demanding companies Mountain and of Cape Town’s Foreshore district, which is follow sustainable business processes. From an environmental now undergoing dramatic changes due to a range of new perspective waste management, energy consumption, local infrastructure and construction developments. sourcing, and water conservation are key areas of concern for convention centres. The expansion project always had to have The exhibition halls on the upper floors will not only be serious sustainability credentials and they are now being put carpeted, but Exhibition Halls 8 and 10 also have external into action. balconies that look onto the harbour. Even before the venue was open, this area had already captured the imagination of With the construction complete, these principles have, quite our sales teams, who had identified it as an ideal banquet hall. literally, come to light. Topmost of these is the way CTICC 2 makes use of natural light. A “saw-tooth roof” design can both The formal and informal meeting space will be of particular deflect direct sunlight while admitting natural light deep into interest to corporate clients. These sub-divisible rooms face the the building. This, of course, saves on lighting costs, but also city centre and each one has a balcony. These meeting rooms lets the positive effects of daylight in as well. Extensive glazing will be great venues for corporate meetings, training sessions across the Western façade also bathes the centre’s multi-storey and workshops. In keeping with our sustainability commitment public spaces and reception with natural light. These measures, and in homage to the biodiversity of the Cape Floral Kingdom, as well as electrical sub-metering, energy-saving devices, waste the centre’s meeting rooms have been named after indigenous management and water conservation processes, have earned flowers of the Cape. the centre its GBCSA 4-star Green Star rating. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 2 9 CTICC 2 Gathering support for our new powerhouse Sales and marketing teams have been working hard to create awareness of the new venue. CTICC 2 has struck a chord with international associations and by August 2017 we had already secured ten major international events up until 2022. Our first event in the building will have taken place by the time you read this. The 21st Annual Congress of the South African Council of Shopping Centres (SACSC) is a 1 200-delegate event and will come of age in our brandnew building in September. Our first consumer exhibition at the end of October will be MamaMagic – The Baby Expo, an established client that will, perhaps appropriately, also baptise our new exhibition halls. In November, the 20th annual AfricaCom will be expanding into CTICC 2 for its tenth year at the centre. Then, the Global Food Security Conference in December 2017 will be completely hosted in CTICC 2, seeking solutions for feeding 10 Major international events already earth’s nine billion people. secured up until 2022 for CTICC 2 Come 2020 the World Ophthalmology Congress promises to attract 15 000 delegates and will be the largest event the centre has secured in its 14-year history. We would not have been able to secure this event without the expansion. International experts in biomedicine will meet in CTICC 2 for the 18th International Congress of Immunology in August 2022. With a forecast attendance of 6 000 delegates, the conference will also be using both CTICC buildings. Winning these bids shows the potential of CTICC 2 and the vital role the CTICC plays in developing the knowledge economy and supporting African participation in global issues, while at the same time ensuring direct economic benefit to the citizens of Cape Town and the Western Cape. 30 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t CTICC 2 Uncovering Cape Town’s historical pier As sometimes happens on construction sites, history is revealed when you least expect it. In our case, we were digging to build the centre’s underground service tunnel linking CTICC 1 to CTICC 2. In the process, contractors uncovered concrete, structural remains of the historical Cape Town Harbour pier, which was demolished during the reclamation of Cape Town’s Foreshore area from the sea in the late 1930s. The discovery caused a delay to the construction of the tunnel while archaeological and heritage specialists assessed the remains. Following consultation with Heritage Western Cape, we removed a portion of the pier and stabilised the old pier beneath the foundations. In line with Heritage Western Cape’s approval, the CTICC agreed to develop a pictorial display of the pier, which is currently underway. There are a number of archival images of the original pier in its heyday and the display will acknowledge the position of the pier, as well as tell the story of the dramatic changes to the Foreshore area that have occurred since the 1930s. Photo: The National Library of South Africa © Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 3 1 EVENTS REVIEW 32 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW OUR EVENT REVIEW: A POWERFUL PERFORMANCE DELIVERED WITH PANACHE Reviewing the events of 2016/17 Total events hosted per event segment with attendance figures 288 36 Other Events International and Film Shoots Conferences 39 575 30 967 58 40 Special National Events 482 Total events Conferences 79 342 15 309 416 733 Total attendees 28 15 Banquets Exhibitions 10 368 212 129 17 Trade Fairs 29 043 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 3 3 EVENTS REVIEW Africa Travel Week 2017 The financial year saw us host 482 events and a total of Events, including exhibitions, trade fairs, shows, concerts, 416 733 delegates and visitors. For 2016/17, the CTICC recorded banquets, special events and other meetings, were 789 809 visitor days. either on a par with last year’s figures or slightly down. We also experienced lower attendance at many repeat events in We hosted 36 international conferences, four more than our 2016/17. Special event numbers have increased considerably KPI target. Attendance at medium (500 to 1 000 delegates) and due to the 38 church services held at the CTICC which were large (more than 1 000 delegates) international conferences is, attended by over 25 000 worshippers. however, lower and this may be due to reduced budgets for international conferences, with fewer delegates being sent to For the 15 exhibitions, which was the same number as the international events. previous year, visitor numbers were higher at 212 129 vs 195 312. We have also welcomed newer consumer exhibitions These lower delegate numbers are mitigated, to some extent, such as FanCon, the first annual SA International Tattoo by visitors staying for longer. The average stay – 4.6 days – is Convention and the Electronic & Gaming Expo that attracted the longest in three years. Fortunately for the regional economy, a younger audience than we traditionally attract. Cape Town and South Africa remains a desirable destination for both business and leisure tourism. This induced tourism, Overall, many of the event trends which played out during tourism instigated and encouraged by delegates visiting Cape the financial year were externally influenced and largely out Town and South Africa for the first time and staying on and of our control. Government and corporate cost reduction returning to visit consequently, has been a key mitigating factor measures affect conference attendance, while ongoing in the past year. economic constraints affect both international and national event bookings. There were more national conferences during the year under review: 40 – the second highest since opening in 2004. Small national congresses (less than 250 delegates) increased the most from 11 in 2015/16 to 17 in 2016/17, while both medium (250 to 500 delegates) and large (more than 500 delegates) national conferences also increased in number over 2016. In this segment, the total number of delegates was 15 309 – higher than the 12 556 in 2016 and comparable to the 14 634 in 2014 and 16 624 in 2015. The average duration of national congresses has, however, dropped considerably. Again, budgetary constraints within a struggling national economy is a likely factor. 34 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Event highlights of the year: delivering African power, panache and performance We have selected an interesting collection of case studies across the segments to illustrate our African power, panache and performance theme. Certainly we believe they represent elements of stature, style and service in each case. Key additional aspects to our work include a commitment to building the knowledge economy, supporting the City of Cape Town and Western Cape Government’s growth strategy and enhancing the region’s catalytic growth sectors. Tourism and Agro-processing events The green economy, Business including process renewable outsourcing energy The priority sectors for trade and investment growth in the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Retail, including Digi-tech clothing and textiles Oil and gas Electronics “Through our Invest Cape Town brand initiative “We have a focused approach to growing we are actively promoting Cape Town the economy through our Project Khulisa internationally as a forward-looking, globally economic strategy, which is seeking to boost competitive business city. We are going to the our tourism, agri-processing and oil and gas world to say we are more than just an iconic sectors. Along with these priority sectors, we tourist city, we are open for business.” are also driving the growth of the country’s green economy.” Patricia de Lille Alan Winde Executive Mayor: City of Cape Town Western Cape Minister of Economic Opportunities Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 3 5 EVENTS REVIEW Building the business of entrepreneurship for free My Business Expo 2016 Trade Fair The second My Business Expo, hosted by the National Small Business Chamber and free to pre-registered delegates, has grown from its inception in 2015, when about 1 000 delegates Date: attended, to 4 000 in 2017. 25 August 2016 Entrepreneurship is promoted as the saving grace of the South Sector: African economy in general and unemployment in particular, Business Process Outsourcing but a major concern is the country’s low level of start-up activity. Indeed, statistics show that although 73% of adults recognise entrepreneurship as a good career choice, just 9.2% actually start businesses. There are many mixed messages when it comes to the state and health of South African entrepreneurship, but the need “My Business Expo and Business Start-up Show to create a culture of self-employment, self-reliance and is the biggest and most successful show of its sustainability remains imperative. kind in Africa for anyone starting or growing The My Business Expo focuses on the fact that entrepreneurship their business. With an array of exhibitions, provides one of the main engines of growth in a healthy workshops and seminars, location and the economy. Highlights of the 2016 show included Build a Business flexibility of the venue are critical elements. Live, led by four global entrepreneurs, while other elements The CTICC offers this and more. It’s a beautiful included the Business Start-Up Expo with over 100 exhibitors, venue and it has a homely feel to it. CTICC as well as the Access to Finance Indaba, The Franchise Show, a Financial Wellness Zone and a Trading Across Borders section, made sure My Business Expo 2016 ran smoothly the latter two sponsored by Experian and DHL respectively. and was a great springboard for an even more These bespoke events offered invaluable and practical insight successful 2017 event.” into business finance, financial wellness and global trading – all key aspects of sustainable business. Twané Gouws Head: National Sales & Operations, The CTICC has hosted this dynamic event for three years now National Small Business Chamber and very much hopes to see it grow into the future. 36 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW The rise and rise of FanCon: cosplay and geek power comes to SA 2nd FanCon 2017 Exhibition Geek conventions are a rapidly growing worldwide trend, with a comic con happening in every major city in the world, while the American big daddy Comic-Cons regularly attract Dates: over 100 000 visitors. South Africa is catching the wave and 29 – 30 April 2017 growing, with this year’s second FanCon attracting a healthy 6 000 cosplaying fans over its two-day span. Blockbuster comic Sector: hero-based movies like Iron Man and Wonder Woman simply Entertainment and Creative Industries stoke the fire. In many ways, FanCon welcomes another world through the CTICC’s doors: an altogether more colourful, enthusiastic and occasionally somewhat bizarre world. People dressed up as their comic book heroes (cosplay) and came right along to “What sold the event was the service that meet other fans, as well as over 40 comic book artists from we received during the actual event. Here I all over South Africa, as well as visiting international comic professionals. am talking about the CTICC’s Event Service Managers, the Safety Officer and everyone There were talks, there were demonstrations and there was a lot of cosplay on stage and in the aisles. While co-organiser else who supported us during the event itself. Nizar Abrahams was well pleased with the venue and how the CTICC is absolutely the right place to host this show has grown, the best accolades came from the discerning event – it really works for my show.” comic fans themselves. And they are what will help FanCon grow into our new CTICC 2 Exhibition Halls 8 & 9 in 2018 – Nizar Abrahams already booked. Co-organiser, FanCon One said: “I can now state confidently that FanCon is South Africa’s only 100% legitimate comic convention” and then generously complimented the CTICC’s venue as “brightly lit, spacious and world-class”. Many other reviews have echoed this enthusiasm for both the venue and the event. Clearly geek culture is very much alive and well in Cape Town. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 3 7 EVENTS REVIEW Doing the downward dog for a good cause 2nd International Day of Yoga Special Event The United Nations General Assembly declared 21 June International Day of Yoga in 2014, in recognition of its mental and physical health benefits. This year, sponsored by Adidas Date: and ourselves, 1 000 yogis joined us on Saturday, 17 June for 17 June 2017 a day of yoga workshops, supported by a health and fitness market. Sector: Health and Fitness The sight of more than 1 000 people lined up in Hall 1 doing the downward dog together was something to behold and the simple power of that many people calmly focusing, balancing and meditating did wonders for the karma in the building that day – and, we can hope, beyond our walls and borders as well. It was incredible to see how popular both yoga and the day “I could never have dreamt that this humble itself was: truly uplifting. initiative of mine would grow to become such Tickets were free but donations to the day’s two designated a fantastic event. It was so magical to reunite charities were encouraged. This raised R55 000 for the so many yogis and see how they enjoyed the Earthchild project, which means 160 children will get one yoga gift of yoga together. From the word go we class a week for the next year, and for the Mothers2Mothers received the greatest support from the CTICC, project, which will allow vulnerable mothers to get the right care and information to help them give birth to an HIV-free Adidas, local yoga studios and businesses, all baby. A truly worthwhile day: good for body, mind and spirit. of which geared up to make this event a great success.” Joëlle Sleebos International Day of Yoga event host 38 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Hosting the Geological Olympics with African panache 35th International Geological Congress International Conference The International Geological Congress (IGC) first took place in 1878 and arrived in Pretoria, South Africa, in 1929, since when it has been held only once more in Africa, in Algeria in 1952. Dates: This year’s 4 000-strong international gathering completes 27 August – 4 September 2016 Africa’s hat trick, with the CTICC hosting delegates from 117 countries at a conference offering over 2 900 oral and 1 700 Sector: poster presentations. This was a powerful conference of stature Mining and Tourism and is proudly called the “Olympics” of Geology. Importantly, considering Africa’s substantial mineral resources, efforts were made to bridge the distance between often underresourced African geoscientists and geological opportunities. The launch of the PanAfGeo initiative – a collaboration between the Organisation of African Geological Surveys (OAGS) and “When South Africa bid to host the IGC, EuroGeoSurveys – at this IGC also confirmed through its factors such as an attractive setting, adequate inaugural survey the industry challenges geology faces in Africa. congress facilities to host the 4 000-plus As a profession known for studying the most ancient aspects presentations and nearby accommodation of our earth through resonant themes such as “The Hadean were taken into account. Cape Town, and and Archaean Earth” and “Volcanology”, it also did not shy specifically the CTICC, offered all of these.” away from addressing more current themes like “Groundwater and Hydrogeology”, whose focus on water sources was not Greg Botha lost on the Cape Town audience, as well as the more critical Secretary-General, IGC “Resourcing Future Generations”. Mining, a core economic bedfellow of geology, is currently struggling against a resources slump and the IGC’s organisers remarked that it “took place against the backdrop of extremely difficult economic times” but nevertheless concluded that the eight years of planning had resulted in a resoundingly successful event. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 3 9 EVENTS REVIEW Showcasing the powerful potential of technology to restore mobility 16th World Congress of the International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO) International Conference When the topic is prosthetics, the performance of bladerunners comes to mind; but to most people with limb loss, the Dates: day-to-day challenges of brushing your teeth or walking down 8 – 11 May 2017 the street matter more. In this regard, the 16th World Congress of the International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO) Sector: lived up to the ISPO vision of “contributing to a world where all Medical Technology people have equal opportunity for full participation in society”. According to ISPO, there are 32 million amputees in the world today. Ninety percent of them do not have access to appropriate devices and there are too few trained prosthetists (artificial limb makers) and orthotists (mobility technicians). “The CTICC has a great product: it’s a great The congress, ISPO’s “flagship event” which takes place every space with great services and people feel very two years, came to African shores for the first time since the welcomed.” inaugural congress was held in Montreux, Switzerland, in 1974. The CTICC, together with the ISPO local organising committee, Michael Podt was awarded the bid to host the conference in 2013. ISPO Organising Committee The congress theme, “Assistive Technology for All”, addressed this with a strong emphasis on the way technology, including 3D printing and AI, can change the way prosthetists and orthotists work. To that end 1 300 professionals from over 100 countries attended 53 symposia, 22 training courses and around 500 free papers and poster presentations, along with an exhibition showcasing the latest product innovations from 120 exhibitors from 31 countries. The potential for prosthetic limbs to “learn” seems within reach. The future, according to ISPO, certainly looks bionic. 40 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW The high-performing Western Cape property market comes to the CTICC 1st Western Cape Property Buyer Show 2017 Exhibition The inaugural Western Cape Property Buyer Show exceeded all expectations. The top-performing property market in the country drew local and international interest alike and also Dates: attracted big property name sponsors such as Balwin Properties, 8 – 9 April 2017 FNB, Nedbank, Pam Golding Properties, Private Property and Standard Bank. In addition, over 40 leading estate agents and Sector: developers were at the show, representing a vast range of Property property investment options. The innovative exhibition layout was designed to walk buyers through the property buying process, creating a literal onestop shop, including a finance zone, property zone, first-time buyer seminar theatre and a property investor theatre, which was often standing room only over the two days of the show. “It was really encouraging to see property Aimed at residential property buyers who either want to buy being purchased at the Property Buyer Show their first home or build wealth through their own property on the weekend. The phenomenal success investment portfolio, the show was a huge success and saw over 3 000 property enthusiasts attend. exhibitors had at the event affirms that the event model works and is a win-win for buyers Sponsors and exhibitors at the show added to the propertypowered atmosphere by ensuring visitors enjoyed their and sellers. The CTICC was an ideal venue experience, with FNB serving great coffee, Standard Bank to launch this exhibition, underscoring the running an interactive “unlock the door” competition, Niche importance of the Western Cape property Communications providing visitors with 3D virtual show houses market. Hosting the event at CTICC also gave and Private Property & Chas Everitt Property Group Western Seaboard setting up fun selfie walls. A property showcase with us the best opportunity to examine and test panache! the business model for further roll-out. Now we Following the show’s tremendous success at the CTICC, there can plan the launches in Johannesburg and will be a Property Buyer Show JHB taking place in October with Durban.” further Cape Town, Johannesburg and Durban editions already in the planning stages for 2018. Richard Stubbs Event Director, Spintelligent Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 4 1 EVENTS REVIEW Powerful music performances and big hearts The Real Concert Series Special Event Over the years, the Real Concerts team has showcased spectacular music and comedy at the CTICC. Roddy Quin and his team have a long history of music promotion, including Date: some of the biggest outdoor events in South Africa and the 10 June 2017 very first stadium tours of Mango Groove and Johnny Clegg in the 1980s. More recently he has brought global stars such as Sector: Youssou N’Dour, Joan Armatrading and Massive Attack to our Entertainment shores, to name but three in a long, long list. The showpiece this year was billed as a unique collaborative concert featuring South African rock royalty Prime Circle and Just Jinjer, together with more recently rising star Tailor. The concert was held in our main Auditorium 1, and the stage was set for an exclusive and unforgettable evening. “Real Concerts was delighted to hear that the CTICC joined in our fundraising initiative This was, however, the week of the Knysna fires and Prime Circle asked its fellow musicians to agree to selling 1 000 tickets and donated their revenue of the concert for a considerably reduced price of R200 and donating all the series that we hosted at the centre with Just proceeds to support those affected by the Knysna fires. Jinjer, Prime Circle and Tailor. Together with the The concert was a sell-out and the CTICC also came to the donation made from the sale of the concert party by donating its R72 000 venue fee, bringing the total tickets and the money donated by the CTICC, amount raised to R272 000 for the Knysna fire beneficiaries. An we hope that it will help the community of extraordinary performance of individual sets and collaborative Knysna.” performances made for a memorable evening – made all the more so by the funds raised. Roddy Quin Owner, Real Concerts 42 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Disruption and transformation: powerful words at the SA Property Owner Association Convention 2017 South African Property Owner Association Annual Convention & Property National Conference Exhibition With a theme of Disruption cleverly typeset with reversed Dates: letters, the 2017 South African Property Owner Association 20 – 22 June 2017 (SAPOA) Annual Convention and Property Exhibition was always going to be different. Seeking to “Rewrite the Rules, Sector: Reshape the Industry and Reinvent the Game”, it certainly Property invited the great and the good and, in some measure, the controversial to address its property-owning audience. These sessions sought to inform an industry that has its challenge. Commentators report that property investors are still concerned that a lack of strong legal structures and reliable “Thank you to the sponsors, speakers, exhibitors rules make the decision to invest in other African countries and delegates for making the 2017 SAPOA difficult. This appears to be the case even though many African countries are actually offering very high growth relative to Convention & Property Exhibition such a huge a decreasing degree of risk, as compared with the likes of success. The many networking opportunities to Western Europe and America. meet and interact with the leading property Other speakers were equally direct about the challenges facing professionals, industry leaders, friends and South Africa, while some sought to find hope in emerging colleagues as well as sponsors and exhibitors pockets of property growth. Still others won awards for were astounding. The social events offered Journalism or Property Development Excellence. The new a little something for everyone and truly Sasol building in Johannesburg won the day this year but we positioned Cape Town as one of the world’s are proud to say that the CTICC, too, has won the very same most popular tourist destinations.” SAPOA Award for Innovation Excellence in 2004. David Green Committee Chair, SAPOA Convention 2017 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 4 3 EVENTS REVIEW Breakfast with the country’s top political analysts State of the Nation Business Other Events and Film Shoots Breakfast Series The State of the Nation (SONA) Business Breakfasts provide business leaders, their clients and stakeholders with incisive Dates: and informed analysis regarding the ever-evolving political 24 August 2016, 14 October 2016 landscape in South Africa. Answering critical questions like: and 31 May 2017 “What is going on?” and “When will it end?”, SONA guest speakers unpack the news for those who are keen to be on Sector: the inside track. Business and Politics Journalists Stephen Grootes and Bruce Whitfield discuss with political analysts such as Martin Davies, Justice Malala, Tony Leon and Ralph Mathekga the scenarios that planners like Clem Sunter and Chantell Ilbury portray for audiences. In doing so, they provide that most important of commodities: “The food at this event was far better than reliable information. The rate of news in South Africa makes it the breakfasts that we hosted in Joburg… so almost impossible to keep abreast of events so these breakfasts at the CTICC allow guests to make sense of it all, as they have kudos to the CTICC! The menu choices were done since 2012. excellent.” Organised by Decision Makers, who have run business Avril Sumerun conferences since 2003, and sponsored by Deloitte Consulting, Events and Finance Administrator, Vibrant Media this event has grown into one of the leading brands on the South African corporate event calendar. Tables of eight or 10 people can be booked with the CTICC’s great cuisine providing fine accompaniment to the intellectual food for thought on offer. The breakfasts occur approximately quarterly and book out almost as fast as our political events unfold. As Mathekga says: “Anything can happen… 2019 is going to be really exciting.” And no doubt the rest of 2017 and 2018 will be too. 44 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW South Africa’s favourite Wine Awards pair wine and food with panache 26th Veritas Wine Awards Gala Dinner 2016 Banquet The Veritas Wine Awards has a long and august 26-year history, starting in 1991, and it remains the warm heart of the South Date: African wine awards landscape. These awards are open only 7 October 2016 to those who produce more than 1 200 bottles of the wines they present for judging, so they very much mean something Sector: to the general public. Agro-processing The CTICC is consequently very proud to have hosted Veritas for the past 10 years and will be hosting them again this October. This includes the popular public tastings, where hundreds of wine lovers come to taste the Veritas Double Gold and Gold medal winning wines and brandies each year. More recently, we have also hosted the Veritas Wine Awards Dinner, a gala The Veritas Awards for Wine and Brandy is dinner for 750 guests that challenges our chefs and kitchens to conjure a banquet of memories. South Africa’s longest running wine and brandy show organised by the wine industry Wine is one of South Africa’s main agricultural export successes, for the industry. The Awards Gala Dinner – a although, as Veritas’s own website admits, we do have an black tie affair – is known as the “Oscars” of identity challenge – our reputation for plonk and fine wines the industry and the culmination of a long and missing the lucrative middle ground which we could conquer arduous judging process. The Ballroom venue, with our signature Chenin and Pinotage varietals. One hope is emerging market interest from the likes of China and the United cuisine, ambience and service are important States – a great opportunity for South African wine to cement accompaniments to the announcement of a far wider reputation for good quality wines at every level. the Double Gold and Gold award winning wines and brandies. The CTICC management The banquet that crowns the Wine Awards is a rather special understands our vision and the centre’s team occasion and our then Executive Chef Warwick Thomas and becomes an extension of our own strive for his staff excelled themselves, culminating in a show-stopping dessert presented with considerable panache in a half wine excellence on the night. That’s why we have bottle. Its components? A white chocolate mousse with booked with the CTICC year after year.” raspberry coulis, poached pear, micro-herbs, sliced grapes plus cheese and a cracker! A fitting climax to the wine awards that Bennie Howard just keeps on giving. Veritas Vice-chairperson Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 4 5 EVENTS REVIEW Stories from our kitchen: food and wine in performance The CTICC lies at the heart of a city whose reputation for food This year we have several culinary stories to tell, chief of which is and wine is celebrated throughout the world. This powerful the appointment of our Executive Chef, the highly experienced reputation for flair with food does not escape the creative juices and creative Roberto de Carvalho. of our chefs and kitchens, who are constantly striving to make our food and beverage offerings not just a festival of taste and texture but also a performance to remember. The CTICC welcomes a National Culinary Team As that resumé implies, Roberto has a wealth of experience in the hospitality sector, all of which is being brought beneficially captain: our new Executive Chef Roberto to bear on the CTICC’s culinary offering. The CTICC’s kitchen Chef Roberto De Carvalho has over 20 years’ experience – which has 14 satellite kitchens throughout the centre – offers in creating fine dining experiences. As such, he joins the an Executive Chef a unique challenge and culinary palette. CTICC’s food and beverage team with considerable culinary Roberto’s qualifications in Professional Cookery range from the accomplishment to his name, not least of which is his track Hospitality Industries Training Board to the Cape Technikon record as a medal-winning captain and member of the South (now the Cape Peninsula University of Technology), where African National Culinary Team. he earned a Diploma in Professional Cookery. He also has a Born and raised in Johannesburg, Roberto joins the CTICC from Certificate in Food Preparation and Cooking from City & Guilds the One & Only Hotel Cape Town, where he held the position of London. of Resort Executive Chef for over three years. Prior to that, he Already Chef Roberto’s flair is being felt in an array of served as Executive Head Chef at The Twelve Apostles Hotel innovations now available from the Food & Beverage division for more than eight years and was also Senior Chef de Partie of the CTICC. at the Park Hyatt Rosebank. In addition, before joining the One & Only, Roberto ran his own restaurant, Roberto’s Signature Restaurant, in Long Street, Cape Town. 46 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW “Words fail to express how thankful we all are for the wonderful experience we had on Saturday, 8 July along with Chef Roberto, his team and your amazing CTICC team! They were all so attentive to our needs and we felt truly special and uplifted in so many ways. The ambience was really special along with the lovely music which accompanied us. Thank you!” Natasha le Pere Bowman Ingredients SA Centre Stage with Chef Roberto Come dine with me on stage: Eating backwards: another CTICC innovation a CTICC dinner innovation Another creative option on offer from the ever-innovative This year, for the first time, we are offering intimate groups the CTICC kitchen is the reverse menu. This is not about starting chance to have dinner on the stage of our largest auditorium. with champagne and smoked salmon, decadent though that The suggestion is not to fill the auditorium with adoring Come might normally be. This is something quite different. This is Dine with Me fans, but rather to revel in the charged atmosphere when your senses are tricked by that chocolate cake you just of a large auditorium while being on a stage commanded by got presented as a starter – only it’s not chocolate cake at all, many famous names before you. This is your chance to be on but rather a deceptively disguised beef carpaccio concoction. stage – and be waited on by a bevy of professional chefs, who You’ll have to see it – and taste it – to believe it! The innovation will finish your food on stage – sauté, brûlée, flambé: whatever never stops at the CTICC. takes your fancy. The CTICC’s significant kitchen power There is also something about being served dinner on a presentation stage: it definitely makes the event a performance. The kitchen at the CTICC is one of the largest in the Western However, we believe the star should always be the food and Cape and is linked to fourteen satellite kitchens strategically beverage combinations made available to guests; and in this located around the centre. Due to the size of the events it case the menus are very much chef’s choice and created by hosts, the CTICC’s Food & Beverage department requires an our hot, cold and pastry chefs right before your eyes, on stage. executive chef that not only has a flair for creating memorable Needless to say, a string quintet or even a romantic single food but also has finely honed catering management skills. violinist can be arranged by us as well. The CTICC kitchen offers Halaal-certified cuisine and caters all events at the CTICC – whether for 20 people or 6 000. It holds We hosted eight guests from Bowman Ingredients SA – potential the SANS 10330 Certification for HACCP (Hazard Analysis and CTICC clients – for a special luncheon of rooibos-smoked beef Critical Control Points) and follows the seven principles set out tenderloin with pickled baby beetroot, citrus-infused crispy for food hygiene and safety. duck breast and Bavarian cream panna cotta. The stage was set with mobile cooking, beverage stations, an elegantly arranged white dining table and relaxing music. Getting creative with the cost of food The ongoing drought has raised food prices 15% on average over the year in review. This high number is hard to absorb but we have managed to keep our spending tight and manage our food and beverage waste optimally. Part of this process is to ensure we constantly review how we purchase; how we control stock; and how we can improve our preparation processes in our kitchens and bars. These are now part of the way we do things, as the drought has reached crisis stage. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 4 7 EVENTS REVIEW Team CTICC receives top honours at Inter-hotel Challenge The CTICC Food & Beverage team of Candidate Chef, Sive Godana, and Wine Steward, Nkululeko Khohlokoane, were recognised for their efforts during the prestigious Cape Legends & Artisan Inter-hotel Challenge 2017. Sive was “I had such mixed feelings at the gala dinner. named Most Promising Chef and Nkululeko was named Most I was surprised. I was shocked. I didn’t know Promising Wine Steward. what to say. It was the nicest feeling ever.” The Inter-hotel Challenge run by Showcook.com pits some of the best candidate chefs and wine stewards from the finest Sive Godana hotels and restaurants against each other. The Challenge also Most Promising Chef includes a series of comprehensive training workshops to encourage talent development in the industry. Godana and Khohlokoane were hand-picked by CTICC Executive Chef, Roberto De Carvalho, to represent the CTICC in the Challenge. Sive, with the help and mentorship of CTICC Sous Chef, Dimitri Koopman, produced three winning dishes: a starter of “I was optimistic of my chances but when grilled king prawn and salmon fillet with a fresh broad bean they started calling other people I thought I salsa, red pepper purée and baby leaf salad; a main course didn’t make it. When they called my name, of short rib tagine meatballs, parsnip and carrot purée, and seasonal root vegetables; and a dark chocolate tart served with I was emotional. I even cried. It was very sabayon sauce, strawberries and fresh cream as the dessert. unexpected because there was so much The delicious food was accompanied by wine chosen by pressure. But I didn’t do it alone. It was a team Nkululeko. Mentored and assisted by CTICC Beverage Manager, effort.” Ian Alexander, he paired the starter with Pongracz Brut, while the main was paired with Desiderius Pongracz and the dessert Nkululeko Khohlokoane was accompanied by a Pongracz Rosé. Most Promising Wine Steward Sive received a bursary and will be furthering his studies in hospitality, while Nkululeko will receive sommelier training at the Cape Wine Academy. It was only the second year the CTICC has participated in the Challenge. 48 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Performance highlights for our seven event segments The following pages illustrate our performance for the year under review across the seven segments we use to record our event statistics: international conferences, national conferences, exhibitions, trade fairs, banquets, special events plus other events and film shoots. Other Events International and Film Shoots Conferences Special National Events Conferences Event Highlights Banquets Exhibitions Trade Fairs Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 4 9 EVENTS REVIEW 36 International Conferences held for the year under review International Conferences 6 080 Highest attendance Investing in African Mining Indaba 2017 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2017 50 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW AfricaCom 2016 Month Event Pax Jul 2016 27th International Nursing Research Congress (INRC) 2016 700 Aug 2016 Annual Meeting of the International Urogynecological Association (ICS/IUGA) 2016 718 Aug 2016 International Pittsburgh Coal Conference 2016 (PCC2016) 150 Aug 2016 Graduate Women International (GWI) 2016 246 Aug 2016 35th International Geological Congress (IGC) 2016 3 718 Sept 2016 World Congress of the World Society of Cardiothoracic Surgeons (WCCS) 2016 1 056 Sept 2016 World Plumbing Conference (WPC) 2016 200 Sept 2016 International Conference on Social Sciences 2016 100 Sept 2016 2016 International Partnership for Microbicides Clinical Affairs Annual Meeting: Plenary Session (IPM) 493 Oct 2016 CBC and IDSC contiguous meetings 2016 80 Oct 2016 International Conference on Research Infrastructure (ICRI) 2016 400 Oct 2016 Green Climate Fund Conference (GCF) 200 Oct 2016 23rd Africa Oil Week 2016 590 Nov 2016 World Congress on Endourology and Extracorporeal Shock Wave Lithotripsy (WCE) 2016 1 100 Nov 2016 CFO World Congress 280 Nov 2016 AfricaCom 2016 1 400 Nov 2016 13th International Congress of the World Psychiatric Association (WPA) 1 932 Nov 2016 17th International Conference of Drug Regulatory Authorities (ICDRA) 460 Nov 2016 IMN’s African Capital Markets Conference 2016 350 Dec 2016 African Society for Laboratory Medicine Annual Meeting 2016 1 620 Jan 2017 United Nations World Forum on Data for Sustainable Development 2017 1 200 Jan 2017 United Nations Economic Commission for Africa 70 Feb 2017 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2017 6 080 Feb 2017 Informa Telecoms and Media | T&M/JW NGON Africa 2017 50 Feb 2017 NEOLife (GNLD) 350 Feb 2017 The 31st International Papillomavirus Conference in Cape Town (IPVS) 2017 1 250 Mar 2017 Open Education Global 2017 220 Mar 2017 AB/INBEV Conference 219 Mar 2017 Royal Congress of Obstetricians & Gynaecologists World Congress (RCOG) 2017 2 300 Apr 2017 Conference of Constitutional Jurisdictions of Africa (CCJA) 330 Apr 2017 Eventyr Group Conference 200 May 2017 Association of Prosthetists & Orthotists (APO) – SADC Region Congress 320 May 2017 FIDIC GAMA-AFRICA Conference and Annual General Meeting 2017 230 May 2017 16th World Congress of the International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics (ISPO) 2017 1 300 May 2017 1st Pan-African Life Insurance Conference – Cape Town 2017 155 Jun 2017 Annual Meeting of the World Aquaculture Society 2017 900 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 5 1 EVENTS REVIEW 40 National Conferences held for the year under review National Conferences 1 350 Highest attendance Actuarial Society of South Africa Annual Convention 2016 Actuarial Society of South Africa Annual Convention 2016 52 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Gartner Symposium/ITxpo Africa 2016 Month Event Pax July 2016 Board of Healthcare Funders of Southern Africa Conference 730 Aug 2016 Southern African Development Community Lawyers Association ACGM 400 Aug 2016 Shoprite Financial Presentation 120 Sept 2016 PwC Higher Education Conference 195 Sept 2016 Microsoft Cela MEA Summit 50 Sept 2016 Barclays Consumer Conference 2016 180 Sept 2016 National Research Foundation Conference 250 Sept 2016 South African Clothing and Textile Workers’ Union (SACTWU) Congress 900 Sept 2016 Gartner Symposium/ITxpo Africa 2016 1 001 Oct 2016 Morningstar Investment Conference 230 Oct 2016 Ackermans 100th Birthday Conference 400 Oct 2016 South African Reserve Bank: FSB RCG Meeting 52 Oct 2016 Oracle Partnering For Africa 68 Oct 2016 Windaba 2016 375 Nov 2016 African Real Estate Summit 2016 300 Nov 2016 Beyond the Fact Sheet: To Client Outcomes 60 Nov 2016 Actuarial Society of South Africa Annual Convention 2016 1 350 Nov 2016 CQS User Groups 300 Nov 2016 African Agri Investment Indaba 550 Dec 2016 TRANCRAA Consultative Workshop 300 Dec 2016 IEP & IRP Stakeholder Consultation 335 Feb 2017 Old Mutual BD Kick Off Event 2017 380 Feb 2017 The eCommerce Africa Confex 2017 552 Feb 2017 Seventh Wood Conference 603 Feb 2017 Pan South African Language Board 250 Mar 2017 The Pension Lawyers Association 430 Mar 2017 Smart Procurement World 2017 600 Mar 2017 Pan African Meeting 70 Mar 2017 HR Directors Conference 2017 200 Apr 2017 Milla SA 62 Apr 2017 Bonds & Loans Africa 2017 300 Apr 2017 Avon National Sales Meeting 51 May 2017 Institute of Accounting and Commerce Conference 135 May 2017 Sharia’h IC 90 Jun 2017 Africa Oil & Power 2017 332 Jun 2017 Leadercast 140 Jun 2017 Sanlam Future Leaders Conference 2017 280 Jun 2017 Sanlam Senior Managers Conference 2017 388 Jun 2017 South African Property Owners Association (SAPOA) 2017 1 000 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 5 3 EVENTS REVIEW 15 Exhibitions held for the year under review Exhibitions 40 009 Highest attendance Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2017 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2017 54 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Good Food and Wine Show 2017 Month Event Pax Jul 2016 Electronic & Gaming Expo (EGE) 9 000 Jul 2016 Factory Shop Exhibition 2016 6 000 Sept 2016 Cape Homemakers Expo 2016 38 755 Oct 2016 Hobby X 2016 16 000 Oct 2016 MamaMagic – The Baby Expo 2016 20 500 Feb 2017 Cape Town Art Fair 2017 13 000 Mar 2017 The South African Tattoo Convention 2 500 Mar 2017 Cape Vape Festival 1 602 Apr 2017 Property Buyer Expo 3 104 Apr 2017 All Things Yummy & Easter Bunny Show 3 500 Apr 2017 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2017 40 009 Apr 2017 Decorex Cape Town 2017 36 531 Apr 2017 FanCon 2017 6 000 Jun 2017 Good Food and Wine Show 2017 11 128 Jun 2017 The Wedding Expo 2017 4 500 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 5 5 EVENTS REVIEW 17 Trade Fairs held for the year under review Trade Fairs 7 477 Highest attendance African Utility Week 2017 African Utility Week 2017 56 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Seamless Africa 2017 Month Event Pax Aug 2016 Cape Construction Expo 2016 1 200 Aug 2016 Spar Trade Show 650 Aug 2016 ViniMark Trade Show 2016 350 Aug 2016 My Business Expo 2016 1 000 Sept 2016 Cape Industries Showcase 2016 1 000 Sept 2016 Shoprite Checkers Christmas Conference and Supplier Awards 1 150 Nov 2016 Apparel, Textile and Footwear (ATF) Expo 1 800 Jan 2017 Cape Premier Yearling Sale 2017 4 500 Feb 2017 Samsung Africa Forum 2017 500 Mar 2017 The Council for Leather Exports (CLE) India Leather and Footwear Expo 700 Mar 2017 Seamless Africa 2017 400 Mar 2017 Sign Africa 2017 1 665 Apr 2017 Spar Trade Show 484 Apr 2017 Africa Travel Week 2017 5 117 May 2017 Elite Star Trading (EST) Africa 250 May 2017 African Utility Week 2017 7 477 May 2017 Source Africa 2017 800 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 5 7 EVENTS REVIEW 28 Banquets held for the year under review Banquets 553 Attendance BPESA National Awards BPESA National Awards 58 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Toyota National Dealer Awards Month Event Pax Jul 2016 The Hoff Wedding 75 Jul 2016 Association of Black Accountants of South Africa Dinner 2016 478 Jul 2016 Gala Dinner for Professionals, Academics and Business with Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa 282 Aug 2016 Joe Slovo High School Matric Ball 65 Aug 2016 SA Young Wines Banquet and Wine Tasting 371 Aug 2016 South African Institute of Chartered Accountants Southern Region Annual Dinner 2016 375 Sept 2016 UCT PGDA Formal 377 Sept 2016 Centre of Science and Technology (COSAT) Matric Ball 104 Oct 2016 Sea Point High School Matric Farewell 75 Oct 2016 Veritas Wine Awards 2016 750 Oct 2016 BPESA National Awards 553 Nov 2016 Equity Bank Dinner 220 Nov 2016 ICDRA Side-event: EMA Dinner 90 Nov 2016 Maritime Graduation 300 Dec 2016 DirectAxis SA Gala Dinner 2016 1 010 Dec 2016 Transnet Long Service Awards Luncheon 130 Dec 2016 South African Peace Foundation 400 Dec 2016 Area Military Health Unit Western Cape Gala 108 Dec 2016 Baker Tilly Greenwoods Annual Function 241 Dec 2016 Leadership Behaviours Charter Launch 260 Feb 2017 Ubuntu Awards Gala Dinner 2017 495 Mar 2017 Toyota National Dealer Awards 480 Apr 2017 Karen 21st Birthday 200 May 2017 1000 Women 1 Voice Fundraising Luncheon 950 May 2017 PK Thiba & Associates 110 Jun 2017 Merle’s 60th Surprise Birthday Party 60 Jun 2017 Dinner Manulife Insurance Company Incentive Group Malaysia 209 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 5 9 EVENTS REVIEW 58 Special Events held for the year under review Special Events 35 700 Highest attendance Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2017 Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2017 60 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW The Real Concert Series Month Event Pax Aug 2016 International Shotokan Karate Federation of South Africa 850 Sept 2016 Our Cape Town Showcase 750 Sept 2016 Discovery Day 800 Sept 2016 Momentum Health Summit Launch 380 Oct 2016 Jazz & Taiko Drum Concert by Terumasa Hino Quintet & Female Drum Group Himiko 588 Oct 2016 Veritas Public Tasting 482 Oct 2016 Deloitte Veritas Wine Tasting 550 Nov 2016 Jireh Community Projects 1 300 Dec 2016 Zakir Hussain Live in Concert 1 500 Dec 2016 Bayyinah Story Night 1 460 Dec 2016 The Mostafa Atef SA Tour 2 200 Dec 2016 2017 Metro FM NYE Party @ Marimba 1 800 Jan 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 750 Feb 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 750 Feb 2017 Chinese Cultural Showcase 200 Feb 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 162 Feb 2017 BCX Launch 800 Feb 2017 Toyota Regional Dealer Convention 200 Feb 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 600 Feb 2017 Sinai Indaba VI 1 200 Mar 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 500 Mar 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 100 Mar 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 850 Mar 2017 Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2017 35 700 Apr 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 800 Apr 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 500 Apr 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 500 Apr 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 200 May 2017 Christ Embassy Communion Service 1 240 May 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 800 May 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 500 May 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 600 May 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 450 Jun 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 500 Jun 2017 Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show 500 Jun 2017 The Real Concert Series 1 464 Jun 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 600 Jun 2017 International Day of Yoga 2017 1 000 Jun 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 750 Jun 2017 Christ Embassy Church Service 1 500 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 6 1 EVENTS REVIEW 288 Other Events and Film Shoots held for the year under review Other Events and Film Shoots 5 000 Highest attendance Santa Shoebox Project Santa Shoebox Project 62 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t EVENTS REVIEW Cosatu – Proudly South African Month Event Pax Jul 2016 COSATU Senior Citizens Day 750 Aug 2016 IFBB Benfatto WP Championships 2016 1 200 Aug 2016 Cape Winemakers Guild Auction Showcase 2016 300 Aug 2016 Investec Business Matters 200 Sept 2016 SMME Opportunity Roadshow 2016 180 Sept 2016 The Western Cape Premier’s Senior Management Service SMS and Deputy Director MMS 1 000 Engagement 2016 Sept 2016 Cedar House School Celebration 800 Sept 2016 Truworths Citation Awards 850 Sept 2016 Bonitas Product Update 350 Sept 2016 Cosatu – Proudly South African 300 Oct 2016 Ethics 4 All – The Annual MPS Ethics Event 2016 1 040 Oct 2016 State of the Nation Breakfast Series with Justice Malala and Clem Sunter 340 Oct 2016 Allan Gray Roadshow 336 Oct 2016 Canon Roadshow 850 Oct 2016 Santa Shoebox Project 5 000 Nov 2016 Russia Cultural Season in SA 667 Dec 2016 CFA Institute Exams 550 Dec 2016 CFA South Africa – After Exam Drinks 250 Jan 2017 VinPro Inligtingsdag 2017 550 Jan 2017 SAICA ITC Exams 430 Jan 2017 Chinese New Year 250 Jan 2017 Queen Mary II Passenger Turnaround 1 662 Feb 2017 Xero South Africa Roadshow 400 Feb 2017 PPS Insurance Company 267 Feb 2017 Rand Merchant Bank Global Markets Seminar 310 Mar 2017 Sanlam Personal Finance: Risk Roadshow 469 Mar 2017 Liberty Roadshow 800 Mar 2017 Investec Asset Management – Taking Stock 700 Apr 2017 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2017 Briefing 300 Apr 2017 Canon Roadshow 1 300 Apr 2017 PC & AC Awards 205 May 2017 Western Cape Funding Fair Conference and Exhibition 2017 960 May 2017 Actuarial Society of South Africa 2017 Life Assurance Seminar 210 May 2017 Iranian Presidential Elections Focal Point 300 May 2017 DHS – Budget Vote Breakfast 500 May 2017 An Audience with Prem Rawat 500 May 2017 State of the Nation Breakfast Series 431 Jun 2017 CFA Institute Exams 750 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 6 3 ECONOMIC IMPACT 64 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ECONOMIC IMPACT BUILDING AFRICAN ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE A powerful financial and economic performance One of the core mandates of the CTICC is its role as a strategic asset of its primary shareholders, the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Government. As such, its responsibility is to attract investment to the city and the province while also contributing positively to their combined economies. In 2016/17 we increased our revenue from R209m to R215.6m (R4.9m above our target of R210.7m) and returned a commendable operating profit of R57.4m, which was R45.3m above our target of R12.1m. EBITDA also rose well above our target of R20.5m to R53m, while net profit of R43.4m was also R34.7m ahead of our target of R8.7m. Furthermore, our economic contributions to both national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and regional Gross Geographic Product (GGP) remain substantial, in line with our shareholder mandates. 482Events 789 809Visitor days R36.3bn R3.7bn Total contribution to Cumulative contribution to national GDP national GDP R32bn Cumulative contribution R3.1bn Contribution to to Western Cape GGP Western Cape GGP economic performance 7 824 R352m Contribution to taxes Total people employed because of the CTICC R1.9bn R1.3bn Contribution to foreign Contribution to household income exchange earnings These figures are reported on in more detail in this section. The CTICC’s financial and economic performance has many facets and benefits the city, province and the country in numerous ways. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 6 5 ECONOMIC IMPACT The sixth element – driving the knowledge economy CTICC – a platform for knowledge exchange Fourteen years ago the CTICC was a pioneer in the revival Many of the conferences we host land on African soil rarely – of what was then a rough and ready part of the city – Cape sometimes for the first time. This allows for greater and more Town’s Foreshore district. The vision was that the area was equitable participation of our local experts in the development ripe for renewal. of scientific and academic programmes. The 35th International Geological Congress and the 16th World Congress of the More concretely, the CTICC has developed into a vital economic International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics this year driver for the City and Province and our contribution span six were but two such events. There are many others. areas – through the construction of the convention centre, both CTICC 1 and CTICC 2, which has generated jobs and In addition, through hosting commercial trade fairs and provided opportunities for enterprise and skills development; exhibitions, the CTICC offers South African businesses a through the regular capital expenditure at the CTICC; through platform to demonstrate their latest products and services, the sales revenue generated by the CTICC; through spending network with international role-players, study the competition by delegates and visitors attending the events; and through and assess market trends. Trade shows such as Seamless Africa, increased tourism as convention delegates return as tourists. AfricaCom, and eCommerce Africa all tap into Africa’s fledgling but lucrative technology sectors. Business events and the tourism they generate have the power to shape the economy of our city, our province and These events further the sharing of knowledge, transfer of skills also our country. Business tourism delivers a higher-yielding and intellectual advancement, while exposing our destination traveller because these travellers often stay longer, spend more to trade and investment opportunities and outcomes which money and show greater potential to return to the destination. would be difficult to achieve if platforms such as the CTICC This is called induced tourism and is a key factor for Cape Town did not exist. in particular. Thus, the CTICC is a constant reminder of the success of careful What is easily forgotten, however, in the discourse around the economic strategy and its ongoing contribution to the policy importance of tourism to the economy is that business events vision and social upliftment of the City of Cape Town and the are a major driver of the knowledge economy. Convention Western Cape Government. In turn, that vision has in its sights centres like the CTICC play a major role in facilitating this an ongoing contribution to income generation and job creation economic growth. And at the CTICC, we believe this sixth facet at all levels of society. of our contribution is becoming ever more important Thus, while the Cape’s beaches and vineyards are worldrenowned attractions, the region is also a hub of academic and research excellence. The province is home to four of the country’s leading universities, as well as being a centre for financial services, renewable energy and technology start-ups. These are all key elements in the knowledge economy and many of the CTICC’s events intersect with these sectors. 66 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ECONOMIC IMPACT African Society for Laboratory Medicines Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 6 7 ECONOMIC IMPACT How the CTICC has contributed to date Cape Homemakers Expo 2016 The table below shows the overall macroeconomic contribution of the CTICC to the country and the province, as well as the jobs created, contributions to tax and household income, forex earnings and delegate and visitor days – comparing 2016/17 to 2015/16. It also shows the contribution of induced tourism (the return of convention delegates as tourists). Table 1: Macroeconomic contribution for the 2016/17 financial year Rand million, GDP GGP Direct Indirect Direct & Indirect Net Delegate 2017 Prices WC Jobs SA jobs Indirect H-hold Forex & Visitor Taxes Income Earnings Days CTICC Capital Expenditure 577 533 548 784 59 322 CTICC Operational Expenditure 82 138 78 91 17 40 Host/Organiser Expenditure 87 24 34 105 9 48 Exhibitor Expenditure 314 218 127 324 30 158 Delegate Expenditure 1 324 1 278 1 448 1 640 118 670 Sub-total 2 384 2 191 2 235 2 944 233 1 238 Induced Tourism 1 294 925 1 149 1 496 119 652 Total Contribution 2017 3 678 3 116 3 384 4 440 352 1 890 645 789 809 Total Contribution 2016 3 539 3 023 3 233 4 525 340 1 814 619 875 297 68 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ECONOMIC IMPACT The CTICC’s contribution to national Gross Domestic Product Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is the total value of all final goods and services produced in the country. It is a fundamental measure of the economic quality of life of all people in the country. It is also the most important and all-encompassing measure of the macroeconomic effect of the CTICC. GDP is important not just because it is income but also because income has the capacity to build wealth. Contribution to GDP has increased to R3.7bn compared to the previous year’s figure of R3.5bn. R577m R1.3bn CTICC Capital Expenditure Induced Tourism R82m CTICC Operational Expenditure R87 R3.7bn Host/Organiser Expenditure added to GDP 2016/17 R314m Exhibitor R36.3bn Cumulative contribution Expenditure to national GDP R1.3bn Delegate Expenditure The CTICC’s contribution to Western Cape Gross Geographic Product While many of the direct economic benefits from the CTICC are felt within the Western Cape, some of the benefits contribute to other provinces. For example, as tourists spend money in hotels, they in turn use materials sourced from other parts of the country and from abroad. This is why the contribution to Western Cape GGP can often be much less than its contribution to GDP. R533m R925m CTICC Capital Expenditure Induced Tourism R138m CTICC Operational Expenditure R24 Host/Organiser R3.1bn Expenditure added to GGP 2016/17 R218m Exhibitor R32bn Cumulative contribution to Expenditure Western Cape GGP R1.3bn Delegate Expenditure Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 6 9 ECONOMIC IMPACT Centre Stage with Chef Roberto The CTICC’s contribution to Job Creation A total of 7 824 people were employed because of the CTICC, with 3 384 people employed directly in the Western Cape and a further 4 440 people employed indirectly across the country. In times of economic stress, where jobs are more likely to be lost than created, this contribution is particularly important. 3 384 4 440 People employed People employed 7 824 directly in the indirectly across Western Cape the country Total people employed because of the CTICC 70 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ECONOMIC IMPACT The CTICC’s contribution to Foreign Exchange Earnings One of the key macroeconomic benefits of the CTICC is that it draws in visitors who make an important contribution to foreign exchange earnings. Taking into account this positive effect of international delegates and exhibitors bringing in considerable foreign exchange, it is estimated that: • In 2016/17 international delegates brought R363m into the country, international exhibitors R95m and induced tourism R805m; • Total foreign exchange earnings amounted to R1.3bn in 2017, which is an increase of 5.3% on the R1.2bn earnings of 2015/16; • Net earnings were also up to R645m for the 2016/17 year – an increase of 7.9% over the R598m in 2015/16; • At the end of 2017 it is estimated that the CTICC had cumulatively generated R7bn in foreign exchange. Table 2 indicates the estimated foreign exchange use and earnings. The final row in the table is a cumulative total of foreign exchange use and earnings, i.e. net foreign exchange earnings. Table 2: Net Foreign Exchange Earnings – South Africa Rand million, nominal prices Known Financial Year FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 Foreign Exchange Earnings International Exhibitors 40 51 66 110 95 International Delegate Spend 481 484 559 390 363 Induced Tourism 559 597 577 699 805 Total Forex Earnings 1 080 1 132 1 202 1 199 1 263 Foreign Exchange Use CTICC Capital Expenditure 9 14 25 114 109 CTICC Operational Expenditure 11 13 13 14 14 Host/Organiser Expenditure 13 14 14 18 15 Exhibitor Expenditure 35 35 41 51 48 All Delegate Expenditure 276 275 321 229 217 Induced Tourism 140 150 147 175 215 Total Imports 484 501 561 601 618 Net Forex Earnings 596 631 641 598 645 Cumulative Total 4 509 5 140 5 781 6 379 7 024 The CTICC’s contribution to Taxes Table 3 reports on total tax generated. This includes not only taxes paid by the CTICC and its personnel but also by its suppliers, through delegate and visitor expenditure, induced tourism and through indirect and induced taxes as a result of the linkage effect of all sectors of the economy. Tax contributes to the welfare of the entire country and, as such, is part of the CTICC’s economic contribution. Cumulatively, it is estimated that since construction in 2003, R4bn has been generated in taxes. Table 3: Contribution to Taxes – South Africa Rand million, nominal prices Known Financial Year FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 CTICC Capital Expenditure 5 7 13 61 59 CTICC Operational Expenditure 15 17 16 18 17 Host/Organiser Expenditure 8 9 9 11 9 Exhibitor Expenditure 22 22 26 32 30 Delegate Expenditure 151 150 176 124 118 Induced Tourism 84 90 88 105 119 Total Contribution to Taxes 285 295 328 351 352 Cumulative Contribution 2 681 2 976 3 304 3 655 4 007 Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 7 1 ECONOMIC IMPACT World Society of Cardiothoracic Surgeons The CTICC’s contribution to Household Income Table 4 reports on the CTICC’s contribution to household income. In difficult economic times, when households are battling to make ends meet, positive contributions to The CTICC has contributed The CTICC has contributed R1.9bn R18.4bn household income are vital. The CTICC contributed R1.9bn to household income in the year under review and has contributed a cumulative R18.5bn since its inception. to household income to household income in 2016/17 since its inception Table 4: Contribution to Household Income – South Africa Rand million, nominal prices Known Financial Year FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 CTICC Capital Expenditure 25 35 71 337 322 CTICC Operational Expenditure 29 36 35 38 40 Host/Organiser Expenditure 41 44 45 56 48 Exhibitor Expenditure 113 113 136 166 158 Delegate Expenditure 858 855 999 709 670 Induced Tourism 458 490 481 572 652 Total Household Income 1 524 1 573 1 767 1 878 1 890 Cumulative Contribution 11 326 12 899 14 666 16 544 18 434 72 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ECONOMIC IMPACT New key performance indicators powerfully achieved The CTICC’s success is based on more than numbers, important as they are. Its role as a key strategic asset of the City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Government means that it also has a responsibility to deliver on a range of targets agreed with our majority shareholder. These are seen below in the table of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that have been agreed between Convenco and the City. KPIs 5, 6, 7 and 10 are KPIs not previously reported on. These KPIs inform not just the overall performance of the CTICC but the roles, goals and performance assessment criteria of each department, team and individual who works with us. Category Measurement Target 2017 Actual 2017 Number of international events hosted compared to Events 32 36 budgeted target 1 Number of events hosted compared to annual Events 505 482 budgeted target Percentage of annual total salary cost spent on 2 Human Capital Development 5% 6.4% training of permanent and temporary staff 76% of minimum aggregate score for all CTICC 3 Customer Centricity and Service Excellence 76% 84% internal departments and external suppliers Supply Chain Procurement from B-BBEE 4 Percentage spend not lower than 60% 60% 92.8% Suppliers measured ito the B-BBEE Act Student Programme: 5 Contribution to Youth Employment and Number of student opportunities provided 6 9 Skills Development Graduate Programme: 6 Contribution to Youth Employment and Number of graduate opportunities provided 3 14 Skills Development Number of People from the Employment Equity Target Groups employed in the Three Percentage of Exco, Manco and Leadership positions 7 Highest Levels of Management in compliance 80% 86.2% held by persons from designated groups with the Municipal Entity’s Approved Employment Equity Plan 8 Budget Percentage achievement of annual budgeted Operating Profit 100% 475.3% operating profit Percentage of the total number of capital projects for Capital Projects 85% 100% the year completed or committed Five-star Achieve FiveMaintain five-star tourism grading through effective Tourism star Tourism Capital Expenditure management of maintenance and quality of service Grading Grading delivery Council rating Council rating achieved Capital Expenditure Percentage of total capital expenditure spend 90% 90% (CTICC 2 Expansion Programme) 9 Governance Unqualified Audit Report Unqualified External Audit Report Unqualified Audit Report for 2015/16 financial year for 2015/16 Audit Report financial year achieved Number of senior managers registered for Minimum Competency Level 7 10 MFMA Competency Course 10 Financial Ratios Total cash and investments, less restricted cash for RCC = 11.07 Ratio of Cost Coverage maintained (RCC) 13.1 times monthly operating expenditure times Net Debtors to Annual Income (ND) Net current debtors divided by total operating revenue ND = 2% 0.9% Debt Coverage by Own Billed Revenue (DC) Total debt divided by total annual operating income DC = 25.9% 0% Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 7 3 ECONOMIC IMPACT Empowering local enterprises to develop and perform Nomsa Mtuzula, CEO: Sasa Development Project and Suppliers The CTICC is strongly committed to working with SMME, Sasa started out as an enterprise development beneficiary B-BBEE and women-owned enterprises. As a municipal and was brought on-site by the principal building contractor, entity we are obliged to comply with the Municipal Finance Aveng Grinaker, which also provided mentorship to the small Management Act of South Africa, 2003 (Act 56 of 2003) business. At that stage, Sasa had no employees on their books. (MFMA) and with the accompanying Supply Chain Regulations. Three years later Sasa employs eleven contract employees – six scaffolding erectors, one of whom is also a scaffold inspector; In line with our ongoing commitment to help develop four general labourers; and one safety representative, who is businesses in our sector and beyond, our B-BBEE spend for qualified in first aid. the 2016/17 financial year was R591.6m, which equals the 92.8% of net spend figure of 2015/16. This is a pleasing result The business has benefitted tremendously from the experience and is also R69.2m up on the figure of the previous year – an it has gained as a sub-contractor on site. Its employees have increase of 13.2%. received training, which was funded by the income Sasa made from the project, in fire-fighting, scaffold erection, health and Where it is possible and practical, the CTICC uses local safety, first aid and scaffold inspection. suppliers, provided they meet the MFMA regulations and our competitive pricing requirements. We define local suppliers as Sasa Development Project and Suppliers is a good news story. those situated within the borders of the Western Cape. LocallySince being contracted to the CTICC 2 build, Sasa Development based procurement for the year totalled R593m, which was Project and Suppliers has signed a further contract for site work 93.1% of the total procurement spend. This figure has risen by in Milnerton, Cape Town. R70.9m (13.6%) compared to the previous year. Women-owned enterprise suppliers comprised 29% of total supplier base in the year under review. An example of how we have helped build a woman-owned enterprise this year “The company has grown financially and in follows below. skills development. (When we started) I was A contractor’s good news story: not registered with the Department of Labour’s Sasa Development Project and Suppliers compensation fund but now I am. I managed Sasa Development Project and Suppliers, established in 2006 to buy a small bakkie and use it for the needs and owned by Chief Executive Officer Nomsa Mtuzula, was of the company and to transport labourers.” instrumental in the development of the CTICC’s new building, Nomsa Mtuzula CTICC 2. The 100% black, female-owned small business, Founder and Chief Executive Officer, based in Mitchell’s Plain, has been responsible for the erection Sasa Development Project and Suppliers and dismantling of scaffolding, as well as cleaning and edge protection on site, since the start of construction. 74 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ECONOMIC IMPACT Capital expenditure: ensuring our ongoing performance Investing in African Mining Indaba 2017 Capital expenditure on CTICC 1 is ongoing and essential. In a highly competitive events and tourism sector, nothing stays the same for long. We continuously invest in the maintenance and upgrading of our facilities. This year's key projects included the replacement of all carpets, comprehensive asset tagging, new uniforms and an upgraded building management system. Over the past financial year, we have continued to invest significantly into enhancing our systems and services via a total of 13 large capital investment projects, all of which were completed in the year under review. “This year's key projects included the replacement of all carpets, comprehensive asset tagging, new uniforms and an upgraded CTICC 1 capital expenditure in 2016/17 building management system.” 2016/17 Total capex projects planned 13 Actual capex projects completed/in progress 13 Percentage projects achieved 100% Percentage unattained 0% Total capex budget R31 034 833 Actual capex spend R28 745 410 Actual capex unspent R2 289 423 Percentage spend achieved (R) 92.6% Percentage unspent (R) 7.4% Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 7 5 SOCIAL IMPACT 76 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY: PROVIDING POWERFUL SUPPORT Changing futures through passionate organisations There has been considerable and positive change this year with our community-focused activations. A process of staff consultation and nomination culminated in the selection of three new community partners, and the retention of our longestablished relationships with Abalimi Bezekhaya and the Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR). These five non-governmental organisations play an important role in uplifting and enriching the communities they serve and, as a strategic asset of the City of Cape Town and Western Cape Government, the CTICC is committed to giving back to the community and striving to be a responsible corporate citizen. Our contribution to the economy of the Western Cape goes far beyond the financial. During the selection process, the CTICC was inspired by the support these organisations provide, and we hope that through these partnerships we will make a positive difference in the lives of those in need. During the 2016/17 financial year, the CTICC spent or donated goods to the value of nearly R1.2m in support of various non-profit organisations. In doing so, it participated in 28 activations, varying from offering donations to sponsoring venues to practical volunteering activities. R138 291 R62 380 Value of donations ofgoods Purchases from to beneficiaries LCPs in support of activities CSR Spend R1.2m R995 298 Value of venue and event sponsorships Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 7 7 SOCIAL IMPACT Mothers Unite Ikhaya le Themba, is a faith-based organisation working in We have been supporting the following two organisations for Khayelitsha. Ikhaya le Themba focuses on four specific areas, many years now: namely community development, orphans and vulnerable Abalimi Bezekhaya, is a pioneer in urban gardening and children, skills development and enterprise development. In now supports micro-farmers on the Cape Flats to grow their their application, the NGO indicated that donations of food, own organic vegetables. In addition, Harvest of Hope (HoH), stationery and building materials, as well as funding to market Abalimi’s social business arm, provides the CTICC with fresh its enterprise development initiative, would allow it to work at organic vegetables. Abalimi grows farmers and HoH partners full capacity. with people who understand the need to source small and Journey of Enrichment is a feeding scheme that supports the locally to build a better food system. The CTICC has been in community through sustainable development initiatives and partnership with this impressive organisation since 2011. works to empower women and youth through education. The Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR), which organisation’s feeding scheme focuses primarily on food parcel continues to do vital work with Western Cape communities drives in Philippi, Manenberg, Schaapkraal and Netreg. The affected by foetal-alcohol syndrome disorder (FASD). FASD is NGO is in urgent need of skills exchange programmes and thought to affect at least three million people in South Africa. food donations. It also needs support to market itself to raise FARR researches, raises awareness and understands the farawareness of its work. reaching implications of FASD and the impact on people and Mothers Unite provides a positive environment to children communities affected by it. The CTICC’s relationship with FARR in the Lavender Hill and Seawinds communities by providing goes back to 2012. nutritional, educational and emotional support, as well as The CTICC has already worked hard to assist these organisations, positive alternatives to anti-social behaviour. It seeks to achieve as can be seen by the table below. Each of these beneficiaries this through interventions and programmes guided by mothers is the focus of our community-based initiatives during the year, from a community challenged by poverty, crime, gangsterism along with a number of other causes which we consistently and drugs. Mothers Unite is in constant need of resources for support. its literacy, nutrition and first aid programmes, as well as its computer lab. We very much look forward to working with each of our community partners to build better communities and make a meaningful difference. 78 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Empowering our partners through activations Ikhaya le Themba During the refurbishment of its public galleries, the CTICC recarpeted the walkways. Still in good condition, the used carpets were donated to Ikhaya to make its care facility for vulnerable children more comfortable. The CTICC also sponsored IT equipment which the organisation uses in its field work. “To have mobile hardware that our mentors and staff can use in the field makes a huge difference in keeping our systems in place and reducing the amount of hours needed to do admin, allowing us to focus on the families and children in need. These laptops are making our organisation more effective in the community.” Theresa Richardson Enterprise Development Manager, Ikhaya le Themba Journey of Enrichment We purchased and donated catering equipment to Journey of Enrichment, which will use the items in their feeding and outreach programmes in the city and surrounding suburbs. “As a non-profit organisation that relies so much on community support, we have mainly operated on a word-of-mouth basis and on the generous support of family and friends. Understandably, this has not afforded us the opportunity to acquire items that could improve both our visibility and ability to fulfil our aims and objectives. That being said, the gifts from the CTICC are a huge boost for us and an empowering contribution for our organisation.” Tasneem Abrahams Treasurer, Journey of Enrichment Mothers Unite Wood from custom exhibition stands was sent to Mothers Unite, as a collection point for the surrounding informal settlements. For Africa Day the CTICC and its suppliers created a month-long maintenance and repair campaign sprucing up the Mothers Unite base. On Africa Day, CTICC staff came to paint the centre and distribute food parcels to local children in need. “The appliances will certainly assist us in furthering our aims of assisting the children and the most vulnerable elderly in the nutrition project where meals are cooked and distributed.” Gerry Gordon Director, Mothers Unite Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 7 9 SOCIAL IMPACT Abalimi Bezekhaya “The CTICC, at 14 years old, has been walking the long road with Abalimi – the road to Farming products were donated to Moya We Khaya Gardens in Khayelitsha, as well as IT equipment to their administration unit. food and economic freedom through family farming. We are grateful for the CTICC’s ongoing support. For example, their hands-on support on Mandela Day and their birthday gift of new laptops for our highly pressured admin unit. Most of all, we are grateful for the CTICC’s determination and stamina to stay the course with us.” Rob Small Founder, Abalimi Bezekhaya “We are excited to have our partnership with the CTICC continue. It has been a great partnership because not only does the CTICC buy our vegetables but we have face-to-face contact with staff through their volunteering on special days. It is great to have a relationship with people that are actually there.” Christopher D’Aiuto Programme Manager, Abalimi Bezekhaya Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) The CTICC sponsored a venue for and attended the FARR annual general meeting. The CTICC also purchased and donated IT equipment to FARR, which the organisation will use in its educational programme. “The CTICC adopted FARR in 2012 as one of its CSI projects. Since then, FARR has received numerous contributions ranging from furniture, conference bags, blankets and toys for our clients. Donations like these are priceless as it fill so many gaps which we cannot fund from day-to-day project funding. FARR is extremely honoured and grateful for the CTICC’s support in the important task of Foetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorder research, awareness and prevention.” Leana Olivier Chief Executive Officer, Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) 80 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACt Jireh Community Projects The CTICC sponsored and supported the 16th annual Jireh Music & Movement showcase of children’s talent. Started in 1989 and based at the Jireh Centre in Portland, Mitchell’s Plain, Jireh runs the biggest registered Early Childhood Development Centre in the Western Cape. It has also developed several family-centred poverty alleviation programmes that offer both recreational and educational opportunities to parents and their children. Also sponsored by the Departments of Sport & Recreation and Arts & Culture, the talent showcase is a major event for this organisation, and attracted a 1 300-strong audience of extremely proud parents, relatives and friends of the young performers. We are proud to support such a popular and clearly wellloved community event. There is no doubt that participation in the talent showcase also develops the confidence, drive and determination of these young Capetonians. We are looking forward to hosting the event again in November 2017. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 8 1 SOCIAL IMPACT The Black Ties Our Cape Town Showcase The CTICC partnered with NowNow Events to develop “Our Cape Town Showcase”, a concert at which upcoming musical talent from Cape Town performed to an audience of event organisers, suppliers, CTICC clients and dedicated fans. Headlined by the Black Ties, another ten bands and musicians entertained the well-attended event, including Mathew Gold, BlackByrd and Wandile Mambeni. This was the first event of its kind that we had developed and it was great to connect local artists with powerful event planners. We are always happy to promote the creative industries, especially when it comes to local talent. We understand how difficult it is for new talent to get exposure to the business sector and recognise that, as a venue, we have a unique opportunity to provide a platform to showcase the incredible Acoustic Element talent Cape Town has to offer to a clientele that they would not necessarily have access to. “The CTICC is an inspirational and iconic brand and many artists aspire to perform at the venue, because the CTICC is synonymous with quality.” Enver Mally NowNow Events Director BlackByrd 82 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACt Santa Shoebox The CTICC was the flagship Cape Town drop-off point for the Santa Shoebox project, and provided the organisation with venue and event sponsorship. Staff also participated in this important initiative by donating shoe boxes filled with gifts. 1 000 Women 1 Voice Trust The CTICC sponsored the venue for this luncheon to raise money and awareness around the abuse of women and children. The CTICC also invited local community partners to the event, allowing them to network with organisations in similar fields. Cape Flats Development Association (CAFDA) The CTICC was approached by CAFDA to sponsor a table at their business breakfast, which staff attended in aid of CAFDA’s child development programme. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 8 3 SOCIAL IMPACT Youth Day CTICC hosted Youth Day for learners from Ikhaya le Themba, Mothers Unite and Mitchell's Plain School of Skills. Ikhaya le Themba facilitated the event, which involved guest speakers including CTICC staff who spoke about their studies and careers. Ruyterwacht Senior Centre The CTICC provided decorations, cupcakes and music for the Senior Centre’s Christmas party. SA Kinderhuis The CTICC arranged an Easter egg hunt for the children of the children’s home. 84 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACt Cosatu Senior Citizens Day The CTICC provided venue and event sponsorship for this very special Senior Citizens event. The Haven Night Shelter The CTICC sponsored care packs and donated food, crockery and cutlery. The CTICC also donated and installed a washing machine and tumble dryer at The Haven’s Napier Street branch on World Homelessness Day. Christine Revell Children’s Home The CTICC provided food, decorations and festive cheer to the young children at the Home. The Home cares for babies and children up to the age of five who have been referred by social workers and placed by order of a children’s court. Restoring Hope Association The CTICC donated food which helped feed the children attending the Association’s April holiday programme. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 8 5 SOCIAL IMPACt Supporting schools, building our future Throughout the year, the CTICC donated IT equipment, crockery, cutlery, floorboards, wood from stands and a range of other redundant stock and goods to schools in need. We always ensure that our donations go to schools where they will genuinely benefit the schooling environment and school facilities. The list of schools and education organisations we supported, and just some of the goods we donated to them, includes: Agape School Jamaica Primary School Tembaletu School Alpha School Linge Primary School Woodlands Primary School Alta du Toit School Lotus River Primary School York Road Primary School Arcadia Primary School Mitchell's Plain Primary School Ysterplaat Primary School Eziko Cooking & Catering School Sea Point Primary School Atlantis School of Skills Chatsworth Primary School Sarepta Primary School Batavia School of Skills Crestway Primary School Sid G Rule Primary School CAFDA School of Skills Goodwood Primary School Surrey Primary School Mitchell's Plain School of Skills Agape School Alpha School Alta du Toit School 4 Mini bar fridges 4 Grey office chairs 4 Galvanized bar counters 31 Cutting boards 3 Water coolers 1 Microwave oven 4 Silver cocktail tables 3 Mini bar fridges 1 Blender Arcadia Primary School Atlantis School of Skills Batavia School of Skills 7 Desktop PC Towers 1 Juice dispenser 12 Chairs 1 Video recorder 1 Oven trolley 2 Fridges 1 Laptop 1 Undercounter fridge with drawers 1 Silver table 86 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACt Eziko Cooking & Catering School CAFDA School of Skills Chatsworth Primary School 129 Drinking glasses 12 Chairs 15 Keyboards 114 Plastic dessert holders 4 Trolleys 1 Multiplayer 25 Square platters 5 Counters 3 Computers Jamaica Primary School Mitchell's Plain School of Skills Mitchell's Plain Primary School 2 Desktop PC Towers 4 Marble table tops 5 Printers 1 Laptop 1 Plate warmer 3 Computer monitors 1 Computer screen 6 Trolleys 6 Printers Sid G Rule Primary School Tembaletu School Woodlands Primary School 2 Silver fridges 94 Coffee jugs 8 Printers 3 Snapper frames 421 Tablecloths 10 Desktop PC Towers 7 Registration desks 9 Trays 1 Scanner Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 8 7 SOCIAL IMPACT Supporting the people of Knysna in their Real Concert Series it hosted on Saturday, 10 June 2017. hour of need Real Concerts used social media platforms to call on support and announce their intention to donate the proceeds Following the devastating fires in the Southern Cape in from the show to the fire relief efforts. Capetonian fans June 2017, the CTICC joined with its client Real Concerts responded strongly and the event was a sell-out success to make a serious donation to the traumatised community with almost 1 500 people attending the concert. of Knysna. The concert featured A-grade South African bands Prime According to news reports, seven people died in the fires. Circle, Just Jinjer and Tailor. Tickets were reduced in price Over 1 100 homes were destroyed and damaged, including and it was announced that the revenue from 1 000 tickets 150 informal structures. 10 000 people were evacuated (R200 000) would be donated to the Knysna relief fund. during the fires. The CTICC contributed to this pledge by donating the full Moved by the damage the area suffered, the CTICC venue rental cost to those affected by the Knysna fires. This partnered with Real Concerts in donating proceeds of the amounted to an additional R72 000. 88 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Celebrating the spirit of Madiba in the Cape Town CBD On Mandela Day (18 July), the CTICC brought the spirit of former South African president, Nelson Mandela, back to life very close to home. Staff at the CTICC celebrated the life and legacy of Madiba when they volunteered 67 minutes of their day by cooking and serving hot soup to refugees and asylum seekers who brave the cold, winter weather in long queues at the Department of Home Affairs at Customs House in FW de Klerk Boulevard, just across from our centre. Staff also volunteered 67 minutes with seniors who visited the centre as part of the Cosatu Senior Citizens Event, which takes place annually at the CTICC. Staff volunteered their time by preparing over 1 000 sandwiches for the event. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 8 9 SOCIAL IMPACT CTICC's 14th birthday CTICC celebrates 14 years by giving back to local community organisations The CTICC celebrated its 14th anniversary on 28 June by giving back to the community of Cape Town by donating R14 000 worth of much-needed goods and equipment to each of its five local community partners (LCPs). The donation was worth R70 000 in total and included catering equipment, furniture, kitchen appliances, IT and office equipment. The five local community organisations, namely Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR), The CTICC donated R14 000 Ikhaya le Themba, Journey of Enrichment and Mothers Unite, were asked to identify critical items they need to enhance and improve their operations. worth of much-needed goods and equipment Our 14th birthday presented the ideal opportunity for the CTICC to each of its five local community partners to celebrate and support the work done by our local community partners. So often non-profit organisations receive funding for projects but run the risk of not being able to fulfil their mandate because they do not have the operational resources required. We hope the items provided by the CTICC will allow our LCPs to not only sustain, but also extend, the positive work they are doing in and around Cape Town. 90 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Ikhaya le Themba Journey of Enrichment Abalimi Bezekhaya The Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 9 1 SOCIAL IMPACT Enhancing staff performance through education and training 4 552 The CTICC makes developing and training its employees a priority at every level of the business. Training at the CTICC embraces the four key aspects of skills Hours of training development: statutory, vocational, developmental and spent on permanent values-based leadership. The training we offer covers all these and temporary staff areas and focuses mainly on capacity building, leadership development, team building, change management, effective employee engagement and coaching. In the year under review, 4 520 hours of training were spent 6.4% on permanent staff and 32 hours on temporary staff. For of total salary bill permanent and temporary staff, this represented 2 232 hours invested in training against a target of 5% for female staff and 2 320 hours for male staff. In addition to the above, 370 hours of training were provided to 1 190 contract staff. This is over and above the daily on-the-job training such staff receive. Almost Skills development is essential to ensure the centre fulfils its R3m strategic mandate and makes its vision a reality. spent on training in the year under review 92 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Training is a priority at every level of the business Short-term training Long-term training Short-term training is useful in upgrading employee skills, is Long-term training is essential for talent management and essential for knowledge transfer and assists in the day-to-day retention. The CTICC is proud of its record in incorporating management of the business. Over the period, 101 individual training that develops employees towards long-term career CTICC staff members received the following short-term goals. The centre has provided 31 permanent staff members training: with ten different forms of long-term training this year, equating • Barista/Bartending to 150 months in total. Sixteen of these staff members were • Business Writing male and fifteen were female. • Comptia N+ Networking Certification • Chartered Institute of Management Accounting (CIMA) • Customer Care, Sales and Service • Digital Brand Strategy • Digital Marketing & Communications • Electrical M0-M3, M4-M6 & Trade Test • Emotional Intelligence • National Diploma in Events Management • Employment Equity • Institute for Certified Bookkeepers (ICB) Business Literacy • Events Safety Management • Management of Food & Beverage Services • Fire Fighting • Minimum Municipal Competency • First Aid & Life Support • National Education Board in Occupational Safety & Health • Health & Safety (NEBOSH) International Diploma • InDesign Software • Purchasing and Supply Management • Industrial Relations • Senior Management Development • Internal Auditing (ISO 9001:2015) • Internal Auditing (OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2015) • Microsoft Server 2012 & Office • Office Administration • Procurement & Contract Methodology 150 • Professional Development for Convention Centre Managers • Project Management • Qlikview Months’ worth of long-term training • Report Writing provided to 31 permanent staff members • Security Management • Social Media Training • Supervisory Skills • Time Management • Wine Education Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 9 3 SOCIAL IMPACT Knowledge exchange and professional development programmes CTICC 2 concourse The CTICC also supports staff development by selecting staff to participate in international knowledge exchange programmes, summits and professional development programmes. They provide a targeted, industry-specific form of training and development, as well as opportunities to establish the kind of industry networks that facilitate future professional growth. AIPC Academy AIPC Sales & Marketing Summit 12–16 February 2017, Brussels, Belgium 13 May 2017, Frankfurt, Germany This intensive and comprehensive five-day training programme In partnership with IMEX, AIPC holds a sales and marketing was themed “Addressing Today’s Centre Management summit each year, prior to IMEX Frankfurt, the annual worldwide Challenges” and was aimed at staff seeking to broaden exhibition for incentive travel, meetings and events. This year their knowledge of the industry and prepare for more senior topics included: management responsibilities. Using a diverse international • The future of place branding – what it means for your faculty and range of guest presenters, it offered a full curriculum destination; and a comprehensive industry overview with ongoing updates • Industry trends impacting centre marketing; of all key areas of centre management, operations, finances and • Advancing meeting objectives in the corporate world; marketing. It was attended by our Assistant General Manager: Food & Beverage & Operations and our Finance Controller. • Association meetings: responding to the evolving landscape. The CEO was a panellist for the topic: “What’s keeping centre CEOs awake at night?” This session discussed the top issues AIPC Facility Operations Summit that CEOs are addressing today and what implications these 27–29 November 2016, Barcelona, Spain have on sales, marketing and service strategies. The CTICC CEO, The Facility Operations Summit remains one of the very few GM: Commercial & Business Development and International opportunities that centre staff working in these key areas have Business Development Manager attended the summit. to come together for a collective look at issues of common concern. The summit’s topics include: • Security and risk management; • Integrated client servicing; • Outsourcing; • Function space adaptation; • New innovations. The CEO and the GM: Food & Beverage attended the Summit. The CEO presented on “Strategies for Future Space Needs”. 94 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Municipal Regulations on Minimum Human Resources has put a plan in place to address outstanding competencies given the constraints imposed on Competency levels the management team by their operational commitments. The Accounting Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Notwithstanding this, all managers in the employ of CTICC Managers, financial officials in middle management, heads of have the qualifications, skills, experience and capacity necessary Supply Chain Management Units and Supply Chain Managers to fulfil the responsibilities of their respective positions. of a municipal entity must be competent in the unit standards Attainment of competency levels within prescribed timeframes prescribed for financial and supply chain management is not included in individual performance agreements. This, competency areas as set out in the Municipal Regulations on instead, is measured at organisational level and is included in Minimum Competency Levels. the CTICC’s key performance targets. Level of management Number of employees Modules completed Modules outstanding Chief Executive Officer 1 3 12 Chief Financial Officer 1 10 5 Senior Management 3 12 23 Middle Finance Management 2 17 8 Supply Chain Management 3 32 12 Total 10 74 60 Human rights and anti-corruption training performance In addition, 22 employees (11.96%) received a total of 16 hours each of formal training in the CTICC’s policies and procedures on human rights issues: 352 hours training in all. During the year under review, the CTICC had no incidents of discrimination and as such no actions were required. The CTICC also directly employs one person to manage safety and security and oversee its external security contractors. The manager is trained on all policies and procedures relating to the company and the relevant aspects of human rights. The outsourced security services at the CTICC are governed by a comprehensive Service Level Agreement (SLA) that requires all security personnel be trained and licensed as per the Private Security Industry Regulatory Act. Labour practices and employee engagement performance Employees can put forward any concerns regarding Conditions 352 Hours training on CTICC’s policies of Employment, Employment Equity and Skills Development and procedures with their line managers. The CTICC also has an Employee Relations Forum (ERF) in place, with staff-nominated ERF representatives who take a collective approach to resolving employee relations matters. Concerns can be raised directly with the HR department or via the ERF. Fair labour practices and human rights principles are adhered to at the CTICC and are also included in all contractor procurement processes. This includes protection against child, forced and compulsory labour. The CTICC does not have any employees who are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. The centre has 14 employees (8.3%) who belong to the South African Commercial, Catering and Allied Workers Union (SACCAWU). Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 9 5 SOCIAL IMPACT Developing the performance of the events and hospitality sector The CTICC has a proven track record in training and skills transfer, as can be seen by the training review above and the training and promotion stories which follow. This contributes to both the local and international events and hospitality sectors. In the year under review, the centre continued to build on this reputation, by focusing on dedicated staff and promising young individuals in particular. Impressively, two of our graduates have recently successfully applied for an internship with the Walt Disney Company and will be in Florida, based at their flagship resort, Walt Disney World, by the time this report is available. We are particularly proud of them – and even prouder that they will be bringing back their experience to share with us on their return. Kwanele Makhaye and Nosihle Zondo Graduates fly CTICC flag at their international internships in October 2017 and will return Disney World, Florida to complete their contracts with the CTICC in October 2018. The CTICC’s student and graduate programmes provide valuable They will be working in the Full-Service Food and Beverage in-service training and work skills to young people starting Department at the Walt Disney World Resort, specialising in their career in the hospitality and event management sectors. food and beverage, and cuisine. They will surely gain valuable The CTICC is particularly proud that two of its graduates have experience while there. successfully earned a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to work Nosihle holds a National Diploma in Hospitality Management at the world-famous Walt Disney World Resort in the United and Kwanele holds a National Diploma in Catering States of America. Management. Both were part of the CTICC’s six-month Student The resort is the flagship theme park of the Walt Disney Programme while completing their studies and were then company and the most visited vacation resort in the world, awarded bursaries as part of the group of 13 students who according to CNN Travel. 22-year-old Nosihle Zondo and benefited from the centre’s 13th Birthday Bursary Programme. 21-year-old Kwanele Makhaye will be joining the resort’s WorkThis R400 000 scheme included acceptance onto the CTICC’s Integrated Learning Programme for one year. Graduate Programme, which provides graduates with a oneyear employment contract at the CTICC. The pair applied for the chance to work at the prestigious tourist destination whilst completing their studies through Durban University of Technology (DUT). After successful interviews, the duo were informed that they were chosen and would start 96 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT CTICC graduates and students Following their graduation, Nosihle and Kwanele returned to “Coming straight from school and working the CTICC and were incorporated into the CTICC’s Graduate at the CTICC has helped me with my Programme as Hospitality Graduates. Nosihle has been assisting communication. I was shy and not confident the CTICC Food & Beverage Department’s Revenue Manager with the revenue and spend of the various events, including but working here has taught me to approach international and national conferences, banquets, exhibitions people.” and special events. Kwanele has been assisting with the set-up Nosihle Zondo of different types of events, managing clients’ expectations CTICC Hospitality Graduate and needs, assisting Event Service Managers during events and servicing client orders on the floor. “The CTICC helped me a lot in terms of dealing It is the first time Nosihle and Kwanele have travelled outside of South Africa and the two were excited about the opportunity to with challenges, understanding what people gain international experience. Both agreed that the opportunity need, and also understanding what to expect was a chance to represent the CTICC and take advantage of the from people.” experience to apply what they have learnt when they return to Kwanele Makhaye the CTICC in 2018 and complete their employment contracts. CTICC Hospitality Graduate Supporting students and graduates • Secondly, we offer promising graduates a full year’s to perform employment contract as part of our Graduate Programme, so they can gain valuable work experience after they have At the CTICC, we run three programmes for talented and graduated. Graduates are exposed to all operational areas of passionate young people interested in pursuing a career in the the business in order to obtain a comprehensive grounding event management and hospitality sectors. in facilities and event management; • Firstly, our Student Placement Programme offers • Thirdly, our 13th Birthday Bursary Scheme, launched academically deserving students studying relevant courses in June 2016, set aside R400 000 in tertiary education the opportunity to do a six-month internship while they funding, providing bursaries to 13 full-time students who are studying. Courses in event and hospitality management demonstrated solid academic performance, had a passion often require practical experience as a requirement for for the events and hospitality sectors and who required successful completion and our Student Programme helps financial assistance to complete their studies. The scheme promising students to complete their studies with the best included acceptance onto the CTICC’s Graduate Programme experience possible; and a one-year employment contract. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 9 7 SOCIAL IMPACT The power of training and promotion: how investing in our people benefits the CTICC Alex Gird, Charné Godfrey, Sibongiseni Gcelu and Mario Tito The following promotion and training experiences come from a wide range of CTICC staff across all departments and talk to the benefits of long-term training and career dedication for not only the individuals concerned and the CTICC, but also the events and hospitality sector as a whole. Promotion Success Stories Sibongiseni Gcelu whatever we have planned is executed precisely and correctly. As Executive Sous Chef, I am also involved in menu planning Former Positions: and costing, and responsible for the food and staff costs and Chef de Partie, Junior Sous Chef, Sous Chef, Senior Sous Chef budgets, as well as making revenue targets. New Position: What do you like about working at the CTICC? Executive Sous Chef The CTICC has a great team. The building itself also has one of Promoted: the biggest kitchens. Working in such a big team comes with August 2016 challenges, which I love. Working here also provides me with the opportunity to meet clients from all over the world. Joined CTICC: January 2006 Which of the events that you have worked on stand out for you and why? Which qualities do you think led to your promotion? The Cape Town International Jazz Festival stands out. It’s a very My management skills, that I am reliable, experienced, big event and we welcome a lot of guests through our doors. responsible and accountable, and pay careful attention to detail, The planning before the event is overwhelming. During the led to my promotion. I’ve been in the industry for a couple event you have to produce for thousands of people. It takes of years and have learnt a great deal working in companies great planning and you have to think on your feet to make it and with excellent chefs. All of these, I believe, held me in successful. There are so many people in the building and we good stead and are some of the reasons why I received this have to make sure that they experience five-star service. promotion. What do you like about being an Executive Sous Chef? How do you feel about your promotion? I love leading a team and being in the position of making I feel great. It gives me an opportunity to lead a big team. This decisions. I like being responsible for what happens in the promotion also allows me to make decisions. It comes with its kitchen and if something does go wrong it comes to me first challenges but I love finding solutions to challenges. before it goes to the Executive Chef. How will your day-to-day job now change? Before, I was more involved in the operational running of the floor. Now I am more involved in planning, making sure that 98 | C ap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 20 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Charné Godfrey How will your day-to-day job now change? I previously held the position of Operations Coordinator where Former Positions: I dealt directly with exhibitors. Now, in my current position, I Banqueting Student, Food & Beverage Controller Assistant, am responsible for making sure that what the client envisages Operations Service Coordinator for his/her event, happens. New Position: What do you like about working at the CTICC? Event Executive I appreciate the growth opportunities. There is so much to learn Promoted: and experience at the CTICC. June 2017 Which of the events that you’ve worked on stand out Joined CTICC: for you and why? September 2014 The Cape Town International Jazz Festival is one that stands out. Working on the festival afforded me the opportunity Which qualities do you think led to your promotion? to work on different aspects of the event. I was exposed to I would like to think that my positive attitude and hardworking the inner workings of the Food & Beverage department and traits have contributed to my promotion. I consider the ability experienced how the CTICC’s front of house functioned during to motivate myself, as well as my passion for the industry, as the festival. two of my biggest strengths. What do you like about being an Event Executive? How do you feel about your promotion? I enjoy the interaction with different clients, the pressure that I was ecstatic and really proud of myself. This is the right career comes with the job and watching an event come together. move and it could not have happened at a better time. What do you still hope to achieve? I see myself in a more senior or management role in the future; but for now I’m focusing on my new position as I have a lot to learn to ensure that I am well on my way to my future goals. Mario Tito What do you like about working at the CTICC? I love working with the team. They are a group of awesome Former Position: people. The CTICC is a great company to work at and provides Assistant Event Services Manager staff with the opportunity to learn and grow. New Position: Which of the events that you have worked on stand Event Services Manager out for you and why? Promoted: The Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show is one that stands out. The June 2017 client allowed me to give ideas and input and I felt part of their team. It was a challenging event and I had to plan and think on Joined CTICC: my feet but I enjoyed every moment. February 2014 What do you like about being an Event Service Manager? Which qualities do you think led to your promotion? It is very important to like what you do. My new position I am a dedicated person and I always try my best to keep the has given me the courage to motivate others and it has also company traditions on high. I am very energetic and believe I provided me with the opportunity to meet and work with local have a positive and caring outlook. I believe that I am able to and international visitors, delegates and clients. communicate well with people from different backgrounds. I like to help others and share the little bit of knowledge I have. How do you feel about your promotion? I feel really good about it. It is a great opportunity for me to learn even more. I was excited and my colleagues were very excited and supportive. How will your day-to-day job now change? I have more responsibilities and oversee various aspects of an event once it is in the building. I now also liaise with clients. This position is also more physical than my previous position and I need to keep fit at all times. Ca pe Town I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R ep o r t | 9 9 SOCIAL IMPACT Alex Gird world. I chose to go on this training course because I believe that it will help me immensely with providing our clients with Former Position: the best options for their events. Electrical Technician How do you think you have grown at the CTICC? New Position: I have learnt a lot more about stock control, which is a core Assistant Maintenance Manager function of my position. Personally, through gaining valuable Promoted: experience in dealing with people, I have also become a bit April 2017 more extroverted and confident. Joined CTICC: Worked as a CTICC contractor since 2003 and What were the best parts of the course for you? then joined the CTICC as a permanent employee in 2012. The course itself was an eye-opener and a great experience for me. I enjoyed learning about wine pairing and the production Which qualities do you think led to your promotion? of wine and spirits. I believe that I am a very hard worker that does not mind putting in the extra hours to get the job done. I am very passionate How will you be using your training on the job? about my work and I am not one to leave an issue unresolved. I am passionate about sourcing and buying beverages and this I take personal pride in my work and believe this is a reflection training has given me the ability to source different wines and of oneself. spirits better for our clients. I also hope to impart what I have learnt to my colleagues, so that we can all provide a better How do you feel about your promotion? service to our clients and visitors. I am very fortunate to have received this promotion and I believe it reflects that my work does not go unnoticed. What are your plans for the future? I plan to walk a long road with the CTICC and I believe that Charlene du Preez: Senior Procurement Officer this promotion has opened the door for me to a managerial Training: position. Programme in Purchasing and Supply Management, UNISA What do you like about working at the CTICC? Period: My work at the CTICC is different every day and the most July 2016 – June 2017 (1 year) enjoyable part is problem solving and positive outcomes. Joined CTICC: Which of the events that you’ve worked on stand out March 2016 for you and why? What was the course about and why did you select The event that will always stand out for me above all is the this training? 2010 World Cup final draw. It was amazing to be part of that The course is a Certificate in Purchasing and Supply team. Another event that stands out is the annual Cape Premier Management. I chose this course because I am passionate Yearling Sale. The Yearling Sale kicks off the year for me. about what I am currently doing and would like to broaden my knowledge about supply chain management. I believe it Training Success Stories will also help me to further my career. How have you grown at the CTICC? Phatiswa Mlisa: Food and Beverage My knowledge of supply chain management has increased Store Supervisor immensely and I am able to better perform my duties because of this. I have also had the opportunity of building new Training: relationships, which is imperative in my position. Wine Education Course, Wine & Spirit Education Trust (WSET) Level 2, International Wine Education Centre What were the highlights of the course for you? Receiving the notification that I passed! I enjoyed the learning Period: experience because it’s been a while since I had any formal 30 – 31 January 2017 (2 days) training. The course gave me some much-needed perspective. I Joined CTICC: also enjoyed learning about the purchasing tools. This gave me February 2010 a better understanding of purchasing as a whole and clarity on the difference between normal purchasing and procurement What was the course about and what made you select in government. this training? This is a wine and spirit training course. I learnt about wine tasting, food and wine pairing, wine service and storage, responsible drinking, labelling of wines and spirits, the different varieties of grapes and the key wine-producing regions of the 100 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT Back (left to right): Dave Logie, Darrin de Villiers, Simphiwe Dantyi Front (left to right): Charlene du Preez, Phatiswa Mlisa, Warda Gertse Darrin de Villiers: Electrical Assistant Dave Logie: ICT Manager Training: Training: Electrical M4-M6 (Module 4 – Module 6), Electrical Contractors Senior Management Development Programme, USB-ED Association (ECA) Period: Period: May 2017 – October 2017 (6 months) 10 April – 5 May 2017 (1 month) Joined CTICC: Joined CTICC: February 2015 September 2011 What is the course about and why did you select this Have you completed the course or is it still ongoing? training? The practical part of the training is completed. I’m waiting for The course was about equipping senior managers with the paperwork to complete my electrical trade test. knowledge and skills to function in a business environment, as well as to develop the necessary expertise to tackle managerial What is the course about and why did you select and leadership challenges. I chose this course because I wanted this training? to develop my ability to translate strategies into action. It is an electrical training course. I did not have formal training in my field, so this training was invaluable. How have you grown at the CTICC? Since being in this position, it has taught me to adapt and rise to What were the highlights of the course for you? the many challenges that we face on a daily basis. I have learnt The highlight of my training was completing Module 5, which a lot over my last two years and it has taught me to change my involves the wiring of motors. I did not have any formal training thinking and way of working with people and clients. Being a in this field. I now have a better understanding of how certain manager has also afforded me the opportunity to implement components work. With the training I am now able to do the new and exciting initiatives which I hope will only better the work in the correct way. CTICC’s offering to its clients and visitors. What were the highlights of the course for you? There were many highlights but what stuck out most was the importance of change management, team work and collaboration, and how important it is in the daily operation of a business. The strategic planning module was also extremely helpful. It showed me how a company strategy, vision and mission can inform almost every decision you need to make. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 0 1 SOCIAL IMPACT Simphiwe Dantyi: Maintenance Team Leader Warda Gertse: Marketing Officer Training: Training: Electrical M0–M3 (Module 0 – Module 3), Electrical Contractors Digital Brand Strategy, Vega School of Brand Leadership Association (ECA) Period: Period: February – May 2017 (13 weeks) 13 March – 7 April 2017 (3 weeks) Joined CTICC: Joined CTICC: March 2016 February 2007 What is the course about and why did you select this What was the course about and why did you select this training? training? The purpose of the course was to enable students to think The course was about the wiring and installation of electrical strategically about building a digital brand presence. It also equipment. I completed the introductory section of the course taught us how to integrate digital marketing tactics into our during this period, which looked at electrical tools, pliers, overall marketing strategy and to maximise the performance electrical testers and tube spanners, amongst other things. As of online marketing investments. I selected this training as a child, I always loved working with anything electrical. I have the course is relevant to my role. It allows me to look at the always had a passion for it and always wanted to make it my company’s current digital presence and identify ways that we career and learn more about it. I chose this training because it can improve it. afforded me the opportunity to gain valuable insight into the What were the highlights of the course for you? mechanics of wiring and installation. The highlights of the course were being exposed to examples of How have you grown as a staff member and team leader case studies showcasing the power of having a digital presence at the CTICC? and the importance of keeping up with the digital times. It I previously held the position of air conditioning and refrigeration created awareness of the opportunities available to the CTICC assistant. When I started at the CTICC six years ago, I did not to market ourselves on a larger scale via digital platforms. As have the confidence I have today. Taking up the position of we move with the digital times, our target audience is also team leader, I have learnt a lot from working and interacting moving and we need to be kept current and relevant in the with staff, clients and visitors to make sure all our events are a digital space – locally and globally. success and run smoothly. Name an aspect of the training that you found most What were the highlights of the course for you? helpful for your job? And why? Being able to wire a distribution board and connect and wire Understanding the digital consumer holistically was helpful to plugs, geysers, refrigerators and anything that requires wire be able to enhance our marketing collateral, campaigns and connections. The aspect that was most helpful was learning promotions to reach our audience. about electrical tools and how to make sure we work safely at all times. Engaging a committed workforce through performance review At the CTICC we view effective performance management as the baseline for a high performance, learning culture. Our employees complete informal quarterly performance reviews with their line managers, at which they discuss their job descriptions, agreed performance criteria and their performance against those criteria. All CTICC employees also undergo two “We offer a performance-based incentive formal performance assessments per year. scheme to all permanent staff. The assessment We offer a performance-based incentive scheme to all for incentive awards is informed by individual permanent staff. The assessment for incentive awards is Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). ” informed by individual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). These are identified and agreed between each staff member and their line manager. These individual KPIs are linked to our organisational KPIs, aligning individual performance with organisational goals. All scheduled performance reviews were completed in the year under review. Performance reviews and company performance inform employee bonuses and salary increases. 102 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t SOCIAL IMPACT The power of customer Performing with panache: feedback the CTICC’s new uniform Delivering high levels of customer satisfaction CTICC’s new staff uniform The CTICC is a service business so delivering high levels of When representing a world-class brand such as the CTICC, customer satisfaction lies at the heart of everything we do. a uniform is more than just a uniform. It is a visual and Consequently, we contract an independent company to tactile expression of the values, service and standing of the measure our customer satisfaction levels on a monthly basis. organisation. The majority of our staff are customer-facing and The client surveys are composed of face-to-face, telephonic and professional and comfortable corporate clothing allows them email interviews with event organisers of nearly every event we to perform to the best of their abilities on behalf of our clients. host. The survey is designed to measure customer experience Striking a balance between fashion and function can be a at every experience touch point, including: challenge and in line with this year’s annual report theme, • Audio-visual services; we wanted it to be a professional yet up-to-date look that • Cleanliness of venue; would perform with power and panache. That means there • Coffee shop; were practical requirements with regard to durability, quality • Conference and exhibition services; finishings, stitching and ensuring the clothing is machine • Cuisine – food and beverage; washable. We were also insistent that the clothing be made in • Service of Event Executives; the Western Cape by a South African manufacturer. This is a • Service of Event Service Managers; major investment for the CTICC and one that we believed must benefit local suppliers. • Ease of doing business; • IT and telecommunication services; Ordinary and conventional black was out and grey is in – as is • Parking and marshalling yard services; pinstripe. Classic grey suits with a pinstripe for both men and • Service of reception staff; women can be varied for women by combining the suit with a shirt or tunic, or wearing a dress with the jacket for a more • Safety and security; formal look. For men, again the black suits have gone and grey • Service of Sales Executives; pinstripe suits, white shirts and red ties have replaced them. • Venue climate control; • Waitron service. All of this takes us into the new era of the combined CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 complex. A great new look for a brand new CTICC. For the year under review, we received an overall customer satisfaction index of 84%, a healthy 8% above our KPI target of 76%. The results of these customer experience surveys are used to educate our staff about our clients’ requirements with a view to finding ways to not only satisfy these expectations but also, indeed, exceed them. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 0 3 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 104 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE: PRESERVING OUR PLANET The power of nurturing our world A team composed of representatives from across all our divisions meets once a month to review the upcoming events The CTICC’s commitment to the planet’s preservation – calendar and identify events where waste can be upcycled to economic, social and environmental – is about far more than drive and reduce waste to landfill. Other items discussed at the ticking the boxes of triple-bottom-line reporting. We have monthly Sustainable Events Task Team (SETT) meeting are waste never shied from that imperative. However, our commitment and sustainability statistics and operational needs surrounding has always been ahead of the game. And now, with an ongoing food waste, electrical usage, water restrictions and use, as well drought in our province, we have a particular commitment to as the disposal of hazardous waste. This process supports our saving as much as we can of this increasingly precious resource. established Nurture Our World (NOW) initiative. Saving Carbon Energy Footprint Waste Environmental Management Sustainability Saving Water Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 0 5 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Responding to the need to save water in an ongoing drought 106 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT During the year under review, the drought in the Western Cape worsened and the province is now under severe water restrictions. With dams in the province just 35% full, it is critical that we all do whatever we can to reduce our water consumption. THE TIME As a result of water saving initiatives over time, the CTICC now uses 10 million litres less water per year than it did five years TO ago and this year used 42 600 kilolitres of water. We intend this trend to continue. SAVE WATER IS NOW In addition to the many water saving initiatives introduced over the years, the CTICC has placed special emphasis on reducing our water consumption in the financial year and will continue to build on this in years to come. Water saving initiatives implemented this year include: • Ceasing of landscaping irrigation with potable water; • Installation of water tanks in the CTICC’s P3 parking area to collect and store 10 000 litres of grey water – captured from the washbasins in the building’s ablution facilities. The centre’s operations and maintenance department identified the appropriate grey water pipes and its common exit points before it connect to any sewer line. Meters will be connected to the tanks to measure the amount of water captured; • Utilisation of harvested grey water to irrigate landscaping within and surrounding the CTICC; • Reduction in the flow rate of the basin tap water in all of the CTICC’s ablution facilities; • Installation of 45 000 litres of water storage for rain water harvesting. This is currently being used for inside irrigation, as well as window and floor washing. Our overall target for water storage – both rainwater and grey water – is 100 000 litres; THE FUTURE • Installation of electronic sub-metering throughout the building to allow us to track our water usage more accurately and enhance our ability to detect leaks throughout the buildings; OF WATER IS IN YOUR • Running an awareness campaign to educate staff and HANDS visitors on water saving actions which they can implement at home and in the workplace. These consistent water usage awareness drives with both staff and clients – particularly international clients unaware of our water usage challenges – help us in our endeavours. The current state of the Western Cape water crisis was a key factor in our decision to implement these initiatives. However, they will form part of the centre’s standard environmental sustainability practices beyond the current water crisis. We will continue to seek ways in which to minimise our water use. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 0 7 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Improving our environmental performance daily Saving energy through natural light The CTICC continues to provide the following services in order We are also concerned about energy conservation and to mitigate its own environmental impact across all its products so we: and services. • Use natural light in venues, whenever practical, in We support conservation and recycling in the following consultation with our clients; ways. We: • Have designed CTICC 2 to maximise the use of natural light. • Provide recycled/green conference stationery notepads, In particular, we are concerned here in the Western Cape pencils and pens; with water conservation, so we: • Serve Forest Alliance coffee and a number of fair trade • Recycle rainwater from capture points for cleaning services wines; such as window-washing and irrigation; • Use locally-produced food and only serve fish on the WWF • Collect and recycle grey water from the hand washbasins Southern African Sustainable Seafood Initiative (SASSI) for gardening; green list; • Monitor activities from exhibitors for plumbing orders. • Provide water bottled on-site in reusable glass bottles or jugs Previously fresh water was used for ballast at exhibitions using the Vivreau system; for the erection of external structures. We have barred this • Discuss event greening and ways to offset their carbon activity and only allow sand or seawater-filled ballasts. footprint with our clients; Finally, we are fully committed to diverting as much • Include a green events checklist with our marketing material waste as we can away from landfill, so we: and on our website to raise awareness about event greening; • Provide a multi-bin system to encourage recycling with • Print on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) approved paper; separation at source; • Offer wines which are fully organic and biodynamic; • Try to source wine bottles that are corkless (i.e. screwtop) • Contribute R2.50 per delegate to the Nurture Our World and to dispose of corks in special recycling bins; (NOW) Fund for each full-day conference, half-day • Collect redundant event material from exhibitions or conference, full English or continental breakfast package conferences and donate it to not-for-profit organisations. purchased. These funds are used to support the CTICC’s local community partners. 108 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Continuously powering down our energy usage Motion sensor escalators increase energy saving During the 12 months under review, the CTICC used 31 161.3 gigajoules of energy from primary sources (fuel) and electricity generation. This is a 6.0% reduction in energy usage over the previous year and a 10.2% overall reduction since our baseline measurement in 2012/13. The following tables and graph illustrate this positive energy saving trend. Year Total kWh Fuel Litres Total Gigajoules Year-on-Year Baseline 2012/13 2014/15 9 471 860 3 985.2 34 245.0 -4.1% -1.4% 2015/16 9 199 200 1 248.8 33 161.8 -3.2% -4.5% 2016/17 8 643 600 1 237.9 31 161.3 -6.0% -10.2% Gigajoules per annum 35 000 30 000 25 000 20 000 15 000 10 000 5 000 0 6% Reduction in energy usage over the 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 past year Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 0 9 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Windaba 2016 Reducing our electricity consumption Although no power interruptions have been experienced in the year under review, in the past financial year, the CTICC installed The CTICC’s electricity consumption average consists of three additional generators to ensure that the demand at two factors: kVA (kilovolt-ampere, peak demand) and kWh CTICC 1 would be met irrespective of any power interruptions. (kilowatt-hours, power consumption). These generators add an additional 2 500 kVA to the generation The figures for electricity use shown below demonstrate a capacity we already have. This ensures that we can now also saving of 46 300 kWh (against a reduction of 22 722 kWh in run our chiller plant and cooling system up to 80% in the case the previous year), which equates to an average saving of 6.0% of interruption in power supply. These units are also being fitted in electricity consumption per month. kVA peak average usage with new technology controllers for better fuel consumption has also been further reduced by 4.5% from the previous year. control and will alert us timeously to the need for preventative maintenance. Year kVA kWh kWh/Day kWh/m2 Average Average Average cost kVA cost kWh cost per month per month per month 2014/15 2 325 789 322 25 881 0.5 R405 024 R461 040 R866 063.90 2015/16 2 215 766 600 25 132 0.5 R428 655 R497 117 R925 772.42 2016/17 2 117 720 300 23 640 0.4 R435 530 R503 931 R939 461.89 Reduction -4.5% -6.0% Average monthly kWh per annum (kWh) 800 000 700 000 600 000 500 000 400 000 300 000 46 300 kWh Saved energy usage 200 000 over the past year 100 000 0 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 110 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Maintaining our recycling power and minimising our waste The CTICC further reinforces its environmental commitment On-site recycling continues to be a vital waste management by remaining vigilant about waste reduction in general and cog, with separation into three key categories taking place minimising waste being sent to landfill in particular. There at source via our brightly coloured recycling bins in the public has been an impressive trajectory that started with just 25% and service areas of the centre. These divide recyclables diversion from landfill in the 2010/11 financial year. This year (plastic, paper, cardboard, glass, metals and other recyclable we achieved an 84% diversion score. Our recycling begins with items) from organic produce (leftover food) and other waste a rigorous policy of eco-procurement, working primarily with to landfill. They remain an essential first base in our waste suppliers who offer reusable and recyclable products. reduction strategy. Total weight and diversion of waste by type and disposal method (in metric tonnes) 42.9 14.3 Paper & Board Glass 64.6 15.5 Compostable Plastics 599.5 Total 84% Diversion 5.0 5.0 Hazardous Metals 92.3 359.9 Landfill Mixed Recyclables Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 1 1 GOVERNANCE 112 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE ENGAGING STAKEHOLDERS, IMPROVING PERFORMANCE, REDUCING RISK Governance commitment Changes to the Board The company’s Board of Directors (“the Board”) subscribes Messrs Hlompho Ntoi and Sandise Sibanda were appointed to the principles as set out in the King Report on Corporate as Independent Non-executive Directors of the Board on Governance for South Africa 2009 (“King III”). The Board 25 August 2016. Mr Tim Harris was appointed by the Western places a strong emphasis on maintaining high standards of Cape Government on 25 October 2016 and resigned on the financial management, accounting and reporting to ensure that 5 April 2017. Mr Gary Fisher resigned on 24 October 2016. the company’s affairs are managed in an ethical, transparent Mr Sandise Sibanda and Ms Ruwaida Eksteen resigned on and responsible manner, while also taking into consideration 11 May 2017. appropriate risk parameters. Board compensation and performance Board structure and responsibilities Remuneration of the Board of Directors, Executives and Senior The company has an experienced and stable Board of Directors, Managers is aligned with the Municipal Finance Management which directs, governs and is in effective control of its business. Act (MFMA). The Cape Town City Council sets and revises the The Board is ultimately responsible for determining the strategic upper limits of remuneration for the Board, as well as the CEO direction of the company through the establishment of strategic and all staff reporting directly to her. objectives and policies. The company has a unitary Board Bonuses are linked to performance and the Remuneration structure, with 12 Non-executive Directors and two Executive Committee determines the CEO’s performance bonus. The Directors, being the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial management team (senior and middle management) receive Officer. The roles of Chairperson and Chief Executive Officer performance bonuses in July, based on company performance, are separated. The Chairperson is a Non-executive Director. while the bonuses paid out in February each year are based A Lead Independent Director has been appointed to act in on personal performance. Shareholders approve the policy situations where the Chairperson of the Board may have a for Directors’ remuneration at every second Annual General conflict of interest. Meeting as required by the Companies Act. There are currently four vacancies on the Board. One is to be filled by a person nominated by SunWest International (Pty) Ltd, one nominated by the City of Cape Town, one nominated by the Western Cape Government and one nominated by the Board. A process is also underway to fill these vacancies. Board meetings are held at least quarterly to review the company’s performance against budgeted targets and more frequently if necessary. Board meetings are scheduled well in advance and Board members are provided with all relevant information to enable them to make informed decisions. A record is kept of each Director’s attendance at Board and committee meetings. The Directors may seek professional advice on matters concerning the affairs of the company. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 1 3 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORATE AND ADMINISTRATION FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2017 Directors Board Committees AM Boraine Audit and Risk Committee Chairperson BJ Lodewyk (Chairperson) Non-executive SW Fourie Appointed: 17/10/2006 EI Hamman AA Mahmood DA Cloete Non-executive Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Appointed: 27/10/2015 DA Cloete (Chairperson) AM Boraine J Ellingson BJ Lodewyk Chief Executive Officer HV Ntoi Appointed: 01/09/2014 Nominations Committee RSH Eksteen AM Boraine (Chairperson) Non-executive SW Fourie Appointed: 16/02/2014 RSH Eksteen Resigned: 11/05/2017 Social and Ethics Committee GM Fisher EI Hamman (Chairperson) Non-executive RSH Eksteen Appointed: 22/11/2011 AA Mahmood Resigned: 24/10/2016 J Ellingson SW Fourie CTICC Expansion Committee Non-executive AM Boraine (Chairperson) Appointed: 22/11/2014 DA Cloete EI Hamman CA(SA) S Myburgh-De Gois Lead Independent Director J Ellingson Non-executive Appointed: 20/04/2013 Administration T Harris Company Registration Number Non-executive 1999/007837/30 Appointed: 25/10/2016 Registered Office Resigned: 05/04/2017 Convention Square BJ Lodewyk CA(SA) 1 Lower Long Street Non-executive Cape Town Appointed: 20/04/2013 8001 AA Mahmood PO Box 8120 Non-executive Roggebaai 8012 Appointed: 20/04/2013 Company Secretary HV Ntoi Interim Company Secretary Outsourced Appointment: Non-executive SL Hallett-Hardenberg Appointed: 25/8/2016 Company: RSF COSEC S Myburgh-De Gois Auditor-General Non-executive Office of the Auditor-General Appointed: 16/02/2014 Private Bag X1 F Parker CA(SA) Chempet 7442 Chief Financial Officer Principal Bankers Appointed: 16/10/2012 ABSA Bank Ltd S Sibanda PO Box 7735 Non-executive Johannesburg 2000 Appointed: 25/08/2016 Resigned: 11/05/2017 114 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE Convenco Board of Directors Hlompho Andrew Boraine Ethel Hamman Julie-May Ellingson Vuyo Ntoi Sharon Barry Lodewyk Deon Cloete Fairoza Parker Myburgh-De Gois Solly Fourie Aklaaq Mahmood Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 1 5 GOVERNANCE Board Committees The Convenco Board committees operate in accordance with Expansion Committee the terms of reference defined in their respective charters. Regular reports on the committees’ activities are provided The Expansion Committee has been mandated by the Board to to the Board. The members of the committees are listed on oversee all aspects of the CTICC’s expansion. The committee page 114. currently comprises the Chairperson of the Board, two Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of the Audit and Risk Committee Company. Members of the company’s Executive Management team also attend meetings of the committee. The committee The Audit and Risk Committee is constituted as a statutory met four times during the year under review. committee of the company in respect of its statutory duties in terms of section 94(7) of the Companies Act and as a Social and Ethics Committee committee of the Board in terms of all other duties assigned to it by the Board. The committee currently comprises three The Social and Ethics Committee comprises three Non-executive independent Non-executive Directors and one Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The committee’s role Director appointed by one of the shareholders, all of whom is to monitor the company’s activities, having regard to relevant are suitably skilled, competent and experienced. The CEO and legislation, other legal requirements and/or prevailing codes CFO attend meetings of the committee. Both the internal and of best practice. The Social and Ethics Committee oversees external auditors have access to the committee and are invited matters related to social and economic development; good to attend committee meetings. corporate citizenship; and the environment. Matters of health and public safety, including the impact of the company’s The committee exercises oversight of the internal financial activities, fall within the purview of the committee. In addition, controls of the company. It reviews the adequacy and it also monitors matters related to the company’s products or effectiveness of: the financial reporting processes; accounting services and consumer relationships, including the company’s practices; management information systems; the system of advertising, public relations and compliance with consumer internal controls; the management of financial, investment protection laws and labour and employment. Its role is also and operational risks; the internal and external audit processes; to draw matters within its mandate to the attention of the and compliance with laws and regulations. The committee Board and to report, through one of its members, to the makes submissions to the Board regarding accounting policies, shareholders at the company’s Annual General Meeting on financial control, records and reporting. As the company the matters within its mandate. The committee is also tasked does not have a separate risk committee, the Audit and Risk with monitoring and reporting on the company’s approach and Committee also oversees the risk management process and implementation of ethics management across the business. monitors the implementation of the CTICC’s risk management The committee met three times during the year under review. plan and risk register, which is reviewed by the Board quarterly and approved annually. The committee meets at least quarterly. It met five times during the past financial year. Human Resources and Remuneration Committee The Human Resources and Remuneration Committee comprises four Non-executive Directors and meets at least four times for the purpose of reviewing annual salary increases, bonus incentives and the company’s remuneration strategy. The committee’s meetings are attended by the CEO, CFO and the Human Resources Manager of the company. It met four times during the past financial year. Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises three Non-executive Directors and is tasked with overseeing and making recommendations to the Board to ensure that: • The Board has the appropriate composition to execute its duties effectively; • Directors are appointed through a formal and transparent process; • Ongoing induction, training, development and evaluation of Directors take place. The committee met three times during the past financial year. 116 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE CTICC 1 – an iconic Cape Town building Details of Convenco Board composition 2017 Independence Coloured Above 50 Date of Female Male African Indian White 20 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 Surname First Names Appointment (*) Boraine Andrew Michael 17 Oct 2006 • • • (*) Cloete Deon Anton 27 Oct 2015 • • • (*) Eksteen Ruwaida Suzette Heidi 16 Feb 2014 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 11 May 2017) # Ellingson Julie-May 1 Sept 2014 • • • (#) Fisher Gary Morton 22 Nov 2011* (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 24 Oct 2016) (#) Fourie Solly William 22 Nov 2011 • • • * Hamman Ethel Irene 20 Apr 2013 • • • * Lodewyk Barry Joseph 20 Apr 2013 • • • * Mahmood Aklaaq Ahmed 20 Apr 2013 • • • (*) MyburghSharon 16 Feb 2014 • • • De Gois * Ntoi Hlompho Vuyo 25 Aug 2016 • • • # Parker Fairoza 16 Oct 2012 • • • * Sibanda Sandise 25 Aug 2016 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 11 May 2017) (*) Harris Tim 25 Oct 2016 (R) (R) (R) (Resigned 5 Apr 2017) Total 4 6 1 3 2 4 5 5 * Independent Non-executive (*) Independent Non-executive appointed by the City of Cape Town (#) Independent non-executive appointed by the Western Cape Government # Executive (R) Resigned during the year and not counted as part of the total Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 1 7 GOVERNANCE Convenco Board resignations Independence Surname First Names Date of Appointment Date of Resignation (#) Fisher Gary Morton 22 Nov 2011 24 Oct 2016 (#) Harris Tim 25 Oct 2016 5 Apr 2017 (*) Eksteen Ruwaida 16 Feb 2014 11 May 2017 * Sibanda Sandise 25 Aug 2016 11 May 2017 (*) Independent Non-executive appointed by the City of Cape Town (#) Independent Non-executive appointed by the Western Cape Government * Independent Non-executive Messrs Fisher and Sibanda resigned from the Board due to increased work commitments and Mr Sibanda also relocated to Johannesburg. Mr Harris resigned from the Board due to concerns about a possible conflict of interest given that a family member serves on the City of Cape Town’s Audit Committee. Ms Eksteen resigned following her engagement with the City of Cape Town and the Chairperson regarding her involvement as a member of the Board. Details of directors' meeting attendance 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017 Name of Director Board Audit and Risk HR and Nominations Social and Expansion Committee Remuneration Committee Ethics Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 10 5 4 3 3 4 AM Boraine 8 – 4 3 – 3 DA Cloete 10 – 3 – – 2 RSH Eksteen 6 – – 3 3 – JM Ellingson 10 (5) (4) (3) 2 4 GM Fisher 3 – – – – – SW Fourie 6 3 – 2 – – EI Hamman 9 4 – – 3 – BJ Lodewyk 10 5 4 – – – AA Mahmood 5 4 – – 2 – S Myburgh-De Gois 10 – – – – 4 HV Ntoi 8 (1) 3 – – 1 F Parker 6 (5) (4) – – 1 S Sibanda 5 – – – – 1 T Harris 3 – – – – 1 () Attended meeting in a capacity other than as a committee member A sub-committee of the Board comprising AM Boraine, DA Cloete, EI Hamman and BJ Lodewyk met five times during the financial year. 118 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE Compliance, good governance and risk management Audit and Risk Committee Precautionary principle approach to risk The Board places a strong emphasis on proactive risk management within the company and the Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the management of risk. The precautionary principle is used as a tool when making decisions that might pose a risk to the organisation. The objective of this principle is to prevent harm from the outset, rather than managing it after it has happened. There is a separate risk register for the CTICC 2 expansion, which is closely monitored by the Expansion Committee. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 1 9 GOVERNANCE Stakeholder engagement review National Conference Open Day As an important roleplayer in both the leisure and business tourism sectors globally, the CTICC engages with a number of different stakeholders, as identified in the About the CTICC section in this report. The list of key stakeholders and their respective roles follows in the table below. Our stakeholders and how they help us perform List of stakeholder groups Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Primary shareholder and investor. Important to governance of City of Cape Town the CTICC. Second largest shareholder and investor. Important to Western Cape Government governance of the CTICC. Clients: Professional conference, exhibition and event Vital to the financial sustainability of the CTICC. organisers Fundamental to the longevity, sustainability and reputation of CTICC staff the CTICC. Service partners Important to effective delivery on organisational goals/KPIs. Local community partners: Abalimi Bezekhaya, Established community-based organisation partnerships Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR), the since 2011 to strengthen community ties and offer ongoing Haven Night Shelter, Ikhaya le Themba, Journey of support to the valuable work of the organisations. New Enrichment, Mitchell's Plain School of Skills and partnerships with Ikhaya le Themba, Journey of Enrichment Mothers Unite and Mothers Unite were announced in January 2017. Business unit within the Official Tourism, Trade and Investment Promotion Agency for Cape Town and the Western Cape Cape Town Convention Bureau (Wesgro). A strategic alliance that assists in attracting international conferences to the CTICC and Cape Town. Raise the tourism profile of the city and region. Collaborating Tourism industry stakeholders in order to position the CTICC and the region at top of mind. Partner in raising awareness about the CTICC. Primary target Media audience for reputation management action plans. CCID: Safety and security stakeholders and hotel security Partner in ensuring safety and security of delegates during group events within the CBD and surrounding hotels. 120 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE How we engage with our stakeholders and shareholders International Hotel School site visit Our intention is to maximise stakeholder interaction, so a range African Chef’s Association and Chaîne des Rôtisseurs and the of events are arranged throughout the year. These include the Executive Assistant to the CEO is a member of the Professional regular CTICC Board meetings, the Annual General Meeting, Association for Secretaries and Administrative Assistants. shareholder meetings and social stakeholder events. These platforms allow for face-to-face discussions and are an The importance of employee engagement ideal way of receiving direct feedback from our shareholders The CTICC considers employees to be a vital stakeholder in the and stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement initiatives include: success of the centre. Many of our staff are customer-facing • A variety of client-specific events hosted throughout the and are vital ambassadors for our brand in that regard. We believe it is essential to engage and inform staff throughout year at which clients are able to provide direct input to the the year on the CTICC’s progress and plans. As such we use centre around challenges and concerns; the following platforms for this purpose: • A series of stakeholder events to which industry roleplayers, • At least four staff meetings per year designed to encourage media and suppliers are invited to engage with the CTICC; and inspire interaction and feedback. These meetings cover • Comprehensive “product and service” feedback sessions company performance, staff training presentations, staff as part of thorough client de-briefing sessions after each travel feedback and long service and star performer awards; key event; • Internal communication platforms such as the CTICC intranet, staff emails, KPA meetings and notice boards • Monthly client surveys conducted by an independent thirdupdate staff about company news on a continuous basis; party supplier; • Special staff incentive days include Poorman’s Fridays, • Extensive social media interaction with 22 270 Facebook which are informal, monthly staff get-togethers held on members and 6 063 Twitter followers as at 30 June 2017. the Friday before “payday”. Staff wear business casual dress A key stakeholder focus is our membership of both local and and the working day is capped with an informal cocktail international trade associations, which helps us to position the function with some good music and snacks; the intention CTICC as a global player in the conventions and events sector is to provide an opportunity to relax, catch a break from (a full list of our memberships is included in the About the stringent schedules and ultimately encourage better interCTICC section of this report on page 23). CTICC staff members departmental and company-wide employee relationships; are particularly active in these associations and our contribution • The staff year-end function is a further chance for staff to helps support and strengthen the industry both nationally and bond in a different setting in December. This is organised internationally. annually by the company’s Social Committee; Notably, the CEO is the first African representative to be voted • The annual staff team building took place in January onto the Board of the International Association of Congress 2017. The day was filled with team bonding and various Centres (AIPC) and has been re-elected in July 2017. The interactive as well as informative sessions. CTICC’s Business Development Manager: National served on the Board of the Exhibition Association of South Africa (EXSA). CTICC’s Executive Chef is a member of the South Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 2 1 GOVERNANCE CTICC 2 site visits During the financial year, the CTICC’s Commercial team was hard at work promoting the potential of CTICC 2 to new and existing clients and conducted over 25 site inspections of the expansion project with clients. Client feedback has been positive, especially around the amount of natural light in the venues, extensive balconies and outside space, modern features and the impressive views the venues offer. The expansion project also provided us with the ideal opportunity to re-engage with clients, discuss expectations and get early feedback on their upcoming events. The CTICC’s Business Development Managers received training to conduct the site visits as demand for site inspections had exceeded our expectations. The team procured vests, hard hats World Ophthalmology Congress and construction boots to conduct the visits responsibly. We CTICC 2 site inspection were proud to host the following clients and stakeholders on tours of our new facility and expect demand to increase with the official opening of CTICC 2. 1. Africa Travel Week 2. AfricaCom 3. Board of Healthcare Funders of Southern Africa 4. Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau 5. Cape Town International Jazz Festival 6. FanCon 7. Fibre to the Home (FTTH) Council Africa Annual Conference 8. 3rd International Global Food Security Conference 9. IAW Water Loss Conference 10. ICCA Africa 11. In-House Venue Technical Management (IVTM) 12. ITE Integration, Africa Oil & Gas events team (x2) Tourism Indaba visit to CTICC 2 13. ITS Integration 14. KFC 15. MamaMagic – The Baby Expo 16. Mining Indaba 17. Planning Conference Africa 18. Property Buyers Expo 19. Scatterlings Cape Town 20. South African Council of Shopping Centres 21. Tourism Indaba 22. World Ophthalmology Congress 23. Young President’s Organisation “The expansion project also provided us with the ideal opportunity to re-engage with clients, discuss expectations and get early feedback on their upcoming events.” Scatterlings Cape Town site visit 122 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE ITE Exhibitions site visit MamaMagic site visit Young Presidents' Organisation site visit Africa Oil-ITE site visit Planning Conference Africa site visit Cape Town International Jazz Festival site visit Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 2 3 GOVERNANCE Stakeholder engagement: opportunities to enhance performance Meeting of minds Direct dialogue with our stakeholders is important to the CTICC. This year’s stakeholder engagement activities were aimed at deepening the value, creating long-term beneficial partnerships and delivering outstanding client service. Moreover, our stakeholder engagement activities allow us to gather a diversity of perspectives into the business and provide an opportunity to innovate and co-create solutions. The following examples highlight how the CTICC engaged with stakeholders, especially key clients, over the financial year: National Conference Campaign Open Days 1 and 3 November 2016 The National Conference Open Days formed part of the CTICC’s National Conference marketing campaign which ran for three months leading up to the open days. Existing and prospective clients were invited to attend. The CTICC’s National Sales team presented the Day Conference Packages for 2017 and provided an update on the expansion project, while CTICC service providers also presented their product service offering. The day ended with site inspections of CTICC 1 and 2. Almost 40 clients attended over the two days. 124 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE Client Engagement Function: Growing Our Value 25 November 2016 CTICC Management and staff from the Commercial Department hosted 60 clients and stakeholders to thank them for their support throughout the year. The theme “Growing Our Value” was linked to the CTICC 2 expansion. ICCA Association Meetings Programme Stavanger, Norway 5 – 7 July 2016 The Business Development Manager: International and the Sales Executive: International attended the ICCA AMP in Norway. AMP is ICCA’s new annual event, where members and international association executives learn from each other and a faculty of experts about key aspects of bidding and decision-making, as well as organising, promoting and designing international association meetings. A total of 150 delegates were registered to attend the event, of which 30 were association executives. The Business Development Manager: International also took part in the Business Lead Exchange during the conference, presented the World Endodontic Conference as a case study and accessed additional information on 53 leads presented during the event. 83rd UFI Congress Shanghai, China 9 – 12 November 2016 The Business Development Manager: National (Lindy Cambouris) and Conference & Exhibitions Services Manager (Arno Ruiters) were among the 600 delegates attending from all over the world. The theme of the Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) Congress was: “Ripples – The Exhibition Industry in Transformation”. During the congress, Lindy and Arno were awarded with an UFI-EMD certificate for successfully completing the UFI Exhibition Management Degree. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 2 5 GOVERNANCE IMEX America Las Vegas, United States of America 18 – 20 October 2016 The Business Development Manager: International travelled to Las Vegas to attend IMEX America – “America’s worldwide exhibition for incentive travel, meetings and events”. A total of 18 appointments were scheduled prior to the show. A further ten meetings with potential clients were held during the exhibition. Film Campaign Open Day 29 November 2016 The National Sales Department hosted 16 clients from the film industry, including production companies, directors and location scouts. The Wesgro Film and Media Department updated the market on current and potential new trends. The CTICC team presented the venue as a potential location and introduced the guests to the CTICC’s expansion project. A site inspection of CTICC 1 was also conducted. Meetings Africa Tour: International Media Visit 26 February 2017 The CTICC hosted 15 international and national journalists and industry partners during a site visit and presentation in the run-up to Meetings Africa 2017. The group was accompanied by representatives from South African Tourism. The CTICC’s GM: Commercial and Business Development, Business Development Manager: International and Corporate Communications Manager led the group tour. Meetings Africa 28 February – 1 March 2017 The CTICC team participated in Meetings Africa – a Pan-African Business Events Trade Show now in its twelfth year. The trade show is a platform for exhibitors to showcase their offerings to associations, and international and local planners. The CTICC had 30 scheduled appointments. 126 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE Kenyatta International Convention Centre 3 March 2017 The CTICC CEO hosted delegations from the Kenyatta International Convention Centre and the Kenyan Tourism Finance Corporation. Having recognised and appreciated that South Africa has invaluable management experience and welldeveloped innovative products that attract tourism, making it the leading tourism hub in Africa, the Kenyan team travelled to the CTICC and South Africa to benchmark the South African experience and get valuable insight on investment and development of niche tourism products. Joint Association Member Meeting (JAMMS) 22 March 2017 Entitled “Economic Development in Tourism”, the JAMMS event was hosted at the CTICC. The CTICC CEO, the then National Minister of Tourism, Derek Hanekom and Western Cape Minister of Economic Opportunities, Alan Winde, were keynote speakers and engaged industry members and representatives on challenges the industry faces in business development and barriers to its expansion. Jazz Festival and VIP Engagement 30 March and 1 April 2017 The CTICC hosted VIP clients, Ambassadors, and event and tourism stakeholders during both days of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival at the CTICC’s hospitality suite and exclusive entertainment area. Exhibitions & Trade Fairs Workshop 21 June 2017 The Chief Executive Officer and executive management hosted several repeat exhibitions and trade fair clients during an intensive full-day workshop. Clients and staff collaborated on improvement areas throughout the CTICC service chain, including booking and finance processes, communication, health and safety, resourcing, pricing and rates, response times and event day logistics. The centre received valuable feedback and insights into their clients’ businesses. Several key action plans were devised and are being explored for implementation. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 2 7 GOVERNANCE Powerful local partnerships help us perform Central to our sustainable success is our collaboration with our Shareholders, local tourism bodies, eventing organisations and our own CTICC ambassadors. Not only do such partnerships enhance our own position, but they also allow us to grow and develop the entire industry together. These partner organisations include, but are not limited to, the following: The City of Cape Town as a result of our collaboration, we have secured prominent international association conferences for the CTICC and The CTICC won 16 international conference bids during Cape Town. 2016/17 against stiff competition from other international convention centres. The CTICC’s strength in the bidding process The South African National Convention Bureau (SANCB) lies, without a doubt, in the attractiveness of Cape Town as SANCB plays an essential role in positioning South Africa as a world-class business destination. The City of Cape Town’s a whole as a world-class international meetings and events strategic efforts in this regard allow us to offer conference destination. It is a “one-stop” solution for independent and exhibition organisers the benefits of a well-run city with information and assistance, giving advice on all aspects of invigorating infrastructure development projects and proactive organising and hosting a business event in South Africa. leadership. They coordinate national bidding, undertake research and As a globally competitive business destination, Cape Town offers collaborate with city and provincial convention bureaux, such growing industry sectors, first-class universities, unparalleled as the Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau, to tourism experiences, creative event services and suppliers, as promote business events in South Africa. The CTICC often well as a skilled and talented workforce. In November 2016, cost-effectively collaborates with both the above organisations the City of Cape Town launched its new “Invest Cape Town” when travelling to international industry events, frequently initiative, which will spearhead a business brand strategy to sharing stands at exhibitions and trade fairs. galvanise even further catalytic investments. The visionary CTICC Ambassador Programme participation of the Executive Mayor and Mayoral Committee Members in the CTICC’s work provides invaluable support The CTICC Ambassador Programme was created in 2013 to in establishing the CTICC as a business tourism powerhouse raise the competitiveness of Cape Town as a sought-after in Africa. international association conference destination. Modelled on international standards of best practice, this initiative aims to Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau tap into the resources of Cape Town’s academic, medical and A strategic business unit of Wesgro, this organisation works scientific fraternity in order to attract a greater share of the to promote Cape Town and the Western Cape globally as a international association convention market. The programme premier destination for meetings, incentives, conferences, involves recruiting recognised experts or key opinion leaders events, exhibitions and trade fairs. The Bureau is a valued ally in their field, who can serve as ambassadors for Cape Town and provides preand post-bid assistance, convention planning and help champion the destination abroad. There are currently support and event services to business event planners. Indeed, 19 CTICC Ambassadors. 128 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t GOVERNANCE CTICC 2 offers formal and informal meeting spaces Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 2 9 OUTLOOK 130 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t OUTLOOK POWERING INTO THE FUTURE WITH PANACHE How our forward book is performing Competing for international events is challenging. Volatile economies both here and abroad make for nervous clients, both current and potential. On top of that reality comes increasing competition for a seemingly shrinking market. Our response to that is to work even harder to seek out the new sectors in the global economy that are growing. Sometimes those opportunities are surprising – such as the success of the first South African International Tattoo Convention this year. Who would have known Cape Town had an international reputation in this creative segment? But it does. Similarly, the intersections of that same creative industry with technology and social media can reap new business dividends: the growing success and size of FanCon is such a discovery. The key to this sales process is, then, research. It is about joining 58 the dots, finding the decision-makers, making the connections and, of course, making the sale. And although we may be lucky to be located in the premier business tourism destination in International congresses secured in our Africa, and recognised consistently for being so, this does not forward book always open doors automatically. So we plan ahead and do our best to populate our forward book as far into the future as we can. We mainly do this by winning bids and tenders for large international association conferences and it seems we have found a niche in particular sectors, which we dovetail as far as we can with the region’s nine key sectors for trade, investment “We mainly do this by winning bids and tenders and growth (see page 35). In line with this, the majority of for large international association conferences the international bids we have won this year are in the and it seems we have found a niche in health, medical or technology arenas – from the International Association of Pancreatology to the 18th International particular sectors, which we dovetail as far as Congress on Immunology to the rather racier-sounding 22nd we can with the region’s nine key sectors for International Conference on Cyclotrons and the International trade, investment and growth.” Conference on Space Operations. These events will take place from December 2017 through to August 2022. At September 2017, we have 58 international congresses secured on our forward book as listed on page 133. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 3 1 OUTLOOK Comprehensively prepared for the future CTICC front-of-house staff welcome visitors In terms of customer experience, we remain committed to ongoing training of our staff to ensure they are at the cutting edge of developments and expertise in the events and tourism sectors, as our case studies demonstrate. As importantly, our food and beverage offering is being comprehensively overhauled by our new Executive “In terms of customer experience, we Chef Roberto and we have every confidence that culinary innovations will continue to attract and entice our clients for many years to come. remain committed to ongoing training of our staff to ensure they are at the cutting We are also now able to deliver on the promise of selling CTICC 1 and CTICC 2 as a complex that offers greater levels of versatility, more edge of developments and expertise in space and the latest state of the art technology under “one” roof. the events and tourism sectors, as our Long-standing clients such as AfricaCom are already booked to occupy case studies demonstrate.” our new spaces – indeed, they will expand across both buildings in November this year and in 2018 as well. And many of our bigger conferences can now spread their wings and breathe across the entire complex. Finally, then, we are able to offer a considerably expanded state-ofthe-art offering in an increasingly reviving and vibrant area of a city that just keeps on giving. We believe we couldn’t be better placed to deliver on our promise of power, panache and performance to whoever comes our way. 132 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t OUTLOOK International bids secured up to 2022 as at September 2017 Start Date Description Forecast Attendance Sept 2017 11th International Heavy Haul Association Conference 1 000 Sept 2017 1st Global Evidence Summit 1 000 Sept 2017 International Confederation of School Principals Convention 2017 1 000 Sept 2017 Breathing 2017: Asthma and COPD Hybrid Scientific Conferences 75 Sept 2017 1st African Regional Symposium Rock Mechanics for Africa (AfriROCK) 2017 360 Sept 2017 Round Square International Conference 2017 1 200 Oct 2017 24th Africa Oil Week Conference 2017 790 Oct 2017 Conference of the International Union for the Scientific Study of Population 2 000 Nov 2017 AfricaCom 2017 1 600 Nov 2017 World Congress of the International Society of Orthopaedic Surgery and Traumatology 2017 1 500 Dec 2017 3rd International Conference on Global Food Security 2017 650 Dec 2017 29th International Texas Symposium on Relativistic Astrophysics 2017 500 Dec 2017 International Young Water Professionals Conference 2017 400 Feb 2018 Microsoft Tech Summit 2 000 Feb 2018 HIV Vaccine Trials Network Conference 2018 300 Feb 2018 Future Earth Conference on Sustainable Development Goals 500 Mar 2018 GTR | Exporta 2018 300 Mar 2018 17th World Conference on Tobacco or Health 2018 1 800 Apr 2018 IFC Global Private Education Conference 2018 600 May 2018 Congress of the World Federation of Occupational Therapists 2018 2 500 Jun 2018 Adaptation Futures Conference 2018 1 000 Jul 2018 International Congress of Linguists 2018 1 000 Aug 2018 Produce Marketing Association 2018 500 Sept 2018 Congress of the Liga Medicorum Homoeopathica Internationalis 2018 750 Sept 2018 Biennial Conference of the World Federation of Right To Die Societies 300 Sept 2018 Conference of the International Union of Marine Insurance 2018 600 Oct 2018 BIOMIN World Nutrition Forum 2018 720 Oct 2018 36th Conference of the International Society for Trenchless Technology – NO DIG International 2018 150 Oct 2018 World Congress of Internal Medicine 2018 6 000 Oct 2018 International Inorganic-bonded Fiber Composites Conference 2018 200 Oct 2018 World Congress of Audiology 2018 1 500 Nov 2018 AfricaCom 2018 800 Nov 2018 OAC, UITP & UATP Conference 1 500 Dec 2018 18th International Congress of Endocrinology 2018 5 500 Mar 2019 Young Presidents’ Organisation (YPO) 2019 Global Leadership Conference & EDGE 2 000 Mar 2019 INSOL International Annual Regional Conference 2019 500 Apr 2019 ASSA Colloquium (joint PBSS, IAALS and IAAHS Colloquium, hosted by ASSA) 600 May 2019 Society for Risk Analysis (SRA) World Congress Meeting 2019 400 Aug 2019 International Association of Pancreatology 2019 1 000 Sept 2019 22nd International Conference on Cyclotrons and their Application 2019 250 Sept 2019 World Conference on Ecological Restoration 2019 1 000 Sept 2019 World Congress of the International Federation of Freight Forwarders Associations 2019 600 Oct 2019 17th African Regional Conference of the International Society of Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical 300 Engineering 2019 Oct 2019 36th International Conference of the International Society for Quality in Health Care 2019 1 500 May 2020 International Conference on Space Operations (SpaceOps) 2020 1 200 Jun 2020 ISF World Seed Congress 2020 1 500 Jun 2020 World Ophthalmology Congress 2020 15 000 Aug 2020 International Symposium on Microbial Ecology 2020 1 500 Sept 2020 18th International Congress of Dietetics 2020 1 500 Oct 2020 30th International Mineral Processing Congress 2020 900 Nov 2020 Annual Meeting of the International Association of Forensic Toxicologists 2020 600 Mar 2021 International Congress of Human Genetics 2021 7 000 July 2021 International Conference on Mercury as a Global Pollutant 2021 1 000 July 2021 International Conference on Animal Genetics 600 May 2022 International Congress of Cytology 2022 750 Aug 2022 17th International Heat Transfer Conference 2022 1 200 Aug 2022 18th International Congress of Immunology 2022 6 000 Oct 2022 76th Congress of the International Fiscal Association 2022 2 000 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 3 3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 134 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONTENTS The reports and statements set out below comprise the annual financial statements presented to members: Directors’ Responsibility Statement 136 Report of the Directors 137 Company Secretary’s Certificate 138 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 139 Report of the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee 141 Report of the Nominations Committee 142 Report of the Social and Ethics Committee 143 Report of the Auditor-General 144 Statement of Financial Position 148 Statement of Financial Performance 149 Statement of Changes in Net Assets 149 Cash Flow Statement 150 Statement of Comparison of Budget and Actual Amounts 151 Notes to the Annual Financial Statements 152 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 3 5 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS directors’ responsibility statement for the year ended 30 June 2017 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of adequate accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company (SOC) Ltd (RF). The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) including any interpretations of such Statements issued by the Accounting Standards Board, the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 and the Companies Act of South Africa. The financial statements are based on appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied. The Directors are also responsible for the Company’s systems of internal financial control. These control procedures are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance about the reliability of the financial statements, that assets are safeguarded and to prevent and detect losses. The Directors are not aware of any significant breakdown in the functioning of these measures, procedures and systems during the year under review. The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements. The Directors have no reason to believe that the company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future, based on forecasts and available cash and finance resources. The financial statements have been audited by the Auditor-General of South Africa, who was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board. The Directors are of the opinion that all representations made to the independent auditors during the audit are valid and appropriate. The responsibility of the external auditors is to express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the accounting framework. Approval of the annual financial statements The annual financial statements which appear on pages 148 to 181 were approved by the Board of Directors on 24 August 2017 and are signed on their behalf by: Authorised Director Authorised Director 24 August 2017 24 August 2017 136 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS for the year ended 30 June 2017 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the year ended 30 June 2017. 1. General review The Company’s business and operations and the results thereof are clearly reflected in the attached financial statements. 2. Dividends No dividends were declared or recommended during the year. 3. Share capital  There were changes in the authorised and issued share capital of the Company during the period under review. Refer to note 7. 4. Directors  The Directors of the Company during the year under review and at the date of this report were: AM Boraine (Chairperson) J Ellingson (CEO) GM Fisher (Resigned on 24 October 2016) F Parker (CFO) S Myburgh-De Gois RSH Eksteen (Resigned on 11 May 2017) SW Fourie EI Hamman BJ Lodewyk AA Mahmood DA Cloete HV Ntoi (Appointed on 25 August 2016) S Sibanda (Appointed on 25 August 2016; Resigned on 11 May 2017) T Harris (Appointed on 25 October 2016; Resigned on 5 April 2017) 5. Auditors  The Auditor-General of South Africa was reappointed as auditor in terms of the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA). 6. Shareholding  The City of Cape Town owns 71.4% of the Company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Provincial Government of the Western Cape (23.2%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd (5.4%). 7. Subsidiary  The Company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company Ltd (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered.  Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 3 7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Company Secretary’s certificate for the year ended 30 June 2017 In terms of Section 88(2)(e)of the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (the Act), I certify that the Company has lodged with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission, all returns and notices as required by the Act in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2017, and that all such returns and notices are true, correct and up to date. SL Hallett-Hardenberg Company Secretary 24 August 2017 138 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE audit and risk committee for the year ended 30 June 2017 The Audit and Risk committee (the committee) submits its reporting and information; performance management report in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2017 as and evaluation; effective governance, compliance with the required by section 94 of the Companies Act of South Africa, MFMA and other applicable legislation and any other matters 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (Companies Act). referred to it by the Board; • Ensures that the combined assurance received is appropriate Audit Committee mandate to address all the significant risks facing the Company; and The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, which monitors the relationship between the external assurance have been approved by the board and which are regularly providers and the company; reviewed. It fulfils its responsibilities in terms of the Companies • Oversees and reviews the expertise, resources and experience Act, the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, of the Company’s finance function; 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA), and its terms of reference. • Oversees the internal audit function, which is outsourced The committee has an independent role with accountability and which reports directly to the Audit Committee; reviews to both the Board and the shareholders. It does not assume and approves the internal audit plan, and monitors the the functions of management, which remain the responsibility effectiveness of the internal audit function in terms of its of the Executive Directors, officers and other members of scope of work, progress with execution of the internal audit management. The committee acts in an advisory and oversight plan and independence; capacity; it does not relieve management of its responsibilities • Expresses a view on the effectiveness of the internal control but makes objective and independent recommendations. environment by monitoring internal controls for effectiveness; • Oversees the external audit process and approves the terms Composition of the committee of engagement and remuneration of the external auditors The committee currently comprises four independent and reviews the effectiveness of the external audit process. Non-executive Directors with appropriate qualifications and Any significant issues arising from the audit are brought to experience, nominated by the Board and appointed by the the committee’s attention; Council of the City of Cape Town. • Assists the Board in ensuring that the Company has Name of committee member Qualifications implemented an effective policy and plan for risk BJ Lodewyk (Chairperson) B.Com (Acc); B.Compt management, which will enhance the Company’s ability to (Hons); CA(SA) achieve its strategic objectives; SW Fourie B.Com (Econ); MBA • Forms an integral part of the risk management process EI Hamman B.Com (Acc); PGDA; and specifically oversees financial reporting risks, internal CA(SA) financial controls, fraud risk in relation to financial reporting, AA Mahmood B.Compt; MBA and information technology risks as they relate to financial reporting; Attendance at meetings • Oversees the development and annual review of the The committee meets at least four times a year and its Company’s risk management action plan and ensures that meetings are attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief frameworks and methodologies are implemented to increase Financial Officer, other Executive Managers of the Company the possibility of anticipating unpredictable risks; and representatives of the internal and external auditors. • Monitors implementation of the risk management action A quorum for meetings is 50% of the members present. plan and ensures that risk management assessments are The committee met five times during the period under review. performed on a continuous basis and reports to the Board Refer to page 118 for the attendance at meetings of the in this regard; committee. • Makes recommendations to the Board concerning levels of tolerance and risk appetite; Key responsibilities of the committee • Performs such additional oversight functions as may be The legal responsibilities of the committee are set forth in the determined by the Board from time to time. Companies Act and the MFMA. The committee: Discharge of responsibilities • Exercises oversight of the internal financial controls of the The committee has a detailed work plan, which is formally Company; adopted to support its effective functioning during the year. The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial • Makes submissions to the Board of Directors, and advises year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of reference the Board, the Accounting Officer and the management and that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory and other of the Company on matters relating to internal financial requirements. control and internal audit; risk management; accounting policies; the adequacy, reliability and accuracy of financial Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 3 9 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Internal control • Monitored implementation of the Company’s risk management action plan and made recommendations The committee has, during the period under review: regarding the improvement thereof and reporting thereon. • Satisfied itself that the Chief Financial Officer has the appropriate expertise and experience to act in this capacity; Internal audit • Reviewed the expertise, resources and adequacy of the The committee has, during the period under review: Company’s finance function and found it to be adequate; • Ensured that the Company’s internal audit function was • Reviewed the quarterly and annual financial results and independent and that it had the necessary resources and performance information and reporting to ensure proper standing to enable it to discharge its duties; and complete disclosure of timely, reliable and consistent • Reviewed and approved the internal audit plan in terms of information; its scope and coverage and monitored progress with the • Evaluated on an ongoing basis the appropriateness, execution thereof; adequacy and efficiency of accounting policies and • Monitored the effectiveness and independence of the procedures, compliance with Standards of Generally internal audit function; Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and overall • Exercised oversight of the co-operation between the accounting standards as well as any changes thereto; internal and external auditors and served as a link between • Discussed and resolved any significant or unusual the Board and these functions. accounting issues; External audit • Reviewed and monitored the effectiveness, efficiency and the management as well as reporting of tax related matters; The committee is satisfied that the external auditors were • Reviewed the effectiveness of the Company’s system of independent of the Company. internal financial controls, including receiving assurance The committee had considered the fees to be paid to the from management, internal audit and external audit; auditors as well as their terms of engagement, and found it to • Reviewed relevant company procedures for the prevention be acceptable. and detection of fraud; Annual financial statements and conclusion • Reviewed and made recommendations to the relevant company policies; The committee has reviewed the year-end financial statements and integrated annual report and is satisfied with its integrity. • Reviewed the significant issues raised by the internal and The committee recommended approval thereof to the Board. external auditors; The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the • Had oversight of IT governance; basis of accounting determined by the National Treasury as set • Exercised oversight of the financial aspects of capital out in accounting policy note 1 and in the manner required by projects, including the CTICC East expansion. the MFMA. The committee has reviewed the external auditors’ management letter and management’s response thereto. The committee has extensively reviewed quarterly financial and performance reporting together with findings from the AuditorThe Board has subsequently approved the integrated report, General and internal audit. These findings have been discussed which will be open for discussion at the upcoming Annual with management. Based on the processes and assurances General Meeting. obtained, the committee believes that the significant internal The committee is confident of the combined assurance approach financial controls are generally effective and that accounting with the continued support of the Board, shareholders and key practices are appropriate. stakeholders in the new financial year. Risk management The committee has, during the period under review: • Exercised oversight in respect of the enterprise risk management function, which remains management’s responsibility; • Exercised oversight of a process, facilitated by the internal auditors, in terms of which management has assessed the effectiveness of the Company’s system of internal control BJ Lodewyk CA(SA) and risk management, including internal financial controls; Audit and Risk Committee Chairperson 24 August 2017 140 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2017 This report is presented by the Human Resources and Discharge of responsibilities Remuneration Committee (“the committee”) and describes how the committee has discharged its duties in respect of the During the year under review the committee: financial year ended 30 June 2017. • Exercised oversight over salary increases; • Reviewed various company policies; Mandate of the committee • Set, in conjunction with the CEO, her key performance The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, which indicators (KPIs) and carried out the necessary review of have been approved by the Board and which are regularly performance against the set KPIs; reviewed. The committee has an independent oversight and • Had oversight of the Company’s employment equity advisory role. A detailed work plan was formally adopted reporting; to ensure the effective functioning of the committee. The • Exercised oversight of matters related to human resource committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, management and succession planning. met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of reference and that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory and other responsibilities. Remuneration strategy and policy The Company’s remuneration strategy is aimed at attracting, Composition of the committee motivating and retaining competent and talented employees to ensure that its business remains sustainable. Remuneration levels The committee currently comprises four independent Nonare influenced by the scarcity of skills and work performance. executive Directors of the Company. The Executive Directors and certain members of the company’s Executive Management A performance-based incentive scheme is in place in respect team also attend committee meetings. A quorum for meetings of all levels of the Company to acknowledge the contributions is 50% of the members present. of individual employees by rewarding them for exceptional • BJ Lodewyk B.Com (Acc); B.Compt (Hons); CA(SA) performance. KPIs are identified and agreed between each staff member and his/her immediate superior and his/her • AM Boraine BA (Hons) (UCT) performance is measured against these agreed indicators. • DA Cloete B.Com; Master of Business Leadership (MBL) Individuals’ KPIs are linked to the Company’s KPIs as a means • HV Ntoi B.Com (Hons) of ensuring that the Company achieves its objectives. A reward and recognition programme has also been implemented. Attendance at meetings Remuneration packages are benchmarked to similar positions in the meetings industry to ensure that they are fair and competitive. The committee met four times during the period under review. Details of directors’ attendance at meetings appear on page 118 of this report. Directors’ remuneration The Company’s strategy for the remuneration of Non-executive Key responsibilities of the committee Directors is aimed at ensuring that levels of remuneration are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate suitably skilled The committee: and experienced Non-executive Directors, recognising the • Assists the board in ensuring that the Company remunerates responsibilities borne by directors and ensuring that they are its directors and executives fairly and responsibly and that remunerated fairly and responsibly within the constraints of the the disclosure of remuneration is accurate, complete and Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) transparent and in accordance with the laws and regulations and the Company’s Memorandum of Incorporation. applicable to the Company; The Company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy was last • Monitors the administration of remuneration at all levels in approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting the Company; of the Company, held on 21 October 2014. It will again be put to the shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting • Oversees the establishment of a remuneration strategy, of the Company to be held on 24 October 2017. which promotes the achievement of the Company’s strategic objectives and encourages individual performance; Please refer to page 174 for details of the Directors’ remuneration for the period under review. • Evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer in determining her remuneration; • Exercises oversight of matters related to human resource management and succession planning. DA Cloete Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Chairperson 24 August 2017 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 4 1 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2017 This report is presented by the Nominations Committee and Attendance at meetings describes how the committee has discharged its duties in The committee must, in terms of its terms of reference, meet respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2017. at least twice a year and more often if required. It met three times during the past financial year. Please refer to page 118 Role of the committee for the attendance at meetings of the committee. The committee has an oversight role and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Directors of the Company to ensure: Discharge of responsibilities • That the Board has the appropriate composition to enable The committee has a detailed work plan, which has been it to execute its duties effectively; formally adopted to support its effective functioning during • That Directors are appointed through a formal and the year. transparent process; The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial • That the respective Board committees have the appropriate year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of skill sets; reference. • That induction, ongoing training and development and evaluation of Directors takes place; • That an appropriate succession plan is in place in respect of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Composition of the committee The committee currently comprises two Non-executive Directors, appointed by the shareholders, as well as the Chairperson of the Board who also chairs this committee. AM Boraine There is currently a vacancy on the committee. A quorum for Nominations Committee Chairperson meetings is 50% of the members present. 24 August 2017 142 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REPORT OF THE SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2017 This report is presented by the committee to describe how it Attendance at meetings has discharged its statutory duties in terms of the Companies The committee must, in terms of its terms of reference, meet at Act 71 of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (Companies least twice a year. It met three times during the past financial Act) in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2017. year. Details of meeting attendance appear on page 118 of this report. Ethics and corporate social responsibility The Board of Directors subscribes to the highest standards Discharge of responsibilities of ethics and corporate social responsibility and assesses The committee has a detailed work plan, which has been the Company’s performance against various mandatory formally adopted, to support its effective functioning during and voluntary standards. The Board assumes the ultimate the year. responsibility for the Company’s ethics performance, which is delegated to the Executive Management, but it does not The committee has, during the period under review, monitored relieve management of its duties and responsibilities in this the Company’s activities, having regard to relevant legislation regard. The Chief Executive Officer is the visible link between and other legal requirements and codes pertaining to matters the Board’s corporate ethics expectations and the Company’s relating to social and economic development, the environment, ethics management. Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment, employment equity, health and safety, employee wellness and stakeholder Mandate of the committee relationships. It is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of The committee derives its mandate from section 72 of the reference and that it has complied with its legal, regulatory Companies Act, read together with Regulation 43 (5) of the and other responsibilities. Companies Regulations, published under Government Gazette Notice R351 in Government Gazette 34239 of 26 April 2011. The committee is satisfied that the Company takes its governance, social and environmental responsibilities seriously. The committee’s role and responsibilities are set forth in its While the committee recognises that areas within its mandate terms of reference, which have been approved by the Board are constantly evolving, it is confident that management and are reviewed annually. The committee is accountable to is committed to integrating ethics into the business of the both the Board and the Company’s shareholders. It has an Company and that it continues to pay sufficient attention to independent role and acts in an advisory and oversight capacity. ethics management. The main objective of the committee is to assist the Board in monitoring the Company’s performance, having regard to all relevant laws, standards and principles with regard to matters relating to, not only financial sustainability, but good corporate citizenship, social and economic development, the environment, client relationships, labour and employment and health and safety. Composition of the committee The committee currently comprises three Non-executive EI Hamman CA(SA) Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of the Company. A Social and Ethics Committee Chairperson quorum for meetings is 50% of the members present. 24 August 2017 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 4 3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report of the auditor-general to the Western Cape Provincial Parliament and the council of the city of Cape Town on the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) Report on the audit of the financial statements Opinion 1. I have audited the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) (CTICC) set out on 148 – 181, which comprise the appropriation statement, the statement of financial position as at 30 June 2017, and the statement of financial performance, statement of changes in net assets, cash flow statement and statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts for the year then ended, as well as the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. 2. In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the CTICC at 30 June 2017, and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with SA Standards of GRAP and the requirements of the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA) and the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (the Companies Act). Basis for opinion 3. I conducted my audit in accordance with the International Standards on Auditing (ISAs). My responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor-general’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of my report. 4. I am independent of the entity in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of ethics for professional accountants (IESBA code) and the ethical requirements that are relevant to my audit in South Africa. I have fulfilled my other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements and the IESBA code. 5. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Emphasis of matters Other matters Significant uncertainties 6. With reference to note 25.1 to the financial statements, the CTICC is subject to various claims which have arisen from the expansion project brought by the principle building contractor and other professional consultants. The provisional estimate for ongoing legal proceedings is at R7.5million at the time of this report. 7. I draw attention to the matter below. My opinion is not modified in respect of this matter. Unaudited disclosure notes 8. In terms of section 125(2) (e) of the MFMA the municipal entity is required to disclose particulars of non-compliance with the MFMA in the financial statements. This disclosure requirement did not form part of the audit of the financial statements and accordingly I do not express an opinion thereon. Responsibilities of the accounting officer for the financial statements 9. The accounting officer is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in accordance with SA Standards of GRAP and the requirements of the MFMA and the Companies Act and for such internal control as the accounting officer determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. 10. In preparing the financial statements, the accounting officer is responsible for assessing the CTICC’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters relating to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless there is an intention to liquidate the entity or to cease operations, or there is no realistic alternative but to do so. 144 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Auditor-general’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements 11. My objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. 12. A further description of my responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is included in the annexure to this auditor’s report. Report on the audit of the annual performance report Introduction and scope 13. In accordance with the Public Audit Act of South Africa, 2004 (Act No. 25 of 2004) (PAA) and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report material findings on the reported performance information against predetermined objectives for selected development priorities presented in the annual performance report. I performed procedures to identify findings but not to gather evidence to express assurance. 14. My procedures address the reported performance information, which must be based on the approved performance planning documents of the entity. I have not evaluated the completeness and appropriateness of the performance indicators included in the planning documents. My procedures also did not extend to any disclosures or assertions relating to planned performance strategies and information in respect of future periods that may be included as part of the reported performance information. Accordingly, my findings do not extend to these matters. 15. I evaluated the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information in accordance with the criteria developed from the performance management and reporting framework, as defined in the general notice, for the following selected key performance areas presented in the annual performance report of the entity for the year ended 30 June 2017: Key performance indicator (KPI) Pages in annual performance report KPI 1: Events 73 KPI 3: Customer centricity and service excellence 73 KPI 4: Supply chain procurement from BBBEE supplier 73 measured in terms of BBBEE Act KPI 8: Budgets – Operating Profit 73 KPI 8: Budgets – Capital Expenditure 73 KPI 10: Financial Ratios 73 16. I performed procedures to determine whether the reported performance information was consistent with the approved performance planning documents. I performed further procedures to determine whether the indicators and related targets were measurable and relevant, and assessed the reliability of the reported performance information to determine whether it was valid, accurate and complete. 17. I did not raise any material findings on the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information for the following key performance indicators: • KPI 1: Events • KPI 3: Customer centricity and service excellence • KPI 4: Supply chain procurement from BBBEE supplier measured in terms of BBBEE Act • KPI 8: Budgets – Operating Profit • KPI 8: Budgets – Capital Expenditure • KPI 10: Financial Ratios Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 4 5 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Report on the audit of compliance with legislation Introduction and scope 18. In accordance with the PAA and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report material findings on the compliance of the entity with specific matters in key legislation. I performed procedures to identify findings but not to gather evidence to express assurance. 19. I did not identify any instances of material non-compliance in respect of the compliance criteria for the applicable subject matters. Other information 20. The CTICC’s accounting officer is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report which includes the director’s report, the audit committee’s report and the company secretary’s certificate as required by the Companies Act. The other information does not include the financial statements, the auditor’s report and those selected key performance indicators presented in the annual performance report that have been specifically reported in the auditor’s report. 21. My opinion on the financial statements and findings on the reported performance information and compliance with legislation do not cover the other information and I do not express an audit opinion or any form of assurance conclusion thereon. 22. In connection with my audit, my responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements and the selected programmes presented in the annual performance report, or my knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work I have performed on the other information obtained prior to the date of this auditor’s report, I conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, I am required to report that fact. Internal control deficiencies 23. I considered internal control relevant to my audit of the financial statements, reported performance information and compliance with applicable legislation; however, my objective was not to express any form of assurance thereon. I did not identify any significant deficiencies in internal control. Cape Town 18 September 2017 146 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annexure – auditor-general’s responsibility for the audit 1. As part of an audit in accordance with the ISAs, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout my audit of the financial statements, and the procedures performed on reported performance information for selected key performance indicators and on the entity’s compliance with respect to the selected subject matters. Financial statements 2. In addition to my responsibility for the audit of the financial statements as described in the auditor’s report, I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the accounting officer • conclude on the appropriateness of the accounting officer’s use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements. I also conclude, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the CTICC’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial statements about the material uncertainty or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the opinion on the financial statements. My conclusions are based on the information available to me at the date of the auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause an entity to cease operating as a going concern • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. Communication with those charged with governance 3. I communicate with the accounting officer regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. 4. I also confirm to the accounting officer that I have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and communicate all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to have a bearing on my independence and where applicable, related safeguards. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 4 7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 30 June 2017 NOTES 2017 2016 R R ASSETS Non-current assets 965 327 037 622 079 336 Property, plant and equipment 2 961 750 268 619 425 592 Investment in subsidiary 3 100 100 Deferred taxation 4 3 576 669 2 653 644 Current assets 268 622 943 437 925 550 Inventories 5 1 198 165 1 259 812 Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 6 12 234 789 18 070 712 Receiver of revenue 15.2 3 002 222 – Cash and cash equivalents 15.3 252 187 767 418 595 026 Total assets 1 233 949 980 1 060 004 886 NET ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Net assets 1 152 903 559 916 427 146 Contribution from owners 7 1 277 427 701 1 084 427 701 Accumulated deficit (124 524 142) (168 000 555) Current liabilities 81 046 421 143 577 740 Client deposits 8 19 687 299 46 620 494 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 9 56 399 313 91 973 122 Provisions 10 4 959 809 3 537 828 Receiver of Revenue 15.2 – 1 446 296 Total net assets and liabilities 1 233 949 980 1 060 004 886 148 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE for the year ended 30 June 2017 NOTES 2017 2016 R R Revenue from exchange transactions 12 210 552 246 202 459 444 Cost of sales (23 790 905) (25 682 611) Gross profit 186 761 341 176 776 833 Other operating income from exchange transactions 33 920 360 41 894 633 Finance income 13 28 824 690 35 271 842 Other 5 095 670 6 622 791 Operating expenses (163 219 164) (151 369 407) Operating profit 11 57 462 537 67 302 059 Finance costs 13 (3 016) (42 327) Profit before taxation 57 459 521 67 259 732 Taxation 14 (13 983 108) (20 006 799) Net profit for the year 43 476 413 47 252 933 Statement of changes in net assets for the year ended 30 June 2017 CONTRIBUTIONS FROM ACCUMULATED TOTAL OWNERS DEFICIT R R R Balance at 1 July 2015 967 427 701 (215 253 488) 752 174 213 Profit for the year – 47 252 933 47 252 933 Share issue 117 000 000 – 117 000 000 Balance at 30 June 2016 1 084 427 701 (168 000 555) 916 427 146 Profit for the year – 43 476 413 43 476 413 Share issue 193 000 000 – 193 000 000 Balance at 30 June 2017 1 277 427 701 (124 524 142) 1 152 903 559 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 4 9 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2017 NOTES 2017 2016 R R Cash flow from operating activities 46 029 598 127 269 799 Cash receipts from customers (venue rental, sales of goods and other services) 194 518 338 227 555 789 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (157 955 761) (113 247 450) Suppliers (106 035 408) (69 572 662) Employee costs (51 920 353) (43 674 788) Cash generated from operations 15.1 36 562 577 114 308 339 Finance costs 13 (3 016) (42 327) Finance income 13 28 824 690 35 271 842 Taxation paid 15.2 (19 354 653) (22 268 055) Cash flow from investing activities (405 436 857) (380 306 315) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 2 (405 436 857) (380 306 315) Cash flow from financing activities 193 000 000 117 000 000 Proceeds from share issue 7 193 000 000 117 000 000 (Decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (166 407 259) (136 036 516) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 15.3 418 595 026 554 631 542 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 15.3 252 187 767 418 595 026 150 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF COMPARISON OF BUDGET AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS for the year ended 30 June 2017 NOTES ACTUAL APPROVED FINAL Favourable/ Variance BUDGET BUDGET Unfavourable variance 2017 2017 2017 2017 R R R R % STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL 20.2 PERFORMANCE Revenue and other income (i) 215 647 916 217 851 350 210 697 236 4 950 680 2 Less: Direct costs 41 032 042 48 471 952 43 530 801 2 498 759 6 Cost of sales 23 249 359 29 521 768 28 237 079 4 987 720 18 Direct personnel (ii) 12 398 194 14 218 428 10 134 745 (2 263 449) (22) Parking costs 3 334 774 3 823 486 3 811 606 476 832 13 Event-related marketing costs 950 089 – 560 744 (389 345) (69) Equipment hire 1 099 626 908 270 786 627 (312 999) (40) Add: Finance income (iii) 28 824 690 15 084 150 23 620 729 5 203 961 22 Less: Indirect expenditure (iv) 145 981 043 202 502 419 178 699 154 32 718 111 18 Personnel costs 58 034 761 74 322 753 72 210 311 14 175 550 20 Operations general 1 132 725 2 104 361 1 772 685 639 960 36 Utility services 19 041 998 30 994 317 22 152 330 3 110 332 14 Maintenance 8 401 440 9 137 272 8 724 247 322 807 4 Building costs 14 843 790 21 300 338 17 232 759 2 388 969 14 Office costs 3 717 582 5 527 020 4 618 200 900 618 20 Computer expenses 3 052 343 4 052 148 3 639 203 586 860 16 Advisors 3 350 897 5 224 167 3 550 049 199 152 6 Travel and entertainment 882 771 2 255 922 2 007 903 1 125 132 56 Marketing and corporate 5 641 509 8 538 908 7 570 891 1 929 382 25 communications Catering materials 2 079 613 3 277 260 2 899 834 820 221 28 Bad debts 186 851 280 900 280 900 94 049 33 Depreciation and loss on scrapping 25 611 747 29 356 305 31 089 638 5 477 891 18 of assets Finance costs 3 016 6 130 748 950 204 947 188 100 Profit before taxation (v) 57 459 521 (18 038 871) 12 088 010 45 371 511 375 Capital expenditure for the year ended 30 June 2017 CATEGORY NOTES ACTUAL APPROVED FINAL Favourable/ Variance BUDGET BUDGET Unfavourable variance R R R R % Building enhancements 14 520 183 16 500 000 16 500 000 1 979 817 12 IT and electronic infrastructure 12 853 241 14 534 833 14 534 833 1 681 592 12 Kitchen enhancements 687 138 1 040 730 1 040 730 353 592 34 Catering furniture and equipment 3 165 080 2 733 050 3 733 050 567 970 15 Other capex items 336 710 658 238 171 026 376 139 192 39 428 534 10 Total capital expenditure 20.3 367 936 300 272 979 639 411 947 805 44 011 505 11 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 5 1 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTES TO THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2017 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) including interpretation guidelines and directives issued by the Accounting Standards Board in accordance with the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003). The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with the direct method. The amount and nature of any restrictions on the cash balance are disclosed. GRAP Standards issued but not yet effective The following GRAP Standards have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the entity: This standard ensures that a reporting entity’s financial statements contain the disclosures GRAP 20 Related Party necessary to draw attention to the possibility that its financial position and surplus or Disclosures deficit may have been affected by the existence of related parties and by transactions and outstanding balances with such parties. GRAP 32 Service This standard prescribes the accounting for service concession arrangements by the grantor, Concession Arrangements a public sector entity. Grantor GRAP 108 Statutory This standard prescribes the accounting requirements for the recognition, measurement, Receivables presentation and disclosure of statutory receivables. GRAP 109 Accounting by This standard outlines the principals to be used to assess whether an entity is party to a Principals and Agents principal-agent arrangement. GRAP 110 Living and This standard prescribes the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure Non-living Resources requirements for living resources and disclosure requirements for non-living resources. Standards that have been assessed to have a low impact on the entity GRAP 18 Segment Reporting (Not required by the Accounting Standards Board). GRAP 103 Heritage Assets (The entity does not hold any heritage assets). The entity does not expect any transfers of functions between entities under common GRAP 105 control. The entity does not expect any transfers of functions between entities under common GRAP 106 control. GRAP 107 The entity does not plan to have any mergers. Accounting for service concession arrangements by the grantor, a public sector entity. GRAP 32 (The entity does not service concession arrangements). The recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of statutory receivables. GRAP 108 (The entity does not hold any statutory receivables). Where a standard of GRAP is approved as effective, it replaces the equivalent statement of International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board, International Financial Reporting Standards or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Where a standard of GRAP has been issued, but is not yet in effect, an entity may select to apply the principles established in that standard in developing an appropriate accounting policy dealing with a particular section or event before applying paragraph 12 of the Standard of GRAP on Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. 152 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.1 Basis of preparation (continued) The significant accounting policies are set out below, and are consistent with those applied in the previous financial year. In the process of applying the accounting policies, management has made the following significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions, which have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Operating lease commitments – Entity as lessor The entity has entered into commercial property leases on its property portfolio. The entity has determined that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties, and so accounts for them as operating leases. Rental is paid based on turnover rental contracts and is recognised as accrued. Impairment of trade receivables from exchange transactions The calculation in respect of the impairment of debtors is based on an assessment of the extent to which debtors have defaulted on payments already due, and an assessment of their ability to make payments based on their creditworthiness. This was performed per service-identifiable categories across all classes of debtors. Property, plant and equipment The useful lives of assets are based on management’s estimation. Management considers the impact of technology, availability of capital funding, service requirements and required return on assets to determine the optimum useful life expectation where appropriate. The estimation of residual values of assets is also based on management’s judgement whether the assets will be sold or used to the end of their useful lives, and what their condition will be at that time. Provisions and contingent liabilities Management’s judgement is required when recognising and measuring provisions, and when measuring contingent liabilities as set out in note 9. Provisions are discounted where the effect of discounting is material using actuarial valuations. 1.2 Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss. Costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant and equipment and costs incurred subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. If a replacement cost is recognised in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: 2017 2016 % % Plant and equipment 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 50.00 Motor vehicles 5.26 – 25.00 14.28 – 25.00 Furniture and fittings 6.67 – 50.00 6.67 – 50.00 Kitchen and catering 5.26 – 50.00 6.67 – 50.00 Office equipment 6.25 – 50.00 10.00 – 50.00 Computer equipment 11.11 – 50.00 16.67 – 50.00 Escalators and elevators 5.56 – 16.67 5.56 – 10.00 Carpets/laminated flooring 16.67 – 25.00 12.50 – 16.67 Curtains/blinds 11.11 – 20.00 11.11 – 20.00 Signage 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 33.33 Audiovisual 7.69 – 16.67 7.69 – 16.67 Fences and gates 6.67 – 16.67 6.67 – 20.00 Cold rooms 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Air-conditioning system 5.56 – 16.67 5.56 – 50.00 Sprinkler system 16.67 – 20.00 16.67 – 20.00 Auditorium seating 8.33 – 16.67 8.33 – 16.67 Building management system 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Building 2.5 – 50.00 2.5 – 50.00 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 5 3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) The assets’ estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis. Repairs and maintenance are generally charged to expenses during the financial period in which they are incurred (refer to note 11). However, major renovations are capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the Company. Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts and are included in operating profit. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds the calculated recoverable amount, the asset is immediately written down. 1.3 Impairment of assets 1.3.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets Definitions Cash-generating assets are those assets held by the entity with the primary objective of generating a commercial return. When an asset is deployed in a manner consistent with that adopted by a profit-orientated entity, it generates a commercial return. Impairment is a loss in the future economic benefits or service potential of an asset, over and above the systematic recognition of the loss of the asset’s future economic benefits or service potential through depreciation (amortisation). Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial position after deducting any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses thereon. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets held with the primary objective of generating a commercial return that generates cash flows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and income tax expense. Depreciation (amortisation) is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life. Fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in the arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less costs of disposal. Recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Useful life is either: a) The period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the entity; or b) The number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the assets by the entity. Criteria developed by the entity to distinguish cash-generating assets from non-cash-generating assets are as follows: Identification When the carrying amount of a cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. 154 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.3.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets (continued) Value in use Value in use of a cash-generating asset is the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. When estimating the value in use of an asset, the entity estimates the future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal and the entity applies the appropriate discount rate to those future cash flows. Composition of estimates of future cash flows Estimates of future cash flows include: • Projections of cash inflows from the continuing use of the asset; • Projections of cash outflows that are necessarily incurred to generate the cash inflows from continuing use of the asset (including cash outflows to prepare the asset for use) and can be directly attributed, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis, to the asset; • Net cash flows, if any, to be received (or paid) for the disposal of the asset at the end of its useful life. Estimates of future cash flow exclude: • Cash inflows or outflows from financing activities; • Income tax receipts or payments. The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an asset at the end of its useful life is the amount that the entity expects to obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal. Discount rate The discount rate is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money, represented by the current risk-free rate of interest and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. Recognition and measurement (individual asset) If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the cash-generating asset to which it relates, the entity recognises a liability only to the extent that it is a requirement in the standard of GRAP. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 5 5 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.3.2 Impairment of non-cash-generating assets Cash-generating assets are those assets held by the entity with the primary objective of generating a commercial return. When an asset is deployed in a manner consistent with that adopted by a profit orientated entity, it generates a commercial return. Non-cash-generating assets are assets other than cash-generating assets. Identification When the carrying amount of a non-cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable service amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a non-cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of the asset. The recoverable service amount is the higher of a non-cash-generating asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Value in use Value in use of an asset is the present value of the asset’s remaining service potential. The present value of the remaining service potential of an asset is determined using the following approaches: Depreciated replacement cost approach The present value of the remaining service potential of a non-cash-generating asset is determined as the depreciated replacement cost of the asset. The replacement cost of an asset is the cost to replace the asset’s gross service potential. This cost is depreciated to reflect the asset in its used condition. An asset may be replaced either through reproduction (replication) of the existing asset or through replacement of its gross service potential. The depreciated replacement cost is measured as the reproduction or replacement cost of the asset, whichever is lower, less accumulated depreciation calculated on the basis of such cost, to reflect the already consumed or expired service potential of the asset. The replacement cost and reproduction cost of an asset is determined on an “optimised” basis. The rationale is that the entity would not replace or reproduce the asset with a like asset if the asset to be replaced or reproduced is an overdesigned or overcapacity asset. Overdesigned assets contain features which are necessary for the goods or services the asset provides. Overcapacity assets are assets that have greater capacity than is necessary to meet the demand for the goods or services the asset provides. The determination of the replacement cost or reproduction cost of an asset on an optimised basis thus reflects the service potential required of the asset. Recognition and measurement If the recoverable service amount of a non-cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable service amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. Any impairment loss of a revalued non-cash-generating asset is treated as a revaluation decrease. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the non-cash-generating asset to which it relates, the entity recognises a liability only to the extent that it is a requirement in the Standards of GRAP. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge of the non-cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the non-cash-generating assets revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Reversal of an impairment loss The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a non-cash-generating asset may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of that asset. An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a non-cash-generating asset is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable service amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable service amount. The increase is a reversal of an impairment loss. The increased carrying amount of an asset attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss for a non-cash-generating asset is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the non-cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the non-cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. 156 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.3.2 Impairment of non-cash-generating assets (continued) Redesignation The redesignation of assets from a cash-generating asset to a non-cash-generating asset or from a non-cash-generating asset to a cash-generating asset may only occur when there is clear evidence that such a redesignation is appropriate. 1.4 Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the statement of financial performance on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 1.5 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the weighted average method and includes transport and handling costs. The weighted average cost is determined using a weighted average cost for the month based on the most recent month’s purchases. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. 1.6 Current tax Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Taxation is recognised in profit or loss. 1.6.1 Current taxation Current taxation comprises tax payable calculated on the basis of the estimated taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment of tax payable for previous years. 1.6.2 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base except to the extent that the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable surplus/deficit. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred taxation is charged to profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised in net assets, in which case it is recognised in equity, or a business combination that is an acquisition, in which case it is recognised as an adjustment to goodwill. The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited to equity. A deferred taxation asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the associated unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the tax benefit will be realised. 1.7 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. When the effect of the time value is material, the entity determines the level of provision by discounting the expected cashflows as pre-tax rates referencing the current rates specific to the liability. 1.8 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the invoiced value of sales of goods and services net of value-added tax, rebates and all discounts. Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue arising from the rendering of services is recognised when the event takes place. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 5 7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.8 Revenue recognition (continued) 1.8.1 Revenue from exchange transactions Revenue from exchange transactions relate to income earned from venue rental, sale of goods and other services. Commission income is recognised for the rendering of services as an agent in accordance with the contract of hire agreements. 1.8.2 Finance income Finance income comprises interest income. Interest income is recognised in profit or loss on a time proportion basis, taking account of the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate over the period maturity, when it is probable that such income will accrue to the entity. 1.9 Financial instruments The Company classifies financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost and cost. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. The Company recognises financial instruments in the statement of financial position when it becomes a party to the contractual party provisions of the instruments. Financial assets at fair value Financial assets at fair value are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. Financial instruments at amortised cost Financial instruments at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets for maturities less than 12 months after the reporting date. These are classified as non-current assets. Initial recognition The Company recognises financial instruments in the statement of financial position when it becomes a party to the contractual party provisions of the instruments. The Company recognises financial assets as trade date accounting. Impairment and uncollectibility of financial assets The entity assess at the end of each reporting period whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets is impaired. Derecognition Financial assets The entity derecognises a financial asset only when: • The contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire, are settled or waived; • The entity transfers to another party substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset; or • The entity, despite having retained some significant risks and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, has transferred control of the asset to another party and the other party has the practical ability to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party, and is able to exercise that ability unilaterally and without needing to impose additional restrictions on the transfer. In this case, the entity: – derecognises the asset; and – recognises seperately any rights and obligations created or retained in the transfer. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the carrying amount and the sum of the consideration recieved is recognised in surplus or deficit. 158 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.9 Financial instruments (continued) 1.9.1 Financial assets at amortised cost Receivables from exchange transactions Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of six months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the statement of financial position. 1.9.2 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. Payables from exchange transactions Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Client deposits Client deposits are received in advance for upcoming events and are derecognised when the event occurs. 1.9.3 Financial risk factors The Company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Company’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Company’s financial performance. (i) Interest rate risk The Company’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. (ii) Credit risk Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the Company’s large number of customers, who are both internationally and nationally dispersed. The Company has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. The Company has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution, and cash transactions are limited to creditworthy institutions. (iii) Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. (iv) Capital risk management The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 5 9 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.9 Financial instruments (continued) 1.9.4 Fair value estimation In assessing the fair value of financial instruments, the Company uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the Company for similar financial instruments. 1.10 Translation of foreign currencies Transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial recognition in Rands, by applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the Rand and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. At each reporting date: (a) foreign currency monetary items are reported using the closing rate; and (b) non-monetary items, which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign currency, are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on reporting an enterprise’s monetary items at rates different from those at which they are initially recorded during the period, or reported in previous financial statements, are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which they arise. 1.11 Short-term employee benefits The cost of all short-term employee benefits is recognised during the period in which the employee renders the related service. The accruals for employee entitlements to salaries, performance bonuses and annual leave represent the amounts which the entity has a present obligation to pay as a result of employees’ services provided at the reporting date. The provisions have been calculated at discounted amounts based on current salary levels at the reporting date. 1.12 Irregular expenditure Irregular expenditure is expenditure that is contrary to the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003), the Municipal Systems Act, 2000 (Act No. 32 of 2000), and the Public Office Bearers Act, 1998 (Act No. 20 of 1998), or is in contravention of the Municipal Entity Supply Chain Management Policy. Where irregular expenditure is not condoned, it is accounted for as expenditure in the statement of financial performance and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the statement of financial performance. 1.13 Fruitless and wasteful expenditure Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is expenditure that was made in vain and would have been avoided had reasonable care been exercised. Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is accounted for as expenditure in the statement of financial performance and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the statement of financial performance. 1.14 Comparative information Comparative figures are reclassified or restated as necessary to afford a proper and more meaningful comparison of results, as set out in the affected notes to the financial statements. Budgeted amounts have been included in the annual financial statements for the current financial year only. 1.15 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The Company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed on the next page. 160 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.15 Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued) 1.15.1 Asset useful lives and residual values Plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life taking into account residual values where appropriate. The actual useful lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and vary depending on a number of factors. In reassessing the assets’ useful lives, factors such as technological innovation and maintenance programmes are taken into account. Residual value assessments consider issues such as future market conditions, the remaining life of the asset and projected disposal value. 1.16 Investment Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost, less impairment losses. 1.17 Finance costs Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 1.18 Budget information The annual budget figures have been prepared in accordance with the GRAP standards on an accrual basis, and are consistent with the accounting policies adopted by the Board for the preparation of these financial statements. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017. The amounts are scheduled as a seperate additional financial statement, called the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. Explanatory comments on material differences are provided in the notes to the annual financial statements. These figures are those approved by the Board as part of the annual business plan process. Comparitive information is not required for the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. 1.19 Related parties The Company regards a related party as a person or a Company with the ability to control the Company either individually or jointly, or the ability to excercise significant influence over the Company, or vice versa. Management is regarded as a related party and includes board members. 1.20 Value-added tax (VAT) The Company accounts for VAT on an invoice basis. 1.21 Post-balance sheet events Events after the reporting date are those events, both favourable and unfavourable, that occur between the reporting date and the date when the financial statements are authorised for issue. Two types of events can be identified: (a) those that provide evidence of conditions that existed at the reporting date (adjusting events after the reporting date); and (b) those the are indicative of conditions that arose after the reporting date (non-adjusting events after the reporting date) Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 6 1 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Property, plant and equipment 2017 2016 COST ACCUMULATED CARRYING COST ACCUMULATED CARRYING DEPRECIATION VALUE DEPRECIATION AND VALUE AND IMPAIRMENT IMPAIRMENT R R R R R R Escalators 3 985 310 2 105 992 1 879 318 3 564 611 1 797 126 1 767 485 Elevators 8 588 446 7 324 185 1 264 261 8 438 473 6 759 946 1 678 527 Carpets/laminated flooring 9 242 705 2 826 497 6 416 208 8 152 043 3 797 154 4 354 889 Curtains/blinds 62 600 12 890 49 710 1 332 791 1 322 524 10 267 Signage 3 674 242 1 541 212 2 133 030 4 550 930 2 429 573 2 121 357 Audiovisual 8 942 424 7 917 836 1 024 588 9 694 291 8 887 770 806 521 Fences and gates 953 706 666 209 287 497 1 307 262 950 954 356 308 Cold rooms 3 301 547 2 730 733 570 814 3 301 547 2 507 089 794 458 Air-conditioning system 34 974 029 26 007 949 8 966 080 34 939 307 24 082 413 10 856 894 Sprinkler system 4 746 371 4 746 371 – 4 891 993 4 881 956 10 037 Auditorium seating 1 744 982 345 227 1 399 755 339 600 191 933 147 667 Building management system 16 808 333 10 451 299 6 357 034 18 697 297 11 451 499 7 245 798 Building 479 320 246 375 579 647 103 740 609 472 159 014 366 778 762 105 380 252 Plant and equipment 7 316 864 4 491 564 2 825 300 6 688 359 4 018 117 2 670 242 Motor vehicles 1 688 179 1 329 564 358 615 1 623 183 1 364 773 258 410 Furniture and fittings 12 326 330 9 114 797 3 211 533 12 366 206 9 690 769 2 675 437 Kitchen and catering 13 614 977 8 842 573 4 772 404 14 917 113 9 019 988 5 897 125 Office equipment 1 598 399 549 059 1 049 340 3 171 809 2 683 329 488 480 Computer equipment 34 137 818 15 182 838 18 954 980 26 557 589 14 801 885 11 755 703 Assets in progress* 812 580 536 16 091 344 796 489 192 476 241 079 16 091 344 460 149 735 1 459 608 044 497 857 776 961 750 268 1 112 934 496 493 508 904 619 425 592 * Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre 162 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment can be reconciled as follows: 2017 CARRYING VALUE AT RECLASSIFICATION ADDITIONS DISPOSALS DEPRECIATION CARRYING VALUE AT BEGINNING AND ADJUSTMENTS END OF YEAR OF YEAR R R R R R R Escalators 1 767 485 – 420 699 – 308 866 1 879 318 Elevators 1 678 527 – 149 973 – 564 239 1 264 261 Carpets/laminated flooring 4 354 889 – 3 742 886 301 603 1 379 964 6 416 208 Curtains/blinds 10 267 – 47 000 2 267 5 290 49 710 Signage 2 121 357 – 586 948 12 213 563 062 2 133 030 Audiovisual 806 521 – 556 696 50 000 288 629 1 024 588 Fences and gates 356 308 – 38 647 426 107 032 287 497 Cold rooms 794 458 – – – 223 644 570 814 Air-conditioning system 10 856 894 – 278 388 – 2 169 202 8 966 080 Sprinkler system 10 037 – – – 10 037 – Auditorium seating 147 667 – 1 405 382 – 153 294 1 399 755 Building management system 7 245 798 – 852 937 44 175 1 697 526 6 357 034 Building 105 380 252 (264 584) 7 512 707 – 8 887 766 103 740 609 Plant and equipment 2 670 242 250 312 791 436 837 885 853 2 825 300 Motor vehicles 258 410 – 64 996 – (35 209) 358 615 Furniture and fittings 2 675 437 4 739 1 443 212 95 975 815 880 3 211 533 Kitchen and catering 5 897 125 3 088 1 912 141 534 725 2 505 225 4 772 404 Office equipment 488 480 6 445 986 367 78 524 353 428 1 049 340 Computer equipment 11 755 703 – 10 806 427 66 741 3 540 410 18 954 980 Assets in progress* 460 149 735 – 336 339 457 – – 796 489 192 619 425 592 – 367 936 300 1 187 486 24 424 138 961 750 268 * Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 6 3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment can be reconciled as follows: (continued) 2016 CARRYING VALUE AT RECLASSIFICATION ADDITIONS DISPOSALS DEPRECIATION CARRYING VALUE AT BEGINNING AND ADJUSTMENTS END OF YEAR OF YEAR R R R R R R Escalators 2 060 445 – – – 292 960 1 767 485 Elevators 2 234 434 – – – 555 907 1 678 527 Carpets/laminated flooring 4 913 713 – 731 559 – 1 290 383 4 354 889 Curtains/blinds 133 255 76 – – 123 064 10 267 Signage 1 248 832 – 1 151 423 – 278 898 2 121 357 Audiovisual 948 245 61 828 210 944 – 414 496 806 521 Fences and gates 255 341 – 186 101 – 85 134 356 308 Cold rooms 953 164 – 13 747 – 172 453 794 458 Air-conditioning system 12 021 499 – 791 124 – 1 955 729 10 856 894 Sprinkler system 32 357 – – – 22 320 10 037 Auditorium seating 204 267 – – – 56 600 147 667 Building management system 8 291 728 (61 828) 831 729 – 1 815 831 7 245 798 Building 100 902 058 (1 673) 11 165 347 – 6 685 480 105 380 252 Plant and equipment 2 454 984 – 973 839 – 758 581 2 670 242 Motor vehicles 387 615 – – – 129 205 258 410 Furniture and fittings 2 825 211 (29 703) 1 016 697 90 736 1 046 032 2 675 437 Kitchen and catering 4 695 117 58 754 2 351 465 72 947 1 135 264 5 897 125 Office equipment 847 227 (31 369) 260 912 – 588 290 488 480 Computer equipment 9 767 759 – 9 413 446 – 7 425 502 11 755 703 Assets in progress* 108 937 838 3 915 351 207 982 – – 460 149 735 264 115 089 – 380 306 315 163 683 24 832 129 619 425 592 * Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre. 164 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) Cost (fully depreciated property, plant and equipment) 2017 2016 R R Audiovisual 986 809 1 258 235 Building 8 290 240 2 365 214 Building management system 4 566 763 2 527 401 Curtains/blinds – 1 304 890 Fences and gates – 347 177 Signage 58 965 1 411 635 Sprinkler system 4 746 371 4 821 657 Air-conditioning system 140 168 – Motor vehicles – 1 106 364 Computer equipment 294 901 7 350 282 Office equipment – 2 109 179 Furniture and fittings 55 917 6 917 497 Artwork 1 321 095 1 321 095 Plant and equipment – 166 507 Kitchen and catering – 2 538 678 20 461 229 35 545 810 Impairment consideration In line with our accounting policy for property, plant and equipment and GRAP for the impairment of assets, non-current assets were assessed during the period for possible indicators of impairment. During the review, management has confirmed the following: Cash-generating unit comprises: 2017 2016 R R Escalators 1 879 318 1 767 485 Elevators 1 264 261 1 678 527 Cold rooms 570 814 794 458 Air-conditioning system 8 966 080 10 856 894 Auditorium seating 1 399 755 147 667 Building 103 740 609 105 380 252 Kitchen and catering 4 772 404 5 897 125 Total carrying value 122 593 241 126 522 408 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 6 5 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) Impairment consideration (continued) (a) The main purpose of establishing the centre was to generate spin-off returns for the region. (b) Due to the restrictions imposed on the use of the facility and site, no active market exists within which the value of the centre can be determined through an arm’s length transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, and as such the value in use of the centre has been used to determine whether the building’s carrying value may not be recoverable. (c ) Since inception, all initial targets for the region (spin-offs) and the operation of the convention centre have consistently been exceeded and are forecast to maintain this level of performance for the foreseeable future. (d) Despite this, the value in use of the centre can only be attributed to the present value of the future cash flows generated within the centre itself, and excludes any value which it generates for other entities or business sectors. (e)  No value could be attached to the centre at the end of its useful life due to its disposal being highly unlikely with no reliable basis for measuring the disposal value. (f)  A discount rate of 14.2% (2016: 13.9%) was used, which was calculated using the risk-free rate of the R186 bond of 10.5% adjusted by 3.7% for uncertainty regarding timing and extent of certain of the cash flows. Based on the calculation of value in use, the fair value of R134 million was determined. The current carrying value of R123 million was established for the building at date of calculation. This has resulted in a nil reversal of impairment. 3 Investment in subsidiary The Company has an investment in the following company: 2017 2016 R R Unlisted Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO) 100 100 The agency agreement between Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd (RF) (Convenco) and Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO) was terminated on 30 June 2010. OPCO does not reflect any trading activities in its financial results and will be deregistered. The company is dormant and has a net asset value of R100. 4 Deferred taxation Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the balance sheet method using a tax rate of 28%. 2017 2016 R R The deferred tax balance is made up as follows: Asset at beginning of the year 2 653 644 4 668 Temporary differences 923 025 2 648 976 Asset at end of the year 3 576 669 2 653 644 The balance comprises the following temporary differences: Property, plant and equipment 3 576 669 2 653 644 Asset at end of the year 3 576 669 2 653 644 166 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 5 Inventories 2017 2016 R R Food 311 756 427 230 Beverage 589 971 618 492 Consumables 228 679 172 741 Chemicals 67 760 41 349 Total 1 198 165 1 259 812 6 Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 2017 2016 R R Trade receivables 2 166 251 5 071 893 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (190 094) (4 052) Receivables from exchange transactions – net 1 976 157 5 067 841 Prepayments 1 721 611 932 047 Receiver of Revenue: VAT 8 498 604 12 060 414 Other receivables 38 417 10 410 Total 12 234 789 18 070 712 2017 2016 R R Trade receivables ageing Current (0 – 30 days) 1 553 358 4 674 063 31 – 60 days 117 116 (50 080) 61 – 90 days 286 776 347 302 91 – 120 days 42 840 26 857 + 120 days 166 161 73 751 Total 2 166 251 5 071 893 Provision for impairment (190 094) (4 052) Trade receivables due 1 976 157 5 067 841 The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value due to their short-term maturity. Trade receivables in 120 days are not impaired as there is no history of default from these clients. The carrying value of these trade receivables is denominated in the following currency: South African Rand. 2017 2016 R R Provision for impairment of trade receivables Opening balance (4 052) (13 836) Additional provision (190 094) (4 052) Unused amounts reversed 4 052 13 836 Closing balance (190 094) (4 052) The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above. The Company does not hold any collateral as security. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 6 7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 7 Contribution from owners Authorised share capital 10 000 000 “A” ordinary shares of no par value 1 000 000 “B” ordinary shares of no par value On 26 November 2013, the shareholders approved the issue of up to the maximum of 158 067 new “A” ordinary shares to the City of Cape Town and up to a maximum of 79 034 new “A” ordinary shares to the Western Cape Government. As at 30 June 2017, these shares have been fully subscribed. Number of Stated Capital Number of Stated Capital Shares Shares 2017 2017 2016 2016 R R R R Issued and fully paid ordinary shares Opening balance 204 823 1 084 427 701 171 396 967 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 190 823 944 788 000 157 396 827 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 Movements 55 143 193 000 000 33 427 117 000 000 Share issue – A ordinary shares (4 December 2015) – – 4 285 15 000 000 Share issue – A ordinary shares (18 March 2016) – – 14 857 52 000 000 Share issue – A ordinary shares (29 April 2016) – – 10 000 35 000 000 Share issue – A ordinary shares (27 May 2016) – – 4 285 15 000 000 Share issue – A ordinary shares (1 July 2016) 17 143 60 000 000 – – Share issue – A ordinary shares (15 August 2016) 18 714 65 500 000 – – Share issue – A ordinary shares (30 August 2016) 7 143 25 000 000 – – Share issue – A ordinary shares (17 October 2016) 10 714 37 500 000 – – Share issue – A ordinary shares (14 December 2016) 1 429 5 000 000 – – Closing balance 259 966 1 277 427 701 204 823 1 084 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 245 966 1 137 788 000 190 823 944 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 8 Client deposits 2017 2016 R R 0 – 1 year 19 105 075 46 620 494 >1 year 582 223 – Total 19 687 299 46 620 494 Client deposits are received in advance for upcoming events. 168 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 2017 2016 R R Trade payables 16 617 314 15 919 686 Accruals* 39 558 266 75 831 901 Sundry payables 223 733 221 535 56 399 313 91 973 122 * Included in the 2017 accruals balance is an amount relating to the expansion. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value due to short-term maturity. The carrying value of these trade payables is denominated in the following 16 617 314 15 919 686 currency: South African Rand 10 Provisions 2017 2016 R R Performance bonus provision Opening balance 3 537 828 3 364 567 Additional provisions 4 959 809 3 537 828 Prior year provision utilised (3 537 828) (3 364 567) Closing balance 4 959 809 3 537 828 Performance bonuses accrue to staff on an annual basis based on the achievement of predetermined performance. The provision is an estimate of the amount due to staff in the service of the Company at the reporting date. During the financial year ended 30 June 2017, an amendment to the bonus policy was approved by the Board. The amendment to the policy has no change to the methodology and calculation of the bonus. The change is in relation to timing which is now based on financial year whereas previously the provision was based on calendar year. This has no impact on the actual amounts being paid on bonuses and only affects the provision. 11 Operating profit 2017 2016 R R Operating profit is stated after: Income (Loss) on foreign exchange (5 553) (3 938) Rental income Vexicure Proprietary Ltd t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited 4 691 419 4 522 011 Expenditure 1 173 089 1 083 053 Auditor’s remuneration – Audit fee Depreciation (property, plant and equipment) 24 424 138 24 832 129 Repairs and maintenance on property, plant and equipment 8 316 849 8 504 908 Insurance recovered 32 307 75 268 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 6 9 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 12 Revenue from exchange transactions 2017 2016 R R Commissions 19 641 511 17 660 648 Parking 13 421 688 12 070 558 Sales 177 489 047 172 728 238 210 552 246 202 459 444 13 Finance income and costs 2017 2016 R R Finance income (cash and cash equivalents) 28 824 690 35 271 842 Finance cost (finance costs – financial institution) (3 016) (42 327) Net finance income 28 821 674 35 229 515 14 Taxation 14.1 South African normal taxation 2017 2016 R R Current year 14 906 133 22 655 775 Deferred taxation (refer note 4) (923 025) (2 648 976) Taxation 13 983 108 20 006 799 14.2 Reconciliation of effective tax 2017 2016 R R Profit before taxation 57 459 520 67 259 732 Tax at statutory rate (28%) 16 088 666 18 832 724 Permanent differences (2 105 558) 1 895 772 Disallowed expenditure – 189 424 Prior year underprovision of current tax – – Other adjustments – (911 121) Effective tax 13 983 108 20 006 799 170 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Notes to the cash flow statement 15.1 Cash generated from operations 2017 2016 R R Profit before taxation 57 459 520 67 259 732 Adjustment for: Depreciation 24 424 138 24 832 129 Finance income (28 824 690) (35 271 842) Asset write-off 1 187 609 163 683 Finance costs 3 016 42 327 Increase in provision for bonuses 1 421 981 173 261 (Decrease)/increase in provision for impairment of receivables from exchange transactions 186 042 (9 784) 55 857 616 57 189 506 Movements in working capital Decrease in inventories 61 647 505 743 Decrease in receivables 5 649 882 8 387 384 (Decrease)/increase in payables (25 006 568) 48 225 706 36 562 577 114 308 339 15.2 Taxation paid 2017 2016 R R Balance at beginning of year 1 446 296 1 058 576 Current taxation charged to income statement 14 906 133 22 655 775 Balance at end of year 3 002 222 (1 446 296) 19 354 653 22 268 055 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 7 1 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Notes to the cash flow statement (continued) 15.3 Cash and cash equivalents 2017 2016 R R Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and balances with banks. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following balance sheet amounts: Current accounts 14 140 677 9 704 428 Call and investment accounts 237 886 865 408 823 598 Petty cash 5 500 5 500 Cash float 130 500 61 500 Cash on hand 24 225 – Cash and cash equivalents 252 187 767 418 595 026 The following bank and investment accounts were held by the entity: 2017 2016 R R Nedbank – Current Account (Acc Number: 1232043850) 462 760 264 794 Nedbank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 03/7881544007/000105) 17 758 16 597 Nedbank – Investment Account (Acc Number: 03/7881544007/000104) – 15 429 431 ABSA Bank – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900553) 8 638 605 6 106 098 ABSA Bank – CTICC East – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900228) 2 644 927 1 067 492 ABSA Bank – Exh Serv – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900731) 23 645 44 066 ABSA Bank Treasury Account – (Acc Number: 4073731246) 68 295 65 071 ABSA Bank Treasury Account – (Acc Number: 4073733701) 2 302 446 2 156 907 Absa Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4074708347) 39 622 400 14 833 701 First National Bank – RMB Investment Account (Acc Number: 00 506 190 167 40) 13 799 821 12 788 496 Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) 2 751 458 51 793 529 551436367) Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) – 7 404 552166459) Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (462097) 1008645) 35 163 486 19 488 827 Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (462097) 1037793) – 23 953 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit Account (Acc Number: 4083941322) 924 14 018 123 Nedgroup – Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: (1800167964) 8319631) 48 356 444 58 687 057 Nedgroup – Corporate Money Market Fund C2 Account (Acc Number: (800190652) – 20 8330496) Nedgroup – Corporate Money Market Fund C2 Account (Acc Number: (1452-027-900) 17 254 760 – 8319631) Absa Bank – Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 9295637051) 402 – ABSA Bank – CTICC Money Market Fund Account (Acc Number: 09316676360) 35 299 028 86 823 583 Absa Bank – Guarantee Account (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 43939765) 45 620 383 134 912 877 172 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 16 Expenses by nature 2017 2016 R R Depreciation 24 424 138 24 832 129 Employee-related costs (note 18) 55 545 476 46 182 266 Inventory recognised as an expense 23 161 868 24 671 125 Marketing and advertising costs 6 262 378 4 819 105 Other expenses 77 619 225 76 589 720 Total cost of sales and operating expenses 187 013 085 177 094 345 17 Related parties 17.1 Holding company The Company is controlled by the City of Cape Town, which owns 71.4% (2016: 67.8%) of the Company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Western Cape Government, which owns 23.2% (2016: 25.3%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd, which owns 5.4% (2016: 6.9%). The City of Cape Town has leased the land on which the Convention Centre is built to the Company for a period of 99 years at a cost of R100 per annum. In terms of an agreement dated April 2001, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin for an initial period of 30 years extendable to 50 years. The hotel erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. In terms of an agreement dated September 2005, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Redefine Properties Limited for an initial period of 50 years extendable by 20 years. The office tower (Convention Towers) erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. 2017 2016 R R Related party transactions – City of Cape Town Rates and taxes 4 803 877 5 260 215 Electricity 11 289 706 11 124 301 Water 1 252 082 1 088 520 Lease P1 Parking (including refuse, sewerage, rates and water) 3 334 774 3 390 862 Related party transactions – Other Y-Waste Solutions CC* – 22 969 Related party balances Amounts owing to City of Cape Town 3 125 889 1 378 698 Amounts due by City of Cape Town** – 575 804 * Waste management service supplier where the manager’s spouse (S Fourie) is a non-executive director and in the service of the State (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism) ** The amount due from the City of Cape Town relates to the second basement of the expansion. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 7 3 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17 Related parties (continued) 17.2 Subsidiary The Company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company SOC Ltd (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. 2017 2016 R R Directors’ remuneration Non-executive Directors’ remuneration AA Mahmood 49 606 52 407 AM Boraine 91 634 94 829 BJ Lodewyk 87 506 79 180 EI Hamman 80 404 58 031 G Lundy – 42 229 H Taljaard – 17 476 RSH Eksteen 44 972 38 892 S Myburgh-De Gois 60 490 41 331 DA Cloete 80 819 28 522 HV Ntoi 52 754 – S Sibanda 29 595 – CEO’s remuneration Basic salary 1 996 632 1 874 976 Bonus 271 373 232 485 Key management remuneration Basic salary 5 092 358 3 887 797 Bonus 527 413 513 614 Total 5 619 771 4 401 411 18 Employee-related costs 2017 2016 R R Salaries and wages 41 914 986 35 216 194 Contributions for UIF, WCA, medical aid, etc. 3 587 172 3 064 952 Provident fund 3 661 245 3 039 192 Overtime 1 002 287 716 360 Performance bonus* 3 625 124 2 507 478 Other: Staff transport and health and safety costs 1 754 662 1 638 090 Total employee-related costs 55 545 476 46 182 266 Number of employees 184 161 * During the financial year ending 30 June 2017, an amendment to the bonus policy was approved by the Board. The amendment to the policy has no change to the methodology and calculation of the bonus. The change is in relation to timing which is now based on financial year whereas previously the provision was based on calendar year. This has no impact on the actual amounts being paid on bonuses and only affects the provision. 174 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 19 Operating Leases 19.1 Lessee 2017 1 YEAR 2–5 YEARS Over 5 years R R R Future minimum lease payments (ZAR) (incl. VAT) 3 006 885 13 943 140 301 532 298 2016 Future minimum lease payments (ZAR) (incl. VAT) 2 708 915 12 561 428 291 575 229 Future minimum lease payments for the operating leases relate to the following leases: • City of Cape Town – 99 year lease of land, remaining term 83 years 5 months. • City of Cape Town – 50 year lease of P1 parking garage, remaining term 34 years 3 months. 19.2 Lessor The Company receives rental income from Vexicure Propriety Limited t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited, which is a percentage based on turnover. 20 Budget information 20.1 Explanation of variances between approved and final budget amounts The budget is approved on an accrual basis by nature classification. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2016 to 30 June 2017. Both the budget and the accounting figures are prepared on the same basis. The variances between the approved and final budgets are mainly due to the adjustment of: – an increase in revenue due to additional short-term business gained; – an increase in finance income due to a delay in the spending of funding for the expansion; and – a decrease in total indirect costs mainly due to adjustments on personnel, operations and computer costs. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 7 5 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 Budget information (continued) 20.2 Explanation of variances greater than 5% and greater than R1 million: Final budget and actual amounts Statement of financial performance (i) Revenue and other income (R4 950 680) Due to a decrease in revenue gained from revenue sources such as food and beverage services. (ii) Direct personnel (R2 263 449) Decreased direct personnel is in relation to the decreased food and beverage revenue. (iii) Finance income (R5 203 961) Due to steady interest rate earned from favourable cash balances. (iv) Indirect expenditure (R32 718 111) Substantial savings on indirect expenses achieved through strict budgetary control. Personnel cost savings due to vacancies as at year end. The budget also includes an adjustment in staff salaries as a result of the permanent appointment of key labour broker staff. Operations general cost savings on logistic services. Utility services savings are due to a combination of savings on rates, electricity and insurance. Building costs savings are due to tighter control on services of cleaning, refuse and security. Computer cost savings due to tighter control of certain IT services. Advisor cost savings due to tighter control on legal cost spend. Travel and entertainment cost savings due to timing of the expense as a result of business operational needs. Marketing and corporate communications savings as a result of trade fairs and related costs and marketing events. Catering materials as a result of the decrease in revenue sources such as food and beverage services. Bad debts as a result of the provision of potential irrecoverable debtor accounts. Depreciation savings are due to the timing of capital expenditure, and due to a reassessment of the useful lives of assets. Finance cost savings as a result of a delay in taking up loan funding. (v) Profit before tax for the period (R45 371 511) Increased revenue, finance income and significant cost savings contributed to the improved performance. 176 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20 Budget information (continued) 20.3 Explanation of variances greater than 10% and greater than R2 million: Final budget and actual amounts Capital expenditure 100% of capital expenditure projects were either complete or in progress as at year end. Other capex items – The unspent capital expenses relates to the timing of expenditure on the CTICC East expansion programme. Capital expenditure relates to the operation and has no impact on service delivery. 20.4 Revenue and other income reconciliation Classification of certain income and expenditure differs in instances from the statement of financial performance compared to the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. 2017 R Revenue per the statement of financial performance 210 552 246 Other income per the statement of financial performance 5 095 670 215 647 916 Revenue per the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts 177 487 799 Other income per the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts 38 160 117 215 647 916 Cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales per the statement of financial performance 23 790 905 Expenses per the statement of financial performance 163 219 164 187 010 069 Finance costs included in indirect expenditure 3 016 Direct costs per the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts 41 032 042 Indirect costs per the statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts 145 981 043 187 013 085 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 7 7 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Financial instruments 21.1 Risk management Foreign exchange risk The Company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, Euro and Great British Pound. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities. The Company’s risk exposure to revenue is minimal as the revenue is charged in the Rand-denominated currency. Payments denominated in foreign currency are limited and therefore the Company’s risk exposure is minimal. Market risk The Company’s activities expose it primarily to risks of fluctuations in interest rates. Interest rate risk The Company’s interest rate profile consists of fixed and floating rate bank balances which expose the Company to fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest rate risk. The Company manages interest rate risk in terms of the Municipal Investment Regulations. Interest rate sensitivity risk The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the financial instruments’ exposure to interest rates at reporting date. A sensitivity analysis shows reasonable expected change in the interest rate, either an increase or decrease in the interest rate percentage. The equal but opposite 1% adjustment to the interest rate would result in an equal but opposite effect on net surplus and therefore has not been disclosed separately. 2017 2016 R R Cash and cash equivalents 252 187 767 418 595 026 Increase/Decrease in interest rates 1% 1% Net surplus (post-tax) 1 815 752 3 013 884 178 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Financial instruments (continued) 21.1 Risk management (continued) Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligation, and arises principally from the Company’s customers. The Company’s policy is to receive the majority of payment upfront from customers. Any outstanding balances are managed through frequent communications with customers. Due to the nature of the business, a majority of the outstanding amounts are with customers with whom the Company has dealt with previously and whom have not defaulted in the past. Financial assets, which potentially subject the entity to credit risk, consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. The Company’s cash and cash equivalents are placed with high credit quality financial institutions. Credit risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the credit approval processes. Credit quality of trade and other receivables The following represents the credit quality of the trade receivables: 2017 2016 R R Key accounts customers 1 713 962 4 517 340 Other accounts customers 262 195 550 501 High risk customers 190 094 4 052 Related party recoverable* – 575 804 2 166 251 5 647 697 The Company believes that no further impairment is necessary on trade receivables as reflected in note 6. * The related party recoverable balance is due from the City of Cape Town relating to the second basement of the expansion. . Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The Company ensures that adequate funds are available to meet its expected and unexpected financial commitments through effective working capital management. The following table provides details of the Company’s remaining contractual liability for its financial liabilities: LESS THAN Greater than TOTAL 1 MONTH 1 month R R R 2017 Client deposits 4 611 570 15 075 729 19 687 299 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 16 088 691 40 310 622 56 399 313 20 700 261 55 386 351 76 086 612 2016 Client deposits 47 883 46 572 611 46 620 494 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 15 446 903 76 526 219 91 973 122 15 494 786 123 098 830 138 593 616 Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 7 9 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 21 Financial instruments (continued) 21.1 Risk management (continued) Capital risk management The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the Company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings and payables and other payables from exchange transactions, as shown in the statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as equity, shown in the statement of financial position, plus net debt. The gearing ratios at 30 June 2017 and 30 June 2016 were as follows: 2017 2016 R R Cash and cash equivalents 252 187 767 418 595 026 Less: Payables and other payables from exchange transactions (56 399 313) (91 973 122) Net cash 195 788 454 326 621 904 Total equity 957 115 104 589 805 242 Total capital 1 152 903 559 916 427 146 Gearing ratio 17% 36% 21.2 Financial instruments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied below: 2017 FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTISED COST Assets as per financial position R Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 2 014 573 Cash and cash equivalents 252 187 767 FINANCIAL LIABILITies At AMOrTISED COST Liabilities per financial position R Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 56 399 313 Client deposits 19 687 299 2016 FINANCIAL ASSETs AT AMOrTISED COST Assets as per financial position R Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 5 078 251 Cash and cash equivalents 418 595 026 FINANCIAL LIABILITies AT AMOrTISED COST Liabilities per financial position R Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 91 973 122 Client deposits 46 620 494 180 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 22 Supply chain management regulations 22.1 Deviations In terms of section 36 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Regulations and the CTICC Supply Chain Management Policy, the CEO may ratify any minor breaches of the procurement process. 2017 Total deviations for the year amounted to R17 501 216 Listed below are material deviations: Incident R Exceptional/impractical cases 3 949 507 Sole/single provider 6 403 606 Emergency situation 569 511 Minor breaches 6 578 592 17 501 216 2016 Total deviations for the year amounted to R21 094 062 Listed below are material deviations: Incident R Exceptional/impractical cases 6 776 603 Sole/single provider 5 244 722 Emergency situation 583 360 Minor breaches 8 489 377 21 094 062 22.2 According to section 45 of the Municipality Supply Chain Management Policy, disclosure needs to be given of awards to close family members of persons in the service of the state, in compliance with the provisions of CTICC’s Supply Chain Management Policy. Appointment of food waste management services was awarded to Y-Waste Solutions CC (non-VAT vendor). The manager’s spouse (S Fourie) is in service of the state (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism) and a non-executive director of the Company. The amount of the award was 2017: R0 (2016: R22 969). Tender CTICC024/2014: Appointment of upgrade P1 parkade renovation, was awarded to Exeo Khokela Civil Engineering (Pty) Ltd. The director’s child (T Meyer) is in service of the state (Educator: Western Cape Education Department). The amount of the award was 2017: R237 908 (2016: R1 563 789). AT Catering t/a 3 Peas was appointed onto the panel for the supply and delivery of Fresh and Prepared Fruit and Vegetables (CTICC027/2016). The director’s spouse (Mrs. M Brink) is in service of the state as a doctor at the Red Cross Children’s Hospital. The amount of the award was 2017: R838 842 (2016: R491 937). Tender CTICC010/2016: Professional services – Upgrading of existing generating system, was awarded to SMEC. The spouse (Mrs. Y Phosa) of the Chairperson of SMEC’s Board of Directors, is in service of the state as Chairperson – Parliament Committee of Higher Education and Training. The amount of the award was 2017: R296 823 (2016: R154 933). 23 Events subsequent to year end The Directors are unaware of any events after the reporting date that would materially alter the amounts or disclosure in these annual financial statements. 24 Capital commitments Commitments in respect of capital expenditure 2017 2016 R R Category Other capex items 112 799 734 371 850 265 Total capital commitments 112 799 734 371 850 265 25 Contingent liabilities 25.1 The CTICC is subject to various claims which have arisen from the expansion project brought by the principal building contractor and other professional services consultants. The provisional estimate for ongoing legal proceedings is at R7.5 million at the time of this report. Ca pe Tow n I n t e r n a t i o n a l C o n ve n t i o n C e n t re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t | 1 8 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX No. Principle Met Page reference 1 Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 2, 18-19, 20, 22, proclaimed human rights. 73-4, 93, 95 2 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights 95 abuses. 3 Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 95 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 95 compulsory labour. 5 Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 95 6 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect 2, 18-19, 20, 22, of employment and occupation. 73-4, 93, 95 7 Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 108 environmental challenges. 8 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 3, 9, 20, 29, 106-111 environmental responsibility. 9 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 107-8 environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 113, 116 extortion and bribery. 182 | Cap e Town Inter na t iona l Conv e nt ion Ce nt re | 2 0 1 7 I n t e g r a t e d A n n u a l R e p o r t
