Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 2 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-28 G4-30 G4-31 G4-32 G4-33 SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Welcome to SIG’s Corporate About this report How to navigate the report Responsibility Report for 2016. This is SIG’s first corporate responsibility report. Unless otherwise stated, data covers the 2016 Use the tabs at the bottom of the page to We are committed to being a responsible navigate between the main sections of this calendar year and all our global operations, business. But we want to go much further by interactive PDF. The navigation buttons except our Whakatane paper mill in New Zealand going Way Beyond Good: our bold ambition (bottom right) enable you to: and our joint ventures in the Middle East. to create a net positive impact on society and the environment. The report has been produced in accordance Return to last page viewed with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 This report sets out our roadmap on how we Guidelines Core option. Relevant GRI indicators Return to the start of the report will get there. It describes the systems we have are shown at the top of each page where in place to manage our most material social Search for content in the report applicable. and environmental issues, and reports on our performance in 2016. Selected data indicated by Go back one page this icon has been externally We welcome stakeholder views on our approach. assured with limited assurance Move forward one page Please share your feedback via email at by PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH waybeyondgood@sig.biz. Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft. This document acts as our Communication on Progress in relation to the 10 principles of the Way Beyond Good  5 United Nations Global Compact and indicates how we are contributing to the United Nations SIG supports the SDGs. Our approach  11 Sustainable Development Goals. Indices on the GRI G4 Guidelines and United Responsible company  21 Nations Global Compact, together with an assurance statement and details on reporting Responsible sourcing  34 boundaries, can be found in About our reporting Responsible products  41 (see page 50). We intend to provide an update on our WE SUPPORT About our reporting  50 performance annually and to update the full report biannually. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 3 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-3 G4-4 G4-5 G4-6 G4-7 G4-8 G4-9 Our business OUR BUSINESS OUR MAIN SITES Packaging We produce aseptic carton packages and Headquarters Sleeves production Sleeves Paper Joint SIG Combibloc Group AG and its closures for use in our filling machines. and production and filling machine production mill venture Our packaging is delivered to customers affiliates (together “SIG”) is one as flat-packed sleeves for efficient plant for assembly plants plant closures of the world’s leading suppliers transportation, then formed into carton of aseptic carton packaging for packs in our filling machines. We offer a range of carton formats – from our classic beverages and food. combibloc to the innovative combifit Germany China and combidome – as well as closures, Wittenberg Suzhou Germany We provide complete systems including packaging such as combiSmart and combiSwift. Linnich Austria materials, the machines our customers use to fill Saalfelden them and technical service support. Switzerland Neuhausen United Arab Emirates We operate in more than 45 countries, serving Dubai major food and beverage brands and contract Filling machines Customers use our aseptic filling Thailand packers in the Americas, Asia-Pacific, Europe, machines to form, sterilise and fill our Saudi Arabia Rayong Riyadh and the Middle East and Africa. Our packaging sleeves with food products, then seal the filled cartons ready for consumers. Our is primarily used for long-life milk and dairy machines offer the flexibility to fill packs in products, non-carbonated soft drinks such as a range of different formats and volumes Brazil using a variety of opening solutions. They Curitiba fruit juices, and liquid and particulate foods can be used for a wide range of products, such as soups and sauces. including milk, juice, drinks with pieces of SIG is owned by Onex Corporation, a Canadian fruit or cereals, and particulate foods such as chunky soups. New Zealand private equity firm. We employ over 5,000 Whakatane people worldwide. Technical service REVENUE We provide service and maintenance support for customers throughout the life of our filling machines. Our technical 2014 2015 2016 service engineers offer advice, training and support to optimise the efficiency of €1,629m €1,721m €1,724m our customers’ filling lines and factories. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 4 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-1 Message from our CEO In 2016, we embarked on a bold journey to go Way Beyond Good. We aim to become net positive in the long run by putting more back in to the environment and society than we take out. This net positive ambition is built into our CouncilTM (FSCTM) to guarantee that all the Our net positive commitment builds on business strategy, our Corporate Compass. cartons we produce can carry the FSCTM strong foundations and I’m confident that We are dedicated to running a responsible label from now on. my more than 5,000 colleagues will help us company, with responsible products made do what is responsible and right for our Our carton packs already have a smaller from responsible sources. customers, our company, the environment environmental footprint than alternative and our communities around the world. Our strategy will help us navigate the complex packaging and our product innovations are challenges created by global megatrends such as cutting impacts further. For example, combidome I look forward to updating you on our population growth, rapid urbanisation, a fastprovides the design features of a bottle while progress next year as we continue on expanding middle class and the effects of climate retaining the significantly smaller environmental our journey to go Way Beyond Good. change. And we will seize the opportunities for footprint of a carton. And combibloc EcoPlus our business and our customers by partnering lowers the carbon footprint of an aseptic carton to bring food products to consumers around the pack and eliminates the need for aluminium. world in a safe, sustainable and affordable way. Committed to transparency Building on strong foundations Here we report on our progress and Rolf Stangl We know there will be challenges to overcome performance in 2016 to enable our Chief Executive Officer along the way, but we are determined to go stakeholders to hold us accountable and Way Beyond Good and we have a clear roadmap encourage us to improve. This document to get there. We have already made good is produced in accordance with the Global progress in several areas. Reporting Initiative G4 Guidelines Core option to support our commitment to transparency. Our commitment to being a responsible company was recognised with gold status in an Collaboration is key as the world tackles global independent assessment by EcoVadis. This puts challenges, from climate change to upholding SIG in the top 5% of businesses assessed. human rights. We are working with our peers in the Net Positive Project, we support the United In 2016, we achieved a milestone in the Nations Sustainable Development Goals and sourcing of our main raw material. We have we have joined the United Nations Global secured a sufficient supply of liquid packaging Compact. This report serves as our board certified by the Forest Stewardship Communication on Progress. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 5 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Way Beyond Good We want to be net positive by contributing more to society and the environment than we take out – across our value chain. We call that going Way Beyond Good. Our strategy Our net positive commitment Responsible company: Our story Responsible sourcing: Our story Responsible products: Our story Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 6 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 AMBITION AMBITION Our strategy PURSUE A NET-POSITIVE INNOVATE SMARTER CORPORATE FOOTPRINT SOLUTIONS WITH PROVEN We partner with our customers to IN THE LONG RUN SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS bring food products to consumers THE ENTIRE LIFE-CYCLE around the world in a safe, sustainable and affordable way. That’s our corporate purpose and we fulfil it responsibly. Our business strategy – we call it our Corporate Compass – sets out how. Our purpose and values are at the heart of the Compass. And three key ambitions on responsibility define the way we run our company, source our raw materials and design our products. These ambitions and our accompanying roadmap support our business goals around people, growth and customers. Responsibility is built into our business strategy and everything we do. But we want to go further. We have set ourselves a series of stretching ambitions to go Way Beyond Good. AMBITION STRIVE FOR CERTIFIED SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY OF ALL MATERIALS, PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 7 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Our net positive commitment WHAT WAY BEYOND GOOD MEANS By going Way Beyond Good, we aim to have a net positive impact on natural resources, climate change, people and communities. These are just some of the 2020 targets we have In 2016, we set out our Working together to make a net set to help us achieve this. See page 18 for our full responsibility roadmap. commitment to become net positive difference NATURAL RESOURCES We want to regenerate natural resources, striving to create more positive in the long term as Our Way Beyond Good ambition places us among than we use. part of our business strategy. an elite group of companies that have made the 2020 targets include: bold commitment to become net positive. n 100% FSCTM labelled packs This means we will contribute more to society n 100% renewable carton pack In 2016, we joined a group of pioneering 100% bioplastics from certified sources and the environment than we take out – across n companies and non-governmental organisations n A carton made of 50% recycled content our value chain from our suppliers and our as a member of the Net Positive Project. The operations to our customers and consumers. project works for a world where companies We have ambitious stretch goals for 2030 and drive financial success and create net positive a detailed roadmap with year-on-year targets to impacts by putting back more into society, the CLIMATE CHANGE 2020 to help us get there. We support global action on climate change by cutting the carbon environment and the global economy than they footprint of our business and our products at every stage of the By 2030, we will halve our environmental take out. Our fellow members include AT&T, Dell, value chain. impacts and double our benefits to society. Dow, Hewlett Packard Enterprise, Kimberly-Clark, 2020 targets include: All our raw materials will come from certified Kingfisher and Target. Together, we are seeking n 50% CO2 reduction and 35% energy reduction in our plants (from 2014) responsible sources. And our packaging solutions solutions to realise this vision and developing n 100% renewable energy and Gold Standard CO2 offset for all will be the most sustainable on the market. ways to measure and monitor our progress. non-renewable energy n  Science-based CO2 reduction target in place covering our We have already made good progress in several We have also joined the Science Based Targets entire value chain areas, including creating a pack with a 28% lower Initiative, which is at the forefront of efforts to carbon footprint from cradle to gate, sourcing help companies understand how to cut their PEOPLE AND COMMUNITIES enough FSCTM-certified liquid packaging board to We want to go Way Beyond Good for everyone in our value chain emissions enough to prevent the worst impacts by helping our customers deliver food and drinks to people around enable customers to include the FSCTM logo on of climate change. the world, and enabling the people who work for us and our any of our packs and securing 100% renewable suppliers to prosper and develop know-how that benefits them, Achieving our net positive commitment will our customers, our business and society. electricity for all our production plants worldwide be challenging. Working with others through 2020 targets include: from 2017. See page 18 for a summary of our initiatives like these will help us find solutions n New social responsibility requirements included in 100% progress towards our responsibility targets. of contracts with suppliers of our key raw materials to achieve a more sustainable future and n Zero harm (no lost-time cases) enhance our contribution to the United Nations n Employee engagement score above industry benchmark and Sustainable Development Goals (see page 15). employee Net Promoter Score increased year on year n Investment in training and development above industry benchmark n Community and education programmes doubled over five years Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 8 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Responsible company: Our story Demonstrating responsibility through independent assessments Recognised external certifications and assessments We take our responsibilities to people OUR 2030 GOAL help us demonstrate our credentials as a responsible company and continuously improve our performance. and the environment very seriously – HALVE VALUE CHAIN Our EcoVadis Gold status puts us in the top 5% of it’s part of our corporate strategy ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS participating companies, based on a detailed and it’s how we do business. AND DOUBLE SOCIETAL independent assessment of our policies, BENEFITS WHILE MEETING processes and performance on environment, Being a responsible company also helps us to meet BUSINESS GROWTH TARGETS social, ethics and supply chain criteria. the requirements of our customers, who increasingly As a member of the Supplier Ethical Data expect us to meet high standards in the way we manage Exchange (SEDEX), our production sites environmental, ethical and social issues to protect Halving environmental impacts are audited regularly to assess working their own reputation and enhance sustainability in their conditions, health and environmental Life-cycle assessments of our products show that supply chain. We use independent third parties to verify protection, and ethical business our biggest environmental impacts lie outside our practices. The results of the audits our credentials through recognised assessments, such own operations. That’s why our focus on responsible are shared with our customers as EcoVadis and the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange sourcing (see page 9) and responsible products via the SEDEX platform and we (SEDEX) (see case study opposite). (see page 10) is so important to go Way Beyond Good. encourage our own suppliers to undergo the same rigorous Robust management of corporate responsibility is But we still want to minimise the footprint of our own assessments (see page 36). fundamental to our business. And we are committed operations by, for example, improving energy efficiency to going Way Beyond Good by striving for a net positive and using renewable power at all our production corporate footprint. By 2030, we aim to halve our plants. We promote continuous improvement at environmental impacts across our value chain and all our production and assembly plants through double our societal benefits while meeting our business our certification to the ISO 14001 standard for growth targets. environmental management. The first step to achieving this ambition is to understand our environmental footprint and the societal benefits Doubling societal benefits we provide across our value chain – from forests and We can contribute to society by supporting our suppliers to our own operations, customer use of filling employees and communities, demanding fair treatment machines, and consumer use and disposal of our of workers and communities in our supply chain, and packs. We are developing a methodology to measure supporting access to safe, sustainable and affordable our environmental footprint across our value chain, nutrition by helping our customers deliver food and starting with our greenhouse gas emissions. We will drinks to consumers around the world. also explore how best to define and measure the societal benefits our business can contribute to across Read more about our responsible company the value chain. management and performance on page 21. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 9 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 “We appreciate the dedication and leadership of SIG with regard to Responsible sourcing: Our story responsible forest management. The WWF is confident that the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Recognised certifications provide a reliable, independent method OUR 2030 GOAL can make a significant contribution of assuring customers and consumers that the goods they buy are to forest conservation and to better produced in a way that respects the people involved while minimising ALL RAW MATERIALS forest management. Apart from FROM CERTIFIED protected areas, only responsible risks to the environment. RESPONSIBLE SOURCES AND 50% forest management can prevent the By 2020, we aim to source 100% of our We purchase all our liquid packaging board OF TOTAL SOURCING complete destruction of our forests. SPEND ON NET ‘Preservation through responsible use’ A-materials from certified sources. Our three from suppliers that require their wood supplies POSITIVE SUPPLIERS main A-materials are liquid packaging board, to meet strict criteria for managing forests – this motto will ensure the continued polymers and aluminium. responsibly and respecting the THE MATERIALS THAT MAKE survival of the forest, its functionality rights of local communities and OUR CARTONS* and its biodiversity. By opting for SIG In 2016, we achieved an industry first carton packs with the FSCTM label, indigenous peoples. by securing sufficient supply of Forest food and beverage manufacturers are Paper board Polymers Stewardship CouncilTM (FSCTM) certified The Chain of Custody emphasising their environmentally Provides structure Build the barrier for the liquid packaging board to guarantee certification from the FSCTM and rigidity. product and prevent and socially responsible thinking that all the packs we produce from now at our suppliers’ mills and moisture getting in. and actions, and enabling on can carry the FSCTM label. We are our own sites enables consumers to choose an now working with suppliers and industry traceability from forests to environmentally beneficial organisations to establish a viable SIG cartons. We have had product, as well.” certified supply of the other materials this certification for our own we use. We want to extend our net positive operations and sales units plus all our supply mills since 21% J ohannes Zahnen WWF sustainability officer 2009 – another industry 75% impact by working with suppliers that first (licence code FSCTM share our net positive commitment 4% C020428). Independent and we are exploring how to confirm auditors check compliance their commitment in future. against the global FSCTM standards. Renewable liquid packaging board The main ingredient used in our carton Read more about our Aluminium responsible sourcing Protects contents packs is liquid packaging board, a stiff management and from light, oxygen and paper board made from wood. This performance on page 34. external odours. natural, renewable resource makes up 70-80% of our cartons. * Percentage of materials used in our packs are averages and vary between different types of packs. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 10 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Carton meets bottle Responsible products: Our story It looks like a bottle but folds like a carton. Our combidome pack pours like a bottle, but retains all the benefits of a carton – including the environmental performance. Our customers want to the most sustainable solutions on the market, OUR 2030 GOAL An independently verified, lifeminimise the environmental starting with an aseptic carton made from 100% cycle assessment (see our website) renewable materials by 2020. OFFER CUSTOMERS THE footprint of their products MOST SUSTAINABLE FOOD shows that over its full life-cycle, from cradle to grave. Innovation is the key to realising this ambitious PACKAGING SOLUTIONS ON combidome’s carbon footprint THE MARKET is significantly smaller than goal. We have already achieved the unthinkable bottles: 75% less than Packaging is part of this journey and our cartons over the past few years by turning a carton into a disposable glass, 41% offer proven environmental benefits compared bottle and creating an aseptic packaging solution less than multilayer PET with alternatives such as bottles and cans – the that has a significantly smaller life-cycle carbon and 27% less than impacts of our packs are up to 70% smaller footprint by eliminating the need for aluminium Read more about our responsible products monolayer PET. across their life-cycle (see life-cycle assessments (see case studies). management and performance on page 41. Like all our cartons, on our website). it’s mainly made from renewable We are working hard to reduce the life-cycle Eco-innovation liquid packaging environmental footprint of our cartons by Our combibloc EcoPlus aseptic carton uses an board and using materials from sustainable sources and innovative composite structure to cut environmental it’s fully minimising the impacts of our own production impacts. recyclable. lines. We are cutting the impacts of our packs Renewable liquid packaging board from responsible even further through innovative product design. sources makes up more than 80% of the carton. Unlike conventional aseptic packs, EcoPlus does not We also offer highly efficient filling machines and use aluminium. Instead, polyethylene layers securely provide advice on how they can be used to reach contain the food or drink, and an ultra-thin layer of their optimum performance. In this way we aim polyamide shields the contents from flavour impairment to help our customers maximise efficiencies and and unwanted odours. minimise waste. The radical design of combibloc EcoPlus cuts the carbon footprint of our combiblocSlimline 1 litre carton by 28% from cradle to gate (see life-cycle assessment Smarter packaging solutions on our website). And the addition of a combiCap – We want our products to give customers and 60% lighter than a normal screw cap – gives additional consumer convenience with minimal life-cycle consumers the best possible performance – environmental impact. highest quality, most convenient, best value and Carrefour, one of Europe’s largest distribution chains, lowest environmental footprint. began using combibloc EcoPlus in August 2016. This Cartons already offer the smallest footprint has enabled the company to communicate that it is offering UHT milk in environmentally friendly packaging, compared with alternative types of packaging with 28% less CO2. (see above). But we want to go further to offer Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 11 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Our approach To help us achieve our net positive ambitions, we have integrated responsibility into our governance structure and created a roadmap of targets focusing on the issues identified as priorities for our business and our stakeholders. Responsibility built in Stakeholder dialogue Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Our priorities Our roadmap Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 12 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-34 Responsibility built in RESPONSIBILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Responsibility is an integral part of our core business strategy. It is not treated as a separate add-on or an optional extra. Group Executive Board (GEB) Accountable for responsibility roadmap This integrated approach is reflected in our oversight, alignment and collaboration governance structure. Rather than setting in the implementation of our roadmap. Responsibility Steering Group up a new standalone team to manage Responsibility for implementing each Brings together leaders from key functions and regions, including GEB members, to ensure responsibility, we have embedded it within individual focus area of the roadmap lies with alignment and collaboration in the implementation of the responsibility roadmap the remit of existing functions to ensure it is the relevant functions of the business, as a core part of our decision-making in every specified in later sections of this report. Chair Head of Group Environment, Health and Safety aspect of our business. We want all our people to understand our Ultimate accountability for our social and responsibility goals and the role they play President President President environmental performance and progress in achieving them. We aim to empower Chief Chief Chief and General and General and General against our responsibility roadmap lies employees at all levels of our business Executive Market Financial Manager Manager Manager Officer Officer Officer with our CEO and Group Executive Board to fulfil their responsibilities by raising Asia-Pacific Americas Europe (GEB). Responsibility topics are regularly on awareness of the strategy and educating the agenda at GEB meetings and each of them on relevant aspects of sustainability. the priority workstreams in our roadmap is In 2016, we communicated our Way Beyond Global Research and Development Director CFO Staff Functions Director sponsored by a GEB member. Good ambitions through our annual Global Leadership Meeting, presentations on our A Responsibility Steering Group, made Corporate Compass, employee newsletters Head of Global Marketing Global Sourcing and Procurement Director up of senior representatives from all key and other internal communications. functions and regions of the business, meets three times a year to ensure strong Global Production and Continuous Global Human Resources Director Improvement System Director Head of Global Communications Responsibility leaders from functions/regions Responsible for implementing the roadmap Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 13 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-15 G4-16 G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 Stakeholder dialogue External perspectives help us understand what stakeholders expect of us and how best to respond. “ Forum for the Future is an independent non-profit that works globally with business, government and others to solve complex sustainability challenges. We identified relevant stakeholders and We also joined other leading companies as a We advise and challenge individual organisations and bring them together considered the topics that are most important member of the Science Based Targets Initiative. in powerful coalitions for change, aiming to accelerate a shift towards a to them through our materiality process in This partnership between the United Nations sustainable future. We began working in partnership with SIG in 2016 on 2015 (see page 51). Our responsibility roadmap Global Compact and environmental organisations two exciting projects. (see page 18) was informed by this process CDP, WWF and the World Resources Institute SIG have joined The Net Positive Project. The Net Positive Project works and can be viewed as our overall response aims to help companies determine how much for a world where companies drive financial success and create ‘Net to stakeholder concerns. they must cut emissions to prevent the worst Positive’ impacts by putting back more into society, the environment impacts of climate change. The table on page 14 provides some examples of and the global economy than they take out. In practical terms this is how we have engaged in 2016, the key topics In 2017, we will refine our approach to a group of companies collaborating to work out how to implement raised by specific stakeholder groups and how stakeholder engagement by identifying this ground breaking approach in their own businesses. SIG are we have responded. appropriate engagement tools and increasing active contributors to the project. We are pleased to see their the frequency of our engagement on ambition to implement Net Positive Principles in their business We also engage with peers and nonresponsibility topics. We also aim to establish and commitment to making progress on this. governmental organisations on responsibility a panel of external stakeholders to advise issues through our long-standing membership We are also helping SIG to develop a pioneering ‘flagship’ our Responsibility Steering Group and Group of multi-stakeholder alliances including the project creating an innovative way to prevent both food Executive Board. Consumer Goods Forum, Forest Stewardship losses and reduce hunger, by harnessing SIG packaging CouncilTM (FSCTM), the Alliance for Beverage technology and expertise. We have experienced Cartons and the Environment (ACE), the enthusiasm and commitment across the business to European Organisation for Packaging and the create a lasting positive impact with this initiative Environment (EUROPEN), European Bioplastics and make a tangible contribution to their ‘Net (EUBP) and numerous national alliances and Positive’ ambition.” initiatives in our core markets. Ben Kellard In 2016, we began to partner with the Head of Sustainable Business Forum for the Future sustainability non-profit organisation, Forum for the Future (see quote opposite). Our commitment to go Way Beyond Good was recognised when we were accepted as a member of the Net Positive Project it facilitates (see page 7). Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 14 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 LISTENING AND RESPONDING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT KEY TOPICS AND CONCERNS HOW WE HAVE RESPONDED Customers n Customer questionnaires Customers want us to meet their requirements on a We use established industry platforms, such as n Regular interactions with customers through broad range of responsibility issues and support their SEDEX and EcoVadis, to demonstrate compliance with sales and service social and environmental goals. customer requirements (see page 8) and support their goals through product innovation (see page 41). Employees n Biennial global employee survey Feedback from our first global survey emphasised the We are using employee feedback to make SIG a better n Regular day-to-day dialogue need for strong leadership, opportunities to develop place to work (see page 26). and contribute to innovation, and better change n Formal appraisals management. n Consultation with employee representatives Investors n Quarterly reporting and investor calls Investors seek sustainable, long-term returns. We have integrated responsibility into our corporate strategy to grow our business sustainably. Suppliers n Regular engagement Suppliers want to know what our requirements are We communicate our ethical supplier standards n Compliance assessments on responsibility so they can understand how to meet and work with suppliers to source raw materials them. from responsible sources (see page 34). Sustainability experts n Regular conversations with experts from Experts want us to show we are managing our We have conducted a materiality assessment and we academia, institutes, government and nonmost material issues, setting ambitious targets and have set ambitious targets through our responsibility governmental organisations reporting transparently on our performance, following roadmap. We have established a clear governance n Participation in multi-stakeholder initiatives recognised international standards. structure for responsibility as a whole. n Annual strategic meeting with the Institute for We use international protocols and standards in Energy and Environmental Research (ifeu) the management of specific focus areas and we are reporting our performance in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. We have also chosen to get key data assured externally to enhance transparency. Policymakers and regulators n Engagement through trade associations The range of topics covered by regulators is broad. Hot We address issues relevant to public policy through topics include responsible production, sustainable our roadmap and our participation in industry and consumption, waste policies, consumer information multi-stakeholder initiatives that aim to support and contributions to broader global goals such as the broader global goals, such as the Net Positive Project United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. (see page 7). Local communities around n Engagement through community projects, Issues raised by communities are generally locally We focus on education, nutrition and recycling, including local education and recycling initiatives specific. tailoring local projects to the specific needs voiced by SIG production sites communities (see page 33). Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 15 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Working together with others will Business has a critical role in achieving the SDGs Our commitment to employee be essential to our contribution and we want to play our part. safety (see page 30) and decent to the United Nations Sustainable working conditions for people in Our collaborative approach our supply chain (see page 35) Development Goals (SDGs), through initiatives like the Net contributes to SDG 8 on decent work for all. which call upon governments, Positive Project and the Science civil society and business to Based Targets Initiative supports We see our contribution to the work together to end poverty, SDG 17, which calls for a global partnership for SDGs as both a responsibility ensure prosperity for all and sustainable development. Being part of these to society and the environment, protect the environment. groups will help us deliver and enhance our and an opportunity to apply our contribution to the SDGs across a range of areas. technology, expertise and innovation to global sustainable development challenges, and enable We have already our business to thrive. The innovative new identified several flagship project we are launching will areas of our roadmap support efforts to tackle hunger (SDG 2) by that support specific enabling communities in developing countries SDGs. For example, by sourcing liquid packaging to use our proven packaging technology to board from certified, responsibly-managed preserve surplus food locally using a mobile forests (see page 37), we are supporting SDG filling unit (see page 33). 15 to protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems and sustainably In 2017, we will conduct a full analysis of all manage forests. And our holistic life-cycle 17 SDGs to identify more specifically where approach to reduce the environmental impacts we have the most potential to make a of our products contributes to SDG 12 to ensure significant contribution to the United sustainable consumption and production Nations Goals. The SDGs also provide patterns (see page 42). inspiration, direction and high-level metrics to help us ensure our We are contributing responsibility roadmap delivers to SDG 7 on effective progress. sustainable energy by targeting 100% renewable energy in our operations (see page 39) and to SDG 13 on climate action by developing a science-based target to reduce greenhouse SIG supports the SDGs. gas emissions (see page 22). Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 16 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-19 Our priorities MATERIALITY MATRIX 100 Our responsibility roadmap focuses Key n Labour rights on our most material issues, as n  Material issues Energy and well as certain other strategic l Additional Ethical supplier standards greenhouse gas emissions topics that we consider critical strategic topics l Diversity and n n n to the success of the business or inclusion Waste and Occupational u  ther issues O recycling health and fundamental to meet compliance considered in (company) safety our materiality requirements or stakeholder assessment u Water use (company) n n Deforestation n Responsible/ sustainable expectations. sourcing n Reward and To determine the priorities for our roadmap, l Bribery and corruption recognition Food quality, n u  iodiversity B Ethical engagement hygiene and safety we consulted leaders and experts across the (company) on pulic policy IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS ul Community relationsl Anti-competitive n Recyclability Sustainable n business, researched external perspectives and behaviour product Community of products assessed which issues are most important – innovation investment u l u  rivacy and P n Training and or material – to SIG and our stakeholders. The Transportation data protection development results are shown in the matrix opposite. The 50 u n issues considered most material are shown in Tax Employee l Food waste engagement the top right quadrant. For more on this process, see page 51. l Collection and recycling infrastructure As part of this analysis, we considered the u  ocal employment L and sourcing results of independent life-cycle assessments of our products, which consistently show that our biggest environmental impacts are associated with the supply chain of the raw materials that l Employee wellbeing go into our products. This shows how critical all three pillars of our roadmap responsible l Efficient filling company, responsible sourcing and responsible machines products are to deliver a net positive contribution across our value chain. The table on page 17 shows how the focus areas 0 of the roadmap align with our material issues 0 50 100 and additional strategic topics. INFLUENCE ON BUSINESS SUCCESS Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 17 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 DEFINING FOCUS AREAS FOR OUR ROADMAP MATERIAL ISSUES ADDITIONAL STRATEGIC TOPICS FOCUS AREAS FOR ROADMAP  takeholder views on our S responsibility roadmap Responsible n Training and development l Employee wellbeing Employees n Employee engagement l Diversity and inclusion We want our responsibility roadmap to company n Reward and recognition help us drive progress in the areas that are most important to our business and our n Occupational health and safety Health and Safety stakeholders. Before we finalised it, we n Energy and greenhouse gas Environmental footprint put this to the test by asking sustainability emissions experts representing customers, nonn Waste and recycling (company) governmental organisations and socially responsible investors to give us their views. n Labour rights l Bribery and corruption Governance and ethics l Anti-competitive behaviour Our integrated approach, with the inclusion of responsibility in our Corporate Compass, l Community relations Communities was welcomed. The prioritisation of issues seemed logical, the roadmap was comprehensive and the 2030 stretch goals Responsible n Ethical supplier standards Ethical supplier standards were deemed suitably challenging. sourcing n Responsible/sustainable sourcing Sustainable raw materials One thing the experts felt was missing n Deforestation was a higher purpose or a flagship project n Responsible/sustainable sourcing Energy sourcing that uses our expertise to contribute to n Energy and greenhouse gas societal goals. We have since developed emissions our Way Beyond Good ambition (see l Transportation Sustainable logistics page 5), joined the Net Positive Project (see page 7) and begun developing a flagship project that will apply our expertise to support communities on the ground Responsible n Sustainable product innovation Packs (see page 33). products n Recyclability of products n Sustainable product innovation l Efficient filling machines Filling machines l Food waste n Sustainable product innovation Technical service n Recyclability of products l Collection and recycling infrastructure Recycling n Food quality, hygiene and safety Product safety Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 18 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Our roadmap FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2016 Responsible company Define a methodology to measure our environmental footprint and societal Began work to assess our value chain environmental footprint, with an initial focus on greenhouse benefits across our value chain to establish a baseline for our 2030 goal gas emissions Environmental Put a science-based CO2 reduction target in place covering our entire value chain (by 2018) Joined the Science Based Targets Initiative and began work to assess our value chain carbon footprint footprint Achieve compliance with ISO 50001 and revised ISO 14001 standard at all production plants All plants certified to current ISO 14001 standard and three plants certified to ISO 50001 Reduce energy rate* by more than 35% (from 2014) Increased energy rate by 5.8% (200 vs. 189) (from 2014) during the transition to a new combined heat and power plant in Linnich, Germany, that will improve energy efficiency in the long term Cut operational greenhouse gas emissions rate* (Scope 1 and 2) by more than 50% Reduced the emissions rate by 8.9% overall from the 2014 baseline (despite a slight increase in (from 2014) 2016) and took steps to significantly reduce emissions by moving to 100% renewable electricity at all production plants starting in January 2017 Reduce waste rate* by more than 45% (from 2014) Cut waste rate to match the 2014 level following a slight increase in 2015 Employees Increase employee net promoter score year by year Established a baseline for the net promoter score of -16** Achieve a sustainable engagement score above industry benchmark Scored 74 for sustainable engagement, five points below the industry benchmark Achieve cultural entropy level below 10% Defined the target group for a survey to measure Cultural Entropy in 2017 Maintain voluntary turnover below 5% Achieved a voluntary turnover of 4% in 2016 Make our training and development investment above industry benchmark Provided 24.8 hours of training per employee in 2016, 0.8 hours above the industry benchmark Health and Zero lost-time case rate Maintained a relatively constant lost-time case rate of 0.53 per 200,000 hours worked in 2016, with safety a total of 21 cases – two less than 2015 Achieve a life-critical safety elements score of 100% at all production sites Achieved a score of at least 96% at all sites Maintain a health rate of more than 97% Began to explore how to effectively measure and improve our employee health rate Governance Mandatory annual Code of Conduct training for all employees Rolled out refreshed Code of Conduct and provided related training for 200 managers and ethics In-depth training on specific areas of compliance for high-risk roles every two years No in-depth training workshops on specific areas were held in 2016 SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) at all large sites with more than 40 employees External SMETA audits were conducted at all our production sites in 2016 Communities Double the number of community and education programmes over five years Began developing a global framework to define criteria for our community and education programmes Launch a global flagship project using our expertise to support communities Developed a concept and began to engage with potential partner organisations to support local implementation * Energy, emissions and waste rates are per million square metres of sleeves produced. ** See page 27 for definition. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 19 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2016 Responsible sourcing Ethical supplier Include new social responsibility requirements in 100% of contracts with suppliers of our Started to include a commitment to our Business Code of Ethics (or equivalent standard) in all standards key raw materials new and renewed contracts with significant suppliers Audit 10% of high-risk suppliers each year Carried out risk assessments to identify high-risk suppliers Provide regular training (at least every two years) on ethical supplier standards and sustainable Trained 100% of key people in our global procurement and regional sourcing teams sourcing to all employees who interact frequently with suppliers Sustainable 100% FSCTM labelled packs (work with customers to include the FSCTM logo on 100% of the Achieved a milestone by securing sufficient supply of FSCTM-certified paper board to enable raw materials packs we sell) customers to include the logo on any of our packs – around 56% of the cartons we sold in 2016 carried the FSC™ logo and the share rose to around 75% in December 100% A-materials from certified sources Sourced 100% of liquid packaging board from paper mills with the FSCTM Chain of Custody certification, reached a minimum supply of 70% liquid packaging board made with wood from FSCTM certified forests and began exploring options for certification of polymers and aluminium Energy 100% renewable energy and Gold Standard CO2 offset for all non-renewable energy Sourced 33% of electricity from renewable sources, put in place sourcing agreements to use sourcing (at production plants) 100% renewable electricity at all plants from 2017 and began exploring options to use biogas for our combined heat and power plant in Linnich, Germany Sustainable Increase the rate of full truck loads delivered to customers Achieved a rate of 92% globally in 2016 logistics Ensure logistic partners use trucks that meet Euro 6 emissions standards for 100% of outbound 47% of outbound road transport from our European production plants was in Euro 6 trucks in 2016 road transport from our production plants in Europe Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 20 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 FOCUS AREA 2020 TARGET PROGRESS IN 2016 Responsible products Our packs Create a 100% renewable aseptic pack Maintained 70-80% renewable content in our packs on average, offered an 82% renewable aseptic pack (EcoPlus) and continued to explore viable sources of bio-based barrier materials Offer a carton made of 50% recycled content Began to engage with suppliers to discuss a common approach to make use of recycled content Ensure environmental performance is one of the core value drivers of our product innovations Developed a tool to help us assess sustainability criteria in our product development process Filling Reduce energy use by 20% per hour of runtime in our next generation filling machine Began developing technologies to reduce energy use machines Reduce hydrogen peroxide use by 35% per hour of runtime in our next generation Successfully tested a prototype to reduce hydrogen peroxide use filling machine Reduce water use by 25% per hour of runtime in our next generation filling machine Successfully tested a prototype to reduce water use Technical Support sustainability improvements for at least 50% of our customers through Began developing a new service package focusing specifically on sustainability service technical service Recycling Partner with stakeholders to support collection and recycling of beverage cartons Established local plans to support this target in each region Product safety All production plants certified based on ISO 9001:2015 and all sleeves and spout production Maintained certification to the ISO 9001:2008 standard at all production plants, with plans to begin plants certified based on BRC Packaging Issue 5 with AA Grade certification to the ISO 9001:2015 standard in 2017; all three of our European sleeve production plants achieved re-certification to the BRC Packaging Issue 5 with AA Grade Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 21 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Responsible company Demonstrating that we are a responsible company is important to help us secure customer contracts and maintain stakeholder trust. Our commitment to uphold fundamental corporate responsibilities is recognised by external benchmarks such as EcoVadis and SEDEX. And we are determined to go further by becoming a net positive business. Y RE S Employees Our value chain AN RESPON DUCTS impacts SIB LE LE PRO Health and safety CO 2030 goal: IB M NS Our environmental P Halve environmental PO Environmental footprint impacts and double footprint societal benefits Governance & ethics Our employees Communities RES G Health and safety P O N SI CIN B LE SO UR Governance and ethics Communities Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 22 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN17 Our value chain impacts By 2030, we aim to halve our and explore appropriate metrics to define our Our value chain footprint Scope 3 emissions by category environmental footprint and overall environmental footprint. Thousand tonnes of CO2 equivalent % of total Scope 3 emissions (estimated) double societal benefits across We collected data in 2016 to conduct an initial our value chain. estimate of our value chain carbon footprint 9.1 using the categories defined by the Greenhouse 8.5 The first step to achieving our net positive Gas Protocol. Based on this analysis, we have 27.8 5.7 ambition is to develop a way to measure our conducted a materiality assessment to identify 76.4 value chain impacts – good and bad – on the the stages of the value chain that make up the 1,507.5 3.3 84.2 68.4 3.1 environment and society and establish a largest portions of our carbon footprint. This enables us to focus our efforts where we can 1.9 baseline so we can track our progress. make the biggest difference. We take a holistic view, looking at all the ways our business touches people and the Initial estimates show that the majority – more planet throughout our value chain: the forests than 80% – of our value chain emissions lie Scope 1 Scope 2 Purchased goods and services and communities that provide our main raw outside our own operations, in the extraction SIG paper mill* End of life treatment of products Scope 3 (estimated)** Use of products materials; our employees and people who work and production of raw materials, the transport Upstream transportation in our supply chain; customers who use our filling of materials to SIG and distribution of products * Scope 1 and 2 emissions from our paper mill in New Zealand Downstream transportation are reported separately as this is treated as an internal machines and packaging to deliver food and to customers, use of filling machines in our supplier. Fuel and energy related activities drink; and consumers who use our products and customers’ factories and end of life treatment Other (employee commuting, waste, ** Scope 3 emissions are based on an initial estimate. business travel and capital goods) dispose of them in recycling bins. of products (see chart). The Scope 3 total includes our New Zealand paper mill. These Scope 3 emissions amount to an reduce value chain greenhouse gas Measuring societal benefits Measuring our environmental footprint estimated 1.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, emissions. This science-based approach aims the majority of which come from producing the Quantifying societal benefits is challenging We already have a good understanding of the to support global efforts to keep global warming raw materials that go into our products (see because metrics on social impacts are less well environmental footprint of our own operations below 2°C to prevent the worst effects of chart). We are working to gather more accurate defined than for environmental impacts and and our products, but measuring our value chain climate change. data ready to report our Scope 3 greenhouse gas can be difficult to measure. In 2017, we plan to footprint is more challenging. emissions in 2017. We have already set a target to reduce our develop a way to measure the societal benefits In 2016, we began work to assess the footprint operational emissions rate (Scope 1 and 2) we deliver. This will enable us to establish a of each stage of the value chain. As a first step, by more than 50% by 2020. By 2018, we will baseline and track progress towards our goal to Setting a science-based target we have started to develop a model to estimate have a science-based target in place for double these benefits by 2030. greenhouse gas emissions at each stage of This work to measure our value chain carbon Scope 1 and 2, and for Scope 3 which makes We focus on the areas where we believe we the value chain. Once this is completed, we will footprint is also an important first step in our up the biggest portion of our value chain can make the biggest difference, based on extend this model to other environmental impacts commitment to develop a science-based target to carbon footprint. what matters most to our stakeholders and our Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 23 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN15 EN16 EN18 EN19 EN31 Our environmental footprint business (identified through our materiality As a responsible company, Each production plant has an environmental Agreement on climate change emphasise the assessment, see page 16). customers and stakeholders expect team dedicated to raising awareness and important role that business can play. We are us to manage our environmental promoting waste and energy reduction initiatives. making it a priority to do our part. One of the main areas where we believe we have We provide training for specialists such as our the greatest potential to extend societal benefits impacts and minimise our footprint. Energy from fossil fuels is the biggest contributor internal energy auditors. We also share best is by delivering our purpose – to partner with our We are striving for a net positive to climate change from our operations. Our practices across the business through posters customers to bring food products to consumers footprint by contributing more to and internal communications. Scope 1 (direct) emissions are mainly from around the world in a safe, sustainable and the environment than we take out natural gas used for melting polymer granules as affordable way. across our value chain. Our CEO Environmental Excellence Awards part of the extrusion process in our production We can also have a net positive impact on society recognise sites that demonstrate collaboration, plants, for heating our buildings, and in our in other ways. Starting with our own employees, We are working to establish baseline data for innovation and best practices to deliver combined heat and power plant at our biggest we are committed to help them develop (see our entire value chain footprint (see page 22). quantifiable improvements in environmental production plant in Linnich, Germany. Scope 1 page 28) and stay safe and healthy (see page 30). From initial estimates, it is already clear that our performance. also includes emissions from liquid gas used work on responsible sourcing (see page 34) and in our forklift trucks, and fugitive emissions of We contribute to our communities by creating Environmental management systems certified responsible products (see page 41) will play an ethanol and methane during the printing process. jobs and offering young people a start through to the international ISO 14001 standard are in important role in achieving our goal to halve our Scope 2 (indirect) emissions are from purchased our apprenticeships. We also support local place at all our production and assembly plants, value chain environmental footprint by 2030. electricity. community programmes that have a positive research and development centres and our New impact on people’s lives and we are developing Reducing the footprint of our own operations, Zealand paper mill. These systems promote Despite an overall reduction from our 2014 a flagship project that will support communities which we have most direct control over, is also continuous improvement in our management of a baseline, our total operational emissions and contribute to global efforts to prevent hunger important. We have robust management systems range of environmental impacts. increased slightly during 2016. This was mainly and reduce food waste (see page 33). in place across our business and prioritise the due to additional energy use during the transition As part of our efforts to reduce environmental most material impacts related to our operations to a new combined heat and power plant in We aim to extend societal benefits throughout impacts, we invest in equipment such as air – energy use, greenhouse gases and waste. Linnich, Germany, which will increase energy our supply chain by demanding high ethical filters, wastewater treatments and energyWe also see this as an opportunity to lead by efficiency in the long term (see page 24). standards and decent working conditions, and efficient lighting. In 2016, we spent more than example and share best practices with suppliers €627,000 on measures that contribute to In 2016, our Scope 1 and 2 emissions from sourcing materials from certified responsible and customers. improving environmental protection. production plants totalled 107,261 tonnes of sources to help ensure the rights of workers, communities and indigenous people are CO2 equivalent, a 6.7% reduction from our respected (see page 34). Managing environmental impacts Targeting emissions reduction in 2014 baseline (see chart on page 24). With our operations our production increasing by 3.2% over the Reducing our environmental footprint can also Our Group Environment, Health and Safety same period, this does show that we are provide societal benefits by helping to improve function is responsible for managing the Climate change is a global challenge that requires starting to decouple our emissions from air and water quality, tackle climate change and environmental footprint of our operations, coordinated global action. The United Nations increases in production volumes. preserve valuable ecosystems. working closely with regional and local teams. Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 24 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN3 EN5 EN6 EN15 EN16 EN18 EN19 Greenhouse gas emissions rate Energy rate*● This decoupling is essential to enable us to grow (Scope 1 and 2)*● our business and reduce the carbon footprint MWh/million m of sleeves produced 2 Tonnes CO2 equivalent/million m2 of sleeves produced of our operations at the same time. By 2020, 79 200 our target is to halve our emissions rate (per 189 72 181 million square metres of sleeves produced). 70 In 2016, our emissions rate increased slightly, 2014 2015 2016 but it remained 8.9% lower the 2014 baseline 2014 2015 2016 (see chart). Operational energy use* Greenhouse gas emissions from our In 2017, we expect to achieve a significant GWh production plants* reduction in emissions from our production Natural gas Liquified natural gas Thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent Electricity (non-renewable) Electricity (renewable) plants as the efficiencies offered by the Scope 1 Scope 2 3.0 combined heat and power plant begin to take Combined heat and power 309 291 effect in Linnich and we transition to 100% in Germany 115.0 276 107.3 67 renewable electricity at all our production plants 102.0 66 worldwide (see page 39). We are also continually In 2016, our new combined heat and 63 looking for ways to improve energy efficiency power plant completed its first full year of operation at our production site in Linnich, 134 (see below). 93.3 78.0 Germany. 80.7 152 144 Emissions from our paper mill in New Zealand, 12 The plant replaces a conventional steam which supplies some of the liquid packaging generator. The new technology is highly 12 12 board to to our production plants, are reported efficient because it generates heat and 29.3 96 separately as the mill is treated as an internal power at the same time, using the heat 21.7 21.3 61 57 supplier rather than part of our production created as a by-product of the electricity 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 generation process to warm or cool our facilities. In 2016, emissions from the mill buildings as required. totalled 84,247 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. * Data on energy use and Scope 1 and 2 emissions covers l  missions and energy rates cover sleeve production E The plant runs on natural gas, the fossil production plants worldwide, which use the majority of plants only. These exclude our closure production plant Improving energy efficiency fuel that releases the least greenhouse gas energy in our business. Data excludes emissions from in Switzerland and our paper mill in New Zealand. machine assembly plants, development departments emissions for the energy produced. And we and offices, and our paper mill in New Zealand which is In 2016, we used 309 GWh of energy are now exploring viable local sources of treated as an internal supplier and reported separately. in our production plants. We aim to improve biogas as an alternative to further reduce The totals reported in the chart use a market-based emissions in future. approach for emissions from electricity that takes the energy efficiency across our production emissions factors provided by energy suppliers where processes and by 2020 we are targeting a available. Using the alternative location-based approach 35% reduction in our energy rate (per million that takes average emissions factors for each country, the 2016 total is 119,262 tonnes of CO2 equivalent. square metres of sleeves produced) from 2014. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 25 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN6 EN23 Our productions plants in Germany and Austria during the transition period in 2016 because of hazardous waste, such as inks, oil and with our waste management service providers. – and our paper mill in New Zealand – have the old and new systems were run in parallel contaminated cans. This may include using waste to recover energy. implemented an energy management system to prevent down time during testing of the new In 2016, we reused or recycled 100% of the waste We aim to cut the amount of waste produced certified to ISO 50001 to support efforts to technology. This is why our use of natural gas generated at our largest production site in Linnich, through a range of initiatives to improve efficiency reduce energy use. And we are investing in a was significantly higher than the previous year. Germany. Worldwide, less than 1% of waste was and increase reuse and recycling. For example, a range of efficiency measures at our plants around (see chart, page 24). sent to landfill. new recycling process has cut polyethylene waste the world. For example, we have installed energyby 90% at our plant in China (see case study). efficient LED lighting at our production plant in Minimising waste Waste rate Suzhou, China, that will save around 324 MWh By 2020, our target is to reduce the waste rate of electricity and 216 tonnes of CO2 equivalent Waste is an unnecessary cost to the environment (non-product output per million square metres Tonnes of non-product output/million m2 and our business. We aim to minimise it by of sleeves produced) by 45% from the 2014 of sleeves produced emissions per year. making our manufacturing processes as lean baseline. In 2016, the waste rate was the same 37 In Linnich, Germany, we have introduced a and efficient as possible. as in 2014, following a slight increase in 2015. 35 35 system to turn off energy-intensive processes when the production line is not operating at In 2016, we generated a total of 49,868 tonnes Any unavoidable waste is reused or recycled of waste from our production plants in 2016. where possible so it can become a valuable 2014 2015 2016 weekends and invested in a combined heat and power plant (see page 24). Although the Most of this was made up of offcuts of the resource again as part of a circular economy. Waste type combined heat and power plant will improve raw materials used to manufacture our packs Where this is not feasible, we choose the next Thousand tonnes efficiency in the long term, energy use increased (see chart). It also includes 2,731 tonnes best option for each type of waste in cooperation Raw and laminated carton Polyethylene Hazardous waste Closing the loop on polymer waste in China Aluminium (<1%) Polyethylene (PE) is one of the primary In 2016, we introduced a new system 50.0 50.5 49.9 raw materials for our packs. Our at the Suzhou plant to process the 3.0 3.3 2.7 extrusion process melts down granules blocks of PE into granules that can be 2.0 2.0 2.3 of PE to create a very thin sheet of fed straight back into the production plastic coating. But every time we stop process, creating a closed loop system. our production lines, a block of preThis will cut PE waste at the plant by melted PE is left over. At our plant in around 90%, reducing waste disposal Suzhou, China, this generated more than costs and cutting the amount of new 45.3 44.7 44.4 490 tonnes of waste a year because we PE we need to purchase. We aim to could not reuse these blocks of PE – replicate this project at our other until now. production plants around the world. 2014 2015 2016 Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 26 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-10 LA1 Our employees We want to make SIG a great place Our workforce* New hires to work by inspiring, engaging and Asia Pacific Americas Europe Total Asia Pacific Americas Europe Total supporting our people throughout Total number of 1,702 662 2,869 5,233 Total number of employees: 183 152 112 447 their careers. This is essential to new hires: help us attract, retain and develop male 1,356 481 2,414 4,251 male 134 104 73 311 the talent we need to succeed in a female 346 181 455 982 female 49 48 39 136 highly competitive market. Employees with aged up to 30 66 82 60 208 a permanent 1,687 631 2,627 4,945 contract: aged 31 to 50 109 68 49 226 We have more than 5,000 employees around aged 50 + 8 2 3 13 male 1,344 471 2,221 4,036 the world – most in Germany, China, Thailand Rate of new female 343 160 406 909 11% 24% 4% 9% and Brazil. We need the best people to get the hires: aged up to 30 299 268 240 807 best results for our customers and our business, male 13% 22% 3% 8% aged 31 to 50 1,205 335 1,473 3,013 and to achieve our purpose of bringing food female 8% 29% 10% 11% aged 50 + 183 28 914 1,125 products to consumers around the world in a aged up to 30 22% 31% 25% 26% safe, sustainable and affordable way. That’s why Full-time 1,679 631 2,479 4,789 aged 31 to 50 9% 20% 3% 8% employees: fostering a winning team is a cornerstone of our male 1,344 471 2,178 3,993 aged 50 + 4% 7% 0% 1% Corporate Compass. female 335 160 301 796 Employee turnover To do this, we are focusing on our most material Part-time 8 0 148 156 employment issues: engagement, training and employees: Asia Pacific Americas Europe Total development, reward and recognition, and labour male 0 0 43 43 Voluntary rights (see page 16). We have also identified female 8 0 105 113 employee 5% 12% 2% 4% turnover rate two additional strategic topics – diversity and Employees with inclusion, and employee wellbeing – that we plan a fixed-term 15 31 242 288 Total employee 9% 25% 5% 9% contract: turnover rate to increase our focus on in future. male 12 10 193 215 Total employee 144 159 133 436 Our Global Human Resources team coordinates turnover: female 3 21 49 73 our efforts to engage, train and develop our apprentices 0 18 164 182 aged up to 30 36 69 34 139 employees, and make sure our reward packages aged 31 to 50 94 82 69 245 Temporary 11 45 87 143 and working conditions are attractive to help workers: aged 50 + 14 8 30 52 us recruit and retain the best talent. In 2016, male 4 16 79 99 male 107 115 95 317 we recruited over 440 new permanent staff female 7 29 8 44 female 37 44 38 119 worldwide. The voluntary turnover rate was * Employee data includes our paper mill in New Zealand. 4% and our 2020 target is to keep this below Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 27 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 5% through our focus on making SIG the best VIEWS FROM OUR EMPLOYEES: WHAT DO WE NEED TO FOSTER OUR WINNING TEAM? – took part. Many also took the time to provide place to work. thoughtful responses to an open question about how we can better meet their expectations as an A small number of contractors also work regularly “To become a winning team, we “The basis for a successful team is employer. at our sites, mainly for catering, cleaning and need further training – and not an effective corporate culture in security. We are pleased that 90% of respondents only to improve technical skills, which everyone is sharing and see how their work contributes to SIG’s Engaging employees but also to strengthen living the same values. A key business objectives and we scored well on leadership skills that foster aspect is the communication Engaging employees is important to make operational efficiency, teamwork and helping qualities like passion and within the company.” sure everyone at SIG understands how they to meet customer needs. But only two-thirds of self-confidence.” can help us achieve our strategic goals and go Dennis Schmechta respondents said they strongly believe in our Netpatcha Kaewmanee Junior Project Manager, goals and objectives and the survey showed we Way Beyond Good – by stimulating innovation, Linnich (Germany) Logistics Supervisor, need to provide stronger leadership, bolster our growing our business and serving our customers. Rayong (Thailand) In 2016, we communicated our business culture of innovation and manage change better. strategy, including our Way Beyond Good We use two key metrics to track how engaged our ambitions, to employees through workshops employees are in the business: the sustainable and internal newsletters. engagement score1 and the employee net But effective engagement must be a two-way promoter score.2 In 2016, we achieved an overall dialogue. We listen to our people to get their sustainable engagement score of 74. This is five input on our business and understand how we “I think that in order to foster our “For our mutual success, we need points below the industry benchmark and our are doing as an employer. For example, we asked winning team, we should live, to identify the strengths of the target is to achieve a score above the industry a group of around 300 employees from across use and share our values and individual team members, and benchmark by 2020. the business to share their views on values and leadership principles more make use of those strengths Overall, just 24% of people responding to the we used their input to inform the development intensively, every day.” in a targeted way. In addition, survey in 2016 would strongly recommend SIG of our Corporate Compass. We also offer employees’ continuous Juan Antonio Lopez opportunities for our employees to engage Key Account Manager, further development 1 T he sustainable engagement score is based on responses directly with senior leaders through Q&A Madrid (Spain) should be encouraged to a series of questions related to topics such as pride in the and required.” company, belief in its goals, teamwork and willingness to go sessions, group gatherings and regular the extra mile. work meetings. Kerstin Bartsch 2 “ On a scale from 0 (not at all likely) to 10 (extremely likely), Group Financial how likely is it that you would recommend SIG to your friends Listening to our people and family as a good place to work?” was rated with a 9 Planning Analyst, In 2016, we conducted our first global employee Neuhausen or 10 by 24% of the respondents (“promoters”) and 40% gave a score between 0 and 6 (“detractors”). The employee engagement survey across the entire business. (Switzerland) net promoter score is calculated by subtracting the total Almost 4,000 employees –78% of our workforce detractors from the total promoters. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 28 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 LA9 to friends and family as a good place to work and that could limit our productivity.1 This builds on to build basic know-how and expert skills, train Average hours of training 40% would not, giving an overall employee net a test survey in 2014 which asked people about people in continuous improvement and develop Employee category 2015 2016 promoter score of -16%. Regional scores varied their personal values, the values that reflect the valuable leadership skills. widely, with some more positive responses. culture at SIG and the values of the culture they Since 2014, we have been running a trainee But it is clear we will need to improve significantly desire. By 2020, our target is to achieve a score Management 32.9 32.8 programme in Technical Service. Engineers in some areas to achieve our ambition to make of below 10%. This will indicate a healthy culture who did their apprenticeship at SIG now have Non-management 27.9 23.9 SIG the best place to work. where decision-making is quick, cooperation is the opportunity to gain further qualifications high, values are aligned and work is effective – Total SIG 28.5 24.8 We are committed to acting on our employees’ as service engineers. We also offer a range of all important factors for an engaged workforce feedback and collaborating to develop better apprenticeships in administration, business and and a successful business. ways of working. The high response rate production at some of our European sites. demonstrates a strong desire to play an active offer annual appraisals for some production Training and developing our people Our new Leadership Campus offers online and part in bringing about change and we want to staff where agreed with workers’ councils. In face-to-face training for all our leaders, covering give our employees more opportunities to do so. Developing our people is essential to build the total, around 3,200 employees had appraisal all the skills a good leader needs – from building technical, management and leadership skills interviews in 2016. We are responding to specific issues highlighted trust to energising change. Developing leadership we need to achieve our strategic goals. This by the survey at global and local levels. For skills is critical for the success of the business We encourage managers to gather 360o feedback also came across as a clear priority in employee example, employees told us that they didn’t feel now and in the future. We need a pipeline of from superiors, colleagues and employees on feedback. encouraged to come up with innovative solutions. future leaders and our global employee survey the way they manage their work and their teams In response, we have started an innovation We measure our investment in hours of training showed that people want to see more leadership at least once every two years. Managers then project to encourage employees to come up and development as this is the most comparable from their managers. Our transformational discuss their performance and define personal with ideas and better ways of doing things. metric between regions internally and with leadership model aims to develop a leadership development plans with their superior. In 2016, We also hope to get people more engaged in external benchmarks. In 2016, we provided style that promotes emotional engagement, high 53% of managers had received 360o feedback in our goals with the launch of Way Beyond Good. 129,756 hours of training. This equates to an performance and a positive corporate culture. the last two years. We will track our progress through our next average of 24.8 hours per employee – 32.8 hours In 2016, more than 240 leaders across the We want our people to develop their career with biennial global employee survey in 2018. for managers and 23.9 hours for non-managers. business completed the first training of this new us over the long term and we are keen to promote Our investment in training and development was Leadership Campus. Employee feedback and regular dialogue with talented people (see case study, page 29). We on a par with the industry benchmark of 24 hours managers also provides valuable input to help us We offer opportunities to discuss development have identified around 400 people across the per employee in 2016, and by 2020 we aim to improve our corporate values and procedures. We pathways through regular dialogue and formal business that have the potential to take on raise this above the industry benchmark. plan to survey employees in 2017 to understand appraisals with line managers. We provide an broader and more complex tasks across the the level of cultural entropy, based on values Our new SIG Learning Centre offers a framework annual appraisal for all managers and office whole organisation. To support them along their that empowers everyone to choose the right workers to assess performance, set personal paths to success, we have helped them create 1 C ultural entropy is the perceived share of values and procedures that are potentially limiting the achievement learning opportunities for them – from languages goals and identify appropriate training and individual development plans and given them of our corporate objectives. and leadership to lean manufacturing. It will help development plans for each individual. We also training. For those identified to fill key senior Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 29 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-11 roles, we also provide challenging tasks to build Upholding labour rights the skills they need for these leadership roles. We strive for the highest possible level of professionalism across our business. Rewarding performance Upholding labour rights is an important part of We want our employees to be rewarded fairly for this, and a material issue for our stakeholders the work they do and recognised for their efforts. and our business. We benchmark salaries with other companies to We do not tolerate forced, compulsory or child check we offer competitive reward packages in labour and our Code of Conduct sets out our each of our markets. approach to tackling specific issues such as Terms and conditions of employment, including discrimination and harassment. pay, are negotiated through collective bargaining We respect the right to freedom of association with recognised trade unions for a significant and collective bargaining, and we consult with portion of our employees. employees and their representatives on topics Our aim is to reward employees based on such as pay, health and safety, and working performance and to be transparent about our conditions. A significant proportion of our practices. To ensure consistent pay structures employees are covered by collective labour in each region, we are establishing defined pay agreements in Austria, Brazil, Germany, New bands that will be rolled out across the Zealand, Switzerland and Thailand. In Europe, business in 2017. We also offer a variable many of our people are represented by works income scheme for managers and certain other councils. Overall, 64% of our employees are roles based on their individual performance and covered by collective bargaining agreements. our corporate performance. Giving our people the chance to thrive Our commitment to labour rights is recognised Benefits for employees vary across different through Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Aydin Kurtoglu first came to SIG 15 years ago Aydin’s interest in lean manufacturing regions. These include retirement benefits, Members Ethical Trade Audits and the external as a temp to earn some money after cutting prompted him to do a part-time degree health and life insurance, and parental benefits EcoVadis ranking. Upholding labour rights is also short his academic studies. Our training course in value chain management. We opportunities enabled him to develop valuable supported him through a training grant and and leave. critical to respecting human rights (see page 32). skills and build a fruitful career at SIG. He time off to complete his studies. He’s already became a machine operator and an expert in putting this knowledge to good use in his specialist manufacturing processes, working new role as Continuous Improvement System his way up to become a group leader in one Manager at SIG’s biggest site worldwide, of our production teams. in Linnich, Germany. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 30 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 LA6 Health and safety Nobody comes to work to get hurt. Promoting safe behaviour by up to 70% by giving frontline employees a Lost-time cases* Our people are by far the most meaningful role in efforts to improve safety. Lost-time cases (per 200,000 hours worked) We have reduced our global lost-time case rate important resource in our company (per 200,000 hours worked) by 79% since 2009. The programme aims to engage people working Lost-time cases and we have a responsibility to This demonstrates how we are successfully in our production plants, who are most at risk 0.55 0.53 look after them. embedding a safety culture where everyone is from injury, by encouraging open and honest responsible for taking care of themselves and conversations to understand why at-risk 0.42 Safety is fundamental to the success of our those around them. behaviour is happening and how to prevent it. business, but it is even more fundamental to our Production employees were involved in the In 2016, there were 21 lost-time cases, two employees’ lives. By promoting safe behaviour at design of the programme and will be part of less than the previous year, and there were no work, we can have a net positive impact on our the joint steering committees – together with fatalities. But any incident is one too many and employees and their families outside work as supervisors and managers – that will run the 23 our target is to reduce lost-time cases to zero 21 they adopt safer attitudes at home too. programme at each site. by 2020. To achieve this, we are targeting at17 risk behaviour, one of the root causes of many Our target is to roll out behaviour-based safety incidents. Our Group Environment, Health and across the business by 2020. In 2016, we trialled Our life-saving rules Safety team leads our efforts to manage safety the programme at four sites by training a core RULE 1: W  ork with a valid work permit risks, including global programmes such as our group of employees to observe the behaviour of 2014 2015 2016 when required life-saving rules and our new focus on behaviourtheir co-workers, provide feedback to reinforce based safety. safe behaviours and identify barriers that prevent Lost-time cases by region and gender in 2016* RULE 2: C  heck equipment is isolated people from working safely. These core groups before work begins Anyone working at or visiting any of our sites Lost-time cases Lost-time cases now have the skills to train further employees in per 200,000 must abide by our life-saving rules (left). The hours worked RULE 3: Obtain a permit for entry into a observation and feedback techniques. rules are promoted through on-site posters and confined space Americas 0 male 0 male on the intranet, and all employees receive regular Leadership teams at each site are developing 0 female 0 female RULE 4: U  se fall protection when working safety training. New employees and contractors plans to remove the barriers already identified. at height are trained on the life-saving rules as part of For example, pinch points in machinery can trap Asia Pacific 2 male 0.16 male RULE 5: W  ear a seatbelt in motor vehicles their induction. Our technical service engineers hands and fingers (see case study, page 31). 0 female 0 female when provided must also follow them when working offsite at We are looking for ways to identify and remove Europe 18 male 1.08 male customer facilities. pinch points, providing employees with personal 1 female 0.06 female protective equipment and training employees on THE GOLDEN RULE: INTERVENE TO In 2016, we launched a behaviour-based safety STOP WORK IF CONDITIONS OR how to avoid risks and use appropriate tools. * Safety data includes our paper mill in New Zealand programme to promote safe ways of working BEHAVIOUR ARE UNSAFE through positive intervention. Our research shows that this could help to reduce incident rates Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 31 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Injuries by type in 2016* of life-critical elements through an annual self% of injuries assessment and audit by our Group Environment, Celebrating safety success Hand or finger Health and Safety team. Head In 2016, we shared safety success stories Foot or leg As safety performance at our manufacturing across our business to raise awareness and 4.8 Other sites improves, we are increasing our focus on recognise achievements. managing risks in other areas of the business. We celebrated two years with no lostIn 2016, we created new guidelines on health time incidents at our production plant in 57.1 and safety for all employees including office Switzerland and one year at our biggest 28.6 staff. Office employees are also trained on issues production plant in Linnich, Germany. All such as ergonomics, noise and lighting. In 2016 our filling machine assembly plants have achieved at least one year – including six we developed a training programme on road years at the plant in Suzhou, China. safety for people who drive for work. Training for 9.5 Investing in safeguards to drivers includes both e-learning and practical Our production plants in Linnich, Rayong defensive driving training conducted by external and Suzhou – and our joint venture in prevent hand injuries * Safety data includes our paper mill in New Zealand Riyadh – have all received the CEO safety experts such as the Allgemeiner Deutscher One of the biggest risks in our excellence award for 1 million hours Automobil-Club, the largest automobile club manufacturing process is injury to hands incident free. We have also achieved a Managing safety risks in Europe. milestone of one year with no serious and fingers, particularly in the final stage of production to fold and seal carton sleeves. incidents at our production plants in We have health and safety management Austria and Brazil. Monitoring progress Over the last two years, we have invested systems at all our sites that align with the around €2 million in redesigning machinery internationally recognised OHSAS 18001 and All incidents must be reported following our and installing finger-guards in the finishing ISO 45001 standards. These promote standard operating procedure. If an incident part of the sleeve production process to We want our people to stay healthy as well continuous improvement across our business. has the potential to recur, we issue an alert to prevent hand injuries. as safe. In 2017, we will explore how to Of the extensive criteria covered by the standard, communicate this across the business to reduce effectively measure and improve the An audit at the end of 2015 showed that we have identified several priorities that are most the likelihood of recurrence. occupational health rate among our employees. protection was in place at 98% of critical critical to save lives, such as electrical safety Our Group Environment, Health and Safety team This rate will take the desired 100% health rate points in our folder sealer machines. For and working at height. the remaining 2% where it is not possible monitors progress monthly using a dashboard of and deduct the rate of lost time for occupational to install guards, employees are trained on We expect everyone to follow our life-saving metrics, including lagging indicators such as the health issues. Our efforts to improve the safe use of the machines every year. rules and we provide strict instructions and lost-time case rate and leading indicators such as employee health rate will focus on issues such safety measures for the use of machinery. completion of safety programmes. This dashboard as back problems, which can be an indicator Since we began this programme, there have been no hand and finger injuries in this Our production plants, where most of our is reviewed monthly by the Group Executive Board of general health and wellbeing as they can finishing part of the manufacturing process. employees work and the majority of incidents and our CEO highlights safety performance on a be triggered by a range of causes from poor occur, must demonstrate robust management quarterly call with senior executives. ergonomics to stress. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 32 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-56 G4-57 G4-58 SO4 Governance and ethics Governance and ethics are to IT systems received a copy of the Code of and high risk roles to complete a questionnaire disciplinary action if suspicions of misconduct fundamental to being a responsible Conduct electronically, with a link to download it identifying any situations that could result in a are substantiated. company and essential to maintain in any of the 14 available languages. conflict of interest. These situations are then the trust of our stakeholders. clarified and resolved by the Global Legal and Respecting human rights In 2016, over 200 managers completed Compliance team. mandatory training on the refreshed Code of We are committed to respecting human rights Our Global Legal and Compliance team is Conduct via web conference to equip them in all aspects of our business. Our Code of responsible for putting the tools in place to Reporting and investigating concerns with the knowledge and tools to train their Conduct and Code of Business Ethics set out ensure our people are equipped to behave teams. Training on the Code of Conduct will be We expect people to speak up if they have any our requirements on specific aspects of human ethically and uphold human rights in every mandatory for all employees by 2020. concerns about unethical behaviour. Our Code rights, focusing in particular on the labour rights aspect of our business. of Conduct makes it clear that anyone reporting of our own employees (see page 29) and supplier We also aim to offer in-depth training every two such a concern will not be subject to harassment, workers (see page 35). years on specific aspects of the Code of Conduct Setting high ethical standards discipline or retaliation as a result. for employees working in high-risk roles, such All our production plants are audited at least Collaboration, feedback, leadership, as sales, marketing, finance and procurement. Employees can seek advice or raise concerns every three years by external auditors following accountability, quality, integrity, performance This training uses a series of scenarios to help through their line managers, the Global Legal the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) and pride. These are the fundamental values participants learn how to apply the Code of and Compliance team or our external ethics and Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) procedure. that guide everything we do. Conduct to their everyday activities and discuss compliance hotline. These audits include detailed policy and Our Code of Conduct sets out our expectations the challenges they might face. procedure checks, site visits and interviews with The hotline enables people to voice concerns for ethical conduct across a range of key workers to assess that we are upholding human confidentially and, where permitted by local topics from discrimination and harassment to Preventing corruption rights and providing decent working conditions legislation, anonymously, by email or phone in bribery. In 2016, we refreshed the Code and across our business as well as other aspects We have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption their local language. It is available 24 hours added practical examples that help employees of responsibility. In 2016, SMETA audits were in any form. a day, seven days a week. We emphasise the understand how to put our values into practice. conducted at all our production plants and importance of speaking up and raise awareness Our anti-corruption policy is included in our we plan to extend these audits to include all We extend our ethical requirements to suppliers of the hotline through our Code of Conduct Code of Conduct and reinforced by training on our large sites (with more than 40 employees) through our Code of Business Ethics, largely training, local internal communications channels the Code of Conduct. This policy is designed globally by 2020. based on the Ethical Trading Initiative Code and posters across our sites. to ensure compliance with anti-corruption (see page 35). To find out more about how we respect and regulations wherever we do business. We also Our Global Legal and Compliance team leads protect human rights in our supply chain, see assess risks of corruption at a global level. In investigations into concerns, with support from Training our people page 35. We also support indigenous rights 2016, no cases of corruption were identified. Global Human Resources and Internal Audit. through our work with the Forest Stewardship Our Code of Conduct is covered in the induction Each concern is assigned to an investigation We provide clear guidance on issues such as CouncilTM on sustainable sourcing (see page 37). for new employees and is available to all officer who examines the case and determines gifts and hospitality, and conflicts of interest. For employees online. Employees who have access an appropriate response. This may include example, we ask people working in management Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 33 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Communities SUPPORTING COMMUNITIES AROUND THE WORLD USA Spain Investing in and engaging with Launching a flagship project Our employees in Pennsylvania We invited schools in Madrid to take our communities helps us We are developing a flagship project that built a brand new playground for part in ‘FSCTM Friday’ to learn about strengthen our business by will apply our technology, expertise and the students of a nearby the benefits of sustainable forests school and hosted an event at through workshops and outdoor being a good neighbour and enthusiasm through a partnership to support our production site to educate activities. We also donated school an employer of choice. communities and contribute to global efforts to students on healthy eating. supplies and juices in our FSCTMcertified carton packs. prevent hunger and reduce food waste. In addition to creating jobs both directly in our own business and indirectly in our In developing countries, surplus food can often supply chain, we support our communities by go to waste due to a lack of adequate storage contributing to local programmes that make a and preservation. We aim to use our proven difference to people’s lives through corporate packaging technology to help communities donations and employee volunteering. preserve surplus food without needing to invest in their own cooking or canning Brazil Our community programmes are managed equipment. Our innovative self-contained Employees in São Paulo locally to tailor our support to local needs (see organised a volunteer action mobile food filling unit, similar to a food van, feature opposite for examples). Employees can day in 2016 for students of the will be easy for communities to use with Instituição Allan Kardec Alice apply for funding and time off for volunteering limited training. Pereira, a non-government to support community causes that are close to organisation that works with lowThailand their heart. We have created this solution using our income young people and adults For over 20 years, we have been raising funds to support technology and expertise, and we aim to with Down syndrome, autism or better education for disadvantaged children in Thailand – We aim to engage in programmes where our mental disabilities. Around 100 offering talented children the opportunity to achieve their partner with a non-governmental organisation people and our business can make the students took part in sports and potential. In 2016, around 60 employees from our Bangkok to help us reach the communities that need it cultural activities, as well as biggest difference, such as education on office travelled to a school 80 kilometres away to deliver most in regions where inadequate nutrition is craft workshops using SIG carton 100 desks and chairs made from recycled beverage cartons recycling. Our priorities focus on benefits for packs, toys and puppets. a serious issue. donated by our customer Ampol Food, and cartons of fruit communities, environmental awareness juice and milk from other customers. and employee engagement. Our next step is to engage with suitable non-governmental organisations that have In 2017, we will put in place a global framework the necessary experience and networks with defined criteria that will help local teams in developing countries. This partnership ensure all our programmes align with these approach will enable us to make a much priorities and deliver tangible benefits for bigger contribution to communities. communities and our business. By 2020, our target is to have doubled the number of community and education programmes over five years. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 34 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Responsible sourcing Sourcing our materials, energy and logistics from responsible suppliers is critical to achieving a net positive impact across our value chain. We aim to secure raw materials from certified, responsible sources and work with suppliers that share our net positive commitment. RE RE Y S Y S AN AN RESPON DUCTS RESPON DUCTS PRO PRO SIB 2030 goal: SIB LE LE LE LE CO All raw materials IB CO IB Our supply chain M from certified sources NS M NS P and 50% of total PO P PO sourcing spend on Ethical supplier net positive standards suppliers. Sustainable raw materials RES NG RES NG RCI RCI Energy sourcing P O N SI P O N SI B LE SO U B LE SO U Sustainable logistics Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 35 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-12 EN32 SO9 LA14 HR10 Our supply chain Ethical supplier standards More than 6,000 suppliers around customer needs, the high volumes we purchase We want to work with suppliers Rating significant suppliers on ethical from them and sustainability risks. standards the world support our business and who share our values and we provide the materials and services We are engaging with these suppliers – expect all suppliers to meet high % significant suppliers scoring A–D we need to produce and distribute starting with our A-materials suppliers – standards on ethics, labour, social A B C D Suppliers not yet contacted our products to customers. to encourage them to adopt a net positive and environmental issues. approach. We plan to develop criteria to define We spend around €1 billion a year on raw what we mean by a net positive supplier to help We set out our requirements in our Business 15 materials to make our cartons, the secondary us measure progress towards our 2030 goal Ethics Code for Suppliers. Based on the Ethical 26 packaging used to transport and display them, to spend 50% of our total sourcing expenditure Trade Initiative, the Code includes fundamental the metals and components used to make on net positive suppliers. standards on issues such as ethical conduct, and maintain our filling machines, and a wide labour rights and environmental protection. Our focus on responsible sourcing is critical to range of goods and services needed to run our meet customer demand for responsibly sourced In 2016, we began to make the Code an 14 business worldwide – from energy and logistics 37 packaging and to help secure a sustainable integral part of all new or renewed contracts to IT and facilities management. supply of key raw materials to ensure the longwith significant suppliers, except where the 8 Around 60% of our procurement spend goes term resilience of our business. We also aim to supplier can show it has adopted the principles on the ‘A-materials’ used to produce our carton source locally within each of our regions, wherever of the Code through a third party programme. For further engagement on responsibility, we packs: liquid packaging board (a stiff paper board feasible, to support local economies where we Some suppliers have not yet signed the new focus on our significant suppliers. In 2016, made from wood), polymers, aluminium, ink and operate and reduce transport impacts and costs. terms or have chosen to refer to their own we screened all new and existing significant solvents. These critical materials are sourced We regularly review the progress and codes. In 2017, we will determine how to suppliers for environmental, labour, human rights from fewer than 30 companies. These range from effectiveness of our responsible sourcing manage these cases. By 2020, we aim to and social risks. We then asked them to complete local paper mills that pulp wood from their own activities to ensure continual improvement. include our Business Ethics Code in all new a self-assessment on responsibility management forests to major integrated mining and chemical Our work on sustainable logistics is reviewed supplier contracts. with a follow up planned at least every two years. multinationals. We also source some liquid quarterly by the Head of Global Supply Chain packaging board internally from our own paper Through these assessments, suppliers are Management. All other responsible sourcing Monitoring and improving performance mill in New Zealand. rated from A to D. To achieve an A-rating, focus areas are reviewed quarterly by the Complying with our Business Ethics Code is the suppliers must provide evidence of certification Director of Global Sourcing and Procurement. minimum we expect of all suppliers. Certain to recognised external standards such as Sourcing responsibly Both report to the Responsibility Steering Group. types of suppliers are subject to additional ISO 14001 on environmental management or We target our efforts to promote ethical supplier Sourcing activities for our machine assembly requirements such as our liquid packaging board the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) standards on 117 significant suppliers. These are excluded from the scope of this report, but sourcing policy or our conflict minerals policy (for Members Ethical Trade Audit. Those failing to suppliers are defined as significant based on will be integrated into our responsible sourcing those providing electrical components for our respond to our self-assessment or provide any their potential impact on our ability to meet approach over the next two years. filling machines). appropriate information are rated D. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 36 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 To date, around 85% of significant suppliers have responded. We are using the results to prioritise “ It has been incredibly positive to Engaging with key supplier Stora Enso our engagement with suppliers, focusing our work so closely with SIG as we Stora Enso, the renewable materials company, SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) audits on those considered the highest risk. explore new ways to support each develops and provides consumer packaging at the mills supplying SIG. Those rated B or below are expected to submit other in upholding our sustainability boards, and is one of our significant suppliers. plans outlining their steps toward certification commitments. SIG’s demand for Stora Enso’s mills in Imatra, Finland, and or third party assessment. We will contact the responsibly sourced materials As part of our commitment to source Skoghall, Sweden, were audited in December responsibly and encourage sustainable 2015. Its new mill in Beihai, China, was remaining 15% of significant suppliers in 2017. is driving our business in the standards in our industry, we engaged with audited in December 2016. right direction and it shows Stora Enso to ask them to undergo four-pillar To help us monitor and improve supplier clear evidence of the business performance on responsibility issues, we case for sustainability. encourage suppliers to undergo assessments The successful SEDEX through SEDEX and other recognised assessment audit is the most platforms, such as EcoVadis. Using these shared recent step in our platforms enables suppliers to complete a single collective journey.” assessment and share the results with multiple customers. We take the same approach to share Eija Hietavuo assessments of our business with our customers Senior Vice President Sustainability, (see case study, page 8). Consumer Board, Stora Enso From 2017, we will use the findings of third party assessments, as well as our own reviews and audits, to identify areas where suppliers need to improve and work with them to put plans in place to do so. If a supplier shows no improvement or willingness to cooperate in the assessment Overall responsibility for ensuring ethical supplier process, we may terminate the business standards lies with our Global Sourcing and relationship as a result. Procurement team. In 2016, we trained all key Our 2020 target is for 100% of significant people in our global procurement and regional suppliers to be audited by a third party or by SIG. sourcing teams on our ethical supplier standards In 2016, around 40% of our significant suppliers to help them engage on responsibility topics shared third party assessments of their ethical and monitor supplier performance. From 2017, performance via SEDEX or EcoVadis. we will conduct this training every two years for employees who regularly interact with suppliers. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 37 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN1 Sustainable raw materials Our aim is to increase the share of destroyed by unsustainable activities such as and plants are protected, the rights of indigenous responsibly sourced raw materials conversion into other land uses, this carbon peoples are respected, and labour conditions for used in each pack that we produce. storage is lost and the wood releases the stored workers are safe and fair. amount of carbon as CO2 emissions when it Recognised external certifications help to burns or decays. According to the United Nations, Our FSC™ journey assure us, our customers and consumers that deforestation and degradation constitute nearly In 2009, we became the first in our industry to the materials used to make our packs have 20% of global greenhouse gas emissions. establish FSC™ Chain of Custody certification been produced in ways that protect workers’ for all the paper mills we source from as well Managing forests responsibly can prevent these rights, support communities and mitigate as all our production plants, our procurement emissions because young, fast-growing trees environmental risks. organisation and our sales units worldwide absorb more carbon than older slow-growing By 2020, we aim to purchase 100% of trees. And they can support a greener economy (licence code FSCTM C020428). This certification A-materials from certified sources. We have and bring societal benefits by enabling people enables wood products to be traced throughout already made good progress in sourcing certified to benefit from the wide range of eco-services the supply chain from forest to consumer. liquid packaging board, but we still have work to they provide, such as fibre, timber, fuel, clean We were first to introduce the FSC™ label in high do. In 2016, we purchased 550,000 tonnes of water, oxygen, shelter, wildlife habitats, medicine, volumes for dairy and non-carbonated soft drink liquid packaging board, aluminium and polymers jobs and recreation spaces. Generating value for cartons – starting in Germany in 2009, followed – 70% of which came from renewable sources the forest by using this renewable raw material by China in 2010 and Thailand in 2011. and 39% (by spend) came from certified sources. source in a sustainable way can help to avoid forest conversion and deforestation. In 2016, we achieved another industry first – Supporting sustainable forestry and a significant milestone in our roadmap. This is why we require our suppliers to source With a minimum of 70% of our liquid packaging Liquid packaging board made from wood – wood for our liquid packaging board from forests board now coming from FSC™-certified forests, a renewable natural resource – makes up around that are responsibly managed. We only source we now source enough FSC™-certified material 70-80% of every SIG pack (by weight). liquid packaging board from paper mills that have to enable our customers to put the FSC™ logo on It’s in our interests to promote responsible been certified to the Forest Stewardship CouncilTM any of our packs. forestry practices to ensure future supplies of (FSCTM) Chain of Custody standard. The next challenge is to encourage more our key raw material. This is also an important customers to put the logo on the packaging Supported by non-governmental organisations element of our net positive story – for the for their products. Around 56% of the cartons such as Greenpeace, WWF and the Rainforest environment and for people. we sold in 2016 carried the FSC™ logo and Alliance, the FSC™ certification uses strict Responsibly managed forests play a critical role assessment criteria to ensure the management the share rose to around 75% in the month of in counteracting climate change because they of forests meets certain standards. For example, December. By 2020, our target is for 100% of continuously store carbon as trees grow. When the forests are continually growing, rare animals our cartons worldwide to carry the FSC™ logo. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 38 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 The FSC™ logo shows consumers at a glance We are currently testing the market for a pack innovation and we already offer an aluminium“ Manufacturers and retailers can that the product they are buying is contained using polymers certified to ISCC PLUS, a global free aseptic carton, combibloc EcoPlus. This is an demonstrate their environmental in packaging with a link to responsibly-managed scheme to certify sustainable production important step in achieving our target to create a and social commitment by offering forests. of renewable raw materials with certified 100% renewable aseptic pack by 2020 FSC™-certified products. The FSC™ traceability to the final product. ISCC offers a (see page 43). We have worked with FSCTM to make the label on carton packs shows that leading certification for biofuels, which offers requirements for logo placement, colour and the processed wood fibres used a strong foundation for biopolymers. Using this Other materials size more flexible to make it easier for our come from responsibly managed, certification would provide a broad range of Liquid packaging board, polymers and aluminium customers to use the logo on their products. FSC™-certified forests and other potential certified sources as it covers a wide are our key A-materials, and these are our These changes remove some of the barriers to controlled sources, and is a variety of materials that can be used to create priorities for 2020. But by 2030 we also aim to using the FSC™ logo – and support our target guarantee for consumers that by biopolymers, including both first generation source the other materials used in and for our for it to be used on all our packs by 2020. buying that particular carton they (from food crops) and second generation (from packs from certified sustainable sources. are acting responsibly. Food and non-food crops, waste or by-products). FSC™ offers a suitable certification for the pallets beverage manufacturers can Exploring certified sources for other A-materials and corrugated cardboard used in our secondary make important contributions Aluminium packaging. In 2016, we conducted an analysis to saving the environment We are also exploring options to source certified No established certification scheme exists for which showed that around 40% of the corrugated and safeguarding social sustainable supplies of other A-materials. aluminium, which makes up around 4% of our boxes we use already come from FSC™ sources. interests in the forest by packs (by weight). We will explore viable options to increase this working with FSC™, Polymers Sustainability risks in the aluminium supply chain over the next few years. and also secure a For polyethylene, which makes up around include significant energy use and the release of The other main material we use in our production crucial competitive 20-25% of each pack (by weight), our priority is greenhouse gases known as perfluorocarbons in is the ink used to print the design on our packs. advantage for to find a responsible alternative to fossil-based the process to refine bauxite ore into aluminium, There is no certification scheme available for the themselves.” polymers. Biopolymers can be made out of waste impacts on local communities and natural materials used in these inks, but we aim to work materials such as used cooking oil, residues from Kim Carstensen habitats from mining, and the potential for water with our suppliers to explore alternatives such as Director General paper production, non-food plants, or food crops pollution from production waste. bio-based solvents. FSC International such as sugar cane. The Aluminium Stewardship Initiative is Various certification schemes are available for developing a certification programme for the certain sources, such as Bon Sucro for sugar industry that will help address these and other cane or the International Sustainability and related sustainability issues. We are reviewing the Carbon Certification (ISCC PLUS) for biomaterials proposed programme closely with our suppliers. in general. We will only consider certification schemes that are supported by a multiWe are also exploring ways to eliminate the need stakeholder approach. for aluminium in our packs through product Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 39 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Energy sourcing Energy use is the most significant global contributor to climate Investing in renewable energy change, accounting for around in Thailand 60% of the world’s greenhouse In the Khon Buri region of northeast gas emissions. Thailand, a locally-grown root crop known as manioc is used to produce starch. The Obtaining energy from sustainable sources wastewater from this process produces large quantities of methane. helps us secure future energy supplies and minimise our environmental footprint by Methane is a potent greenhouse gas reducing reliance on fossil fuels. that contributes to climate change when released into the atmosphere. But, if Our Global Sourcing and Procurement function captured, this biogas can be used to is responsible for energy sourcing, focusing generate energy. And a local GoldPower® primarily on the energy used in our production project is doing just that. plants which accounts for the majority of energy As part of our transition to 100% renewable consumption across our business. electricity worldwide in 2017, we are now purchasing renewable electricity from In 2016, 33% of electricity used in our production this project to power our plant in Rayong, plants worldwide was from renewable sources. Thailand. From January 2017, we increased this to 100%, sourcing green electricity for our production plants worldwide three years ahead of our 2020 target. We have agreements in place with energy providers to purchase green electricity from the grid for our plants in Brazil and Europe. In China The GoldPower® standard ensures that projects production plants, with Gold Standard CO2 and Thailand, where this is not a viable option, deliver measurable emissions reductions and offset for all non-renewable energy. we are buying electricity from local renewable bring additional benefits to local communities, The next challenge is to engage with local green energy projects certified to the GoldPower® such as improved air and water quality, and energy producers to find viable renewable standard. For example, we are sourcing employment and training opportunities. alternatives for natural gas, a fossil fuel used electricity from biogas plants in Thailand that Achieving 100% renewable electricity is a primarily for heating in our manufacturing use methane from wastewater to generate energy significant milestone towards our 2020 target processes. We are also exploring the potential to (see case study). to use 100% renewable energy at all our generate renewable energy at our sites and we plan to conduct feasibility studies in 2017. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 40 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN30 Sustainable logistics Across our business, we are working to make logistics more Making every journey count sustainable to help us reduce We are introducing a new way of packing our life-cycle environmental products into trucks that will help us to cut impacts, lower costs and meet our transport costs and reduce environmental impacts by delivering more products with customers’ growing expectations each journey. on responsible sourcing. Our new approach enables us to load 10 layers of sleeves onto each pallet. Managing logistics That’s one more than the previous maximum of nine, improving efficiency by We outsource all our logistics. Suppliers are over 10%. As well as cutting the number responsible for delivering materials to our of journeys required, this also reduces the production and assembly plants, and we work amount of materials used for wrapping and stabilising the pallets. with logistics providers to ensure efficient delivery of our products to customers. Environmental We anticipate that this approach to packing responsibility is part of our ethical supplier more products per pallet will result in a standards for all suppliers, including logistics reduction of 10% –7.8kg of CO2 equivalent emissions – per 100 kilometres travelled. providers (see page 35). by truck over land and by boat overseas. We out of every journey – cutting emissions, saving Our procurement teams are responsible for rarely deliver by air, except for very urgent orders. fuel and making SIG a more sustainable choice inbound logistics as part of our contracts with for customers. In 2016, we analysed the carbon footprint of materials suppliers and we source locally where our outbound logistics activities to establish a possible to reduce transport impacts. We have increased the truck utilisation rate for We are also reducing transport emissions by baseline for future target setting and help to encouraging logistics providers to use more transporting our carton sleeves every year since We have most influence over our outbound focus our efforts to improve performance. This fuel efficient trucks that comply with the latest 2012 by delivering more full trucks to customers. logistics – the transport of finished products to showed that emissions for outbound logistics Euro 6 emissions standard. A full Euro 6 truck Our aim is to increase the rate of full truck loads our customers. Our Supply Chain Management from our production plants totalled 45,000 uses almost two litres less diesel per 100km, delivered, but this is not always possible when team leads our efforts to improve the efficiency tonnes of CO2 equivalent. compared with one complying with the previous customers order in smaller quantities. In 2016, and sustainability of this process. an average of 92% of trucks across our global Euro 5 standard. This saves around 3.2kg of Improving efficiency CO2 equivalent emissions per 100km journey. Delivering our products to customers around operations had full loads. Our new pallet design the world is a complex process and we need to Each month, outbound truck journeys from our will help to further reduce the number of journeys In Europe, around 47% of our deliveries are balance customer needs, costs and sustainability production plants total an average of around required by enabling us to fit more products in already made using Euro 6 trucks and our target performance. Typically, our products are delivered 8 million kilometres. We want to get the most each truckload (see case study). is to increase this to 100% by 2020. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 41 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Responsible products Our products help customers deliver food in a safe, sustainable and affordable way. This is an important part of our Way Beyond Good commitment to make a net positive contribution to society and the environment. We aim to offer the most sustainable solutions on the market through our packs, filling machines and technical service. RE RE RE Our life-cycle approach Y S Y S Y S AN AN AN RESPON DUCTS RESPON DUCTS RESPON DUCTS PRO PRO PRO SIB 2030 goal: SIB SIB LE LE LE LE LE LE CO Offer customers IB CO IB CO IB Our packs M the most sustainable NS M NS M NS P food packaging solutions PO P PO P PO – compared to carton Filling machines or other materials. Technical service RES P O N SI CIN G RES P O N SI CIN G RES P O N SI CIN G Recycling B LE SO UR B LE SO UR B LE SO UR Product safety Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 42 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 Our life-cycle approach To achieve our net positive ambition, Our efforts to reduce our own footprint The lightweight, space-saving design of our packaging types (see our website for detailed we must consider environmental (see page 23) and source responsibly (see cartons makes them exceptionally efficient to life-cycle assessments). impacts at every stage of the lifepage 34) are therefore integral to our ability make, fill and transport. They are made up of We evaluate the environmental performance to offer the most sustainable packaging around 70-80% renewable materials on average cycle – from our choice of materials of our packs using life-cycle assessments solutions on the market. And we are working and they are fully recyclable. Overall, research to making, filling and transporting conducted by independent experts at the to reduce the impacts of our packs even shows that the life-cycle carbon footprint of a packs, and their ability to be further through innovative product design. carton pack is significantly lower than other Institute for Energy and Environmental Research recycled after use. (ifeu), following the recognised ISO 14040 MINIMISING IMPACTS AT EVERY STAGE OF THE LIFE-CYCLE TM RECYCLING Our cartons are fully recyclable after use. We work with various SOURCING stakeholders to raise consumer Renewable liquid packaging awareness and promote board makes up 70-80% of our the development of better cartons on average. All liquid infrastructure for the collection packaging board that we purchase is and recycling of cartons. covered by FSCTM Chain of Custody See page 47. certification and we are targeting 100% certified responsible sources for other key materials – polymer and aluminium – by 2020. See page 37. DISTRIBUTING Filled cartons are secured in MANUFACTURING FILLING secondary packaging for distribution ISO 14001-certified environmental Customers use our filling to retailers. Our aseptic cartons management systems at all our DELIVERING machines to package processed are designed to be transported in a production sites worldwide help food and beverages in their space-saving way and stored for a Empty carton sleeves are factories. We offer a very low long time without refrigeration. us to continuously improve our delivered to our customers in processes to cut environmental waste rate and we help customers This cuts fuel use and reduces flat-packed form for efficient run our machines as efficiently emissions from our customers’ impacts from manufacturing transport. We have redesigned our cartons. as possible to minimise use distribution networks. our packing system to fit more of energy, water and hydrogen See page 23. sleeves per pallet for fuller peroxide used to sterilise carton trucks and fewer journeys. packs before filling. See page 40. See page 45. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 43 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 Our packs international standard. These assessments are Our packs represent our company the most material life-cycle impacts of our “ At ifeu, we have been performing critically reviewed by an independent expert and we want them to embody our products by developing a 100% renewable pack life-cycle assessment studies for panel. Measuring the life-cycle impacts of our commitment to responsibility. In and optimising use of materials. more than 25 years. Our studies packaging innovations as part of our product a competitive market, customers cover all kinds of products and development process helps us identify specific Developing a 100% renewable pack are increasingly looking for services, including various targets for improvement. environmentally responsible Liquid packaging board, made from wood – packaging systems. They are always carried out according In 2016, we established a dedicated packaging to meet their own a renewable resource – makes up around sustainability team within Global Research and sustainability objectives. 70-80% of our packs on average. Our target to international standards Development to support this life-cycle approach is to offer an aseptic pack made from 100% incorporating the very by coordinating alignment and collaboration Responsibility is built into our products from renewable materials by 2020. This will involve latest scientific findings.” with other parts of the business, such as the start to finish. Our work on sustainable product replacing the other materials in our packs with Frank Wellenreuther Global Procurement team on sourcing and the innovation is led by our Global Research and renewable alternatives, or eliminating the need Project Manager, Group Environment, Health and Safety team Development team and we have developed tools for them completely. Institute for Energy and Environmental Research (ifeu) on manufacturing. that will help us assess environmental criteria In our current packs, polymers are used as a Heidelberg GmbH The proportion of the life-cycle environmental in the development of every new pack. By 2020, barrier for liquids and to prevent moisture getting footprint of our packaging solutions that comes our target is for responsibility to be one of the into the pack, and aluminium acts to protect the from the filling process is relatively small (less core value drivers of our innovation activities, not contents from oxygen and light which can impact than 10% of the carbon footprint), but we still only in the initial design phase but as part of our the flavour of the contents. We are exploring aim to reduce associated use of resources such ongoing product development. viable sources of bio-based polymers to replace as energy and water by improving the efficiency Made primarily from renewable liquid packaging oil-based plastics (see page 38) and we are of our filling machines. Given our machines are board from certified sources, our cartons already looking for ways to replace aluminium foil by often in use for decades, the environmental offer better environmental performance than optimising resources without compromising the impacts from their assembly and disposal are alternatives such as glass and plastic bottles, quality of the pack. relatively insignificant across the whole life-cycle and cans (see our website for comparative We already offer customers an aluminium-free of our packaging solutions so these impacts have life-cycle assessments). option, known as EcoPlus. By using a different not been included in our life-cycle analyses to With every new product innovation, we aim to material structure, we were able to cut out date. However, the sourcing, assembly and improve that performance further as part of our aluminium altogether and replace it with an end-of-life impacts of our filling machines will long-term goal to offer the most sustainable food ultra-thin polyamide layer. This increases the be considered in future as part of our packaging solutions on the market – compared share of renewable materials in the pack from responsibility roadmap. with bottles, cans, other carton packs or 75% to 82%, and cuts the carbon footprint by up alternative innovations yet to emerge. Key focus to 28% cradle to gate (see life-cycle assessment areas for our product innovation aim to address on our website). Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 44 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 our packs. This in turn helps to lower emissions THE MATERIALS THAT MAKE OUR CARTONS related to transport throughout their life-cycle. “ At Carrefour we are committed to the environment and innovation. We use our scientific know-how and technical That is why we work on policies expertise to enhance optimisation, while in the areas of environmental ensuring our packs meet the requirements protection, quality, prevention, 21% of our customers and consumers to deliver food products in a safe and convenient way. health, food safety and product POLYMERS LIQUID PACKAGING safety, and we base our CSR BOARD Our product innovation has already delivered Build the barrier for Provides structure approach on three pillars: promoting the product and significant improvements. and rigidity. biodiversity protection, sharing prevent moisture getting in. For example, our standard carton structure today with our business partners to uses 1.4 grams less polymer in each sleeve than evolve together and fighting 75% its predecessor. Our combiSwift design, launched against any form of waste. in 2007, almost halved the weight of our spouts. In this last point some of the With the introduction of combiCap in 2010, the most important strategy axes weight of a screw cap could be further reduced are: disposal of used packaging, to below two grams, making it by far the lightest reduction of raw materials in single-action solution in the market. ALUMINIUM packages and packaging material, Protects content from Our latest innovation is the combibloc RS. It optimisation of packaging size, light, oxygen and external odours. offers a robust, resource-saving alternative to reduction in vehicles needed for conventional pack designs. By changing the transport, and promoting the use 4% structure of the internal polymer layer, we made of sustainable, recycled and the pack thinner and lighter than our standard recyclable material. In this context Percentages are averages and vary between different types of packs. structure, cutting material use and reducing the choosing combibloc EcoPlus is carbon footprint by 5% from cradle to gate for a good decision.” 1 litre packs and by 6% for 200ml packs1. We EcoPlus can be used for products that do not other types of non-carbonated soft drinks Xavier Appy launched a prototype of the combibloc RS in Product Optimisation Director/Manager, require a high oxygen barrier layer like aluminium. so more customers can use it. 2016 and we aim to work with our customers to Carrefour This solution is suitable for 95% of the European roll out combibloc RS sleeves as an alternative to UHT dairy market. Sales increased in 2016 and Optimising use of materials our standard sleeves over the next few years. more than 700 million EcoPlus packs have been By optimising use of materials, we can cut the sold in total since its launch in 2010. We are now total amount of natural resources needed to 1 Calculation based on SIG life-cycle assessment tool, working to make a solution suitable for packaging make our products and reduce the weight of cradle to factory gate, EU28 Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 45 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 Filling machines CUTTING THE CARBON FOOTPRINT The machines used to fill our machines lies with our Global Assembly teams improve energy efficiency and reduce use of OF OUR PACKS THROUGH PRODUCT cartons are an integral part of our and the impacts from manufacturing are water, compressed air and hydrogen peroxide. INNOVATION* managed by our Group Environment, Health packaging solution for customers. Our machines can be used at customer and Safety team as part of our operational factories for many years – often decades – with combibloc EcoPlus up to 28% reduction We aim to make them as efficient as possible to environmental footprint (see page 23). proper maintenance and upgrades. More than reduce the life-cycle environmental impacts of 1,000 SIG filling machines are currently in use Improving efficiency 28% our packs and help customers minimise waste, energy use, resource use and costs in their Every year, customers use our machines to fill worldwide. We are continually looking for ways to make them more efficient through modifications factories. billions of SIG cartons with their liquid food and that can be retrofitted to machines that are These considerations are fundamental to the beverage products. We already offer a very low already in use. For example, we have developed combibloc RS 5-6% reduction design of our filling machines, led by our Global waste rate within the industry – only 0.5% on an optional component that closes the loop for Research and Development team, and their average – and we aim to improve efficiency with hydrogen peroxide by collecting vapour that has 5-6% maintenance by our Technical Service teams each new generation. Our newest machine, been used to sterilise cartons and reintroducing (see page 46). Responsibility for building the currently in development, includes a new system it back into the system. We are also developing a to reduce food waste and other features to system to reuse water. *Reduction in lifecycle carbon footprint from cradle to gate, compared with current standard product. THE FILLING PROCESS We are also developing new products designed Our flat-packed The formed cartons Our customers’ food Filled cartons are The filled cartons “ When we set out to develop our to use less aluminium and optimise use of paper cartons (‘sleeves’) are sterilised with product, sterilised sealed above the are bundled are pushed into a small amount using ultra-high product level to in secondary state-of-the-art new plant in Rio, board, while maintaining the properties required shape and the of vaporised temperature (UHT) reduce the risk of packaging ready Brazil, we wanted to make it as for our packs. base is sealed hydrogen peroxide equipment, is contamination from for distribution to sustainable as possible. That meant using heat to (35% concentration pumped in to fill the food getting caught retail outlets. Another way to optimise use of resources is to melt the polymer in water) and sterilised cartons in the sealed seam. choosing technology with a low reduce the amount of virgin materials by using layers together. then dried. inside the aseptic Optional closures, environmental impact and SIG’s recycled alternatives. We are exploring ways zone of the machine. such as caps or solution was a natural choice. to make use of waste materials from other spouts, may be It’s energy-efficient and it has applied to the filled industries, including within our own supply chain. cartons. a very low wastage rate.” Our initial focus is on the potential to include Paulo Botelho recycled waste from industrial processes in our Production Director raw paper board supply. Vigor Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 46 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 Technical service Our responsibility for our Well maintained machines are efficient machines does not end when machines. And efficient machines minimise we install them in our customers’ waste, resource use and operating costs. We work with our customers to provide expert factories – and neither does our technical service that helps them make their relationship with customers. filling machines and factories more efficient. SIG Technical Service teams provide maintenance support Helping customers improve efficiency while the machines are in use. When customers buy or lease filling machines from us, they can choose from a selection of tailored service options that help keep the machines running smoothly. Our service packages range from routine servicing to a full service plan including labour and spare parts for repairs. By focusing on preventive maintenance, we take care of the equipment, catch problems before they arise and maximise equipment availability by minimising downtime. Regular maintenance helps to prevent faults that could stop production More than 500 SIG technical service staff of our customers through our technical or result in unsaleable packs, wasting time, support our customers worldwide. We train them service offering. energy, water, packaging sleeves and the filled – and our customers’ machine operators – at our food product itself. centres in Brazil, China, Germany, Thailand and Managing end of life impacts the United Arab Emirates (our joint venture). In 2016, we introduced new service packages We aim to work with our customers to ensure based on performance. Through these packages, Our engineers share sustainability best that SIG filling machines and their parts are we share responsibility with the customer practices with customers. In 2017, we will recycled or disposed of responsibly at end of to achieve an agreed level of operational or begin offering to audit customers’ factories life. To ensure consistent standards, we have technical efficiency. This will help to optimise to identify opportunities to improve efficiency established a policy on reuse and disposal of efficiency and minimise the environmental and recommend a tailor-made level of support used equipment, including requirements for impact per filled pack. We are also developing that best meets each customer’s individual evaluating disposal companies. This will a new service that will focus more explicitly on requirements. By 2020, our target is to support enable us to recommend certified companies improving sustainability. sustainability improvements for at least half to our customers. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 47 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 Recycling We make sure our packs are fully sold in the region. In other parts of the world, recyclable after use and we work INCREASE RECYCLING recycling rates vary depending on local facilities with others to promote improved and legislation. infrastructure for collection and Our local teams are responsible for engaging with recycling of used cartons. new products stakeholders in each region, with support from such as: our Global Environment, Health and Safety team. Recyclability has been demonstrated for all types cardboard PAPER FIBRES boxes of SIG packaging materials in accordance with Partnering with others the relevant European regulations. This is part of our development process for all new products. We work with peers through industry initiatives However, not all our packs are recycled because new products to advocate for the development of a regulatory the local infrastructure is not always in place to such as: framework that supports carton recycling. plastic buckets collect and recycle them. To increase recycling new products and shoes For example, we are a member of the Alliance rates in the long term, we are engaging with such as: for Beverage Cartons and the Environment roof tiles stakeholders – either directly or through industry and furniture (ACE) in Europe, which provides an industryorganisations – to support the development of wide platform to benchmark and profile appropriate infrastructure and raise awareness cartons as renewable, recyclable and lowpellets of the need to recycle. carbon packaging solutions. ACE engages with stakeholders and partners seeking high Responding to the recycling challenge POLYMER/ standards of environmental stewardship, and Recycling our cartons diverts waste from landfill ALUMINIUM contributes expertise to EU policy, legislation and turns it into a valuable resource for a variety POLYMERS and standard-setting. of products. We also support efforts to strengthen national Infrastructure for recycling beverage cartons is ALUMINIUM systems for collecting cartons and increase widely available in many countries. The biggest capacity for separating and recycling the raw challenge is often the lack of suitable collection fuels materials. In the UK, for example, we worked processes because recycling is not possible new products through ACE UK to support the development without first collecting used cartons from such as: of the country’s first facility built exclusively to engine parts consumers. and industrial recycle food and beverage cartons in 2015. applications In Brazil, the government’s Solid Waste Policy In 2015, more than 16 billion beverage cartons sets a goal for the entire packaging industry to were recycled in the European Union alone. collectively reduce waste to landfill by 28% by This represents an estimated 44% of cartons Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 48 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 EN27 2019 (from a 2010 baseline). We aim to do our part by supporting local cooperatives that Supporting recycling in Brazil collect reusable and recyclable materials and We are promoting recycling in Brazil We are helping young people find by educating consumers on the importance of by supporting cooperatives that out about the benefits of recycling recycling (see case study). collect reuseable waste materials, through educational projects run We also work with customers and other distributing recycling bags to in partnership with customers in citizens and educating children – the Brazil. One programme with our stakeholders to increase collection and recycling consumers of the future – on the customer Tirol reached 25,000 of beverage cartons. In Korea, for example, benefits of recycling. students in more than 200 schools we supported a recent campaign that raised over three years. By creating toys awareness by providing appropriate bins or bags Cooperatives of reusable material from reused carton packaging, the collectors enable economically students increase their awareness of to people living in apartments – a simple but disadvantaged people to generate recycling issues. Each year, the toys effective approach to encourage more recycling. an income by picking out recyclable are entered into a competition and products from general waste that the school with the winning entry is they then sell to recycling schemes. In awarded a grant to improve school 2012, we began a project to promote facilities. recycling near our production plant in Campo Largo. In partnership with Through a partnership with another the Ministry of Cities, we supported customer, Cemil, we constructed the construction of a new facility for ‘the Milk House’ – a house made of a local cooperative. Since then, the recycled milk cartons – at a waste monthly income for its members has centre in Belo Horizonte. Since it increased threefold and the average opened in 2014, more than 5,000 volume of recyclable material children have visited the Milk House, collected by the cooperative has learning about carton packaging, the increased by 21%. recycling system and environmental issues. We also distributed specially created recycling bags to local citizens to encourage them to take up the recycling challenge. This initiative was such a success that we launched further projects in partnership with several customers in their respective communities. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 49 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 PR1 Product safety The fundamental purpose of our Our focus on product quality is critical to ensure aseptic packaging is to enable our product safety as faults in our packs could lead customers to preserve quality food to the migration of chemicals or bacteria into the food. For example, if a carton is not sealed and deliver it safely to consumers. properly, the food inside will not be preserved effectively. Our Global Quality Management team is responsible for product safety with support from quality and product safety teams across the business. The team follows the principles outlined in our Quality and Product Safety Policy to maintain our high safety standards. We also train customer employees and provide regular maintenance services to ensure our filling machines are used safely in customer factories. production processes, including filling operations Monitoring product safety at customer facilities. We monitor product quality closely and take Managing product quality and safety All our sleeve production plants are certified to customer complaints very seriously. Our Quality management systems at all our research the British Retail Consortium (BRC) Packaging integrated complaint and claim management and development centres and production sites standard, with annual audits to recertify. We will system ensures that any complaints and critical are certified to the international ISO 9001 complete certification for production of our caps incidents are escalated to management. standard that requires the adoption of Hazard and spouts in 2017. We regularly assess the health and safety Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP), a We inform employees about the importance impacts of all our products and services and use robust quality management system and control of food safety and train everyone working on our management systems to support continuous of factory environmental standards, processes our production lines on hygiene and safety improvement. As part of our commitment and personnel. requirements. In 2017, we aim to establish an to safety, we also monitor the quality of all We apply rigorous procedures to ensure product internal online resource to share information A-materials through our annual supplier audits. safety, such as HACCP and Failure Mode and about food safety, including updates on evolving Effects Analysis (FMEA). These recognised regulatory requirements. We also provide systems help us to identify, address and monitor guidance on food quality, hygiene and safety potential hazards to product safety in our matters for our customers. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 50 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 About our reporting In this appendix, we explain how we identified our material issues and determined the content of this report. We show how we contribute to the United Nations Global Compact, map our reporting against the Global Reporting Initiative G4 indicators and provide information on external assurance of selected data. Determining report content United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Global Reporting Initiative G4 index Assurance statement Key performance indicators Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 51 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-18 G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 Determining report content We undertook a detailed Our Group Executive Board and executives Reporting boundaries materiality assessment in 2015 from each region and function of the business Material issue Within Organistation Outside Organisation to determine the issues that are assessed the findings of our materiality Suppliers Customers Consumers assessment and validated the prioritisation most important to our business of issues. We also sought external validation Energy and and our stakeholders. The results greenhouse gas n n n n through a review by informed sustainability emissions of this assessment supported the experts representing customer, investor/analyst development of focus areas for our and non-governmental organisation interests Waste and recycling n responsibility roadmap and the (see page 17). (company) definition of material content for Occupational health and safety n our reporting. Defining reporting boundaries Responsible/ The table opposite shows our most material sustainable n Identifying our material issues sourcing issues and the boundaries of where each impact occurs within or outside the organisation. We Food quality, We worked with expert sustainability consultants hygiene and safety n to identify the environmental, ethical and social applied this definition of material issues to determine the main content of our reporting, Sustainable issues that are relevant to our industry across product innovation n n the value chain. This analysis was informed by including which of the Global Reporting Initiative Training and recognised external guidelines and interviews (GRI) G4 Aspects to report on and the level of development n with representatives of each function and coverage and boundaries for each. Ethical supplier region across our business. The initial long list standards n Our reporting focuses on the GRI Aspects related was then aggregated into a list of 33 issues for to our most material issues as identified in our Labour rights n n prioritisation. materiality matrix. These are clearly noted in our Recyclability We used a series of internal and external inputs index of reporting against the GRI G4 guidelines. of products n to determine the importance of each issue to We also report on some additional strategic Employee topics (see page 17) that are included in our engagement n different stakeholder groups and key areas of our business. The importance of each issue was responsibility roadmap (see page 18). Deforestation n assessed against each input and the resulting Reward and scores were plotted on a materiality matrix recognition n (see page 16). The issues in the top right hand quadrant of the matrix (scoring more than 50% on both axes) are considered to be most material to SIG. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 52 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress We support the United Nations We are also committed to advancing the broader Global Compact’s 10 principles on development goals outlined in the United Nations human rights, labour, environmental Sustainable Development Goals (see page 15). Our commitment to both the Global Compact and protection and anti-corruption. the Sustainable Development Goals fully aligns with our ambition to go Way Beyond Good and have a net positive impact on society and the environment (see page 7). This report is our annual Communication on Progress for 2016. The table below sets out our approach to upholding each of the 10 United Nations Global Compact principles and where to find out more. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the We are committed to respecting human rights in our business and our supply chain through our Code of Conduct and our Code of Conduct protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Business Ethics Code. Regular Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) Members Ethical Trade Audits of our business help Business Ethics Code to ensure that we uphold high standards on human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are Governance and ethics, page 32 not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of We respect the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining, and our Business Ethics Code requires suppliers Business Ethics Code association and the effective recognition of the right to to uphold these rights too. A significant proportion of our employees are covered by collective labour agreements and, in Our employees, page 29 collective bargaining Europe, many are represented by works councils. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination We do not tolerate forced, compulsory or child labour and we require the same commitment from suppliers through our Business Ethics Code of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Business Ethics Code. Ethical supplier standards, page 35 Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective Our employees, page 29 abolition of child labour Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 53 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-14 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH FIND OUT MORE Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of We do not tolerate discrimination of employees or supplier workers based on race, religion, national origin, sex, sexual Code of Conduct discrimination in respect of employment and occupation orientation, disability, age or any other relevant category. Business Ethics Code Governance and ethics, page 32 Ethical supplier standards, page 35 Our employees, page 29 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary We comply with applicable environmental legislation across our operations and we require our suppliers to do the same. We Code of Conduct approach to environmental challenges take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges such as climate change by proactively identifying and managing Business Ethics Code emerging risks. Our environmental footprint, page 23 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to Environmental responsibility is an integral part of our business strategy. We aim to minimise our environmental impacts and Our value chain impacts, page 22 promote greater environmental responsibility we are striving for a net positive footprint by contributing more to the environment than we take out across our value chain. Our environmental footprint, page 23 Responsible sourcing, page 34 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the Our goal is to offer the most sustainable food packaging solutions on the market. We are innovating the way we design and Sustainable products, page 41 development and diffusion of environmentally friendly manufacture our packs and filling machines to achieve this. technologies Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption We have zero tolerance for bribery or corruption in any form. We encourage people to report any concerns via our ethics and Code of Conduct in all its forms, including extortion and bribery compliance hotline. We investigate any suspected breaches and take disciplinary and other appropriate actions accordingly. Governance and ethics, page 32 Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 54 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-32 Global Reporting Initiative G4 index This report has been produced in accordance The index below shows which indicators are with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 material to SIG, which are reported and RE Q FO UIR R ED CO where to find information on each. RE Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Core option. RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE PA RT AS W ON IA LL HY F NO OR Y) GRI G4 T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT ED / GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Strategy and analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Y Y See Message from our CEO, page 4. organisation (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing sustainability Organisational profile G4-3 Report the name of the organisation Y Y See Our business, page 3. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services Y Y See Our business, page 3. G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters Y Y See Our business, page 3. G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation Y Y See Our business, page 3. operates, and names of countries where the organisation has significant operations G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Y Y See Our business, page 3. G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, Y Y See Our business, page 3. sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation, including: Total number Y Y See Our business, page 3. of employees, Total number of operations, Net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector organisations), Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations), Quantity of products or services provided G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employment contract Y Y See Employees, page 26. and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting RE Q FO UIR 55 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE PART AS W ON IALL HY F NO OR Y) T OM GRI G4 RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT ED / Organisational profile G4-10 d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. Y Y No substantial portion of SIG’s work is performed by workers e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organisation’s who are legally recognised as self-employed, or by individuals work is performed by workers who are legally recognised as selfother than employees or employees and supervised employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised employees of contractors. There are no significant variations workers, including employees and supervised employees of in employment numbers. contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective Y Y See Employees, page 29. bargaining agreements G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain Y Y See Our supply chain, page 35. G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period Y Y No significant changes during 2016. regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain Commitments to external G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle Y Y See United Nations Global Compact Communication on initiatives is addressed by the organisation Progress, page 53. G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social Y Y We support the United Nations Global Compact (see page charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation 52) and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals subscribes or which it endorses (see page 15). SIG is a member of the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX), is rated Gold by EcoVadis, and is certified to ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) Y Y At corporate level SIG is a member of various industry and national or international advocacy organisations associations and advocacy organisations. Key organisations include: Alliance for Beverage Cartons and the Environment (ACE; The Consumer Goods Forum; European Bioplastics Association; European Organisation for Packaging and the Environment (EUROPEN); Flexible Packaging Europe (FPE); Forum for the Future; Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) International; The Net Positive Project; The Science Based Targets Initiative; Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry (TAPPI). In addition, SIG is member of numerous national alliances and initiatives in our core markets. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting RE Q FO UIR 56 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE PART AS W ON IALL HY F NO OR Y) T OM GRI G4 RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT ED / Identified material aspects and G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated Y Y Parent company: SIG Combibloc Group Holdings S.à r.l., boundaries financial statements or equivalent documents Luxembourg. Subsidiaries: SIG Combibloc Holdings S.C.A.; SIG Combibloc PurchaseCo S.à r.l.; SIG Combibloc Holdings GP S.à r.l.; SIG Schweizerische Industrie-Gesellschaft GmbH; SIG Combibloc US Acquisition Inc.; SIG Combibloc US Acquisition II Inc.; SIG Combibloc Argentina S.R.L.; Whakatane Mill Australia Pty Limited; SIG Austria Holding GmbH; SIG Combibloc GmbH; SIG Combibloc GmbH & Co. KG; SIG Beverages Brasil Ltda.; SIG Combibloc do Brasil Ltda.; SIG Combibloc Chile Limitada; SIG Combibloc (Suzhou) Co. Ltd.; SIG Combibloc s.r.o.; SIG Combibloc S.à.r.l.; SIG Combibloc GmbH; SIG Combibloc Holding GmbH; SIG Combibloc Systems GmbH; SIG Combibloc Zerspanungstechnik GmbH; SIG Euro Holding GmbH; SIG Information Technology GmbH; SIG International Services GmbH; SIG Combibloc Kft.; PT. SIG Combibloc Indonesia; SIG Combibloc S.r.l.; SIG Combibloc Korea Ltd.; SIG Combibloc México, S.A. de C.V.; SIG Combibloc B.V.; Whakatane Mill Limited; SIG Combibloc Sp. z o.o.; SIG Combibloc Services SRL; OOO SIG Combibloc; SIG Combibloc S.A.; SIG Combibloc AB; SIG allCap AG; SIG Combibloc Group AG; SIG Combibloc Procurement AG; SIG Technology AG; SIG Combibloc Taiwan Ltd.; SIG Combibloc Ltd.; SIG Combibloc Limited; SIG Combibloc Inc.; SIG Holding USA, LLC; SIG Vietnam Ltd. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Y Y See Determining report content, page 51. Aspect Boundaries G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining Y Y See Our priorities, page 16, and Determining report content, report content page 51. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the Y Y See Determining report content, page 51. organisation G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside Y Y See Determining report content, page 51. the organisation G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in Y Y Not applicable as this is SIG's first sustainability report. previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Y Y Not applicable as this is SIG’s first sustainability report. Scope and Aspect Boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Y Y See Stakeholder dialogue, page 13. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Y Y See Stakeholder dialogue, page 13. with whom to engage Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting RE Q FO UIR 57 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE PART AS W ON IALL HY F NO OR Y) T OM GRI G4 RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Y Y See Stakeholder dialogue, page 13. including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through Y Y See Stakeholder dialogue, page 13. stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report profile G4-28 Reporting period Y Y See About this report, page 2. G4-29 Date of last report Y Y Not applicable as this is SIG's first corporate responsibility report. G4-30 Reporting cycle Y Y See About this report, page 2. G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or Y Y See About this report, page 2. its contents Report profile: GRI content G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen Y Y We report in accordance with the GRI guidelines: Core option. index See About this report, page 2. Report profile: assurance G4-33 Report the organisation’s policy and current practice with regard Y Y See About this report, page 2 and Assurance statement, to seeking external assurance for the report page 65. Governance, structure and G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation, including Y Y See Responsibility built in, page 12. composition committees of the highest governance body, and identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Ethics and integrity G4-56 Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and Y Y See Governance and ethics, page 32. norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking Y Y See Governance and ethics, page 32. advice on ethical and lawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting Y Y See Governance and ethics, page 32. concerns about unethical or unlawful behaviour, and matters related to organisational integrity G4-2, G4-35 to N N Not required G4-55 for core Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 58 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT ECONOMIC EC1 to EC9 NM N N Not material ENVIRONMENTAL Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume M Y Y See Sustainable raw materials, page 37. G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials M N N Not required for core Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 24. G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation M N N Not required for core G4-EN5 Energy intensity M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 24. G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 24. G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services M N N Not required for core Water G4-EN8 Total volume of water withdrawn by source NM N N Not material We use relatively little water in our operations and water use is not considered a material impact for SIG. However, G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water NM N N Not material we recognise that water is an increasingly important issue G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused NM N N Not material for stakeholders, particularly in water-scarce regions. Our production processes do not require water, except at our paper mill in New Zealand, so our main focus for reducing water use is on improving the efficiency of our filling machines (see page 45). Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, NM N N Not material Our own operations do not have a significant impact on protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside biodiversity, and we minimise any potential impacts through protected areas our environmental management systems. We do not have any operations in areas of high biodiversity value. The main G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and NM N N Not material biodiversity risk for our business is in the supply chain, from services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high the potential for deforestation. We only purchase liquid biodiversity value outside protected areas packaging board from paper mills certified to the FSCTM Chain G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored NM N N Not material of Custody standard and biodiversity is an important aspect of the FSC’s principles G4-EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation NM N N Not material list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) M Y Y See Environmental footprint, pages 23-24. G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) M Y Y See Environmental footprint, pages 23-24. Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 59 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT Emissions G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 3) M Y P Data not yet See Our value chain impacts, page 22, with initial estimates available. of our Scope 3 GHG emissions. We aim to report Scope 3 emissions in 2017. G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity M Y Y See Environmental footprint, pages 23-24. G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions M Y Y See Environmental footprint, pages 23-24. G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances NM N N Not material G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions NM N N Not material Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination NM N N Not material G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 25. G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills NM N N Not material G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste NM N N Not material deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention 2 ANNEX I, II, III, and VIII G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water NM N N Not material bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organisation’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products M Y Y See Responsible products, pages 42-48. and services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that M N N Not required are reclaimed by category for core Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonM Y Y No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws compliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2016. and regulations Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and NM N P Not material See Sustainable logistics, page 40. other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by M Y Y See Environmental footprint, page 23. type Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 60 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT Supplier Environmental G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using M Y Y See Ethical supplier standards, page 34. Assessment environmental criteria G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts M N N Not required in the supply chain and actions taken for core Environmental Grievance G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts M Y Y No known grievances about environmental impacts. Mechanisms SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community NM N N Not material engagement, impact assessments, and development programs G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts NM N Y Not material on local communities Anti-corruption G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks NM N N Not material related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and NM N P Not material See Governance and ethics, page 32. Number and procedures percentage of employees having received training on anticorruption has not been recorded. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken NM N N Not material Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ NM N N Not material beneficiary Anti-competitive Behaviour G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiNM N Y No legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust or trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes monopoly practices in 2016. Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of M Y Y No significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for nonnon-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and compliance with laws and regulations in 2016. regulations Supplier Assessments for G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for M Y Y See Ethical supplier standards, page 35. Impacts on Society impacts on society G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in M N N Not required the supply chain and actions taken for core Grievance Mechanisms for G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, NM N N Not material Impacts on Society and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 61 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT Labour practices and decent G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee M Y Y See Employees, page 26. work: Employment turnover by age group, gender and region G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided M N N Not required to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of for core operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by M N N Not required gender for core Labour practices and decent G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, M N N Not required work: Labour/Management including whether these are specified in collective agreements for core Relations Labour practices and decent G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce representation in formal joint M N N Not required work: Occupational Health and management-worker health and safety committees that help for core Safety monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost M Y P Health See Health and safety, page 30. days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related rate metric fatalities, by region and by gender currently in development that will cover occupational diseases G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to NM N N Not material their occupation G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with M N N Not required trade unions for core Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 62 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT Labour practices and decent G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and M Y P Breakdown See Employees, page 28. work: Training and Education by employee category of this data by gender was not recorded in 2016, but we plan to put in place a system to collect this data by 2018. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that M N N Not required support the continued employability of employees and assist for core them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and M N N Not required career development reviews for core Labour practices and decent G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees NM N N Not material work: Diversity and Equal per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Opportunity group membership, and other indicators of diversity Labour practices and decent G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by NM N N Not material work: Equal Renumeration for employee category, by significant locations of operation Women and Men Labour practices and decent G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour M Y Y See Ethical supplier standards, page 35. work: Supplier Assessment for practices criteria Labour Practices G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour M N N Not required practices in the supply chain and actions taken for core Labour practices and decent G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, M Y Y Following the closure of our filler assembly plant in Rayong, work: Labour Practices and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Thailand the severance package offered by SIG, in line with Grievance Mechanisms local law and collective agreements, was challenged in court. In 2016, the court confirmed the package offered by SIG was correct. Product Responsibility: G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for M Y Y See Product safety, page 49. Customer Health and Safety which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations M N N Not required and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of for core products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 63 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT Product Responsibility: Product G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the NM N N Not material and Service Labelling organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations NM N N Not material and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction NM N N Not material Product Responsibility: G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products NM N N Not material Marketing Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations NM N N Not material and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. Product Responsibility: G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of NM N N Not material Customer Privacy customer privacy and losses of customer data Product Responsibility: G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws M Y Y No fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Compliance and regulations concerning the provision and use of products concerning the provision or use of products and services in and services 2016. Human Rights: Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment NM N N Not material agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening. G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or NM N N Not material procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Human Rights: NonG4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective NM N N Not material discrimination actions taken Human Rights: Freedom of G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise M N N Not required Association and Collective freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated for core Bargaining or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Human Rights: Child Labour G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for M N N Not required incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to for core the effective abolition of child labour Human Rights: Forced or G4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk M N N Not required Compulsory Labour for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to for core contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting M AT NO ERI 64 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 T AL/ M AT RE QU ER IAL FO IR R ED CO RE RE PO (Y RT ES E /N D O/ RE AS PA RT IA W ON HY F LLY) GRI G4 NO OR T OM RE I PO S S RT ION INDICATOR/ASPECT REFERENCE DESCRIPTION ED / WHERE TO FIND IN THE REPORT Human Rights: Security G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s NM N N Not material Practices human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations Human Rights: Indigenous G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of NM N N Not material Rights indigenous peoples and actions taken Human Rights: Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been NM N N Not material subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights: Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human M Y Y See Ethical supplier standards, page 35. Rights Assessment rights criteria G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in M N N Not required the supply chain and actions taken for core Human Rights: Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, NM N N Not material Grievance Mechanisms addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanism Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 65 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 G4-32 G4-33 Assurance statement To SIG Combibloc Group AG, We have been engaged to perform a limited Audit Firm’s Independence and Practitioner’s Responsibility Neuhausen assurance engagement on the sustainability Quality Control Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the information marked with “ ” in the Corporate We have complied with the German professional sustainability information marked with “ ” in Responsibility Report of SIG Combibloc Group AG, provisions regarding independence as well as the Corporate Responsibility Report based on our Neuhausen, (hereafter the “Company”) for the other ethical requirements. work performed. period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 (hereafter the “Corporate Responsibility Report”). The audit firm applies the national legal Within the scope of our engagement we did requirements and professional standards – in not perform an audit on external sources of Management’s Responsibility particular the Professional Code for German information or expert opinions, referred to in the Public Auditors and German Chartered Auditors Corporate Responsibility Report. The Company’s Management is responsible (“Berufssatzung für Wirtschaftsprüfer und for the preparation and presentation of the We conducted our work in accordance with the vereidigte Buchprüfer”: “BS WP/vBP”) as well as Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance International Standard on Assurance the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer (“Institute of with the criteria as set out in the G4 Engagements (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): “Assurance Public Auditors in Germany; IDW”): Requirements Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of to quality control for audit firms (“Entwurf Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) (hereafter Historical Financial Information” published by eines IdW Qualitätssicherungsstandards 1 the “GRI-Criteria”) and for the selection of the IAASB. This Standard requires that we plan and „Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in information to be assessed. perform the assurance engagement to obtain der Wirtschaftsprüferpraxis” (IdW EQS 1)”) – limited assurance whether any matters have This responsibility includes the selection and and accordingly maintains a comprehensive come to our attention that cause us to believe application of appropriate methods to prepare system of quality control including documented that the sustainability information marked with the Corporate Responsibility Report as well as policies and procedures regarding compliance “ ” in the Corporate Responsibility Report has the use of assumptions and estimates for with ethical requirements, professional standards not been prepared, in all material respects, in individual sustainability disclosures which are and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. accordance with the GRI-Criteria. reasonable in the circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes designing, In a limited assurance engagement the evidenceimplementing and maintaining systems and gathering procedures are more limited than for a processes relevant for the preparation of the reasonable assurance engagement and therefore Corporate Responsibility Report, which is free of significantly less assurance is obtained than in a material misstatements due to intentional reasonable assurance engagement. The or unintentional errors. procedures selected depend on the practitioner’s judgement. This includes the assessment of Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 66 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 the risks of material misstatements of the Conclusion Restriction on Use and Distribution sustainability information marked with “ ” Based on our limited assurance engagement, We issue this report on the basis of the in the Corporate Responsibility Report with nothing has come to our attention that causes engagement agreed with the Company. The regard to the GRI-Criteria. us to believe that the sustainability information review has been performed for purposes of the Within the scope of our work we performed marked with “ ” in the Corporate Company and is solely intended to inform the amongst others the following procedures: Responsibility Report of the Company for the Company about the results of the review. The period 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 report is not intended for any third parties to n Obtaining an understanding of the structure has not been prepared, in all material respects, base any (financial) decision thereon. We do not of the sustainability organisation and of the in accordance with the GRI-Criteria. assume any responsibility towards third parties. stakeholder engagement n Inquiries of personnel involved in the Emphasis of Matter – preparation of the Corporate Responsibility Recommendations Munich, 10 March 2017 Report regarding the preparation process, the Without qualifying our conclusion above, we underlying internal control system and selected make the following recommendations for sustainability information PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH the further development of the Company’s Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft n Analytical procedures on selected sustainability sustainability management and sustainability information of the Corporate Responsibility reporting: Report n Further development of the reporting n Assessment of the presentation of selected processes as well as the control environment sustainability information in the Corporate based on consistent standards in order Responsibility Report. to ensure stable processes and higher Hendrik Fink ppa. Juliane v. Clausbruch data quality. Wirtschaftsprüfer (German Public Auditor) Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting 67 / SIG Corporate Responsibility Report 2016 Key performance indicators We have begun defining a series of key indicators to measure our performance on our of those we are able to report in 2016. In 2017, we will continue developing appropriate most material issues and additional strategic topics. The table below provides a summary indicators to measure our performance. PW C BY RE D SU MATERIAL ISSUE METRIC 2015 2016 AS Responsible Operational energy use (GWh) 276 309 company Energy rate (MWh/million m of sleeves produced) 2 181 200 Energy rate (% change from 2014 baseline) –4.2 5.8 Scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent) 21.3 29.3 Energy and greenhouse Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions (thousand tonnes CO2 equivalent) 80.7 78.0 gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions rate (tonnes CO2 equivalent/million m2 of sleeves produced) 70 72 Greenhouse gas emissions (% change from 2014 baseline) –11.3 –6.7 Waste rate (tonnes non-product output/million m of sleeves produced) 2 37 35 Waste rate (% change from 2014 baseline) 5.7 0 Lost time cases 23 21 Health and safety Lost time case rate (per 200,000 hours worked) 0.55 0.53 Sustainable engagement score (% favourable responses) – 74 Employee engagement Employee Net Promoter Score (% promoters minus % detractors) – –16 Training and development Training and development investment (average training hours/employee) 28.5 24.8 Labour rights Plants completed SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit – 7 Responsible A-materials from certified sources (% by spend) 27 39 Responsible sourcing sourcing Electricity in production plants from renewable sources (%) 31.2 33.4 Deforestation Packs sold labelled with FSCTM logo (%) 42 56 Ethical supplier standards New suppliers screened using social responsibility criteria (%) – 100 Responsible Sustainable product innovation Impact mitigation potential of innovations related to current standard product See Our packs, page 45. products Recyclability SIG packaging portfolio that is recyclable (%) 100 100 Significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts 100 100 are assessed for improvement (%) Food quality and safety Significant fines for non-compliances (€) – 0 Way Beyond Our Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible About our Good approach company sourcing sourcing products reporting
