CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Contents Our way of working 2 Our stakeholders 5 Financial responsibility 8 Environmental responsibility 9 Social responsibility 10 Our way of working We want to be a best-in-class construction company. We develop our business sustainably over the long term while growing profitably. Together with our customers and partners, we build a sustainable society. The sustainable, long-term growth and development of our • Improving our customer satisfaction company’s business is important for us. As a major player • Ensuring that our suppliers are in conformity with in the construction industry, we take into account both Lemminkäinen Supplier Requirements the direct and indirect impacts of our operations on the • Improving our energy efficiency surrounding community as thoroughly as possible. • Increasing our material efficiency and recycling. The corporate responsibility themes that are the most In 2016, we continued to develop the transparency of our essential for our operations and have the greatest impact on supply chain and the systematic auditing of our suppliers. our result are described in Lemminkäinen’s materiality matrix We updated our Supplier Requirements and we require that was updated in the autumn of 2015. These aspects our suppliers and subcontractors to commit to them. The were determined in employee workshops and by external Supplier Requirements define our operating principles with stakeholder interviews. regard to financial, legal and social as well as environmental and occupational safety responsibility. In the future, we aim to Our corporate responsibility targets monitor our supply chain even more efficiently. Our primary corporate responsibility target is to improve In 2016, we started collecting information about energy sustainable ways of working in all our operations. Corporate consumption throughout the Group. We enhanced the responsibility targets have been derived from the materiality transparency of corporate responsibility activities by matrix. We have long-term targets with KPIs that are closely developing cooperation between our operating countries. linked to our business targets. Short-term targets are derived We will continue to develop and harmonise the collection of from these objectives as a part of annual business planning. information in 2017. Long-term targets: Corporate responsibility management systems • Achieving zero lost-time accidents • Deploying Lemminkäinen-level standards for safety, work Corporate responsibility is the responsibility of the assigned ability management and career planning to ensure life-long member of the Group Executive Team, the Executive Vice work ability President of the Paving business segment. The Group 2 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Materiality matrix High People first Proactive participation in the development of the society Ethical and Value chain transparent way of management running business Importance to stakeholders Leadership according to our values Customer focused and creating sustainable mindset value creation Systematic planning Resource efficiency ensuring foresight capabilities Raising innovation and ambition level Moderate Moderate Current or potential impact on our business High Executive Team jointly decides on corporate responsibility Other Group-level policies and principles supplement the targets. The management of business segments and support people policy and ensure that our personnel is treated equally functions is responsible for taking the targets into account in and fairly and that we promote diversity within Lemminkäinen. annual planning. Progress is followed up as part of business Compliance with these Group-level policies and principles is reporting. managed and monitored within the scope of line operations. Occupational health, occupational safety, quality and Lemminkäinen’s partner and supplier network is expected to environmental issues are included in the management comply with laws, international human rights, labour rights systems of all our business segments. We systematically and environmental regulations, the Code of Conduct and update these management systems that guide our corporate Lemminkäinen’s Supplier Requirements. The Group’s Senior responsibility activities. Vice President, Procurement, is responsible for the partner and supplier network. Mineral aggregates and asphalt plants are CE marked in those countries where legislation so requires. Legal affairs are coordinated at the Group-level in order to promote consistent practices. The General Counsel is Financial responsibility management systems responsible for coordination. Legal affairs related to business operations are handled by the lawyers in business segments. A description of the financial responsibility management Furthermore, additional guidelines about competition law systems can be found in the Corporate Governance and insider issues are provided to complement the Code of Statement. Conduct. Business management is responsible for monitoring compliance with these guidelines, and internal training on Social responsibility management systems them is also provided. Our company has zero tolerance with regard to activities violating competition legislation. Lemminkäinen’s social responsibility management is decentralised. Human resources management is led by the Product responsibility is led by the Executive Vice Presidents Executive Vice President, HR. Our people policy aims to of Lemminkäinen’s business segments. They are responsible ensure that the company has the competent, motivated and for customer service and they ensure that our products and satisfied personnel required by the operational targets. marketing comply with laws and regulations. 3 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Lemminkäinen is committed to the UN Global Compact initiative and, in all of our operating countries, we adhere to the ten generally accepted principles related to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Casimir Lindholm, President and CEO The Code of Conduct guides our operations Our Code of Conduct determines Lemminkäinen’s shared ways of working. We are committed to the fair and equal Our operations are based on our values: treatment of employees. We do not condone any form of • We put people first discrimination, harassment or bullying at work. We monitor • We respect and trust the realisation of equal treatment with our employee survey, • We partner to succeed described in more detail on page 11. In 2016, we set up the Board of Directors’ diversity principles. Our daily operations are guided by our Code of Conduct , which is based on international regulations and agreements. Our Code of Conduct is supplemented by various Group-level The most significant of these are: policies and principles. We do not condone bribery, nor do we • The UN’s Declaration of Human Rights enter into business relationships that could lead to conflicts • The UN Global Compact initiative in the field of corporate of interest. We promote the prevention of the grey economy. responsibility, promoting human rights, labour rights, We require every Lemminkäinen employee to adhere to environmental protection and anti-corruption current legislation and the Group’s internal guidelines at • The ILO’s employment rights and principles all times. Our supervisors are responsible for familiarising • The OECD’s operational guidelines for multinational employees with our working methods and for ensuring companies compliance. • The International Chamber of Commerce’s (ICC) recommendations We encourage all Lemminkäinen employees to report to their supervisors or to the internal audit unit any suspected malpractice or behaviour that does not comply with our Code of Conduct. We use the SpeakUp service where Lemminkäinen employees and our external stakeholders can GENDER DISTRIBUTION 31 DEC 2016, % report any suspected malpractice anonymously. The internal audit unit investigates all reports it receives. In addition, its tasks include conducting regular audits of business operations and reporting its findings to the Board of Directors. In 2016, the internal audit unit launched further Male 87% investigations into 10 cases of suspected malpractice, four Female 13% of which led to further action. In 2016, there was one case that was found to be in violation of the requirement related to equality of employees as per Article 23 of the UN’s Declaration of Human Rights and our Code of Conduct. There were no cases of suspected corruption or bribery during the year. In 2016, Lemminkäinen’s Board of Directors had seven members of which two were women. At the end of 2016, the Group’s Executive Team had seven members of which one were woman. 4 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Our stakeholders We take the expectations of our stakeholders into account when developing our operations and assessing the impacts of our operations. We are involved in constant cooperation with our stakeholders and we monitor its results regularly. In all stakeholder cooperation, we adhere to our Code of We monitor the results of stakeholder Conduct as well as to local and international commitments cooperation and legislation. Our key stakeholders are current and potential customers, current and potential employees, shareholders, In order to develop our operations, we collect customer investors, financiers, partners, opinion leaders and the media. feedback and measure the results of stakeholder cooperation regularly. Our most important Group-wide surveys are: Our business segments have the main responsibility for customer relations and the business segments’ procurement • The net promoter score (NPS) professionals for our partner network. Our Group functions • The employee survey. are responsible for relations with shareholders, investors, financiers, the media, industry associations, decision makers In 2016, we conducted an employee survey that revealed a and authorities. high level of employee satisfaction: on a scale of 1–5 (with 5 indicating highest satisfaction), the overall average grade was We seek continuous dialogue with our key stakeholders. Our 3.99 (3.96). goal is to achieve a better understanding of the expectations, challenges and opportunities related to our business. Based We collect customer feedback regularly when projects are on them, we can assess our development needs. At the same completed. The next Group-wide customer satisfaction time, our stakeholders are provided with information about our survey will be conducted in 2017. operations and operating environment and related challenges and opportunities. In 2016, our stakeholders were particularly interested in the Links: market outlook and the development of both our financial Supplier Requirements situation and our services and customer solutions. www.lemminkainen.com/supplierrequirements We are a significant local employer and buyer of services Corporate Governance Statement and we engage in continuous dialogue with authorities and www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport decision makers. Many of our operations require permits, therefore we actively engage in open cooperation with Code of Conduct authorities. At the planning and launching phase of large www.lemminkainen.com/codeofconduct construction projects, we arrange hearings and town hall meetings for those stakeholders whose daily lives may be SpeakUp service affected by our projects. www.lemminkainen.com/speakup 5 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Our key stakeholders Stakeholder Expectations Actions in 2016 Industry • Continuous development of the industry • Active participation in associations’ work, work groups ­associations • Promoting common interests and projects • Speaking at seminars and events Customers • High-quality, reliable and sustainable solutions • Face-to-face meetings and services • Dialogue at industry trade fairs and other events • Good project management, delivery reliability, • Newsletters and websites transparency, and the right price-quality ratio • Understanding customer needs, customer service Personnel • Developing supervisory work • Developing supervisory work and leadership skills • Motivating remuneration and opportunities for training • Developing remuneration and personal development • Continuous development of occupational safety • Equality and openness within the organisation • Open communications and building an open • Occupational safety and well-being corporate culture • Personnel magazine, intranet, internal newsletters • Employee survey Media • Reliable and up-to-date information about the • Visits by editorial staff company’s operations • Interviews and off-the-record meetings • Open communications culture • Stock exchange and press releases • Easy to contact Shareholders • Increasing return on investment • Shareholder, investor and analyst meetings and investors • Sufficient analysis of the company’s risk management • Interim report briefings and corporate governance • Annual General Meeting • Open and timely information about the company’s • Stock exchange and press releases financial position, profit drivers and outlook • Website • Easy to contact Students • Interesting and challenging tasks • Dialogue with students through cooperation with and job • Comprehensive information about career opportunities educational institutions and recruitment events applicants and about Lemminkäinen as an employer • Summer jobs, trainee positions and opportunities for • Easy access to finding vacancies and applying for them writing theses Local • Communications and opportunities for dialogue about • Town hall meetings ­communities large construction projects and their effects on local • Open and up-to-date communications communities • Site-specific communications to the residents of the surrounding neighbourhood Decision • Compliance with laws and regulations • Dialogue through industry organisations makers and • Transparency and minimising harmful impacts • Meetings with decision makers opinion­­ • Employment • Open, regular reporting ­leaders • Payment of taxes Partners • Safeguarding earnings and growth • Meetings, supplier network development and direct • Opportunities for networking and developing contacts operations • Enabling new business for partners through • Operational reliability and continuity partnerships • Supplier audits • Selecting key suppliers with long-term agreements 6 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 We create value to our stakeholders INPUTS Finances Production Natural resources Human resources Intellectual capital • Equity • Stationary and mobile asphalt plants • Energy • Personnel • Professional • Debt • Building construction and • Mineral aggregates, • Suppliers, expertise ­infrastructure construction sites bitumen, cement and ­subcontractors • Brand and • Machinery and fleet other raw materials and ­other reputation • Mineral aggregates and other stocks • Water ­external ­know• R&D knowledge • Properties and land areas how BUSINESS MODEL Customers • Improving customer insight • Creating added value • Meeting expectations Production Personnel • Standardised management systems • Competent and skilled personnel • Sales, customer service and marketing • From order to delivery • Safe ways of working INTERNATIONAL CONSTRUCTION COMPANY Paving and mineral aggregates Infra projects Building construction Together we build a sustainable society. OUTPUTS CO2 Products and services •C  omplex concrete structures and structural By-products Emissions • Asphalt, paving and maintenance ­tensioning • Re-use of • Air emissions • Roads, bridges, tracks • Commercial and industrial construction asphalt • Impacts on • Earthworks, civil and foundation engineering • Residential construction • Re-use of surroundings: • Underground construction • Renovation ­excavated noise, vibration • Mineral aggregates and excavation • PPP services rock and dust • Environmental engineering • Facilities management and property development • Re-use of soil • Waste IMPACTS Finances Society Environment • Wages and benefits • Direct and indirect employment • Energy-efficient production • Taxes • Occupational health and safety processes and use of machinery • Payments to shareholders • Training and development of personnel • Material efficiency, recycling and and financiers • Our products increase end users’ safety, re-use, e.g. reclaimed asphalt • Purchases from suppliers comfort and convenience in daily life • Aftercare of areas • Industry development in cooperation with other stakeholders 7 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Financial responsibility We provide our customers with solutions for complex infrastructure construction, paving and building construction. We want to be one of the leading experts in the industry and, by utilising our expertise, create added value for our stakeholders in a manner that benefits all parties. In line with our strategy, our target is to improve our We develop our operations and expertise continuously to competitiveness in all business segments and to build a solid ensure the quality and competitiveness of our solutions and foundation to enable profitable growth. By doing this, we can services. ensure that we are a good investment, an attractive employer, a reliable partner and a responsible corporate citizen. Distribution of economic value added to our stakeholder groups All figures are reported as performance-based. Shareholders and Suppliers and partners Personnel ­financiers Society EUR 1,291.4 million EUR 303.1 million EUR 25.0 million EUR 25.0 million (EUR 1,437.1 million) (EUR 294.9 million ) (EUR 28.9 million) (EUR 13.3 million) Direct impact Direct impact Direct impact Direct impact Materials and services Salaries and remuneration Interest and finance costs Gross investments EUR 1,158.9 million EUR 250.4 million EUR 25.0 million EUR 20.8 million (EUR 1,299.6 million) (EUR 245.7 million) (EUR 28.9 million) (EUR 10.3 million) Other operating expenses Other personnel expenses Dividends, Lemminkäinen Income taxes on normal EUR 132.5 million EUR 52.7 million Corporation business operations (EUR 137.5 million) (EUR 49.2 million) EUR 2.8 million EUR 3.6 million (EUR 0.0 million) (EUR 2.7 million) Lemminkäinen’s Board of Taxes of earlier Directors proposes to the financial years Annual General Meeting that a EUR 0.6 million dividend of EUR 0.66 per share, (EUR 0.3 million) i.e. EUR 15,325,134 in total, be paid for the financial year ended on 31 December 2016. 8 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Environmental responsibility In the products and services we offer to our customers, we strive for the highest possible energy and material efficiency. Most of our environmental footprint comes from our paving Most of our energy consumption comes from asphalt and mineral aggregates production. In these sectors, we strive production and paving. In 2016, we developed the monitoring to develop sustainable products and operating methods. and reporting of energy consumption in all of our operating countries. One of our long-term targets is to improve energy We make active efforts to increase the amount of reclaimed efficiency. We will continue to improve the monitoring of asphalt in our production. By recycling old asphalt and turning energy consumption in 2017. it into reclaimed asphalt, we can save mineral aggregates and bitumen, which is an oil-based product used as a binder in In the Finnish business segments, we signed the voluntary asphalt. Moreover, the reduced need for using and transporting Energy Efficiency Agreement for Industries, committing to a mineral aggregates and bitumen also decreases carbon dioxide 7.5% decrease in our energy consumption by 2025. emissions. Our target is that 25% of our raw materials are reclaimed asphalt by 2025. In 2016, we used over one million In 2016, we completed the first phase of S Group’s logistics tonnes of old asphalt in the production of reclaimed asphalt, centre. An application for the BREEAM environmental which was about 15% of raw materials. certification has been submitted for this energy-efficient and low-emission logistics centre in Sipoo, Finland, to be fully We are actively involved in the development of environmental completed in 2018. work in our industry. In 2016, we participated in the development of carbon footprint calculation methods for the In 2016, we made environmental investments of paving industry in Finland, Sweden and Norway. approximately EUR 2 million. These included, for example, investments in machinery for the production of reclaimed During 2016 Lemminkäinen’s carbon footprint project asphalt and also equipment that enables the transition to fuels advanced and we calculated the carbon footprint of asphalt that have less strain on the environment, such as liquefied products in Finland. petroleum gas or biofuel. We also invested in shelters to protect mineral aggregates. The shelters enable to reduce the Using natural resources and energy sparingly moisture content of mineral aggregates and thus decrease the amount of energy required for asphalt production. Our goal is to constantly add to the recycling of raw materials and to utilise waste generated as a by-product of We monitor the environmental impact of our construction projects to an increasing extent. operations In projects in which we cannot utilise all excavated materials, We regularly monitor our environmental impact and constantly we try to find other uses in order to avoid disposing of seek to reduce it by developing our production processes and materials in a landfill. For example, we utilise blasted rock the efficiency of different work phases with regard to machinery from tunnel construction sites as raw material in foundation usage, for example. Compliance with our management systems, engineering and asphalt production. our guidelines and personnel training help us to manage our environmental risks. We minimise the use of clean water on our construction sites by recycling water in work phases where this is possible, For example, we monitor the quality and level of groundwater as flushing water in tunnel drilling, for example. Depending in our mineral aggregate areas. We monitor our environmental on the site, the share of recycled water in the total water impact in large construction projects, such as the Rantaväylä consumption may be significant: at the construction site tunnel project in Tampere, Finland, completed in 2016, during of the Blominmäki wastewater treatment plant in Espoo, which the quality of air and water, among other things, was Finland, for instance, it was approximately 60%. observed, with up-to-date information available on the project website. 9 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Mineral aggregates are an important raw material for noise and protection barriers and stable and impermeable our operations, and we have approximately 300 mineral support areas. We carry out excavation work in a manner that aggregate areas within our operating countries. Our mineral minimises dust. For disused areas, we make an after-care aggregates and paving business operations are regulated not plan in which we take into account nature, the landscape, only by acts and decrees but also by environmental and land groundwater and the area’s land use plan. extraction permits. During the reporting year, we did not launch any projects that We aim to reduce the impact of our mineral aggregate require a separate environmental impact assessment (EIA). areas on the surroundings with various measures, including Social responsibility We want to offer our employees and subcontractors safe and comfortable working conditions with opportunities for the personnel’s competence development. Our social responsibility focuses on occupational safety. We We prevent accidents want to ensure that our employees and subcontractors get home healthy at the end of the day. We constantly work to reach We invest in the prevention of workplace accidents and train our long-term target of zero accidents. our personnel in occupational safety issues. Comprehensive safety training reduces accident risk and helps Lemminkäinen In 2016, our personnel’s lost time accident rate was 8.6 employees incorporate safety awareness into their daily (accidents per one million working hours). The figures do not work. With construction site induction training, we ensure include accidents during commuting nor occupational diseases. that both our own employees and subcontractors know the In 2017, we want to ensure that our lost time accident rate safety practices of the site. Personal protective equipment again takes a downward turn in all of our business operations, is mandatory at all of our construction sites, also for our and we have prepared business-specific action plans to subcontractors. support this target. We conduct regular safety inspections at construction sites, Personnel training, our guidelines and follow up of safety analysing the risks of the site as well as determine appropriate observations help us control our risks related to occupational occupational safety measures. safety. In addition, we share best practices to prevent accidents. Safety communications and a continuous safety-related dialogue are key elements in safe working practices. In developing occupational safety, we cooperate with other Mandatory weekly site meetings in which we discuss topical industry operators. We are actively involved in promoting safety issues together with employees and subcontractors are occupational safety work in the construction industry. an important channel in our safety communications. The Group Executive Team, the business segment We encourage our employees to make safety observations. management teams and the Board of Directors regularly We rectify the deficiencies observed to prevent future monitor the development of the lost time accident rate. In accidents. The monitoring of the content and number of 2016, we organised Safety Weeks in all of our business observations helps us to direct our safety efforts appropriately. segments and operating countries. During the Safety Weeks, members of management made site visits, during which We investigate each serious accident thoroughly. We occupational safety issues were discussed. examine the root causes of the accident and determine ways of working that could have prevented the accident. We Read more about our occupational safety activities from also share information about accidents to prevent similar our web pages. accidents from occurring in the future. 10 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 Support for occupational well-being and All in all, our results are higher than those of similar health companies engaging in production work. The response rate was excellent, with as many as 81% (65%) of employees Working at a construction site is physically demanding and responding. seasonal. Seasonality may also increase the amount of overtime work. Physically burdening work may expose the Target setting and performance discussions are an important employee to work-related diseases and injuries, which may leadership and management tool for us. Their goal is to clarify increase the risk of early retirement. We take the risks of the role of each Lemminkäinen employee in achieving the physical and seasonal work into account in our occupational company’s targets. In 2016, based on feedback from the safety planning. We want to ensure our personnel’s wellpersonnel, we started using a simplified and streamlined being at work and support maintaining their health. discussion model which has been received well. Our personnel has access to occupational health and We develop competencies well-being services which are organised according to the legislation and practices of the operating countries. We continued project management training sessions that were launched in 2015. They focus especially on the Employee satisfaction at a high level most critical project management issues and procedures. In addition, we trained our personnel on financial matters We monitor the development and realisation of personnel and ensured that we have the qualifications required in the satisfaction as a part of annual business planning. At the industry by providing qualification training to construction site same time, we also survey the personnel’s experiences of personnel. equal treatment. In 2016, we conducted an employee survey that revealed a high level of employee satisfaction: on a scale We have trained more than 250 experts and management of 1–5, the overall average grade was 3.99 (3.96). members from different countries to have basic Lean Six Sigma (LSS) skills. LSS is an approach that is based on The respondents gave high marks for team spirit as well as decreasing the variance, errors and deviations in processes the customer experience: we feel that our customers receive systematically by streamlining the processes. We utilise LSS good service from us. Commitment to the employer is strong to develop new ways of working that help us improve our and we are happy to come to work. operational efficiency. Areas where improvement is needed include improving joint LSS training has yielded good results: we have managed cooperation at the overall company level and clarifying how to accelerate the completion of our pilot projects, reduce individual Lemminkäinen employees can develop themselves our cost level and increase labour productivity in individual as well as the organisation as a whole. functions even by more than 50%. In 2017, we will continue LSS training and expand it as a part of our efforts to improve our operational efficiency. 11 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016 LEMMINKÄINEN CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 2016 PERSONNEL BY COUNTRY 31 DEC 2016, % PERSONNEL BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE AND EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, PERSONS 31 Dec 2016 31 Dec 2015 Finland 55% Permanent 3,820 3,653 Sweden 4% Norway 11% Temporary 424 406 Denmark 5% Russia 10% The Baltic countries 15% Full-time 4,117 3,937 Part-time 127 122 Personnel 31 Dec 2016: 4,244 (2015: 4,059). LOST TIME ACCIDENT RATE AGE DISTRIBUTION 31 DEC 2016, PERSONS 12 2,500 10 10.5 2,000 2,060 8 8.6 1,500 6.9 7.2 1,539 6 1,000 4 2 500 645 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 under 30 30–50 over 50 Lost time accident rate: the number of accidents resulting in an absence of more than one day per one million working hours. Includes own personnel. The figure does not include accidents during commuting or occupational diseases. 12 www.lemminkainen.com/annualreport2016
