KIRIN REPORT 2016 READY FOR A LEAP Toward Sustainable Growth through KIRIN’s CSV Kirin Holdings Company, Limited CONTENTS COVER STOR Y OUR VISION & STRENGTH  2 What is Kirin? OUR LEADERSHIP  4 This section introduces the Kirin Group’s OUR NEW DEVELOPMENTS  6 strengths, the fruits of the Group’s value creation efforts, and the essence of the Group’s results OUR ACHIEVEMENTS and CHALLENGES to OVERCOME  8 and issues in an easy-to-understand manner. Our Value Creation Process  10 Financial and Non-Financial Highlights  12 P. 2 SECTION 1 To Our Stakeholders  14 Kirin’s Philosophy and TOPICS: Initiatives for Creating Value in the Future  24 Strategies Long-Term Management Vision and Medium-Term Business Plan  26 This section explains the Kirin Group’s operating environment and the Group’s visions and strateCSV Commitment  28 gies for sustained growth in that environment. CFO’s Message  32 Overview of the Kirin Group’s Business  34 P. 14 SECTION 2 Advantages of the Foundation as Demonstrated by Examples of Value Creation Kirin’s Foundation Revitalizing the Beer Market for Value Creation 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori  A Better Green Tea 36 This section explains Kirin’s three foundations, Renewing Nama-cha to Restore Its Popularity  38 which represent Group assets, and provides Next Step to Capture Overseas Market Growth examples of those foundations. Myanmar Brewery Limited  40 Marketing  42 P. 36 Research & Development  Supply Chain  44 46 SECTION 3 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact  48 Kirin’s ESG ESG Initiatives  49 This section introduces ESG activities, Human Resources including the corporate governance that —Valuable Resource Supporting Sustained Growth  50 supports value creation. Corporate Governance Interview with an Outside Director  54 Basic View on Corporate Governance  56 Key Points of Corporate Governance  57 48 Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members  62 P. SECTION 4 Kirin’s History of Progress  66 Kirin’s Businesses At a Glance  68 This section introduces the fiscal 2016 Japan Integrated Beverages Business  70 results and the fiscal 2017 strategies for Overseas Integrated Beverages Business  74 the business segments. Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses  77 P. 66 Financial Information  78 Editorial Policy Main Financial Data over the Past 11 Years  78 This report provides comprehensive explanations Management’s Discussion and Analysis  80 of the Kirin Group’s corporate value in terms of both financial value and non-financial value. Group Companies  84 The editing of this report was conducted with the aim of presenting the Group’s vision for Investor Information  86 moving from revitalization to sustained growth by leveraging the Group’s strengths to create new value, centered on the needs of consumers and society. Precautionary Note regarding Forward-Looking Statements In this report, statements that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on future prospects and plans. These forward-looking statements include such ­factors as risk and uncertainty, and as a result, actual results and performance could differ from these statements. In addition, the forecasts for the fiscal year ending December 2017 are as of the announcement made on February 13, 2017. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 1 COVER STOR Y What is Kirin? OUR VISION & STRENGTH The Kirin Difference The Kirin Group was founded in 1907. At that time, Japanese consumers were not familiar with beer, and the Group created a new lifestyle and tradition by providing consumers with beer products. The Kirin Group subsequently broadened its business fields to include alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic beverages, and foods as well as advanced pharmaceuticals that leveraged beer fermentation technologies and biotechnologies. Moreover, the Group expanded its geographic presence from Japan to global markets. Throughout this process of growth, the Kirin Group has emphasized the creation of health and comfort in our lives and has worked together with consumers toward a brighter future. To that end, we have drawn on technology to maintain a steady focus on quality in the manufacturing of products in the fields of “food and well-being.” This is Kirin’s philosophy. Supported by this philosophy, we have taken on the challenge of continually creating new value while addressing changes in the competitive environment. In this way, the Group has developed distinctive strengths. These strengths include R&D centered on fermentation technologies and biotechnologies, supply chains that foster the efficient realization of high-quality products and services, and marketing that reflects deep insight into the needs of consumers. These strengths work in an organic manner to provide a solid foundation that supports sustained growth for the Kirin Group. 2 KIRIN REPORT 2016 OUR VISION & STRENGTH Taking on the Challenge of Deploying Unique Strengths to Create Value In the three fields of taste and quality, health and well-being, and the environment, we aim to create new value that will lead to better products and services. In accordance with the concept of a consumer-first approach, we strive R&D to innovate and to deliver new products R&D centered on fermentation and services. technologies and biotechnologies PP44 – 45 Marketing Supply chains Marketing that reflects deep insight Supply chains that foster the efficient into the needs of consumers realization of high-quality products and services PP42 – 43 PP46 – 47 By building a strong foundation for supply chain management that will support the realization of high quality and low costs, the entire Group works together to provide diverse products and services. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 3 COVER STOR Y What is Kirin? OUR LEADERSHIP Kirin — Leading the Way Forward The Kirin Group has forged ahead of other companies in a number of areas. These include genuine flavor that addressed latent consumer demand and functional beverages that anticipated health consciousness, as well as pharmaceuticals, where we help patients suffering from diseases for which there are currently no adequate treatments. We do not pursue market needs that have already emerged in the same way as our competitors. Rather, our approach is to leverage our unique competitive advantages to create new value for our consumers. The Kirin Group has consistently implemented this approach. We strive to create new markets and technologies through innovation and to take the lead in fostering cultural advances that lead the times. In this way, we work together with consumers to nurture product and corporate brands that earn the enduring support of consumers. This unique approach is the pride of the Kirin Group and has become the driving force that further strengthens the Group’s value creation foundation. 4 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Luxurious flavor Leading the made with a RTD market with first-press wort Kirin’s quality brewing process made of “not-fromconcentrate” fruit juice and vodka Kirin Ichiban Shibori Kirin Hyoketsu® OUR LEADERSHIP Creating New Markets and Consumer Culture Delicious and reasonLeading the market ably priced for craft beers Creating a in Australia new category by reducing carbohydrate Tanrei Platinum Double (left) James Squire Tanrei Green Label (right) Global standard for Authentic black tea an anemia-relieving beverage that can treatment for renal be readily enjoyed anemia in a PET bottle Striving to contribute to improvement in the quality of life of patients NESP ® Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 5 COVER STOR Y What is Kirin? OUR NEW DEVELOPMENTS Kirin’s New Initiatives Targeting sustained growth over the long term, the Kirin Group is taking on a new challenge—creating shared value (CSV).* It has been more than 100 years since the founding of the Kirin Group, and today society faces a range of increasingly serious issues, such as health problems, rising healthcare costs, an aging society, the disintegration of bonds between people, economic disparity, global warming, and the increasingly serious destruction of the natural environment. The Kirin Group believes that working to help resolve these social issues through its business activities will contribute to the happiness of consumers. Initiatives that draw on the Group’s strengths to address social issues change our way of thinking and foster innovation, thereby enhancing organizational capabilities and continuously generating value for consumers. The Kirin Group regards this as corporate management itself. We advance investment in growth markets with a clarified strategic focus. Moving forward, we will work to establish a presence in the craft beer market, strengthen our beer operations in Myanmar and other Southeast Asian markets, and advance global initiatives in the Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses. * Creating Shared Value. The aim of CSV is to realize improvements in corporate value based on both “social value creation” and “economic value creation” through addressing social issues. 6 KIRIN REPORT 2016 OUR NEW DEVELOPMENTS Accelerating CSV 01 Competitive Advantage in Craft Beer Unique flavor Providing new ways of enjoying beer 02 Moving first to implement business development initiatives and establish Expansion into solid positions in new, Southeast Asian Markets high-growth markets 03 Global Business Contributing to the health Development in the Pharmaceuticals and lifestyles of consumers and Bio-chemicals by launching innovative Businesses new products KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 7 COVER STOR Y What is Kirin? OUR ACHIEVEMENTS and CHALLENGES to OVERCOME Kirin’s Progress and Future Challenges We got off to a strong start in the first year of the Kirin Group 2016–2018 Medium-Term Business Plan (2016 MTBP), with results that exceeded the plan’s targets. We made progress with measures to reform the profit structure for businesses with declining profitability, such as our non-alcoholic beverages business in Japan, our business in Brazil, and our Dairy and Drinks business in Australia. In addition, our initiatives to foster growth led by the creation of value have started to show favorable results. However, in the domestic beer business, the decline in sales volume in the happo-shu (low-malt beer) and new genre categories has become an important challenge. Furthermore, profits in the Beer, Spirits, and Wine business in Australia will decline due to the loss of a brand distribution license. We are taking these challenges seriously, and moving forward we will implement countermeasures in an appropriate yet rapid manner. In the future, we will continue to advance structural reforms to increase the profitability of low-profit businesses. Moreover, in the high-profitability beer businesses, we will work to strengthen the profit foundation by further enhancing the appeal of our products and services and expanding our operations. 8 KIRIN REPORT 2016 OUR ACHIEVEMENTS and CHALLENGES to OVERCOME Raising Our Sights and Aiming for Further Growth ACHIEVEMENTS CHALLENGES Sustained gains in corporate value: Kirin Group The next challenge on the path consolidated results to achieving our objectives Steady progress is being made improving profits (¥ Billion) 250 (%) 7.5 1 7.0% 6.8% Further invest, strengthen, and grow profit base in beer businesses 6.3% Accelerating the creation of customer value that addresses the diversification/individualization of 200 6.0 preferences, such as in the expansion of craft beer 5.7% F  urther reinforcing our business foundation in Southeast Asia 5.2% 153.0 150 142.8 141.8 4.5 2 124.7 Continuing to implement structural 114.5 reforms in low-profit businesses 100 3.0 3 Implementing steady launches of major new products and global business 50 1.5 initiatives in the Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses 0 0.0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 FY Operating income (left) Ratio of operating income to sales (right) KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 9 COVE R STORY What is Kirin? OUR VALUE The Kirin Group’s Value Creation CREATION In accordance with the needs of customers and society, the Kirin Group is implementing global business development initiatives in the Alcoholic Beverages, Non-alcoholic Beverages, and PharmaPROCESS ceuticals and Bio-chemicals businesses. In each business, through products and services that leverage the strengths of the value creation foundation to offer diverse added value, we will realize CSV (“creating shared value” based on the creation of both social value and economic value) and work to address the needs of all stakeholders. KIRIN’S UNIQUE VALUE CREATION ASSETS OUTPUT Unique business portfolio Global business development BRAND Alcoholic Long-selling brands, Pharmaceuticals such as Kirin Ichiban Shibori Beverages and and and Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha Non-alcoholic Bio-chemicals Beverages “Needs of consumers and society” Businesses Businesses INNOVATION Innovative production Strengths of our value creation foundation of biopharmaceuticals, beverages with new value R&D Marketing Supply chain EXPERIENCE Experiences that foster surprise and discovery Open and accommodating organization / among consumers human resources Highly effective corporate governance 10 KIRIN REPORT 2016 The Kirin Group Sustained growth Stakeholders OUTCOME VALUE PROVISION Consumers Happiness of consumers Social value Shareholders and Promotion of health and well-being Investors Environmental impact reduction Regional revitalization Employees Dual pursuit Contribution Business Partners Economic value Sustained growth in ROE / EPS Bolstering our balance sheet Communities Strengthening “invisible assets” The Environment KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 11 COVE R STORY What is Kirin? Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Financial Highlights (Fiscal 2016 Results) ROE before Amortization of Goodwill, etc. Normalized EPS Consolidated Operating Income 21.9% ¥ 125 (+6.8%) ¥ 141.8 billion Net Profit Margin*1 Normalized Net Income Consolidated Operating Profit Margin*2 7.5% ¥ 113.8 billion 9.6% Increase ROE by improving Grow EPS through increased Group Deploy concrete strategies based on busithe net profit margin profitability ness positioning to target operating income *1 Margin of sales (before amortization of goodwill, etc., increases of ¥10.0 billion in beer businesses and including Japanese liquor taxes) and ¥20.0 billion in low-profit businesses *2 Margin of sales (before amortization of goodwill, etc., and excluding Japanese liquor taxes) (%) (Yen) (¥ Billion) (¥ Billion) (%) 25 150 150 200 16 20 150 12 15 100 100 10 100 8 5 50 50 50 4 0 –5 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ROE before amortization of goodwill, etc. Normalized EPS Consolidated operating income Net profit margin Normalized net income Consolidated operating profit margin Cash Flows from Operating Activities Consolidated Dividend Payout Ratio (Normalized EPS) Net Interest-Bearing Debt*3 ¥ 226.4 billion 31.2% ¥ 589.6 billion Cash Flows from Investing Activities Shareholder Returns (Total Dividends) Net Debt-Equity Ratio ¥ (77.5) billion ¥ 43.1 billion 0.87 times Free Cash Flow Dividends per Share ¥ 148.9 billion ¥ 39 Steadily expand cash flows through Issue stable shareholder returns by targeting Steadily pay off debt to improve clearly prioritized resource allocations a consolidated dividend payout ratio of more financial flexibility and improved business profitability than 30% of normalized EPS *3 Interest-bearing debt – Cash and time deposits – Deposits received, etc. (¥ Billion) (¥ Billion) (Yen) (¥ Billion) (Times) 400 50 50 1,000 1.2 32.2% 32.5% 31.2% 29.5% 300 40 40 750 0.9 24.8% 200 30 30 100 500 0.6 20 20 0 250 0.3 10 10 –100 –200 0 0 0 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Cash flows from operating activities Shareholder returns (total dividends) Net interest-bearing debt Cash flows from investing activities Dividends per share Net debt-equity ratio Free cash flow Consolidated dividend payout ratio (Normalized EPS) 12 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Non-Financial Highlights Water Usage Amounts CO2 Emissions Total Work Hours per Employee*4 86,625,000 m 3 1,134,000 t 1,896.5 hours Water is a vital resource. Aiming to ensure The Company is implementing initiatives In fiscal 2016, the total number of hours this resource can be used indefinitely, we are aimed at limiting the amount of CO2 emitted worked by employees in Japan was relatively promoting proper water use in all regions of across our value chain to within the amount unchanged year on year. Beginning in 2017, operation based on the issues faced therein. capable of being absorbed by the earth. In we will be deploying systems and measures Accordingly, we seek to maintain an underaddition to our conventional energy-saving that let employees work in flexible ways as standing of the water risks associated with our activities, we are also stepping up other part of our efforts to practice health and production sites and the regions that produce initiatives, such as expanding our use of productivity management. the resources we use to advance ongoing renewable energy. water conservation and preservation activities. (1,000 m3)(m3/Million yen) (1,000 t) (t/Million yen) (Total work hours/Employee) 100,000 50 1,500 0.6 2,000 80,000 40 1,900 1,000 0.4 60,000 30 1,800 40,000 20 500 0.2 1,700 20,000 10 0 0 0 0.0 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 2016 Water usage amounts CO2 emissions Water usage intensity (per unit of sales) CO2 emissions intensity (per unit of sales) Ratio of Female Managers*5 Accidents That Result in Lost Work Days Number of Regional Employees 13.1% per Million Work Hours*5 39,733 people 5.77 accidents Through systematic development and Occupational accidents have been decreasThe distribution of employees by region has assignments based on “Promoting Active ing since occupational health and safety remained relatively unchanged over the past Participation by Women” (KWN2021), Kirin ­initiatives were reinforced overseas. several years. Company has developed women’s careers in such positions as executive officer, president of Group companies in Japan and overseas, general manager, and plant manager. At Kyowa Hakko Kirin, meanwhile, the ratio of managers that are women has risen to 7.1%. (%) (Accidents/Million work hours) (Employees) 30 10 50,000 8 40,000 20 6 30,000 4 20,000 10 2 10,000 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Entire Group Japan Overseas Entire Group Japan Overseas Japan Oceania Brazil Others *4 Scope: (Japan) Kirin Holdings, Japan Integrated Beverages Business (Kirin, Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, Mercian), Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group *5 Scope: ( Japan) Kirin Holdings, Japan Integrated Beverages Business (Kirin, Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, Mercian), Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group; (Overseas) Lion, Brasil Kirin KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 13 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies To Our Stakeholders Yoshinori Isozaki President & CEO of Kirin Holdings 14 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies The Kirin Group will draw on its unique strengths to create value together with society and to achieve sustained growth. In 2016, the first year of the 2016–2018 Medium-Term Business Plan (2016 MTBP), we achieved profits that substantially exceeded the guidance given at the beginning of the year. Our measures to restructure low-profit businesses are making progress at a faster pace than expected, and in addition we have gotten off to a favorable start in addressing the issue of leveraging the Kirin Group’s strengths to create new value. However, the Kirin Group has just begun to address the issues that it faces. Accordingly, we will continue to move ahead with structural reforms and establish a strong profit base. Moreover, we have positioned “health and well-being,” “community engagement,” and “the environment,” which are closely related to the Group’s core businesses, as priority social issues over the medium to long term. On that basis, we will further accelerate innovation and advance management with a commitment to the realization of social value and economic value. As the Kirin Group’s CEO, I will focus on results and work to achieve gains each year to enhance corporate value. In this way, I will strive to ensure that the Kirin Group continues to earn the trust of its stakeholders. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 15 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies To Our Stakeholders 01 Kirin’s Management Environment, Vision, and Strategies Integrated Beverages Business  a wide range of manufacturing based on the fermentation technologies and biotechnologies that are a shared foundation Addressing the Current Changes in the Operating of the Group’s businesses; a supply chain that delivers diverse Environment, with a Focus on Value Creation products and services to consumers in an efficient, high-quality The Kirin Group’s Integrated Beverages Business faces two manner; and marketing that leverages deep insight into the major trends in the external environment. The first is a ceiling needs of individual consumers and drives innovation. By cooron market growth due to such factors as aging populations dinating the utilization of these strengths in a more organic and declining birthrates, especially in industrially developed manner, I believe that we can create new value that addresses countries. In this setting, global companies have led industry the diversifying preferences of individual consumers and reorganizations on a worldwide scale. The second trend is the increase the profitability of our existing businesses. diversification/individualization of consumer preferences due Moreover, this value creation foundation also supports synerto changes in lifestyles. As a result of this trend, it has become gies with our initiatives to advance into new markets. Myanmar difficult for brands to maintain their market presence, even for Brewery became a member of the Kirin Group in 2015, and in large global brands. the process of integrating this company into the Group we have In this environment, I believe that simply pursuing share in fully leveraged our production technologies and marketing markets that have limited growth potential will not contribute to capabilities. The Group’s experience and knowledge will also gains in the corporate value of the Kirin Group. Instead, we will be useful in such areas as increasing production capacity and choose a path of targeting sustained growth by leveraging the bolstering our sales capabilities, which will be necessary to strengths of our value chain to create new value for consumers. address future market growth. The cumulative effect of these synergies will be a major asset in expanding our beer operations Kirin Group Strengths: Supporting Sustained Growth in Southeast Asia, a growth market. through New Value Creation *1 Ready-to-Drink. RTD liquors are packaged low-alcohol beverages sold in a prepared “ready-to-drink” form. The Kirin Group has successfully addressed the changes in its competitive environment by continually providing new value to consumers. We have created brands that, together with consumers, have created new facets of consumer culture and Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses  become long-selling brands. These include Kirin Ichiban Shibori, the world’s first beer to be made with only first-press wort; Kirin Globalizing and Strengthening New Product Gogo-no-Kocha, which opened up a new market for authentic Development Capabilities black tea beverages in PET bottles; and Kirin Hyoketsu ®, The strengths of the Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals which leveraged an innovative concept to rapidly expand the ­Businesses, which are two of the Kirin Group’s core businesses, RTD* market. In addition, the fermentation technologies and 1 include therapeutic antibodies and other biopharmaceuticals. biotechnologies that we have cultivated through the brewing of Biopharmaceuticals are expected to offer limited side effects beer have enabled us to develop biopharmaceuticals, establish and high levels of effectiveness against diseases for which a production system that achieves stable quality, and build the existing treatments have not been satisfactory, such as cancer Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses into two of the and autoimmune diseases. On the other hand, measures to Group’s core businesses. control healthcare expenditures have led to the growing use of Through this type of value creation, we have built a value generics and to large-scale drug price reductions, especially in chain that has unique strengths that are not found in other Japan. As a result, growth in pharmaceutical markets is slugcompanies. This value chain includes R&D that facilitates gish. To achieve continued growth over the long term in this 16 KIRIN REPORT 2016 environment, we will need to further strengthen our global competitiveness and new product development capabilities. Focusing on Launching Global Strategic Products and Enhancing Our Portfolio in New Fields from a Long-Term Viewpoint Kyowa Hakko Kirin, which is responsible for the Kirin Group’s pharmaceutical operations, has world-class technical capabilities in the field of therapeutic antibody R&D, such as POTELLIGENT® there has been an increase in serious social issues, such as technology and human antibody production technology. To lifestyle-induced diseases and global warming. In this setting, realize outstanding growth by 2020, Kyowa Hakko Kirin will the role of companies in contributing to the resolution of those need to fully utilize these technologies to rapidly launch global issues is drawing considerable attention. Moreover, there are strategic products in Europe and the United States. In addition, changes in the value that consumers seek from companies utilizing cutting-edge R&D capabilities cultivated in fields other and their products and services, especially in mature markets; than therapeutic antibodies, Kyowa Hakko Kirin will move they are increasingly making purchase decisions based not forward with the establishment of a promising pipeline in only on superior functionality and appealing design but also next-generation fields that offer substantial potential, such as on usefulness in improving society. nucleic acid drugs and regenerative therapeutics. Kyowa In 2012, Kirin moved quickly to introduce the concept of Hakko Kirin’s five-year mid-term business plan commenced CSV, and since that time, we have achieved a series of successin 2016, and the period covered by the first half of the plan ful CSV initiatives in each business. Through the formulation of has been positioned as an investment phase in preparation for “Our CSV Commitment,” we have laid the foundation for further the company’s leaping forward phase. On that basis, priority progress in addressing these issues and clarified the direction will be given to aggressive development investment rather than that the Kirin Group will take in the future. Through this comshort-term profits. mitment, the Group has selected the following as priority social issues that have a particularly close connection to the Group’s businesses: “health and well-being,” “community engagement,” Aiming to Be a Company That Records Sustained Growth and “the environment.” We have announced how our busiTogether with Society  nesses will contribute to the resolution of these issues, including approaches and results indicators. Kirin will solicit opinions Kirin’s business portfolio, which includes the Integrated Beverfrom inside and outside the Group and strive to foster innovaages Business and the Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals tion that transcends the boundaries of the Integrated Beverages Businesses, is one of the Group’s major distinctive strengths. and Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals businesses, thereby Moving forward, the Group will strive to fully leverage this further bolstering our value creation foundation. strength in order to continue to create new value and achieve sustained growth. To that end, creating shared value (CSV)— The Kirin Group aims to achieve the creation of both social i.e., creating value that is shared with society*2—is a strategic value and economic value, and to record sustained growth framework that provides the foundation for Group management together with society. and supports the utilization and reinforcement of the value *2 Creating Shared Value. The aim of CSV is to realize improvements in corporate value based on both “social value creation” and “economic value creation” through ­creation framework discussed above. addressing social issues. Accompanying several decades of global economic growth, KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 17 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies To Our Stakeholders 02 Progress with the Medium-Term Business Plan Implementing Structural Reforms to Improve re-branding of Kirin Nama-cha through a complete renewal, Profitability which led to a substantially enhanced presence in the green Looking at the Kirin Group’s consolidated results in fiscal 2016, tea market by addressing consumer needs in the areas of our operating income and net income*1 both exceeded the iniflavor and bottle design. As a result, we generated a favorable tial planned levels. To achieve sustained increases in corporate cycle of growing sales of small containers, which offer high value, we determined that we needed to improve profitability, profits; efficient control of sales promotion expenses thanks to which had declined, and to revitalize businesses. To that end, Nama-cha becoming a staple item in stores; and improvement we implemented structural reforms quickly, and I believe that in the in-house manufacturing ratio. In this way, Kirin Beverage those initiatives have generated results. recorded substantial gains in profitability. *1 Net income attributable to owners of the parent Brasil Kirin Achieving Revitalization at a Pace Exceeding Plans; Deciding Major Progress in Restructuring and Revitalizing to Sell the Business Low-Profit Businesses With the market contracting due to sluggish economic condiThe Kirin Group has included both comparatively high-profit tions, we rigorously implemented a detailed product strategy by businesses, such as Kirin Brewery, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, and region, and in 2016 we succeeded in restoring sales volume to Lion, as well as low-profit businesses, such as Kirin Beverage positive growth. Furthermore, we successfully reduced costs and Brasil Kirin. The damaging effect of the latter businesses by improving the management efficiency of our own distribuon the Group’s overall corporate value became a major issue tion system and the use of our supply chain, as well as selling for the Group. Since I became president in March 2015, we one plant to optimize production sites. In these ways, we have implemented policies of bolstering the domestic beer advanced the revitalization initiatives at a pace that exceeded business and not accepting low profits at businesses with our plans. However, in consideration of the uncertain future of ­profitability issues. the political, economic, and social situation in Brazil, as well as the competitive environment, it will be difficult for Brasil Kirin Kirin Beverage to achieve sustained growth operating on its own. We comSolid Results in Targeting Profit Growth pared a number of options, including independent restructurAiming to nurture a brand to follow Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha, ing, and as a result we decided that the transfer of the which has earned a dominant share in the black tea category, business at this time was the best solution for the stakeholders we took steps to strengthen our positioning in the categories of of both the Kirin Group and Brasil Kirin. In February 2017, we sugar-free teas, coffee, and carbonated beverages, which resolved to transfer all the shares in Brasil Kirin to Bavaria S.A., account for a large share of the market. One success was the a subsidiary of Heineken International B.V. Fiscal 2017 Annual Plan of Low-Profit Businesses Progress made toward increasing operating income by ¥20.0 billion 2 Fiscal 2016 (Results)* Fiscal 2017 (Plan) Total for 2016–2017 (Plan) ¥ 11.9 billion ¥ 6.1 billion ¥ 18.0 billion *2 Excluding the ¥4.6 billion impact due to the change in depreciation method 18 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Off to a Good Start with New Value Creation, Targeting a To meet consumer needs for true flavors and individual tastes, Stronger Profit Base in Beer Businesses Lion has acquired craft beer companies in Australia and As with low-profit businesses, we have also pursued cost effiNew Zealand, thereby strengthening its base for future ciency in high-profit beer businesses. Targeting the Groupwide ­business growth. cost cut initiative of ¥30.0 billion in the 2016 MTBP, we are making progress at a pace that exceeds our plans. Supported Myanmar Brewery by these initiatives, we have taken steps to advance new value We have made favorable progress in integrating Myanmar creation, targeting growth in our beer businesses over the Brewery into the Group, following its acquisition. One challenge medium to long term, and we are already starting to see the we faced was efficiently establishing a system for increasing results of these initiatives. production to address the rise in demand accompanying economic growth. To that end, we are successfully transferring 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori Kirin’s know-how in the area of efficient production. In addition, The domestic beer market continues to contract, but nonethein response to rapid gains in the standard of living, another less 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori has become a major hit, challenge was rapidly enhancing the lineup of products other with annual shipments of 2.7 million cases, more than double than existing national brands. To address this, we quickly the initial target. This success is attributable to innovative marlaunched such brands as KIRIN ICHIBAN and Myanmar keting that addresses the preferences of consumers in each Premium, leveraging synergies with Kirin once again, thereby region while leveraging the presence of Ichiban Shibori as a building a strong brand portfolio that covers each price range. national brand. This project—which offers different tastes and characteristics for each prefecture in Japan—was made possible by our strengths in marketing, R&D, and supply chain Expanding Global Business to Realize Outstanding Growth management. Moreover, it has contributed to the revitalization in Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals of local regions while providing new value to consumers. These We are making favorable progress in the development of global comprehensive activities have been highly evaluated, and 47 strategic products. In particular, KRN23 was granted breakTodofuken no Ichiban Shibori received the 2016 Japan Marthrough therapy designation by the Food and Drug Administration keting Award. We are making steady progress in realizing the (FDA) in the United States in June 2016, and the European Kirin Group’s vision and strategies—to leverage our fundamenMedicines Agency (EMA) accepted for review the Marketing tal strengths to target the creation of value and the achieveAuthorisation Application (MAA) for KRN23 at the end of 2016. ment of sustained growth together with society. Craft Beer In Japan, to drive further growth in the craft beer market, we are taking steps to nurture our in-house brands and are working in cooperation with YO-HO BREWING COMPANY. In addition, we have also commenced a capital and business partnership agreement with the Brooklyn Brewery Corporation. Targeting the revitalization of the beer market, we will strive to expand Japan’s original beer culture through craft beer. In Australia, our subsidiary Lion continues to record favorable sales of such products as James Squire and Little Creatures. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 19 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies To Our Stakeholders 03 Issues and Future Initiatives Accelerating Structural Reforms and Achieving propose products with diverse added value, and accordingly it Profitable Growth will represent a major opportunity for Kirin Brewery. Through The Group’s profitability increased substantially in comparison such initiatives as “Tap Marché,” a new service for restaurants, with fiscal 2015, but we still have considerable room for further we will provide increased opportunities for consumers to expereforms. I believe that we must continue to accelerate the pace rience craft beer. Moreover, to break away from excessive comof structural reforms with an aggressive approach. petition, we will take the lead in controlling sales promotion At Kirin Beverage, targeting the realization of profitable expenditures. growth, we will further advance initiatives with a focus on the At Lion, we face the challenge of how to overcome the effect two key factors of brand strengthening and profit structure of the decline in sales resulting from the termination of the reform. In fiscal 2016, we achieved an operating profit margin license agreement for the sale of Corona and other imported of 4.9%, above the planned level, and moving forward we aim beers. However, over the medium to long term, I believe this to build an even stronger profit foundation. Targeting a robust transition will work as a positive factor since it enables us to brand system, we will follow up Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha and Kirin focus on nurturing in-house brands. Also, to focus resources Nama-cha with a focus on Kirin FIRE in the coffee category, on the core beer business, we transferred the low-profit wine and we will strive to nurture these products into long-selling business in Australia. Moving forward, we will further increase brands. However, in aiming for a double-digit operating profit the value of core brands, such as XXXX Gold, and accelerate margin comparable to global peers, there are limits to what we initiatives to fully leverage our fields of strength, such as craft can accomplish through our own initiatives. Targeting reforms beer, which is enjoying growing popularity. of the cost structure in such areas as distribution and manufacturing, we will continue to consider alliances, such as with other companies in the industry. Continuing to Invest, Strengthen, and Grow Profit Base in Beer Businesses To improve the Group’s profitability, our highest priority challenge is to strengthen the profit base for Kirin Brewery. In fiscal 2016, sales volume in the happo-shu/new genre category declined substantially. In particular, restoring Kirin Nodogoshi Nama, the No. 1 brand in the new genre market, to a path of growth is an urgent challenge, and we must reverse the current trend as quickly as possible. Another challenge is changing the market structure. To revitalize the beer market, we will continue to taking steps to leverage our unique strengths to enhance the appeal of beer, such as with the 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori. At the same time, we will accelerate business development initiatives in the field of craft beer. Under the revision of the Liquor Tax Act in 2018, the definition of “beer” is expected to be substantially expanded. This will make it possible to 20 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Strengthening the Business Base for Beer Examples include our initiatives utilizing “Lactococcus lactis in Asia and Oceania strain Plasma” and plant biotechnology. We have already comFirst, we will strengthen the business base for beer in Southmercialized “Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma” in beverages, east Asia, which has high growth potential, with our highest yogurt, and supplements, and we are now investigating the priority being the realization of sustained growth at Myanmar potential for proposing new value by leveraging the distinctive Brewery. To acquire a manufacturing and shipping base in characteristics of “Lactococcus lactis strain Plasma” in northern Myanmar, we decided to invest in Mandalay Brewery. enhancing the fundamentals of immunity. We are also moving As a result, we will be able to accurately capture market growth forward with technologies related to plant biotechnology. These and further reinforce our dominant position of leadership in the plant-related technologies can be utilized in the production of market. Furthermore, by leveraging Group synergies throughmaterials related to pharmaceuticals and other materials, and out the Asia/Oceania region, we will work to achieve growth in we are advancing development while collaborating with univerKirin brands and craft beer brands. In addition, as one more sities and other companies. In operations conducted with effective strategic option, we will also consider investments in assistance/consignment from NEDO,* Kirin’s original largeand alliances with local companies. scale plant propagation technologies are being used for the high-efficiency, low-cost production of activated vitamin D3. While enhancing the growth potential of existing businesses, Creating New Businesses from a Long-Term Perspective we will also aggressively search for opportunities to expand the We will leverage our fundamental strengths in such areas scope of our business activities and resolutely take on the chalas R&D to implement our distinctive value creation process. lenge of promising business opportunities. In addition, we will I believe that these initiatives will not only bolster our competialso take a flexible approach to investment in basic research tiveness in existing businesses but also lead to the creation and open innovation, which are necessary for those purposes. of new businesses in fields that transcend past business * New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization frameworks. Developing Beer Businesses in Asia and Oceania Health and Well-being Initiatives Little Creatures Kirin Brewery Growth through a focus on Creating new businesses health and well-being in that contribute to existing businesses health and well-being Mandalay Brewery Taiwan Kirin Bar Beer Alcoholic beverages Pharmaceuticals Existing New businesses businesses Myanmar Brewery San Miguel Brewery Non-alcoholic Bio-chemicals beverages Kirin Holdings Lion External resources Singapore KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 21 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies To Our Stakeholders 04 Initiatives Targeting ESG Aiming to Be a Company That Is Completely Trusted Further Strengthening Corporate Governance employees work energetically and can grow through their work To achieve sustained gains in corporate value over the medium while continually taking on the challenge of creating new value. to long term, it is necessary to solidify the Company’s foundation To that end, on the basis of leadership reform, we will enhance for the creation of value and the implementation of strategies. our implementation of human resource allocation and developIn addition, for the Kirin Group, which has announced its comment as well as working styles. In addition, to create new mitment to CSV, it is extremely important to earn the trust of a value, it is important to support diversity and establish an orgavariety of stakeholders. This is our approach to the implemennizational culture that fully leverages the power of diversity. tation of initiatives targeting ESG issues.* 1 Moving forward, we will aggressively implement initiatives in this First, we will further strengthen corporate governance. At area, centered on the promotion of opportunities for women. Kirin Holdings, in fiscal 2016 we moved to a system under which seven of 14 Board members, including Audit & Supervisory Board Members, are outside officers (of whom six are indepenWorking toward the Realization of a Society That Is dent officers). The Chairman of the Board of Directors is selected Based on 100% Recycling from among the outside officers. In addition, we merged two For Kirin, which uses the bounty of nature to deliver products committees to form the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory to consumers, it is essential to implement initiatives that Committee, for which three of the five members are outside address environmental problems. Countries around the world directors, and the chairman is an outside director. At meetings are working together to implement full-scale countermeasures of the Board of Directors, discussions have become more dynamic, to global warming, and I believe that the Kirin Group must work and the management supervision has been significantly aggressively to make a contribution. As the first step, from enhanced. I believe that these changes will lead to improved 2017 we will introduce renewable energy on a scale that will business performance in the future. Furthermore, in fiscal 2017, place Kirin among the top companies in Japan in terms of the to provide incentives for both achieving annual plans and domestic use of such energy. I think that this measure will also increasing corporate value over the medium to long term, we contribute to long-term cost optimization. revised the remuneration system for officers. This will enhance Moving forward, we will continue aiming toward the realizaperformance and further promote a sense of sharing value with tion of a society that is based on 100% recycling, and to that the shareholders through commitment to the achievement of end we will implement a range of initiatives. management plans by executives, including the president. *1 Issues related to the environment, society, and governance. Initiatives that address these issues are advocated in order to achieve sustainable growth for society and companies. Striving for Further Increases in Shareholder Value We have implemented aggressive measures for shareholders’ returns, such as through stable dividends and own stock Human Resource and Organizational Culture Reforms repurchases. Moving forward, we will continue to steadily No matter how accurate they are, a company’s visions and implement a dividend payout ratio on normalized EPS*2 of at strategies are implemented by human resources and organizaleast 30%. In this way, we will pass on to shareholders the tions. If the company does not have a system that fully draws fruits of the Group’s growth in an appropriate, timely manner. out their capabilities, then I believe that its visions and strategies Of course, shareholder value is not something that can be will not be of any use. The Kirin Group aims to be a “rigorous, increased simply through dividends, and accordingly we will warm company.” In other words, we aim to be a company that further advance management that reflects consideration for the is a meritocracy and that establishes an environment in which stock price. Through the revision of the remuneration system 22 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies for officers, we have introduced a system for the direct granting of shares to officers and have further reinforced the link between remuneration and results. *2 Removing special income and expenses and other non-recurring items to reflect actual earnings more accurately To Our Stakeholders The Kirin Group aims to be a group that is highly regarded and trusted by society and is considered by all stakeholders, including shareholders, employees, and suppliers, to have a valuable presence and to be indispensable to society. Moving forward, we will do our utmost to extend the favorable performance in fiscal 2016, and accordingly I would like to ask for the continued support of our stakeholders. President & CEO of Kirin Holdings Yoshinori Isozaki I joined Kirin Brewery in 1977. Working principally in the Corporate Planning Department, I gained experience in Japanese beer business branches and in business development units, both in Japan and in Los Angeles. I studied at the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration and worked in the Kirin Group’s hotel business. I also worked in PR at Kirin and served as vice president of San Miguel Corporation, in the Philippines. I became a managing director of Kirin Holdings in 2010, and in 2012, I was appointed as president & CEO of Kirin Brewery. In 2013, I became president & CEO of Kirin Company, and I was subsequently appointed as president & CEO of Kirin Holdings in March 2015. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 23 T O PI C S Initiatives for Creating Value in the Future In order for the Kirin Group to achieve sustained growth, it will be absolutely essential for the Group to develop new businesses by creating value unique to Kirin in addition to bolstering the competitiveness of existing businesses. In this section, we will introduce such initiatives for creating value in the future. Our growth in Australia is driven by the James Squire brand, a representative craft beer 1 TOPICS in this market; the Little Creatures brand, an offering Pursuit of Growth that embodies the sense of fun in the Craft Beer characteristic of craft beers; Business and other prominent brands. Craft Beer Sales Volumes Kirin’s Pioneering Spirit Excluding sales volumes of Kirin Brewery; Asahi Breweries, Ltd.; SAPPORO BREWERIES LIMITED; Suntory Beer Limited; and ORION BREWERIES, LTD. The SPRING VALLEY BREWERY is a beer brewery that was (KL) 30,000 previously located in Yamate, Yokohama—the birthplace of Kirin Beer. Opening its doors in 1870, this small brewery built 25,000 the initial foundation for Japan’s beer industry. The site of this 20,000 brewery would later be used to establish Kirin Brewery Company. 15,000 Nearly 150 years later, we are seeking to revive the pioneering spirit of this brewery to once again utilize craft beer to make 10,000 beer more varied and appealing. 5,000 0 Ever-Growing Presence in the Craft Beer Market 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 CY As beer markets have been becoming overly saturated, particBeer Happo-shu ularly in developed countries, consumers have begun to turn Source: Craft beer production reports issued by the National Tax Agency their attention back to the fundamental draws of beer, namely its variety and taste. As a result, craft beers have been growing Appealing Lineup Cultivated through rapidly and the number of innovative breweries has been on Borderless Collaboration the rise. The Kirin Group was quick to realize the potential of The appeal of craft beers lies in their variety and individuality. craft beer, and we have thus been undertaking the challenges Brands that have attached stories to their beers and combined of invigorating the beer market and cultivating our craft beer these with superior taste and quality have increasingly been operations into a growth driver. able to win favor from consumers outside of Japan. Kirin has In Japan’s craft beer market, we have been cementing our been fostering its own craft beer brands while also expanding presence through our SPRING VALLEY BREWERY brand, its lineup by pursuing borderless collaboration with breweries which inherited the name of the brewery that symbolizes Kirin’s in Japan and overseas. For example, in 2016 we commenced pioneering spirit, and the Grand Kirin brand, which is proving a capital and business partnership with Brooklyn Brewery, particularly popular in the off-premise market. In addition, our a leading player in the U.S. craft beer market boasting global craft beer operations have maintained the leading share in the popularity. Together with our alliance with YO-HO BREWING Australian market, posting growth of roughly 10% in 2016. COMPANY, a prominent domestic craft beer brewery, 24 KIRIN REPORT 2016 this new partnership has helped us create a strong foundation for better meeting diversifying 2 consumer needs. Looking ahead, we plan to TOPICS merge the accumulated experience, technologies, and insight of these partners with those of Development of Australian subsidiary Lion Pty Ltd. We thereby aim to further increase the value of our brand New Businesses and reinforce our foundations for value creation to give the world of craft beer more depth and variety. Aggressive Expansion of Opportunities to Experience New Beer Cultures The Kirin Group has begun engaging in initiatives that exceed Increasing the opportunities for consumers to try out craft beers the boundaries of its Integrated Beverages Business, which will be crucial to further energizing the craft beer market, provides alcoholic beverages and non-alcoholic beverages, and meaning that creating opportunities for consumers to experience its Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses in order to these beers will be vital. SPRING VALLEY BREWERY operates develop new businesses that leverage its superior foundations restaurants with breweries as important points of transmission for value creation. As one facet of these efforts, in April 2016 for new beer cultures through which it provides completely new we established the Business Creation Department. With this beer experiences using innovative beers and collaboration events. organization in place, employees with diverse experience and For example, a new joint restaurant-brewery is scheduled to be specialized expertise, including those seconded from the Kyowa opened in Kyoto during fall 2017, adding to the popular restauHakko Kirin Group, are seeking out opportunities to create new rants currently in operation in Daikanyama, Tokyo and Yokohama. markets based on innovative and unrestrained ideas. Lion, meanwhile, has opened a Little Creatures brand beer The Company is also actively utilizing open innovation in restaurant in Hong Kong, which is contributing to a rise in its the development of new businesses. For example, in 2016 brand recognition in the growing Asian market. Furthermore, we launched KIRIN ACCELERATOR, a corporate accelerator we plan to deploy our new “Tap Marché” service targeting the program* aimed at giving rise to innovative new businesses on-premise market in Japan beginning in 2017. The goal of that help realize healthy and more fulfilling lifestyles. Through this initiative is to expand the range of opportunities for this program, we received 167 business plan submissions. consumers to easily experience a diverse lineup of craft beers. Submissions from six teams were selected, and support for This service will utilize specialized dispensers and three-liter enacting these plans was provided over the period from August plastic bottle containers developed utilizing Kirin’s technologi2016 to January 2017. cal prowess to offer consumers a choice of various craft beer Going forward, the Kirin Group will continue to combine its brands, including those of our partners. In the first year of this foundations for value creation with outside assets as it strives initiative, we hope to deploy this service at 1,000 restaurants in to develop new businesses. the Tokyo metropolitan area. * Program in which large companies and venture companies work to augment each other’s strengths and compensate for their weaknesses in order to co-create businesses The Kirin Group remains committed to realizing a more exciting future for beer by achieving growth in the craft beer market. Diverse lineup with taste, variety, and innovativeness KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 25 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Long-Term Management Vision and Medium-Term Business Plan Corporate Philosophy The Kirin Group—Focused on people, nature and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and well-being We pride ourselves on offering products based on what people want. We pride ourselves on our ability to harness the goodness of nature through innovative technology. We pride ourselves on delivering tangible satisfaction and quality in everything we make. All of which ensures that we exceed customers’ expectations. And naturally, we do not stop there. As we look forward with vision and dreams, we aim to continue offering food and health products that bring new joy to people’s lives everywhere. Always a step ahead, the Kirin Group supports health, pleasure and comfort in your life. Long-Term Management Vision New KV2021 New Kirin Group Vision 2021 Co-achieve sustainable growth with our societies by realizing value creation, 2021 addressing social issues and understanding consumer expectations via the Vision core businesses* of the Kirin Group * Alcoholic Beverages, Non-alcoholic Beverages, and Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Outcomes Creation of Economic Value and Social Value Value Creation Value Creation <Social issues> <Consumer expectations> Strategic framework (= Kirin Group’s unique CSV) Technological Capabilities Organizational Capabilities “One Kirin” “Passion and Integrity” Values 26 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Kirin Group 2016–2018 Medium-Term Business Plan Basic policy Restructure and revitalize Kirin, groupwide Implement specific strategies in accordance with the positioning of each business Invest, strengthen, and grow profit base in beer businesses (Kirin Brewery, Lion Beer, Spirits and Wine, Myanmar Brewery) Key initiatives Restructure and revitalize low-profit businesses (Brasil Kirin, Kirin Beverage, Lion Dairy and Drinks) Invest to achieve outstanding growth in Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses (Kyowa Hakko Kirin) Raising Group profitability is our top priority, targeting increased capital efficiency and 2018 quantitative sustained growth in shareholder value targets ROE before amortization of goodwill, etc.: 15% + Normalized EPS: CAGR 6% + Guidance: Fiscal 2018 Group operating income based on achieving above targets: ¥160.0 billion + Stable shareholder returns through dividends, enhanced financial flexibility Financial strategy Consolidated dividend payout ratio 30% + of normalized EPS Repayment of interest-bearing debt Fiscal 2017 annual dividend forecast: ¥39 per share (Fiscal 2016 annual dividend: ¥39 per share) Recognizing the Challenges and Future Initiatives Invest, strengthen, and grow profit base in beer businesses Kirin Brewery R  ecovering market share in the happo-shu and new genre categories and reform the market structure for domestic beer products Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Grow earnings behind Lion & Kirin brands post-ABI in Australia Myanmar Brewery Grow Myanmar Beer business by expanding the business platform Strengthen the business base for beer in Asia and Oceania Restructure and revitalize low-profit businesses Kirin Beverage Further strengthening of the brand power and ongoing cost structure reform Lion Dairy and Drinks Shift to increased profits on increased sales Brasil Kirin Smooth business transference Invest to achieve outstanding growth in Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses Kyowa Hakko Kirin Approval in Europe and the U.S. for the global strategic product KRN23 KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 27 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies CSV Commitment The Kirin Group is focusing its efforts on CSV three key social issues: “health and well-being,” Story* “community engagement,” and “the environment.” Addressing these issues with a deep commitment, we envision a bright future and aim to realize our goals as we work together with our customers. * “Our CSV Story” can be viewed in its entirety on Kirin Holdings’ corporate website. WEB “Our CSV Story” http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/materiality/story.html 28 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Under the New KV2021 long-term management vision, we have positioned CSV as the core of our *1 As we provide health value to our customers management in order to grow continuously with society. through many of our beverages, we have We have also established “health and well-being,”*1 “community engagement,” and “the environment” as placed “safety and the key social issues on which we will focus, in addition to being “a responsible alcohol producer,” given the fact security of our products” as an issue we will that we are a corporate group that deals with alcoholic beverages. For these social issues, we have referenced tackle under our “health and well-being” the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)*2 and decided on 17 commitments (please see page 30) that will initiative. help clarify the kind of company we aim to be through our business over the medium to long term. In addition, *2 T  he Sustainable Development Goals we have formulated specific approaches to reach desired outcomes for fulfilling these commitments. By making (SDGs) pertain to issues that international society Groupwide efforts toward these commitments, we aim to contribute to a happy and prosperous future for our should address over the customers. next 15 years between 2016 and 2030 in order to realize sustainable Management Issues for Sustainable Growth (Group Materiality Matrix) global development. The SDGs were adopted at the United Nations summit in September Responsibility Responsibility 2015. Safety and as a as an alcoholic security of pharmaceutical beverages our products manufacturer manufacturer Impact on social sustainability Sustainable Community Health and Human rights Environment sourcing development well-being Human resources and Corporate New value corporate governance creation culture Impact on the Kirin Group’s business Establishment of “Our CSV Commitment” Input from External Experts A discussion on the social issues that the Group should seek to Alcohol-related problems: It will be important to verify the effectiveness of the address took place at a June 2016 meeting of the Group CSV initiatives implemented to date. It would be best for the Company’s programs to be able to formulate measures and provide education based on issues Committee* between the president & CEO of Kirin Holdings, identified through communication with patients and healthcare professionals. Health and well-being: The Kirin Group’s initiatives are a beneficial undertakwho chairs this committee, and the presidents of major Group ing for addressing the issue of rising healthcare expenditures, which is a companies. It was based on this discussion that we defined shared concern faced by the entire world. Community engagement: Would it not be possible to go beyond simply procurthe priority themes for the Group’s initiatives. Subsequent dising Japanese hops and wine grapes for use in Kirin products to create sustainable businesses from the perspectives of sightseeing and other aspects of cussions were at operating companies and relevant units to regional development? complete “Our CSV Story” and “Our CSV Commitment.” InterExternal experts: national guidelines were referenced to incorporate a social Mariko Kawaguchi, Chief Researcher, Research Division, Daiwa Institute of Research Ltd. Hideto Kawakita, CEO, International Institute for Human, Organization and the Earth (IIHOE) ­perspective while Group CSV representatives met with exterKirin Group representatives: Seiichi Hashimoto, Senior Executive Officer in Charge of CSV Strategy, Kirin Holdings Company, Limited nal experts. The input gained through these meetings was Masaya Hayashida, Executive Officer & General Manager, CSV Management Department, Kirin Company, Limited Hiroyuki Morita, Director, CSV Management Section, Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (As of December 2016) reflected in “Our CSV Commitment.” * To support the Kirin Group’s proactive and independent CSV initiatives, the Group CSV Committee meets once a year in principle, with the meeting chaired by the president & CEO of Kirin Holdings. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 29 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies CSV Commitment The Kirin Group has defined 17 commitments based on which it will advance mediumto long-term initiatives. Information on our approach toward fulfilling these commitments and the indicators that will be used to measure progress can be found on Kirin Holdings’ corporate website. WEB “Our CSV Story” http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv/materiality/story.html CSV Priority Issue Item SDGs Our Commitment A Responsible Education in appropriate We will work toward eradicating the harmful use of alcohol, consistent with regional Alcohol Producer drinking and nurturing a challenges. positive drinking culture We will work to develop noand lower-alcohol products in each category and improve ­consumer acceptance of these products. Health and Well-being Supporting self-care for We will help consumers manage their daily energy (calories/kilojoules) and nutrient intake healthy people and people through providing a balanced portfolio of products and information—helping them address with pre-disease major noncommunicable diseases, including obesity. We will contribute to enhancing customers’ quality of life throughout their lifetime, and strive to create revolutionary products, services, and new businesses. Evolution in medical We will continuously discover innovative drugs and expand our commercialization activities treatment globally. (Kyowa Hakko Kirin) By providing inexpensive, high-quality biosimilars and “Authorized versions” of biologics, we will contribute to the further use of biomedicines and to solving a global issue—increases in healthcare spending. (Kyowa Hakko Kirin) Health-oriented business As a company that delivers products and services contributing to consumer health, we will management create an environment and opportunity for our employees to proactively improve their own health. We will address any mental health issues facing our employees and work to prevent lifestyle-related diseases. Also, as a member of the alcohol beverage industry, we will promote responsible drinking that encourages employees to be role models for society. Safety and security We will establish a hygiene management system for the production process based on global of our products standards* and continue to work on improving product safety. Also, we will enhance communication related to quality in order to build trust and increase a sense of security among our customers. * HACCP: Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point Community Engagement Enhancing sustainability We will work on improving the quality and stable procurement of Japanese hops and brew of the supply chain unique beers that can only be made by using Japanese hops, while contributing to the revitalization of key producing areas. (Kirin Brewery) We will support Sri Lankan black tea farmers through long-term initiatives such as facilitating the acquisition of Rainforest Alliance certification, and expand the use of certified tea leaves. (Kirin Beverage) We will drive development of Japanese wines to ensure global recognition, and contribute to revitalizing key producing areas and local communities that are the foundations of growing grapes and making wines. (Mercian) We will continue to develop long-term, sustainable and mutually beneficial partnerships with our dairy farmers that build a profitable demand for dairy and ensure sustainable returns and the creation of value through the supply chain. (Lion) Regional revitalization We will develop products and services that energize local communities, with each of our through business activities business sites cooperating with local stakeholders. We will support the entrepreneurship of local residents responsible for small-lot deliveries, and contribute to the improvement of local economies. (Brasil Kirin) The Environment Reflecting environmental We will work to further reduce GHG emissions through various initiatives including the introactivities in our business duction of renewable energy. strategies We will reduce water usage in production activities, and continuously preserve water sources. We will protect the natural environment and preserve the ecosystems surrounding our business sites as well as areas rich in raw materials. We will continue to reduce the weight of containers and packaging, and rely less on nonrenewable resources and increase the sustainability of materials. 30 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies A Closer Look at Our Commitments Health and Well-being Supporting self-care for healthy people and people with pre-disease Initiatives The prevention of lifestyle-induced diseases is a Our Commitment We will help consumers manage their daily energy (calories/kilojoules) and nutriglobal issue requiring urgent attention. Our portfoent intake through providing a balanced portfolio of products and information— lio of products for supporting consumers in their helping them address major noncommunicable diseases, including obesity. self-care efforts will be utilized to help address this Our Approach Our food and beverage (F&B) businesses will provide a balanced portfolio of issue while also increasing the risk resilience of products, with optimized energy and nutrition—without compromising taste our businesses. Lion, which heads up our dairy and safety. Specifically, each F&B business will commit to some or all of the products and juice beverages businesses in Ausfollowing, relevant to their local markets’ health priorities: tralia and New Zealand, unveiled Our Goodness  to reduce added sugar, salt, and fat; Promise in 2014 to guide its efforts to contribute  to increase the availability of sugar-free, and lower-sugar and lower-energy to better balanced meals and lower child obesity options; rates. Since then, Lion has proceeded to increase  to have smaller pack sizes available across the product portfolio; the portion of its products that allow for healthy  to improve the nutrition and product information available to consumers; living, even if consumed every day, while reducing  to provide consumers with educational advice on achieving a balanced diet additives. Smooth progress is being made toward and lifestyle; Lion’s targets for 2019 as this company seeks to  to enhance R&D efforts to provide an optimal portfolio of products for improve consumer lifestyles and heighten the consumers. value of its business. Our Outcomes Specific targets will be developed and aligned to our approach. Community Engagement Enhancing sustainability of the supply chain Initiatives Hops provide beer with many distinctive characOur Commitment We will work on improving the quality and stable procurement of Japanese teristics. However, the harvest of Japanese hops is hops and brew unique beers that can only be made by using Japanese hops, declining year by year due to the aging of domeswhile contributing to the revitalization of key producing areas. (Kirin Brewery) tic producers. We will build long-term relationships Our Approach  We will work on various programs from a long-term perspective to maintain with Japanese hops farmers and work on improvstable harvest volume and realize improved quality of Japanese hops, ing the quality of the harvest while also helping to including developing seed varieties, increasing the attractiveness of hoprevitalize local communities by cooperating with producing regions, and increasing the number of new farmers to mitigate local producers. By doing so, we will continue and such issues as aging and a lack of successors. expand the distinctive, high-quality brewing that  By developing unique beers, utilizing the characteristics of Japanese hops, can only be made possible by using Japanese and gaining a high reputation, we will enhance the value of Japanese hops hops. For example, Ichiban Shibori Toretate Hop and attract many craft beer makers from around the world. uses freshly picked Japanese hops, while another Our Outcomes  Stop the reduction in harvest volume of Japanese hops. Develop unique one of Kirin’s craft beers uses a Japanese hop products that use Japanese hops. called IBUKI, freshly picked and unprocessed. At  Aim to be highly valued and used by not only Kirin but many brewers the same time, we will promote globally the value around the world. of distinctive Japanese hops.  Disclose actual results related to the cooperation between local communities and Kirin. The Environment Reflecting environmental activities in our business strategies Initiatives The Kirin Group consumes large quantities of Our Commitment We will continue to reduce the weight of containers and packaging, and rely paper for use in its containers and packaging, less on non-renewable resources and increase the sustainability of materials. which include the paperboard packaging for six Our Approach  We will expand the use of recycled/sustainable materials, i.e., recycled PET, packs, gift boxes, paper packs, and cardboard bioplastics, and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper. boxes for products.  We will introduce Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for selecting container raw Recognizing this fact, the Group revised its materials at an early stage of container/product development. (Lion) Action Plan for Sustainable Use of Biological Our Outcomes  M  aintain and expand the bottle-to-bottle initiative (use of 100% recycled Resources in February 2017. This revised plan PET for certain products). sets forth our goal to switch to paper certified  Study and promote the use of bioplastics. by the Forest Stewardship Council for all paper   aintain and expand the use of FSC-certified paper for primary and secondary M containers and packaging used in the Japan Intecontainers. grated Beverages Business by the end of 2020. Increase the use of recyclable container raw materials: > 90% by 2030. (Lion) This plan relates to two of the four priority themes  of the Kirin Group Long-Term Environmental  Increase the use of recycled packaging raw materials: > 50% by 2030. (Lion) Vision: biological resources and containers and  Develop a lighter weight PET bottle for mix juice products in 2017. (Brasil Kirin) packaging. By using more sustainable materials for our containers and packaging, we aim to also ensure the sustainability of our use of biological resources and containers and packaging. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 31 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies CFO’s Message We will further improve profitability through structural reforms and work to increase ­corporate value while simultaneously ­achieving increases in asset efficiency and financial flexibility. Akihiro Ito Director of the Board Senior Executive Officer & CFO The CFO’s Mission Increasing Profitability (Profit and Loss Management) Targeting gains in ROE before amortization of goodwill, etc., Targeting gains in ROE before amortization of goodwill, etc., we and growth in normalized EPS, I am working as CFO to are focusing on increasing the net profit margin. For subsidiaraddress three challenges. The first is raising profitability. ies, targets have been set for improvements in operating profit Moving forward, we will strive to increase profitability by margin through brand strengthening and cost cut initiatives, advancing measures to revitalize the Group through structural and we are monitoring the status of the implementation of those reforms. The second is increasing asset efficiency. To that end, measures. Progress has been favorable, and operating income we will take steps to streamline our balance sheet by reevaluatin fiscal 2016, the first year of the MTBP, exceeded the planned ing asset holdings and considering business portfolio optimizalevel. At the Group Head Office, we are working to implement tion. The third is increasing financial flexibility. In that regard, optimal allocation of resources among businesses, to reform we will provide stable dividends, and we will steadily advance headquarters functions, and to consolidate operations. In these repayment of interest-bearing debt, thereby optimizing the ways, we are striving to increase administrative productivity. financial leverage balance. KEY POINTS Initiatives to Increase ROE under the 2016 MTBP ROE before amortization Net profit margin Total assets turnover ratio Financial leverage of goodwill, etc. Net income before Sales Total assets amortization of goodwill, (including Japanese (average of previous year etc. liquor taxes) and current year) Sales Total assets Shareholders’ equity before (including Japanese (average of previous year amortization of goodwill, etc. liquor taxes) and current year) (average of previous year Fiscal 2018 target: and current year) 15% or higher Fiscal 2015: (0.1)% Fiscal 2015: 0.85 times Fiscal 2015: 3.09 times Fiscal 2018: Fiscal 2018: Fiscal 2018: Approximately Approximately 5.5% or more 0.91times 3.0 times 32 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Increasing Asset Efficiency Changes in Major Financial Indicators Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 (Balance Sheet Asset Management) (Results) (Results) (Plan) We are working to reevaluate low-profit assets and increase the Operating profit margin*1 8.4% 9.6% 9.5% total assets turnover ratio. Through asset reductions, such as Net profit margin*2 (0.1)% 7.5% 5.0% the sale of the Macacu Plant at Brasil Kirin and the transfer of Total assets turnover ratio 0.85 times 0.87 times 0.89 times Lion’s wine business in Australia, we worked to increase effiROE before amortization (0.3)% 21.9% 13.9% ciency and implement the principles of selection and concenof goodwill, etc. tration in management resources. Net debt-equity ratio 1.0 times 0.9 times 0.7 times Financial leverage 3.09 times 3.35 times 3.10 times Financial Optimization *1 Excluding liquor taxes/Before to amortization of goodwill, etc. *2 Including liquor taxes/Before to amortization of goodwill, etc. (Balance Sheet Liability/Equity Management) We used cash flow to accelerate the reduction of interest-­ bearing debt in order to enhance financial flexibility. We want to maintain our current ratings* so that we can continue to impleshareholders and investors, and by continuing to implement ment strategic investment in the future, and accordingly we will appropriate information disclosure and constructive dialog, we strive to reduce the net debt-equity ratio to 0.7 times or below will work to reduce the cost of shareholders’ equity, which we by the end of fiscal 2018. The Company will consider M&A believe is about 5% for the Company. transactions that have clear objectives and appropriate pricing as one effective strategic option for increasing corporate value. Sale of Brasil Kirin * R&I: A+ (outlook: negative); Moody’s: A3 (outlook: negative) (As of December 31, 2016) The Company determined that selling Brasil Kirin was the best option to enhance Groupwide profitability, reduce liabilities on Stable Dividends and Lower Cost of Shareholders’ Equity the balance sheet, and increase shareholder value. Currently, We implement shareholder returns based on a policy of stable the timing of the completion of the sale has not been deterdividends with a consolidated dividend payout ratio on normalmined. Accordingly, the profit or loss on the sale is pending ized EPS of 30% or more. In fiscal 2016, we generated free and will be disclosed when the decision is made. cash flow exceeding the planned level, and accordingly we increased dividends by ¥1. In the future, through further increased profitability, we will strive to record growth in normalized EPS, thereby enhancing shareholder return. In addition, by conducting management in a way that enhances the trust of KEY POINTS Cash Flow Allocation under the 2016 MTBP Fiscal 2016 results:¥226.4 billion Key priority: Strengthen investment in Kirin Brewery Operating cash flow ¥550.0 billion or more Fiscal 2017 plan: ¥180.0 billion Cut costs to generate funds for growth investment  f capital expenditures of ¥270.0 billion, reduce O Investing cash flow Fiscal 2016 results: ¥77.5 billion (Not including strategic investment) ¥290.0 billion capex in low-profit businesses (cut by about 40% Fiscal 2017 plan: ¥70.0 billion compared with 2013 MTBP) Fiscal 2016 results:¥148.9 billion Free cash flow ¥260.0 billion or more Fiscal 2017 plan: ¥110.0 billion Shareholder returns Consolidated dividends 30% or more of ¥125.0 billion Fiscal 2016 results: ¥43.1 billion (dividends) normalized EPS, stable returns to shareholders S  teadily repay debt to achieve financial Debt repayment ¥135.0 billion Fiscal 2016 results:¥108.5 billion flexibility KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 33 SECTION 1 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Overview of the Kirin Group’s Business Business Structure Earnings Structure The Kirin Group is centered on Kirin Holdings, a pure holdThe composition of the Kirin Group’s consolidated operating company. In markets around the world, the Group coning income by business segment is extremely well balducts business in the domains of “food and well-being.” anced. On the foundation provided by this earnings The Integrated Beverages Business provides alcoholic bevstructure, the Group has formulated strategies for each of erages and non-alcoholic beverages. In this business, its businesses from the viewpoints of market growth potenGroup companies coordinate with local overseas subsidiartial and earnings potential. The Group’s earnings are supies to gather feedback from consumers and other memported by its beer businesses, in which we are bers of society and supply products and services that are strengthening our profit base. Meanwhile, we are actively suited to various lifestyles and sensibilities. The Pharmainvesting in R&D activities in the Pharmaceuticals and Bioceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses advance propriechemicals Businesses with the aim of achieving outstanding tary research projects utilizing sophisticated technologies growth in the medium to long term. In low-profit busiand unique perspectives. We thereby seek to develop and nesses, we will accelerate efforts to build a strong brand offer high-quality products that improve the health and portfolio and implement structural reforms in order to realenrich the lives of people around the world. Through these ize profitable growth. Through the finely tuned allocation of businesses, we are realizing sustained growth by providing management resources, Kirin Holdings will enhance the society with new value. Group’s profitability, leading to sustainable growth. Operating Income of Subsidiaries by Strategic Classification—Progress in First Year of Medium-Term Business Plan (MTBP) Relationship between Strategic Classifications and Subsidiaries (¥ Billion) Beer Businesses Low-Profit Businesses 180 Kirin Brewery Brasil Kirin Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Kirin Beverage Myanmar Brewery (MBL) Lion Dairy and Drinks 160.0 150 141.8 143.0 124.7 MTBP 2016–2018 120 129.8 128.4 125.5 139.8 –¥1.4 billion YoY –¥2.9 billion YoY +¥14.3 billion YoY Kirin Brewery 62.6 Kirin Brewery +2.9 Kirin Brewery +2.2 90 L ion Beer, Spirits, Lion Beer, Spirits, Lion Beer, Spirits, Total income improvements of beer businesses and Wine 67.2 and Wine –9.8 and Wine –5.1 over MTBP period MBL 0 MBL +5.4 MBL –0 ¥10.0 billion 60 (1.8) 10.1 16.2 18.2 +¥11.9 billion YoY +¥6.1 billion YoY +¥2.0 billion YoY Brasil Kirin (11.7) Brasil Kirin +3.4 Brasil Kirin +4.0 Kirin Beverage 5.6 Kirin Beverage +7.0 Kirin Beverage +0.7 Total income improvements of low-profit businesses Lion Dairy and Lion Dairy and Lion Dairy and over MTBP period 30 Drinks4.3 Drinks+1.6 Drinks+1.5 ¥20.0 billion 0 2015 (Results) 2016 (Results) 2017 (Plan) 2018 (Plan) FY Beer businesses Low-profit businesses Others (Kyowa Hakko Kirin; other subsidiaries; amortization of goodwill, etc.; income movements from accounting changes; etc.) 34 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Philosophy and Strategies Scale and Profitability of Subsidiaries High Myanmar Lion Beer, Spirits, Brewery and Wine Business Kirin Brewery Kyowa Hakko Kirin Profitability Kirin Lion Dairy Beverage Mercian and Drinks Business Small Operational Scale (Net sales) Big Brasil Kirin Low *1 *1 *1, *2 Lion Beer, *3 Lion Dairy *3 *3 *3 Kirin Kirin Brasil Myanmar Kyowa Hakko Mercian Spirits, and and Drinks Brewery Beverage Kirin Brewery Kirin Fiscal 2016 Wine business business Net sales (¥ Billion) 402.2 354.6 66.3 222.8 149.8 117.9 22.4 335.7 Operating income (¥ Billion) 69.8 17.2 3.6 57.4 5.9 (8.3) 8.8 34.7 Operating profit margin FY2015 15.1 1.5 2.7 27.0 2.3 (8.7) — 13.2 (%) FY2016 17.4 4.9 5.4 25.8 4.0 (7.0) 39.2 10.3 FY2017 17.3 5.1 3.3 26.4 4.9 (2.9) 36.2 11.3 *1 Operating income for Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Mercian is prior to deduction of management fees. *2 Net sales of Mercian include liquor taxes. *3 Operating income for Lion, Brasil Kirin, and Myanmar Brewery is operating income before amortization of goodwill, etc. Shares of Beer Markets by Country Japan Myanmar Kirin Brewery Myanmar Brewery 80% 32% (2016) Brazil (2015) Brasil Kirin 1 1% (2015) Philippines San Miguel Brewery 90% Australia Lion 48% (2015) (2015) Kirin Holdings Company, Limited estimate KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 35 SECTION SECTION 2 2 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Advantages of the Foundation as Demonstrated by Examples of Value Creation CASE 01 Revitalizing the Beer Market 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori Transcending conventional wisdom: Changing local pride into flavor through creative initiatives implemented in co-creation with consumers Kirin Brewery launched the 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori Project in May 2016. Until then, the conventional wisdom in the beer industry had been that beer tasted the same no matter where in Japan it was made, but this project proved that was not the case. The scale of the domestic beer market has declined by approximately 1.8 million kiloliters over 20 years, and the reason is thought to be that beer has started to lose its appeal for consumers. Accordingly, we started this project with the slogan of “changing local pride into flavor.” We aimed for beer that enables consumers to enjoy a more diverse range of flavor, individuality, and regional characteristics as well as different ideas from brewers. Brewmasters from nine plants and salespeople from around the country worked together with people from the local regions to develop recipes by region with a focus on ingredients and brewing methods. In this way, we created 47 kinds of beer, representing the 47 prefectures of Japan. Each plant produced an average of five to six varieties of beer, and we were able to achieve the desired flavors with no test brewing and just a single brewing. This product concept earned support in the marketplace, and we sold 2.7 million cases (large bottle equivalents), about two times the initial target. Reflecting this success, 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori received the fiscal 2016 Japan Marketing Award. 36 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Strengths of Value Creation Foundation That Led to the Success of 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori Involving Local Regions from the Concept example, workshop participants included employees from Formation Stage the Chugoku Shimbun, a local newspaper publishing The development of 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori company, managers from OTAFUKU SAUCE CO., LTD., started with three ideas—Popular in Daily Lifestyles, and a group of female fans of the Hiroshima Carp proMarketing Communicating the Appeal and Interest of Beer to fessional baseball team. In this way, we were able to Foundation Younger Consumers, and Regional Revitalization. First, incorporate the pride of the local region into the beer. to extend the brand concept of Ichiban Shibori—Beer Our branch managers and other employees that is Popular in Daily Life—and to closely connect it throughout the country worked together with members to the lifestyles, spirit, culture, and local appeal of each of local communities to consider the appeal of each region in Japan, we held co-creation workshops with region and develop concepts based on that appeal. consumers in regions around the country. At these These concepts generated favorable responses. Kirin’s workshops, our branch offices leveraged their networks assets include strong bonds with local regions, and our and invited people well-versed in each prefecture’s com­ co-creation capability, which leverages these bonds in munities. In this way, we worked together with the local accordance with the idea of revitalizing local regions, is community to develop each concept. In Hiroshima, for one of our strengths. Achieving 47 Varieties of Flavor with products and RTD products, has a large stockpile of Advanced Brewing Technologies brewing technologies related to ingredients and yeast The number of beers offered by beer companies in as well as brewing and fermentation conditions. Making Japan each year currently ranges from just a few to full use of this technology stockpile, the brewers at R&D about a dozen. In this environment, it was a major each plant worked in cooperation with the Research Foundation challenge for Kirin to develop 47 varieties of beer in Laboratories for Alcoholic Beverage Technologies to one year. The concepts that were created in cooperaturn the concept for each region into a product. tion with local people at the co-creation workshops in As a result, we were able to make 47 unique each region gave shape to the pride of each commuIchiban Shibori products with different colors, aromas, nity, and accordingly they were highly individualistic. and alcohol content. Kirin’s strengths are seen in the It was not a simple matter for us to give priority to each Company’s brewing technologies, the commitment of those individual characteristics while creating prodand sensibilities of the technicians, and the product ucts that were accepted by regional consumers. development capabilities that bring these elements Kirin Company operates the Research Laboratories together. These strengths enabled us to create a for Alcoholic Beverage Technologies. This facility, which ­variety of products. conducts development and evaluation related to beer Effective Collaboration That Fosters products with no test brewing and just a single brewing. Close Communications In addition, our nine plants in Japan are a major The 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori Project effectively strength that enabled us to implement flexible producleveraged day-to-day collaboration among procurement, tion in a short period of time. In logistics, we conducted Supply Chain production, and logistics departments. optimal demand-supply management based on market Foundation First, in procurement, with a short period of time for information. With everyone involved maintaining close preparations, wide-ranging procurement networks were communications, we were able to deliver products to leveraged and a variety of ingredients were secured in consumers with no out-of-stock problems. a timely manner, including local ingredients that enable No matter how good an idea is, we cannot create consumers to experience the pride of their local region value if we do not manufacture the products and and are used only for their region’s product. deliver them to consumers in a timely manner. Our Production at plants is typically commenced after supply chain foundation, which supports seamless, the recipe is confirmed through test brewing at a testclose collaboration from raw material distribution ing plant. However, this project involved small-lot prothrough to production and logistics, is one of the duction, and accordingly we made full use of our ­Company’s strengths. accumulated knowledge to turn the concepts into KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 37 SECTION 2 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Advantages of the Foundation as Demonstrated by Examples of Value Creation C A S E 02 A Better Green Tea 中吊りワイド w 1030mm × h 364mm ( セーフティ上 40mm） Renewing Nama-cha to Restore Its Popularity ＜B3 サイズ＞ ＣＩ表記：左右 56 ㎜ のんだあとはリサイクル：14pt 以上 マークは直径 10 ㎜以上 キリンビバレッジ株式会社：14pt 以上 まる搾り生茶葉抽出物 加熱処理：14pt 以上 URL：14pt 以上 日本のお茶を変えたい。新 INSIDE OUTSIDE Net 525ml Amount Per 100ml 生茶 は 、 つくりかたから変えました 。 Calories 0kcal Protein 0g Fat 0g Carbohydrate 0g ⒈ミクロン茶葉 ⒉カット茶葉 ⒊ まる 搾り生茶葉 抽 出 物 217 mm 68mm MICRON TEA LEAVES ＋ AUTHENTIC GREEN TEA = NEW GREEN TEA Ceramic Ball Green Tea Leaves Ceramic Ball Mill セラミックボールミルで茶葉を超微粉砕に。 その〈ミクロン茶葉 〉が、 茶葉をより細かくカットして、低温でていねいに抽出。 茶葉をまるごと圧搾する方法で生み出した、 いままでにないコクと余韻を生み出しました。 香りと味わいをしっかり引き出しました。 うまみたっぷりの茶葉抽出物を加えました。 まるごと出し切る。新 生茶 3月22日発売 色も。お茶のいいとこ、 香りも、 味も、 NAMACHA.jp NAMACHA jp p まる搾り生茶葉抽出物 加熱処理 のんだあとは のんだあとはリサイクル。 We want to change Japanese green tea. Creating new value by combining the latest technologies with traditional production methods This project started in 2016 with the launch of a product intended to revitalize the Nama-cha brand. Nama-cha became a major hit after its introduction in 2000, with sales of more than 35 million cases in 2003. Subsequently, however, sales started to gradually decline, and by 2014 sales had fallen to about half of the peak level. It is difficult to revitalize a product that has lost its strength, and we even considered launching a new brand. After deliberating, however, we decided on a new concept—to realize the traditional flavor and vitality of green tea, with the objective of creating an entirely new image while making the very most of the Nama-cha brand. The renewed Nama-cha showcased our attention to detail, not only in the flavor, which was achieved through leading-edge technology and original production methods, but also in the container, which was based on the image of a glass bottle. We had to overcome a number of challenges in order to commercialize this concept, but new Namacha, with a new taste and a refined design, created new value for green tea in PET bottles, and achieved sales of 26.2 million cases, more than the 22.5 million cases that were sold when Nama-cha was launched in 2000. 38 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Strengths of Value Creation Foundation That Led to the Success of Nama-cha Leveraging Insight about Consumers accordingly we aimed to leverage our own advanced to Improve Products technology to create the product content as well as to We decided to rebrand Nama-cha by starting from the offer a stylish bottle design so that consumers would be viewpoint of creating a new green tea beverage culture. pleased to carry it around at any time. In addition, we Marketing Rather than developing a new product, we took on the thought that the finely powdered tea leaves that collect Foundation challenge of revitalizing the brand by maintaining the at the bottom offer flavor, and consumers could also name Nama-cha, which had reached 15 years since enjoy the process of shaking the bottle when they drink its launch, while enhancing all of the other elements it. Kirin’s marketing strengths include our continued of the brand. commitment to carefully nurturing our brands, cultivatGreen tea has always been a beverage for satisfying ing insight so that consumers are always satisfied, and personal preferences. As a manufacturer, we had not enhancing our products. provided a product that satisfied consumers, and Creating New Value with In addition, one of the Company’s strengths is the Both Content and Packaging Research Laboratories for Packaging Technologies, To revitalize Nama-cha, we implemented development which has technologies and equipment enabling the activities including both content and packaging, starting in-house development of containers. R&D with the idea of creating a new green tea beverage culIn accordance with the concept that we want NamaFoundation ture. In regard to the content, rather than focus on tea cha to be enjoyed like a luxury product, we used Kirin leaves and tea dealers, we aimed to use our original Brewery’s Heartland Beer bottle as an inspiration, and technologies to make a tea that could not be brewed at the Research Laboratories for Packaging Technolowith small teapots at home. As a result, we decided to gies we developed a refined bottle design that is use the latest technologies (whole powdered tea leaves: reminiscent of a glass bottle. Moreover, even while it finely powdering whole tea leaves with a ceramic ball features a stylish design that is not available anywhere mill) combined with traditional production methods else, the container has a durability that enables it to (enhancing the tea brewing method through such handle the stresses encountered during the storage means as using low-temperature extraction to draw out and shipping stages. For new Nama-cha, our R&D sweetness). In this way, we developed a taste that has strengths allowed us to realize both content and packa good balance between umami and bitter flavors and aging that brought about the creation of a new green that consumers do not grow tired of, even if they drink tea beverage culture. it every day. Kirin Pride in Striving for Zero Out-of-Stock shipments exceed 120% of planned levels. This prodProblems, Even with Demand Increasing uct became a hit immediately after it was launched, One strength of our supply chain is the ability to conand as a result shipments reached 170% of initial plans. sistently enable consumers to make a purchase when Nonetheless, related departments—procurement, proSupply Chain they decide they want a product. We made full use of duction, logistics, and marketing—worked together to Foundation this strength during the renewal of Nama-cha. We implement a flexible response. Consequently, there was anticipated issues during the packaging process due not a single out-of-stock problem, and we were able to to such factors as the addition of finely powdered tea continue to make deliveries to stores. This involves leaves and a stylish bottle design that poses a high more than just the use of a system that facilitates the degree of difficulty in conveyance processes. Nonethevisualization of demand and supply. The detailed operless, we were able to enhance production lines and ational skills of our managers, which were cultivated in establish a stable production system for Nama-cha in accordance with our commitment to sustaining the just a short development period. In addition, typically trust of consumers, are one of our important strengths. there is said to be a risk of out-of-stock issues when KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 39 SECTION 2 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Advantages of the Foundation as Demonstrated by Examples of Value Creation C A S E 03 Next Step to Capture Overseas Market Growth Myanmar Brewery Limited Focusing the Group’s comprehensive strengths Achieving further growth with a robust system Myanmar is known as the final frontier in Asia. Myanmar Brewery has established a leading position in the market, with a dominant share of about 80%. The business environment is changing on a daily basis, however, due to rapid economic growth, competition, consumer needs, and other factors. Following the acquisition of Myanmar Brewery in August 2015, we took steps to reinforce the company’s position as the market leader. To that end, we executed holistic initiatives for post-merger integration in a short period of time and introduced the know-how that we have cultivated through our operations in Japan as well as overseas M&A activities. Through these initiatives, critical issues have been resolved. In particular, we quickly addressed not only the establishment of a stronger brand portfolio but also the expansion of production capacity, which had been an issue for many years. Our relationship with Myanmar Brewery has gotten off to a favorable start with a high operating profit margin* of 39% in the first year of consolidation. Moving forward, to accommodate further growth in demand, we will leverage the Kirin Group’s value creation foundation by addressing mediumto long-term issues, such as securing and developing human resources. In February 2017, we decided to invest in Mandalay Brewery, which is located in Mandalay, Myanmar’s second-largest city. Going forward, we will steadily capture market growth and expand our business in Myanmar as the core of our beer businesses in Southeast Asia. * Based on operating income before amortization of goodwill, etc. Details on Myanmar Brewery can be found on the following website. WEB Myanmar Brewery Limited http://myanmarbeer.com/ 40 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Strengths of Value Creation Foundation That Led to the Success of Myanmar Brewery Leveraging Original Research Methods to shared marketing framework. Moving forward, the Formulate Brand Strategies for New Markets results of this analysis will be reflected in the fundaGlobal competitors have entered the attractive Myanmental concept of the Myanmar Beer brand. In addimar beer market, where mainstream products account tion, Myanmar Brewery has an extremely strong sales Marketing for the majority of the market. For Myanmar Brewery, network, and channel diversification is anticipated as Foundation the most important strategic issue is to further reinforce the economy grows. In anticipation of a shift toward Myanmar Beer, the core product in this price range. mass retailer channels in Yangon and other urban areas, What are consumers’ latent needs? And what value can we will transfer the know-how that we have cultivated we provide to satisfy those needs with this product? in other markets, including the implementation of To thoroughly analyze these issues, we utilized Kirin’s store-level branding and the establishment of relationunique research method, which is a part of the Group’s ships with retail chains. Achieving New Product Development in a while having to work within a tight time frame, it is Short Period of Time necessary to determine in advance the best ingredients Accompanying improvement in economic conditions in and brewing conditions, with a high degree of accuracy. Myanmar, the beer market is expecting record growth Our success with MyanR&D in demand for premium products. Moreover, competimar Brewery benefited Foundation tors have already started to boost their efforts in the from our ability to fully premium sector. When Kirin made this investment in leverage our know-how, August 2015, the premium sector was a weak point in which systematically the Myanmar Brewery brand portfolio. Therefore, by incorporates the results fully utilizing the pilot plants and evaluation technologies of multiple, large-scale of the Research & Development Division of Kirin Combrewing tests that we have pany, we developed and launched Myanmar Premium conducted in the past. and KIRIN ICHIBAN. In this way, we have built a brand portfolio with a full lineup that can compete with those of other companies. To achieve the desired beer flavor Kirin’s Know-How That Facilitates the implementing a large-scale expansion of brewing and Achievement of High Quality and Low Cost packaging facilities, with a target of commencing operTo meet rapidly rising beer demand, it is important ations in 2017. As a result, we expect to achieve a subto increase production capacity in a timely manner. stantial increase in production capacity. Furthermore, Supply Chain However, in designing production facilities, we need to by utilizing Kirin’s advanced analytical technologies in Foundation meet high targets in areas as diverse as quality, cost, quality control, we have been able to further boost safety, and environmental protection. To achieve these quality, which was already highly regarded, and to targets, we made full use of technologies in operation increase consumers’ satisfaction. In procurement, by and engineering that Kirin Brewery has cultivated. In participating in the joint procurement scheme of the 2016, we introduced new technologies in the brewing Kirin Group, Myanmar Brewery has been able to process and improved operation efficiency in the packreduce costs and increase its capacity for business aging process. In this way, we increased annual proinvestment targeting future growth. duction capacity by more than 10%. Currently, we are KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 41 SECTION 2 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Marketing Kirin Group Marketing Supporting Sustained Growth Kirin aims to implement marketing that always integrates corporate activities from the consumer’s perspective. “Quality with Surprise”* is our key phrase for value creation, leveraging our inherited corporate DNA of “Quality First.” This approach comprises the foundation of marketing at Kirin. The Kirin Way for (4) Brand Building (KW4BB), a marketing framework shared throughout the Group, is our platform for giving shape to “Quality with Surprise” and putting together consumer-based marketing. CSV and digital marketing are drivers that advance consumer-based marketing. We will strive to realize value for society as value for consumers, and to use the latest digital technologies to optimize and advance marketing as a whole with a focus on consumers. Throughout our long history, we have fostered bonds with consumers, and these bonds are our greatest asset. Moving forward, we will strive to achieve sustained growth by continuing to rigorously create innovation from the consumer’s viewpoint. * “Quality with Surprise,” our key phrase for value creation of the Japan Integrated Beverages Business, comprises Kirin’s fundamental approach to marketing—continuing to rigorously work from the consumer’s viewpoint and to create Junko Tsuboi new experiences for consumers through superb production and quality control capabilities (“good experiences through Executive Officer good products”). General Manager of Strategic Branding Department The Superiority of Kirin’s Marketing Foundation Based on the knowledge that we have cultivated, we indepenwith everyone who is involved with our businesses. In the dently formulated KW4BB with reference to examples of comfuture, through programs and other initiatives to deepen panies around the world that have excellent marketing. Under understanding of KW4BB, we will take steps to ensure that all KW4BB, Lion and the Japan Integrated Beverages Business employees work with a consumer focus. In this way, we will have rebuilt the targeted consumer insight*1 and proposition*2 create a range of innovation and bolster the foundation for for each brand, transitioning to insight-first marketing. In addition, “good experiences through good products.” we are applying KW4BB to the overseas KIRIN ICHIBAN *1 The true feelings of consumers, not limited to what they say business. For Nama-cha, we conducted a renewal rooted *2 Proposals drawing on distinctive brand characteristics to reflect insight firmly in the brand’s DNA at the time of its launch. KW4BB was implemented with comprehensive communications from the consumer’s viewpoint. This received significant support from Overview of the KW4BB Common Group Marketing Framework consumers and led to the creation of value through increased Marketing Credo brand strength. We are implementing unique initiatives with CSV-driven marketing. These include 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori, which has generated excitement in support of the pride of local regions Brand Portfolio Brand Strategy and has been implemented in cooperation with consumers. Veriﬁcation System Furthermore, digital marketing offers a deep understanding of consumers through the use of data and helps to deepen the Customer brand experience. With Kirin Hyoketsu ®, we succeeded in revitalizing the brand with comprehensive communications utilizing digital initiatives. Our bonds with consumers are one of our assets, and to Brand Strategy reinforce those bonds we will need to continue to build brands Formulation System 42 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Example Château Mercian Leads Japanese Wine One of Kirin’s marketing strengths is the incorporation of CSV concepts, which enables us to provide products that offer value for society as value for consumers. Japanese wine is the focus of growing international attention, and Mercian is working to increase the quality of domestically produced grapes, which are an ingredient for Japanese wine, and to expand vineyards from a long-term perspective. At the Mariko Vineyard in Nagano Prefecture, grape cultivation implemented with an aim of suitable varieties on suitable land has led to the utilization of idle land. By contributing to Japanese agriculture and regional revitalization through winemaking, we will develop Mercian into a brand that local communities care about and are proud of. Moreover, through Château Mercian, we will contribute to increasing the international evaluation of Japanese wine by expanding awareness of the quality of Japanese wine and providing it to more consumers. Initiatives for Further Growth With digital marketing, we are achieving results that are drawIn the current age, digital initiatives are used to build ing attention, even from other industries. ongoing relationships between individual consumers and Integrated marketing, which coordinates mass marketing, brands. It is the capabilities of people that support brands and digital marketing, and real communication, has started to generate new innovation. Moving forward, we will further accelerate. In particular, Kirin Ichiban Shibori, Kirin Hyoketsu®, increase marketing organizational capabilities, enhance and Kirin Tanrei Green Label have drawn significant attention, relationships with individual consumers, and further deepen including among younger consumers, and a contribution is marketing. Digital marketing using the latest technologies will being made to increasing the image not only of the brands but be the driver of these initiatives. also of the Company. DRINX, our original e-commerce site, is a platform for co-creation of value with consumers. We are building a new marketing model for developing craft beer, Japanese wine, and whiskey brands, including the establishment of relationships especially with consumers who are interested in alcoholic beverages. Having accumulated consumer behavioral data through these types of marketing activities, we will provide personalized, optimal brand experiences to each consumer. In this way, we are aiming to build sustained relationships with consumers. In addition, we are working to increase marketing ROI by using digital data to improve effectiveness verification and are striving to achieve innovation in marketing through the aggressive introduction of AI and other leading-edge technologies and through the use of big data. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 43 SECTION 2 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Research & Development Kirin Group R&D Supporting Sustained Growth Over its long history, Kirin has leveraged its technical expertise to offer consumers products with a variety of added value. By drawing on the fermentation technologies, biotechnologies, and mass production technologies cultivated in the beer business, we advanced into the pharmaceuticals business. Subsequently, Kyowa Hakko Kirin, which was created through a merger with Kyowa Hakko Co., Ltd., joined the Kirin Group. As a result, the Group has a wide range of technical expertise. We are advancing the generation of innovation through effective, efficient R&D resulting from cross-over activities among the six laboratories of Kirin Company’s R&D Division and through R&D based on the self-initiative and mutual collaboration of the category-based and function-based organization, which is the characteristic structure of the R&D Division of Kyowa Hakko Kirin. Furthermore, we are taking on the challenge of creating value that is only available from the Kirin Group by combining the technologies and know-how of both companies. Noriaki Kobayashi We will further strengthen the technical expertise that is a strength of the Kirin Senior Executive Officer Group and provide new value to society and consumers. in Charge of R&D Strategy The Superiority of Kirin’s R&D Foundation Kirin Company’s R&D Kyowa Hakko Kirin’s R&D Kirin Company’s Research & Development Division conducts Kyowa Hakko Kirin is making full use of original R&D capabilities R&D with the aim of creating new value in fields centered on and technical expertise in manufacturing that were cultivated food and health and well-being. About 300 researchers reach in the field of biopharmaceuticals, as well as open innovation. beyond the walls that separate individual laboratories to combine In this way, the company is implementing new drug discovery technologies and ideas and aggressively introduce knowledge activities, centered on four major modalities—therapeutic antifrom inside and outside the Group. In this way, we are generating bodies, small molecule drugs, nucleic acid drugs, and regena wide range of innovation. erative therapeutics. Aiming to continue to discover innovative Leveraging our strengths, such as the Research Laboratories drugs that address unmet medical needs and to be the first to for Alcoholic Beverage Technologies, which has pilot plants launch them, Kyowa Hakko Kirin is advancing R&D under an that can accommodate test brewing of a diverse range of beer integrated system that extends from discovery to development products, and the Research Laboratories for Packaging Techand post-marketing development with a special focus on nologies, which conducts in-house development and evaluation nephrology, oncology, immunology and allergy, and the central of containers and packaging, we rapidly incorporate the results nervous system. of R&D initiatives into products and services. Therapeutic antibody manufacturing technologies are one We have cultivated strengths in our 10 major R&D technologies, of the representative technologies of Kyowa Hakko Kirin. As a and we draw on combinations of various technologies to leverage result of many years of biopharmaceutical research, the comour strengths in order to create new value with a focus on the future. pany has established POTELLIGENT® and COMPLEGENT® technologies, which dramatically enhance the performance of Processing and handling of Fermentation control ingredients therapeutic antibodies, as well as a technology that enables us Flavor control for alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages Selected component removal to fully generate human antibodies with the same level of diversity Food functionality evaluation Functional food design and as those produced naturally by humans. A consistent research evaluation Container and packaging design Container and packaging surface platform and a variety of technologies from creation to improveand evaluation processing ment of therapeutic antibodies have greatly contributed to our Cutting-edge, advanced analysis Plant biotechnology and evaluation therapeutic antibody development. : Beverages : Health : Container and packaging : Plant biotechnology : Advanced analysis and evaluation 44 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Example 1 Application of Selected Component Removal Technologies Selected component removal technologies, which are one of our major R&D technologies, are used to selectively remove only unnecessary components while maintaining flavor. Kirin Tanrei Platinum Double, which utilized a world-first technology for the selected removal of the purine body content in happo-shu, has earned strong support from consumers, and sales in 2016 totaled 6.5 million cases, an increase of 6.6% year on year. In addition, through the use of natural adsorbents that selectively adsorb caffeine, our technology for the removal of caffeine from tea while maintaining the flavor, aroma, and other elements of taste of green tea and black tea, received an award from the Japan Soft Drink Association at the 2016 Society of Soft Drink Technologists, Japan. This technology, which has been extended to Kirin Caffeine Zero Nama-cha (a renewal to Kirin Nama-cha Decaffeinated is planned for May 2017) and the Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha Kodawari Sozai series, is contributing to the creation of products that can be consumed with peace of mind by pregnant women and nursing mothers, small children, and other consumers. Example 2 Development of Global Strategic Product KRN23 Kyowa Hakko Kirin is developing KRN23 as a global strategic product that will drive gains in global competitiveness. The development of KRN23 began with research focused on phosphorus metabolism.*1 The company subsequently discovered FGF23, a factor involved in diseases such as tumor-induced osteomalacia and X-linked hypophosphatemia (XLH).*2 Utilizing its unique antibody technology, Kyowa Hakko Kirin created KRN23, an antibody that inhibits the activity of FGF23. Kyowa Hakko Kirin not only recognized the scientific significance of the discovery of FGF23 but also created therapeutic candidate KRN23 by utilizing antibody technology. This action was based on the desire of the company to develop novel drugs needed by patients suffering from diseases. In order to achieve sustainable growth in overseas markets, Kyowa Hakko Kirin is advancing Global Phase III Clinical Trials of KRN23 for XLH in such countries as the U.S., Europe, Japan, and South Korea. *1 In addition to absorption and excretion, optimal blood concentration of phosphorus is maintained by metabolic turnover that uses bone as storage. *2 A  rare disease that causes bone growth disorder as a result of the onset of hypophosphatemia following the excessive excretion of phosphorus due to high concentrations of FGF23 in the blood. Initiatives for Further Growth To foster further collaboration between the alcoholic and nonthe Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group. We will strive to make steady alcoholic beverages businesses and the pharmaceuticals and progress in the collaborative themes of both companies and bio-chemicals businesses, as well as to accelerate the creation to achieve concrete research results. of new value through combinations of the technologies posIn addition, we will implement Open Innovation more sessed by each business, we have commenced initiatives to aggressively to foster the development, application, and step up exchange among researchers from Kirin Company and commercialization of promising technologies. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 45 SECTION 2 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Supply Chain Kirin Group Supply Chain Supporting Sustained Growth A high-quality, efficient supply chain foundation is indispensable for the stable operation of the Group’s businesses and the sustained creation of value. In the Japan Integrated Beverages Business, the procurement, production, and logistics departments work closely together to provide consumers with a steady supply of safe, secure products at low cost. In addition to the technologies and know-how that we have cultivated, we are also aggressively introducing new technologies and facilities. In this way, we are working to create new value. In particular, in the midst of a shift toward consumers enjoying products in individual ways, it has become important to establish a supply chain that realizes the provision of a diverse array of products and services. In addition, in recent years the operating environment in the pharmaceutical industry has changed dramatically. To respond to the Japanese government’s measures to control healthcare expenditures, the reevaluation of production costs has become a necessity. Kyowa Hakko Kirin will be able to achieve higher efficiency and improved GMP* as well as improve cost competitiveness through a reorganization of its production Yasuyuki Ishii Director of the Board, and facilities, which is currently under way. In addition, Kyowa Hakko Kirin will make Senior Executive Officer continued efforts to improve production technologies while maintaining and increasing in Charge of SCM Strategy its competitive advantage. * Good Manufacturing Practice (criteria for manufacturing and quality control management of pharmaceutical products, etc.) The Superiority of Kirin’s Supply Chain Foundation Kirin Brewery’s Production Technologies Kyowa Hakko Kirin’s Production Technology Technology for the small-lot production of a wide range of By combining the unique techniques and know-how developed products is one of the strengths of Kirin Brewery’s production to date with advanced technology, Kyowa Hakko Kirin has technologies. Consumer preferences have diversified, and established a production process that has world-class quality there is an increased need for beers that enable greater enjoyand productivity. At the Bio Process Research and Development ment of individuality by reflecting varying tastes and different Laboratories and the CMC R&D Center, Kyowa Hakko Kirin is ideas from brewers. Through the development and introduction developing production processes and drug formulation techof new technology, Kirin Brewery has established a system that nologies, and by offering products that incorporate various can efficiently produce a wide range of products in just the developed technologies, the company continues to provide amounts that are needed. In this way, we have been able to new value to people around the world. produce 47 Todofuken no Ichiban Shibori products among nine plants and a variety of craft beers including Yona Yona Ale and Brooklyn Lager. In addition, in 2014 we established Kirin Innovation Factory Yokohama, which has small-scale, diverse brewing facilities, at the Yokohama Plant. In 2015, in Daikanyama, Tokyo, we opened SPRING VALLEY BREWERY TOKYO, which combines a brewery and a restaurant. In fall 2017, we plan to open SPRING VALLEY BREWERY KYOTO. Through these facilities, we will contribute to the creation of diverse value that is not limited to existing beers, such as craft beers and cider. 46 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Foundation for Value Creation Engineering Technologies Engineering technologies that support the production foundation food, beverage, pharmaceutical, and biochemical industries. are another strength that supports the Kirin Group supply chain. Kirin Engineering has developed a workforce of engineers Kirin Engineering is a company that handles the construction in a variety of fields. These engineers have acquired experience of plants and the installation, expansion, and repair of producand technologies in plant construction and repair over many tion facilities for the Group, principally for Kirin Brewery, Kirin years. The company is also participating in large-scale conBeverage, and Kyowa Hakko Kirin. Kirin Engineering has struction projects by Group companies overseas, such as Lion special strengths in food and pharmaceutical plants and is also and Myanmar Brewery. In this way, Kirin Engineering is contribimplementing business initiatives outside the Group in the uting to the efficient, effective utilization of capital expenditures. Example Initiatives to Increase Group Competitiveness Reducing costs across the supply chain is an important issue in increasing the Group’s competitiveness. Procurement departments are working to reduce costs by leveraging the Group’s economies of scale. We have consolidated the procurement functions of such companies as Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Mercian, and we are working to reduce costs and increase efficiency as well as to implement joint procurement activities with the Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group. In addition, in collaboration with Lion and Myanmar Brewery, we are conducting joint procurement of malt, which is a primary ingredient of beer, and other commonly used items, and implementing the mutual sharing of best practices. In production departments, we are advancing cost reductions through the introduction of new technologies. Kirin Beverage was a leader in making its own PET bottles and introduced Japan’s first in-line PET bottle aseptic blow-fill equipment. In this way, we achieved reductions in production costs through mass production. Moreover, steps were taken to conduct in-house manufacturing of the preform used to form PET bottles, and we achieved an industry-first with the introduction of preform molding machinery on a beverage production line. In logistics departments, through such initiatives as joint delivery with other companies in the same business and the implementation of a modal shift from long-distance truck transport to railway container transport, we are working to reduce transport costs and emissions of carbon dioxide and to address a shortage of truck drivers. Initiatives for Further Growth At Kirin Company, to continue working together with suppliers, supplier satisfaction survey each year. Moving forward, we will who are our business partners, in order to create diverse value strive to implement open, fair transactions through two-way through business activities that address social demands and communication with suppliers. expectations, we formulated the “Kirin Group Supplier CSR In the future, we will take steps to further bolster CSR Guidelines” and are working to implement CSR procurement. procurement in cooperation with suppliers, such as nurturing We establish a shared understanding of items that the Group’s domestic hops farmers, expanding Rainforest Alliance suppliers must comply with in such areas as respect for comcertification*1 and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) pliance and humanity, the environment, safety and security, certification,*2 and utilizing green electricity. alcohol-related problems, and social contribution. Major sup*1 International certification system that audits farms and certifies that they are pliers are asked to submit a “Supplier CSR Confirmation,” and sustainable in all of the areas of environmental protection, social equity, and economic viability we are aiming for a response rate of 100% for suppliers of *2 C ertification that wood and paper products are produced in a way that shows consideration for environmental conservation of forests, addresses the interests of the ingredients and packaging materials. Moreover, we conduct a regional communities where the forests are located, and is economically sustainable KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 47 SECTION SECTION 3 3 Kirin’s ESG Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a voluntary initiative through which companies and organizations committed to exercising responsible and creative leadership act as good citizens to help create global frameworks for realizing sustainable growth. Companies and organizations participating in the UNGC have their senior management commit to practice 10 universally accepted principles outlined in the areas of human rights protection, elimination of inappropriate labor practices, environmental preservation, and anti-corruption, and advance ongoing initiatives to accomplish the aim of these principles. The Kirin Group announced its participation in the UNGC in September 2005, and has since been implementing concrete measures for realizing the goals encapsulated in the UNGC’s principles. These measures have been incorporated into the Company’s relationships with employees and other stakeholders as well as into its business activities spanning the global value chain. Message from the President The world around us has been going through radical worldwide. Based on the UNGC’s 10 principles in the areas changes, and a wide range of issues have emerged that are of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corrupgetting increasingly serious. It is becoming a global consention, we are advancing initiatives targeting the realization of sus that not only governments and non-governmental sustainability for society and companies. organizations but also companies should play an active role Furthermore, the Company has established and in addressing social issues. The latest international frameannounced “Our CSV Commitment,” a mediumto longworks for achieving sustainable global growth, including term vision that pertains to the Sustainable Development the Sustainable Development Goals set forth by the United Goals. Guided by this vision, we will Nations and the Paris Agreement adopted at the 21st help address global issues as a Session of the Conference of the Parties to the United signatory to the UNGC. Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (COP21), stress the need for companies to make a more proactive contribution. The Kirin Group signed the UNGC and carries out its social responsibility through its corporate activities President & CEO of Kirin Holdings 48 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG ESG Initiatives To address environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues, the Group identified management issues for sustainable growth of the Kirin Group (Group Materiality Matrix)*1 as important themes for the long-term sustainability and development of the Kirin Group and of society. Based on this matrix, we will enhance our human resources and corporate culture and strengthen corporate government as these factors support our foundations for value creation. At the same time, we will faithfully fulfill our responsibilities to address social issues, such as those related to the environment, as a company seeking harmonious coexistence with society. *1 Please see page 29 for more details. Initiatives Related to Major Issues Below, we will introduce the initiatives the Group is advancing in relation to major issues with the aim of living up to the demands and expectations of society. These issues—namely global warming, alcohol-related problems, and food safety and security—are being addressed on a Groupwide basis through activities that include tackling the priority issues described in “Our CSV Commitment.”*2 *2 Please see page 28 for more details. 1 Global Warming 2 Alcohol-Related Problems In 2013, the Kirin Group established the Kirin Group Long-Term As a responsible alcohol producer we are concerned that the Environmental Vision together with the long-term targets for harmful use of alcohol can create adverse health consequences 2050. The aim of this vision is to guide us in stabilizing our and contribute to social problems. To address these issues, we business management and preserving the global environment have in place rigorous voluntary regulations for advertisements to ensure that we can continue to benefit from nature’s bounty. and promotions and are engaged in activities to educate people The importance of global warming prevention measures on the subject of responsible alcohol consumption. began to increase rapidly following the 2015 adoption of the In Japan, the national government unveiled the Basic Act on Paris Agreement. Accordingly, the Company has formulated Measures to Prevent Damage to Health Due to Alcohol in 2016. medium-term greenhouse gas emission reduction targets based Based on this plan, an industrywide movement is being on the methodology of Science Based Targets.*3 We are proadvanced to prevent attempts to lure individuals into inappromoting more efficient energy use while also expanding our priate imbibing habits through coordination with government usage of renewable energy in order to accomplish these targets. agencies and healthcare professionals. In Australia and New Zealand, meanwhile, we are expanding our lineup of low-alco*3 Science Based Targets is a joint initiative created by CDP, the UNGC, the World Resources Institute, and the World Wildlife Fund to encourage companies to hol beers to help facilitate responsible drinking while at the establish reduction targets based on scientific insight in order to keep the average increase in global temperature below 2°C. same time participating in industry initiatives for promoting healthy drinking habits among youths and all other adults. 3 Food Safety and Security Consumer concern for food safety and security, in relation to quality specifically, has been rising in the midst of threats to food safety in forms such as food terrorism, food mislabeling, and food poisoning (norovirus). We realize that addressing these threats is a top ­priority among our responsibilities as a corporate group that deals in food products. The Kirin Group’s basic quality policies entail a consumer orientation and a focus on quality. Accordingly, we strive to ensure the safety of our food products and utilize our various points of contact with consumers to provide them with information that gives them peace of mind when using our products. These efforts have stimulated an increase in the sense of security and reliability consumers hold with regard to the quality of our products. Moreover, we earnestly listen to consumer input and value communication with consumers, which enables us to faithfully supply ­information that proves Kirin’s reliability. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 49 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Human Resources—Valuable Resource Supporting Sustained Growth Message from Executive Officer in Charge of Human Resources Our human resources, which have unlimited potential, support the sustained growth of the Kirin Group and are the Group’s most valuable management resource. In the belief that employees and the Company are equal partners, the Kirin Group respects the hard work and individuality of its employees, who are thoroughly committed to their work and have a strong appetite for growth through their work. To this end, the Group strives to provide these employees with opportunities to take on new challenges and grow. This policy forms the foundation of the Basic Human Resources Principle, which outlines the basic principles for the Group’s human resources development initiatives and guides us in facilitating employee growth and career development. The Company’s operating environment continues to change, and we thus ­recognize the need to heighten our organizational capabilities, which underpin our efforts to continue providing consumers with new value. It is for this reason that we are engaged in various initiatives focused on cultivating leadership skills, developing human resources, reforming working styles, and promoting diversity. Toshiya Miyoshi Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer in Charge of Human Resources Basic Human Resources Principle Basic Human Resources Principle = Respect for Humanity We respect the efforts and individuality (humanity) of all employees, who have unlimited potential and naturally continue to grow and develop, and we strive to create an environment in which they can do their best. Employees and the Company are equal partners. Employees Company Employee promise (Commitment) Company promise (Commitment) Employees are Equal relationship The Company respects and supports “autonomous individuals.” through work “autonomous individuals.” Autonomous career formation D  evelopment of workers into professionals Independent job design Clarification of individual missions Autonomous as members of society Provision of fair treatment 50 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG Human Resources and Corporate Culture Reforms for Creating New Value The Kirin Group aims to reform its human resources strategies and corporate culture in order to remain a company that continually creates new value for consumers. Accordingly, we seek to provide employees that are thoroughly committed to their work and have a strong appetite for growth through their work with opportunities to take on new challenges and grow, regardless of their age or other attributes. In this quest, we seek to become a disciplined yet caring company that is passionately committed to developing its employees through their work and is actively involved in this growth process. Thereby, in creating new value, we will strive to give rise to an environment in which pursuing lofty targets and tackling new challenges is standard practice and the lessons learned from such undertakings are utilized in future endeavors. Important initiatives to this end include cultivating leadership skills, developing human resources, reforming working styles, and promoting diversity. An environment in which pursuing lofty targets and tackling new challenges is standard practice and the lessons learned from such undertakings are utilized in future endeavors Disciplined Yet Caring Company A meritocracy in which employees are motivated and able to grow through their work 2 3 4 Developing Human Resources Reforming Working Styles Promoting Diversity 1 Cultivating Leadership Skills 1 Cultivating Leadership Skills A corporate culture in which pursuing lofty targets and tackling new challenges is standard practice and essential to the Company’s ability to continue providing consumers with new value. The Group is aware of the massive influence that the words and deeds of leaders can have on the corporate culture and is thus dedicated to cultivating leadership skills. As one facet of these efforts, we are increasing opportunities for direct and reciprocal communication between senior management and division heads and the rest of our employee base. Furthermore, we have set up a program spearheaded by 130 prominent organization leaders aimed at encouraging leaders to act differently in order to better fulfill their responsibilities of accomplishing organizational targets and developing human resources. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 51 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Human Resources—Valuable Resource Supporting Sustained Growth 2 Developing Human Resources At the Kirin Group, we continually work to develop human resources, who we strongly believe are sources of value creation. To strengthen our competitiveness in a challenging operating environment and in an era that requires change, we must do our utmost to develop the people that will lead the growth of the Group in the future and people that can realize the creation of value linked to our growth strategies. The Kirin Group’s fundamental belief regarding human resources development is that “people grow through their work.” Our policy for human resources development is to aim for autonomous, enthusiastic self-development by each individual in order to realize management reform. On that basis, we are taking steps to address the three high-priority challenges described below. 1. Leaders should have responsibility for the development of their people and implement on-the-job training. 2. E veryone should understand the human resources development system and actively use the system to work toward self-development. 3. P eople aiming to be management leaders of the future should take steps to develop their capabilities with self-awareness and resolution. 3 Reforming Working Styles The Kirin Group has continued to push forward with workplace environment initiatives for ensuring the proper management of work hours, including promoting strict compliance with arrangements pertaining to Article 36 of the Labor Standards Act and encouraging employees to take multiple consecutive days off. In 2017, we will deploy measures to help create time for employees to tackle new challenges and engage in reflective thought. Through these initiatives, we are cultivating an environment in which pursuing lofty targets and tackling new challenges is standard practice and the lessons learned from such undertakings are utilized in future endeavors. One specific initiative in this regard is the implementation of measures that enable all employees to work from home, which include making it possible for employees to connect to Company servers from their home computer via the Internet. These measures are helping to create more free time for employees through increased productivity and efficiency. Meanwhile, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd., launched its “smart work” campaign following the July 2016 relocation of its head office as an initiative for cultivating its desired corporate culture and employee awareness. Health-Oriented Business Management As a conglomerate that delivers products and services contributing to consumer health and well-being, the Kirin Group will promote health-oriented business management and work to create an environment and opportunities that allow employees to proactively improve their own health. The end goal of these efforts is to thoroughly energize the organization. We are implementing measures that go a step further than our customary occupational health and safety activities (regular health examinations, stress checks, measures for preventing health issues from working excessive hours, etc.), with an eye to enhancing the effectiveness of these activities. In 2017, the president & CEO of Kirin Holdings made a health-oriented business management declaration to employees. Our initiatives on this front are focused on four themes of particular importance with regard to occupational health and safety and employee healthcare: lifestyle diseases, mental health, workplace environment, and appropriate relationship with alcohol. In February 2017, Kirin Holdings and Kyowa Hakko Kirin were recognized in the Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management—White 500 list released by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). 52 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG 4 Promoting Diversity Currently, the Kirin Group employs approximately 40,000 people at bases around the world. An important management challenge that we face is to increase our organizational capabilities by making full use of the strengths of these diverse human resources. Under the New Kirin Group Vision 2021 (New KV2021), we are aiming for a corporate culture in which all people associated with Kirin Group businesses in global business fields accept each other and in which diversity is leveraged as a strength. Centered on the Diversity Development Section, we are working to create a corporate culture and workplaces in which enthusiastic, diverse employees can work energetically to create new value and achieve growth through their work, without regard to gender, disability, age, nationality, sexual orientation, or gender identity. Promoting Opportunities for Women EIJYO COLLEGE Award More than a decade has passed since the establishKirin has been involved in EIJYO COLLEGE, a cross-industry organization ment of the Kirin Women’s Network, an internal orgafor promoting the efforts of women employees in sales positions, since its nization for actively supporting women’s careers and establishment. As part of our involvement, we conducted an experiment in network formation. Today, we continue to implement which a team of female employees without children sought to realize subboth top-down activities, in which the Group creates stantial improvements in labor productivity while adhering to the time opportunities and environments that facilitate active restrictions that are faced by working mothers. Based on the findings of this careers for women, and bottom-up activities, which experiment, we made suggestions including relevant management reforms support women’s self-development and career growth. to help women in sales positions to continue working after having children As a recent initiative, we formulated the Long-Term (mother accommodation guidelines), and training for male employees to encourage conduct that contributes to a more accommodating corporate Plan to Promote Active Participation by Women culture. Another suggestion was giving working mothers special business “KWN2021” in 2013, a step ahead of the implemencards that identify them as such in order to foster understanding among tation of the Act on Promotion of Women’s Participabusiness partners regarding their efficiency efforts and time limitations. tion and Advancement in the Workplace. Through These suggestions were highly evaluated by third-party judges, and Kirin systematic development and assignments, this plan was thus presented with the fiscal 2016 has expanded career opportunities and advanced EIJYO COLLEGE Award. Kirin has actupromotions for women and developed women’s ally put these suggestions into practice careers in such positions as executive officer, presiand is thereby working to cultivate a corporate culture that is more condudent of Group companies in Japan and overseas, cive to the efforts of female employees. general manager, and plant manager. TOPICS Support for Human Resources Development at Myanmar Brewery The Company commenced investment in Myanmar Brewery Limited in August 2015, and we have since been leveraging the full capacity of the Kirin Group to help this company maintain and fortify its leading position in Myanmar’s rapidly changing beer market. These efforts have included planning and conducting training for management candidates at Myanmar Brewery to support the company’s human resources development. The goal of these efforts is to cultivate understanding with regard to the Kirin Group and facilitate engagement in order to foster management literacy that is suited to global leaders. Support and involvement in the development of future leaders at an overseas company is a first for Kirin. This undertaking enabled us to accumulate expertise in this area and to strengthen our organizational capabilities with regard to global human resources management. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 53 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Corporate Governance Interview with an Outside Director I think that we outside directors should not only offer sideline support but should also fulfill our role in providing monitoring functions in order to aid the Kirin Group in achieving growth led by the creation of value. Toshio Arima Outside Director 1967 Joined Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. 2002 President and Representative Director of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. 2006 Director of FUJIFILM Holdings Corporation 2011 Outside Director of the Company (current position) 2012 Executive Advisor of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. (current position) Outside Director Toshio Arima assumed the position of Chairman of the Board at Kirin Holdings in April 2016. We asked Mr. Arima for his honest opinions regarding the Company’s corporate governance system. Q What is your evaluation of Kirin Holdings’ corporate corporate governance system has been evolving into something governance system? truly leading edge. Kirin Holdings has been rapidly reinforcing its corporate goverQ nance system, particularly in the past few years. Today, around Is this reinforced corporate governance system half of the members of the Board of Directors are outside functioning effectively? directors. In addition, I received the important post of Chairman of the Board in 2016. Other reinforcement measures included One of the strengths of Kirin Holdings can be found in its prounifying the Nomination Advisory Committee and the Remuactive stance toward boosting the effectiveness of its corporate neration Advisory Committee. The Company also revised its governance system. officer remuneration system to provide officers with more This stance is exemplified by the Company’s outside director incentive to pursue mediumto long-term improvements in system. Rather than being content with bringing its system corporate value through ongoing increases in yearly perforin line with Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, I strongly mance, as opposed to simply focusing on single-year business believe that Kirin is committed to making its system truly effecplans. Thanks to these efforts, I would say that Kirin Holdings’ tive. The Kirin Group will have to move forward with globalization 54 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG and the creation of new value if it hopes to achieve sustained that there is a high degree of understanding with regard to growth. This endeavor, however, will entail exposure to various concepts such as shared value and ESG, which exceed the risks. Growing while minimizing the potential impacts of these ­traditional boundaries of CSR. What I would like to commend risks will require management to incorporate outside insight the most is the fact that the Group based its business plan on and diverse perspectives, and I feel that Kirin Holdings is well the three social issues of health and well-being, community aware of this fact. engagement, and the environment. The process of incorporatOutside directors must have an in-depth understanding of ing these ideas into the business plans of Group companies is executive management policies and the circumstances surthe very essence of CSV management. rounding front-line operations in order to effectively fulfill their Looking ahead, the Kirin Group will have to overcome the role. To help foster such an understanding, we had the Comchallenge of effectively explaining how its initiatives for addresspany start holding study meetings for outside directors and ing social issues will contribute to higher economic value in joint briefings with President Isozaki last year. We also have addition to improvements to social value. Good examples of the Company provide us with various opportunities to monitor ­initiatives that realize increases in both economic and social front-line operations in Japan and overseas. As a result of value have begun to generate results. 47 Todofuken no Ichiban these measures, outside directors have been actively particiShibori is one such example. I hope that the Group will conpating in meetings of the Board of Directors, and unique and tinue to accelerate and expand these initiatives into the future. diverse perspectives from outside directors have been increasKirin was also quick to respond to the United Nations’ SDGs. ingly incorporated into management. Specifically, such perThe SDG Industry Matrix is a set of industry-specific documents spectives have been utilized in defining the desired function showcasing examples of initiatives from numerous global comof the Board of Directors, in conducting negotiations related panies created by the UN Global Compact to provide guidelines to M&A activities, and in monitoring management. for corporate action related to the SDGs. The Kirin Group began referencing these documents even prior to the release of their Q Japanese translations. In the future, I look forward to seeing I assume that, given the time restrictions placed on outside Kirin grow into the type of major global company that can be directors, efficient Board of Directors proceedings are introduced in the SDG Industry Matrix. important. What are your thoughts on this matter? Q You are exactly right. After taking up the position of Chairman In closing, could you explain what you hope to accomplish as of the Board last year, I have continued to discuss, in depth, the Chairman of the Board? the subject of efficiency in the proceedings of Kirin Holdings’ Board of Directors with President Isozaki. If I may make a soccer analogy, a good referee, with mutual Previously, a large amount of time was devoted to issues respect between the players, recognizing them as the stars of related to individual subsidiaries. Beginning this year, however, the event, manages the game to guarantee high quality. I aim we have begun delegating responsibility regarding such issues to play this type of role as the Chairman of the Board. to the executive branch and to operating companies whenever The Kirin Group has numerous strengths. It is my hope that possible. This has enabled Kirin Holdings’ Board of Directors to the Group will be able to fully leverage these strengths into the focus more on discussions of overarching, Groupwide strategies. future in order to improve its economic and social value and thereby achieve growth led by the creation of value. Q In supporting these efforts, I think that we outside directors I understand that you are a member of the United Nations should not only offer sideline support but should also fulfill our Global Compact Board. From that standpoint, how do you role in providing monitoring functions. view the Kirin Group’s CSV management? The Kirin Group positions CSV as the foundation for its management, and I think that this stance makes the Group a forerunner in terms of CSV management in Japan. Moreover, I feel KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 55 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Corporate Governance Basic View on Corporate Governance The Kirin Group views the reinforcement of corporate governance Corporate Governance Objectives as a top management priority. In line with its corporate philosoEnhancement of corporate value over the medium to long term phy and the “One Kirin” Values that are shared across the Kirin Group, the Group believes that achieving the 2021 Vision outlined in its long-term management vision New KV2021 will lead to sustainable growth for the Group and to greater corporate Corporate philosophy / 2021 Vision value over the medium to long term. Accordingly, the Kirin Group will continue to build upon its corporate governance system to keep it in tune with the times. Business plan / Business strategy The Kirin Group believes that cooperation with its stakeholders will be indispensable to putting its corporate philosophy into practice and turning the 2021 Vision into a reality, and therefore Constructive dialog Cooperation with the Group respects its stakeholders’ respective viewpoints. With with shareholders stakeholders and investors regard to shareholders and investors, the Kirin Group will exercise management accountability with integrity. Effective, efficient governance system Evolution of Corporate Governance System 1999 2007 2015 2016 Implementation of Group KV2015 long-term KV2021 long-term Evolution to New KV2021 Business Plans management management vision management vision Clarification of Kirin Group’s Overseas expansion  ursuit of rapid growth P O  rganic growth utilizing established unique CSV Aggressive overseas expansion foundations of global businesses Formulation of 2016–2018 through M&A activities acquired under KV2015 Medium-Term Business Plan Revitalization of Japan Integrated  estructure and Revitalize Kirin, R Beverages Business Groupwide 1999 2007 2013 2015 Organization Introduction of in-house company Introduction of pure holding company Introduction of regional headquarters Introduction of integrated operation system with Kirin Brewery as system and establishment of system with Kirin Holdings as global system for Kirin Holdings and operating and holding company Kirin Holdings headquarters Kirin Company Establishment of Kirin Company as regional headquarters for Japan Integrated Beverages Business 2003 2006 2014 2016 Establishment of Advisory Board  stablishment of Group Executive E C  hange in name of Group CSR Announcement of corporate Establishment of Appointment Advisory Committee Committee to Group CSV Committee governance policy Committee and Compensation Establishment of Group Information Unification of Appointment Advisory Corporate Governance Evolution Advisory Committee Disclosure Committee 2015 Committee and Compensation Establishment of Group Establishment of Group CSR Introduction of new executive officer Advisory Committee to form Risk Management Committee Committee system at Kirin Holdings and Kirin Nomination and Remuneration Streamlining of the Board of Directors Increase in number of outside Company Advisory Committee officers Appointment of executive officers in Reorganization of Group Risk charge of overseas operations at Management Committee into Group 2010–2012 Kirin Holdings Risk and Compliance Committee L iquidation of marketable securities Appointment of outside director as and other assets Chairman of the Board 2017  evision of officer remuneration R system Introduction of restricted stock c­ ompensation system (performance-based) Note: Details regarding the Kirin Group’s corporate governance rules, including its Corporate Governance Policy and Corporate Governance Report, can be found on the Company’s WEB Corporate Governance (Related Rules) ­corporate website. http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/policy/provisions.html 56 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG Key Points of Corporate Governance Point 1 Highly Transparent and Impartial Corporate Governance Structure P58 Point 2 Highly Flexible Operational Execution System PP59 – 60 Point 3 Remuneration System Increasing Incentive to Improve Shareholder Value P61 Corporate Governance Structure (As of April 1, 2017) Kirin Holdings Company, Limited General Meeting of Shareholders Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors Chairman Auditing Auditing Independent Accounting Auditor Inside Outside Inside Outside Directors Directors Directors Directors 2 3 5 4 Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee Auditing Chairman Auditing Inside Outside Directors Directors 2 3 President Group Executive Committee Group CSV Committee Internal Auditing Executive Officers Group Risk and Compliance Committee Group Internal Audit Group Information Disclosure Committee Departments Internal Auditing Group Companies Regional Headquarters Operating Companies KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 57 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Corporate Governance Point 1 Highly Transparent and Impartial Corporate Governance Structure Duties of the Board of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board The Board of Directors takes on decisions on legal matters and on important Group operational execution matters and is also responsible for monitoring operational execution by directors and for developing appropriate internal control systems across the Group. Four of the nine directors are outside directors, one of whom serves as the Chairman of the Board, helping to ensure the objectivity and effectiveness of management monitoring functions. The Audit & Supervisory Board is able to call upon both the ability of standing Audit & Supervisory Board Members to collect information within the Group and the independence of outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Audit & Supervisory Board also exchanges opinions with outside directors and shares information gained through auditing activities. TOPICS management viewpoint and the sharing of management 1 Evaluations of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness information. Initiatives to address these issues were The Company implemented a new system for the Board launched in January 2017. of Directors at the end of March 2016. After putting this system in place, discussions were held among the Board 2 Opportunities for Sharing of Information of Directors based on self-evaluation surveys filled out by by Outside Officers directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. An We seek to foster a deeper understanding of the Kirin overall review of the Board of Directors was then conducted Group’s business among outside officers. Accordingly, the from the perspectives of the relationship between the Board Company has begun organizing study meetings at beer and management, the composition of the Board, and probreweries exclusively for outside officers as well as forums ceedings and discussions at Board meetings. Through this for exchanging opinions between outside officers led by the review, it was determined that the Board of Directors was Chairman of the Board. In addition, information sharing generally effective. However, there were issues identified meetings are held to facilitate coordination between outside with regard to the sufficiency of discussions from a Group directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee As an advisory body to the Board of Directors, the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee discusses the following matters from an objective and fair perspective and reports to the Board of Directors. The matters that are discussed and reported on include the nomination and remuneration of directors, executive officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. This committee comprises a majority of outside directors and is also chaired by an outside director in order to ensure high levels of transparency in corporate governance. Matters Examined by the Nomination and Remuneration TOPICS Advisory Committee 1 Deliberation regarding Remuneration Systems Officer* nomination policies and successor proposals for Officers (Please refer to page 61.) Officer* remuneration systems, levels, and amounts 2 Oversight of CEO Successor Plan Kirin Holdings CEO successor plan The Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee examined the CEO successor plan with regard to mat* Directors, executive officers, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members of Kirin Holdings ters including the necessary criteria for being the CEO and major Group companies and highly transparent candidate selection processes. 58 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG Point 2 Highly Flexible Operational Execution System Kirin Holdings has established the following committees to function as advisory bodies to the president & CEO. Group Risk and Group Information Group Executive Committee Group CSV Committee Compliance Committee Disclosure Committee Chairman President & CEO President & CEO Executive officer in charge of Executive officer in charge of Risk Management Finances (CFO) Members • Executive officers • CEOs of regional Same as members of Director of Group Corporate •S tanding Audit & headquarters Group Executive Committee Strategy, Group Finance, Supervisory Board Members • President of Group Legal, and Group •H eads of divisions Kyowa Hakko Kirin Corporate Communications related to agenda items • Executive officer in Observers: Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Director of Group •P residents of Group charge of CSV Internal Audit companies Secretariat Group Corporate Strategy Group CSV Management Group Corporate Strategy IR Section, Group Corporate Section, Group Corporate Communications Strategy Meeting frequency Once a month Once a year, in principle As necessary based on risk Once a quarter management cycle and circumstances Group Executive Committee and Group CSV Committee COLUMN The Group Executive Committee assists the president & CEO in decision making on matters Cross-Shareholdings related to strategies and investments that will have a significant impact on the Kirin Group. Kirin Holdings’ Board of Directors The Group CSV Committee meets to support the Kirin Group’s efforts to actively promote examines the rationality of crossCSV. The presidents or CEOs of major Group companies assemble at committee meetings shareholdings on an annual basis. to confirm the progress of the CSV initiatives forming the foundation for Group management The holdings are evaluated from a and take part in discussions based on input from society and stakeholders. This committee comprehensive perspective considering factors such as their necessity to also functions as a forum for enhancing our CSV initiatives, and is thus used as a means of business operations for contributing monitoring measures related to “Our CSV Commitment.” The chairman of the Group CSV to stable financing and the procureCommittee offers guidance on how to increase the effectiveness of the CSV initiatives ment of raw materials, business partimplemented in a given fiscal year during the ­following year. nerships, and sales policies, as well as share price trends, profitability, shareholding risks, etc. Those crossGovernance of Group Companies shareholdings for which the reason Kirin Holdings is reinforcing the governance of Group companies through the Board of for holding has been diminished will Directors. In addition to appropriately delegating authority to Group companies, directors be sold. As of December 31, 2016, and executive officers are also dispatched to these companies. With regard to the Overseas the Company held shares of 39 Integrated Beverages Business, an executive officer of Kirin Holdings has been assigned companies, with a total value on responsibility for the entirety of overseas operations, and executive officers with operational the Consolidated Balance Sheets of ¥72,232 million, for purposes other execution responsibilities have been appointed at Brasil Kirin and Myanmar Brewery. than pure investment. These officers enable swift and accurate response to management issues faced overseas. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 59 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Corporate Governance Point 2 Highly Flexible Operational Execution System Risk Management The Kirin Group establishes risk management systems and works to manage risk to ensure that it can accurately identify and address risks with the potential to seriously impede the accomplishment of its targets or impact its business continuity. Priority risk areas have been defined that include risks related to new strategies or initiatives and risks arising from major changes in the operating environment. Group companies identify serious internal and external risks and formulate response measures as part of the process of establishing annual business plans. Kirin Holdings promotes Groupwide risk management. Specific measures to this end include putting forth the Group’s risk management policies, confirming that Group companies have effectively identified serious risks, and monitoring the status of response plans relating to these risks and their implementation. Risk Management Cycle Major Identified Risks PLAN DO Risks related to business environment Identify serious risks and formulate risk Implement risk response plans 1. Laws, regulations, and tax systems response plans 2. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates A  s part of the process of establishing G  roup companies implement risk 3. Increases in raw material and energy annual business plans, Group companies response plans. prices identify serious risks that could impact 4. Weather, climate change, natural disastheir operations based on the Group’s risk ters, and infectious diseases management policies and then formulate 5. Financing risk response plans. 6. Changes in the value of asset holdings 7. Changes in the trends of economic and  irin Holdings confirms that K market environments and population Group companies have effecmovements tively identified serious risks. P D 8. Overseas operations Risks related to business operations A C 1. Business and capital alliances ACT CHECK 2. Human resources Improve risk Monitor implementation 3. Product safety management measures status of risk response plans 4. Information leakage and information systems K  irin Holdings reports to the Group  irin Holdings and Group companies K 5. Occurrence of litigation and fines Risk and Compliance Committee on cirmonitor the implementation status of Note: Details regarding Business and Other Risk Factors cumstances regarding serious risks and risk response plans as one part of can be found on the Company’s corporate risk management measures throughout the monitoring annual business plans. website. Group. The Company also implements Business and Other Risk Factors WEB necessary improvements to risk http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/ management. english/ir/policy/risks.html 60 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG Point 3 Remuneration System Increasing Incentive to Improve Shareholder Value Introduction of New Remuneration System for Officers In March 2017, Kirin Holdings revised its remuneration system for officers with the aim of providing officers with strong motivation to accomplish the goals of business plans and of better sharing mediumto long-term value with investors and shareholders. This new system for remuneration of directors and executive officers comprises fixed remuneration as well as annual bonuses offering short-term incentives and a restricted stock compensation system (performance-based) providing mediumto long-term incentives. The remuneration system for outside directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members comprises basic remuneration only out of consideration of the duties of these officers, which are centered around oversight and auditing. In fiscal 2017, the remuneration system will employ the following frameworks. Changes from Prior Frameworks 1 Larger Portion of Performance-linked Remuneration 2 Introduction of Restricted Stock Compensation System Under the new remuneration system, performance-linked (Performance-based) remuneration will represent approximately 50% of the total Under this system, Kirin Holdings allocates the Company’s stock remuneration of an individual should they meet their with temporary transfer restrictions to directors and executive performance targets. officers. The aim of this system is to encourage officers to Yearly Bonus: A yearly bonus will be linked to consolidated remain vigilant in their management efforts and to provide motioperating income. If the target for consolidated operating vation to increase the Company’s stock price. income is met, 100% of the planned bonus amount will be A Shares with transfer restrictions will be issued each fiscal paid. Moreover, the new system provides for a greater range year, in principle. of fluctuation in the bonus amount paid, between 0% and B The portion of shares for which restrictions will be lifted, 200% of the planned amount, should actual performance between 33% and 100% of all applicable shares, is deterfall below or exceed the target, allowing for fine-tuned remumined based on first-year performance. neration amounts. C Directors and executives continue to hold shares issued Restricted Stock Compensation: The restricted stock comthrough this system while transfer restrictions are in place, pensation system (performance-based) will use ROE before encouraging vigilance in management efforts and providing amortization of goodwill, etc., and normalized EPS, both of motivation to increase the Company’s stock price. which have quantitative targets set in the 2016 MTBP, as its D When the restriction period (three years in principle) ends, indicators in order to provide strong motivation to accomplish transfer restrictions are lifted for the portion of shares deterthe targets of this plan. mined in B above, and shares for which transfer restrictions are not lifted are acquired without payment by the Company. Previous Share number Basic Remuneration Yearly Bonus C Restriction period (3 years in principle) A Current Allocate shares Restricted Stock Basic Remuneration Yearly Bonus B D  etermine portion D Remove Compensation for restriction lifting transfer restrictions Fixed Remuneration Performance-linked Remuneration Approx. 50% Approx. 50% Continue holding Continue holding Continue holding FY 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4th year KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 61 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Corporate Governance Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of April 1, 2017) Akihiro Ito Katsunori Nagayasu Toshiya Miyoshi Masahito Suzuki Director of the Board, Outside Director Director of the Board, Standing Audit & Supervisory Senior Executive Officer & CFO Senior Executive Officer Board Member Kimie Iwata Toshio Arima Yoshinori Isozaki Outside Director Outside Director President & CEO 62 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG Fukutaka Hashimoto Chieko Matsuda Masakatsu Mori Motoyasu Ishihara Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Standing Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Keisuke Nishimura Shoshi Arakawa Yasuyuki Ishii Representative Director of the Board, Outside Director Director of the Board, Vice President Senior Executive Officer KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 63 SECTION 3 Kirin’s ESG Corporate Governance Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and Executive Officers (As of April 1, 2017) Directors = Area of Responsibility Yoshinori Isozaki Keisuke Nishimura President & CEO Representative Director of the Board, Vice President Investment Strategy, Overseas Business 1977 Joined the Company 1980 Joined the Company 2015 President & CEO of the Company 2017 Representative Director of the Board, (current position) Vice President of the Company (current position) Major Concurrent Positions  Major Concurrent Positions  Representative Director and President & CEO Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited of Kirin Company, Limited Director of San Miguel Brewery Inc. Director of China Resources Kirin Beverages (Greater China) Company, Limited Director of Myanmar Brewery Limited Akihiro Ito Toshiya Miyoshi Yasuyuki Ishii Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer & CFO Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer, IR, IT HR and General Affairs, Marketing, Supply Chain Management Corporate Brand Management (Production, Logistics, Procurement) 1983 Joined the Company 1982 Joined the Company 1980 Joined the Company 2015 Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer 2015 Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer 2017 Director of the Board, Senior Executive Officer of the Company (current position) of the Company (current position) of the Company (current position) Major Concurrent Positions  Major Concurrent Positions  Major Concurrent Positions  Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Senior Executive Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Director of Kirin Business System Company, Limited Director of San Miguel Brewery Inc. Director of Brasil Kirin Holding S.A. Information on matters related to the nomination of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members can be found on the Company’s corporate website. WEB Management (Profile and Reasons for Nomination) http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/company/board/ WEB Criteria regarding the Independence of Outside Officers http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir/policy/pdf/governance20160215e_02.pdf 64 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s ESG Outside Directors*1 *1 Outside Director as described in Article 2–15 of the Companies Act of Japan Toshio Arima Shoshi Arakawa Kimie Iwata Katsunori Nagayasu Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board*2 Outside Director of the Board Chairman of the Board 1968 Joined Bridgestone Corporation 1971 Joined the Ministry of Labour 1970 Joined The Mitsubishi Bank, 2006 CEO and President, 2004 Director and Corporate Officer of Limited 1967 Joined Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Representative Board Member of Shiseido Company, Limited 2008 Representative Director, President 2002 President and Representative Bridgestone Corporation 2008 Director and Executive Vice of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Director of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. 2012 Chairman of the Board of President of Shiseido Company, UFJ, Ltd. 2006 Director of FUJIFILM Holdings Bridgestone Corporation Limited 2012 Representative Director, Chairman Corporation 2013 Advisor of Bridgestone 2012 Outside Audit & Supervisory of The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Corporation (current position) Board Member of the Company, UFJ, Ltd. 2011 Outside Director of the Company (current position) 2015 Outside Director of the Company Advisor of Shiseido Company, 2016 Senior Advisor of The Bank of (current position) Limited Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 2012 Executive Advisor of Fuji Xerox Co., 2016 Outside Director of the Company ­(current position) Ltd. (current position) (current position) Outside Director of the Company (current position) *2 F ulfills the requirements for designation as an Outside Director stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Company’s criteria regarding the independence of Outside Officers Audit & Supervisory Board Members Masahito Suzuki Motoyasu Ishihara Fukutaka Hashimoto Masakatsu Mori Chieko Matsuda Standing Audit & Supervisory Standing Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member Board Member*3 Board Member*3 Board Member*3 1980 Joined the Company 1981 Joined Kirin-Seagram 1979 Registered attorney-at-law at 1969 Joined Arthur 1987 Joined The Long-Term Credit 2014 Standing Audit & Supervisory Co., Ltd. (currently, Tokyo Hatchobori Law Office Andersen, LLP Bank of Japan, Limited Board Member of the Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd.) (current position) 1995 Japan Representative of 2006 Representative Director of Matrix, Company (current position), 2015 Standing Audit & Supervisory 2014 Outside Audit & Supervisory Andersen Consulting (curInc. Audit & Supervisory Board Board Member of the Board Member of the rently, Accenture Japan Ltd.) 2011 Professor of School of Business Member of Kirin Company, Company (current position) Company (current position) 2013 Vice Chairman of Administration, Department of Limited (current position) 2016 Auditor of Kyowa Hakko Kirin International University of Urban Liberal Arts at Tokyo Co., Ltd. (current position) Japan (current position) Metropolitan University (current 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board 2015 Outside Audit & Supervisory position), Professor of Department Member of Kirin Company, Board Member of the of Business Administration, Social Limited (current position) Company (current position) Sciences at Tokyo Metropolitan University (Graduate School) (current position) 2016 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (current position) *3 Outside Company Auditor as described in Article 2–16 of the Companies Act of Japan. Also fulfills the requirements for designation as an Outside Auditor stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and complies with the Company’s criteria regarding the independence of Outside Officers Executive Officers Hiroshi Ogawa Ryosuke Mizouchi Takeshi Minakata Noriaki Kobayashi Noriya Yokota Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Senior Executive Officer Director of the Board, Senior Executive Director of the Board, Senior Executive President and Representative Director of the Board, Senior Executive Director of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President of Kirin Company, Limited Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Director of Myanmar Brewery Limited Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Officer of Kirin Company, Limited Public Relations, CSV, Overseas Business R&D, Quality Assurance Group Corporate Strategies Risk Management, Legal Overseas Business – Brasil Kirin – Myanmar Brewery KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 65 SECTION 4 Kirin’s Businesses Kirin’s History of Progress The history of the Kirin Group dates back to 1907, when the Kirin Brewery Company was founded and took over the business of the Japan Brewery Co., Ltd., which had been established in Yamate, Yokohama. Since that time, the Group has made sustained progress with a focus on offering products with higher added value, implementing business diversification and globalization, and enhancing management. Moving forward, the Group will continue to value the pursuit of innovation, a customer orientation, and a focus on quality, which have been a part of the Group’s corporate DNA since its founding. Kirin’s resilience enables the Group to respond to evolving markets and consumer needs and is a key strength in Kirin’s endeavors to increase corporate value. Details regarding Kirin’s history of progress can be found on Adding Higher Value to Products Kirin Holdings’ corporate website. Corporate History Business Diversification and Globalization WEB http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/company/history/ 1888 Launch of Kirin Beer 1986 To ensure a full-fledged GermanLaunch of style beer, ingredients and equipKirin Gogo-no-Kocha ment were imported from Germany This was Japan’s first black tea and a German technician was hired. beverage in a PET bottle. Kirin This product was launched by Gogo-no-Kocha created a new Japan Brewery, the forerunner to consumption scenario, enabling Kirin Brewery Company. black tea to be casually enjoyed anywhere, and it instantly dominated the market. 1928 Launch of Kirin Lemon Kirin Lemon, a non-alcoholic 1888 1980s beverage, does not use any artificial coloring agents in ­consideration for the safety and security of customers. Transformation from Kirin Beer achieves Diversification of management; Japan Brewery Co., Ltd. to 60% market share support for fulfilling lifestyles 1970s Kirin Brewery Company as top domestic brand incorporating beer 1907 1980s Establishment of The second phase of Kirin Brewery Company diversification Kirin Brewery Company, which took The Group included the promotion over the business of the Japan of diversification in the “Long-Range Brewery Co., Ltd., was founded by Management Plan.” Business development moved ahead in five parties related to the Iwasaki family, 1970s areas other than beer—non-alcoMitsubishi, and MEIDI-YA. The first phase of holic beverages, food, life sciences, diversification services, and overseas business. In addition to nurturing and strengthening the non-alcoholic beverages and spirits businesses, the Group also advanced into the food business. Koiwai Dairy Products Company, Limited, which was established in 1976, comThe launch of ESPO ®, a treatment agent for menced nationwide sales of cheese, renal anemia, marked the full-scale entry butter, and other dairy products. into the pharmaceuticals business. 66 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Businesses 2001 2009 2016 Launch of Kirin Chu-hi Hyoketsu ® Launch of Kirin FREE Launch of 47 Todofuken no (currently, Kirin Hyoketsu ®) Kirin FREE, the world’s Ichiban Shibori Kirin Hyoketsu ®, which was first 0.00%, completely This special Ichiban Shibori series developed as Kirin Brewery’s alcohol-free beerwas created together with customers first product under its compreflavored beverage, was living across Japan to discover the hensive alcoholic beverage created from a desire to distinctive appeal of the country’s strategy, established a strong eliminate drunk driving. local regions. position as a major brand in the canned chu-hi market. 2002 Launch of 2000 Tanrei Green Label Launch of Kirin Nama-cha This happo-shu This product was created with the (low-malt beer), utmost care directed toward bringing which realizes out the flavor of green tea, utilizing a 70% reduction raw tea leaf extracts rich with green in carbohydrate, tea flavor as well as fresh ideas and offers refreshnew manufacturing methods to truly ment for the 2012 accentuate this flavor. body and mind. Launch of Grand Kirin Tanrei Green Label established This product proposes the health-related category. new ways of enjoying 1990 beer through craft beer. Launch of Kirin Ichiban Shibori 2012 Aiming for a true, genuine Launch of beer that could only be Kirin Mets COLA made by Kirin, the Kirin Mets COLA was the first Company developed this cola beverage approved as a beer only using the first food for specified health uses. strain of malt liquid. It includes indigestible dextrin, 1990s 2016 which suppresses the absorption of fat from meals. Launch of unprecedented hit, Globalization and establishment Creation of Kirin Ichiban Shibori of Kyowa Hakko Kirin new beverage cultures 1998 Capital participation in Lion Nathan Limited (currently, Lion) 2006 2000s 2011 Schincariol Participações e Representações S.A. The Group implemented a capital Capital participation in Mercian (currently, Brasil Kirin) participation in Lion Nathan Limited, The Company commenced capital participation was made a 100% subsidiary a beer company operating in the in Mercian Corporation, a manufacturer and Oceania market. Active business seller of wine, shochu, whiskey, and spirits. development initiatives also got under This company has formed the core of the Kirin way in China. Group’s wine business since 2007. 2015 Acquisition of Myanmar Brewery 2008 The Company acquired Establishment of Kyowa Hakko Kirin 55% of the outstanding Kyowa Hakko Kirin was created through the merger shares of Myanmar of Kyowa Hakko Co., Ltd., in which Kirin had impleBrewery Limited, which mented a capital participation, and Kirin Pharma boasted a market share Company, Limited. Kyowa Hakko Kirin aims to be a in Myanmar of about 80%. global specialty pharmaceutical company. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 67 SECTION 4 Kirin’s Businesses At a Glance In the business domains of “food and well-being,” the Kirin Group conducts business activities on a global basis, centered on alcoholic beverages, non-alcoholic beverages, and pharmaceuticals and bio-chemicals. In this way, the Group is taking on the challenge of “creating new value.” Results for the Last Five Years Principal Companies Japan Integrated Beverages (¥ Billion) 1,200 (%) 10 Kirin Company Kirin Brewery 1,150 8 Kirin Beverage Fiscal 2016 results  1,100 6 Mercian Sales Composition of sales ¥ 1,153.2 billion 56 % 1,050 1,000 4 2 0 0 Operating income Assets 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY 67.2 821.6 (Plan) ¥ billion ¥ billion Sales (left) Operating profit margin (right) Overseas Integrated Beverages (¥ Billion) 800 (%) 8 Lion Brasil Kirin Myanmar Brewery* Fiscal 2016 results 600 6 * Profit and loss has been Sales Composition of sales consolidated from fiscal 2016. 561.4 27 400 4 ¥ billion % 200 2 0 0 Operating income Assets 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY 43.3 932.7 (Plan) ¥ billion ¥ billion Sales (left) Operating profit margin (right) Pharmaceuticals and (¥ Billion) (%) Kyowa Hakko Kirin Bio-chemicals 360 18 Kyowa Hakko Bio 310 15 Fiscal 2016 results 260 12 Sales Composition of sales 335.7 16 210 9 160 6 ¥ billion % 110 3 0 0 Operating income Assets 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 FY 34.7 720.7 (Plan) ¥ billion ¥ billion Sales (left) Operating profit margin (right) 68 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Businesses Description of Business Major Products The Japan Integrated Beverages Business conducts manufacturing and sales of alcoholic beverages and non-alcoholic beverages in Japan, centered on Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Mercian. Kirin Company, the regional headquarters, works to strengthen the core brands through the allocation of management resources in a manner that transcends the alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage framework. Moreover, Kirin Company strives to create value that leads to surprise and inspiration by offering exceptional quality and taste while addressing societal issues from the perspective of the customer’s well-being and link to society, based on the brand message “Quality with Surprise.” The Japan Integrated Beverages Business also works to expand sales of Kirin brand products in Asia, Europe, the United States, and other regions. Leveraging the companies acquired through aggressive internationalization measures as its operating foundation, the Kirin Group manufactures and sells alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages on a global basis. The operating companies implement management in an autonomous manner for the most part, but at the same time the holding company, Kirin Holdings, actively works together with the operating companies to develop and implement strategies, and to resolve issues in order to maximize the operating companies’ growth potential. In addition, with New KV2021 as a shared vision and strategic framework, the overseas operating companies draw on each other’s strengths as well as the technical expertise cultivated in Japan, thereby supporting the growth of the Group as a whole. Kyowa Hakko Kirin, which is responsible for the current Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses, was created through the merger in 2008 of Kyowa Hakko Kogyo and Kirin Pharma, which handled the Kirin Group’s pharmaceutical operations. In the pharmaceuticals business, Kyowa Hakko Kirin conducts development, manufacturing, and sales of ethical drugs based on leading-edge biotechnology. In the bio-chemicals business, the company leverages innovative fermentation and synthesis technologies to provide high-value functional materials that meet a variety of needs in the pharmaceutical, medical, and healthcare fields. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 69 SECTION 4 Kirin’s Businesses Japan Integrated Beverages Business However, in the happo-shu and new genre categories, the Kirin Brewery sales volume of Kirin Nodogoshi Nama and other products was sluggish, and the overall beer product sales volume decreased year on year. The RTD category and the whiskey and spirits, Main pillar of the Group’s operations etc., category recorded favorable results. Engaged in the manufacturing and sale of beer, RTD products, whiskey and spirits, Progress Made in Fiscal 2016 and other products Enhanced appeal of the beer category No. 2 share in the beer market (32.4%*1) Sales volume of the Ichiban Shibori brand increased for No. 2 share in the RTD product market*2 the third consecutive year Concluded a capital and business partnership with the *1 Based on taxed shipment volumes (fiscal 2016) U.S. craft brewer Brooklyn Brewery *2 Kirin estimate (fiscal 2016) Brewing and sales of the Brooklyn brand in Japan started in 2017 Strengthened functional categories  Maintained at least a 40% share (Kirin estimate) in the functional category, Sales volume of Tanrei Platinum Double increased for the second consecutive year Strengthened business base; sustained brand investment  Sales volume of RTDs and whiskies increased Cut costs by ¥7.2 billion by cutting raw material costs and 2016 MTBP Basic Strategy increasing productivity at the plants Kirin Brewery generates substantial management resources for the Group overall, and strengthening Kirin Brewery’s profit Sales by Category (including liquor taxes) base is the Group’s highest priority. (¥ Billion) 728.9 698.5 707.0 684.3 705.9 Targeting a V-shaped recovery, with growth in sales and profits 39.8 32.5 34.6 37.2 40.5 62.7 72.7 78.0 80.8 85.4 2018 Guidance  187.6 166.6 166.2 151.0 153.6 Operating profit margin: More than 17% (Fiscal 2015: 15.1%) (excluding liquor taxes/before deduction of management fees) 159.2 154.0 152.5 143.2 140.4 Measures to Improve Profitability  Enhancing the appeal of the beer category 279.6 272.7 275.7 272.1 286.0 Grow sales volume in the traditional beer category through sustained support for Ichiban Shibori 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY Foster and grow craft beer brands Beer Happo-shu New genre RTD products Strengthening the functional products category Whiskey and spirits, others Lead market growth with a diverse lineup that leverages Kirin’s technical expertise Sales and Operating Income Strengthening the business foundation and sustaining (¥ Billion) brand investment 430.4 415.3 416.6 Roll out high-value RTD and whiskey products 409.0 402.2 Efficiently utilize advertising and sales promotion expenses 17.3% Achieve high productivity over the entire supply chain 17.4% 16.2% 15.1% 12.0% Fiscal 2016 Business Report 66.4 62.6 69.8 72.1 51.8 Kirin Brewery maintained its focus on revitalizing the beer market by strengthening the flagship Kirin Ichiban Shibori brand and 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY developing the craft beer category. In addition, Kirin Brewery Sales excluding liquor taxes Operating income Operating profit margin * Operating income for fiscal 2013 is after deduction of corporate management fees. achieved substantial cost reductions (¥7.2 billion) by strengthening the profit base through reductions in raw materials procurement costs and increases in manufacturing productivity. 70 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Businesses Fiscal 2017 Business Plan Basic Strategy In line with the liquor tax revision that was finalized in fiscal Enhancing the Appeal of the Beer Category 2016, Kirin Brewery will work to enhance the appeal of the Kirin Brewery will provide new value through beer and work to beer category and to revitalize the happo-shu and new genre make beer even more attractive for consumers. We will take categories, where conditions are challenging. Kirin Brewery will steps to revitalize the beer market, such as contributing to take steps to strengthen its business base, such as through regional revitalization by continuing to sell 47 Todofuken no continued supply chain management cost reductions. In addiIchiban Shibori products and providing increased opportunities tion, we will take the lead in transforming the market structure for consumers to experience craft beer through such initiatives to avoid falling into excessive price competition. as “Tap Marché.” +¥ 14.4 billion Sales Revitalizing the Happo-shu and New Genre Categories (excluding liquor taxes) +3.6% Based on the future liquor tax revision and the category compoIncrease beer sales volume Improve the mix by increasing the component ratio of beer sition at Kirin Brewery, achieving a recovery in sales volumes in Increase RTD sales volume the happo-shu and new genre categories is an urgent challenge. To strengthen its main brands, Kirin Brewery will develop new products with enhanced taste and function and will renew existOperating income +¥2.2 billion +3.2% Increase gross profits by increasing the sales volume of ing products. Stepped up initiatives will include the launch of Nodogoshi Special Time, a full-year extension of Nodogoshi, non-alcohol products which is the No. 1 brand in the new genre category. Continue to improve productivity at plants by working to cut raw material costs and by not replacing workers who retire Regarding selling expenses, in order to strengthen brand Strengthening the Business Base by Sustaining power and contribute to increasing sales volume while Brand Investment effectively utilizing such expenses, aim for an overall level To advance the basic strategies in the beer, happo-shu, and comparable to fiscal 2016 new genre categories, sustained brand investment will be essential. In order to generate the funds for that investment, Fiscal 2017 Sales Plan Kirin Brewery will continue to reform the cost structure Percentage change Market expectation Category 2016 2017 2017 throughout the value chain and will take steps to efficiently Beer products, total -5.5% 1.9% Approx. -1% ­utilize selling expenses. In these ways, we will work to reform Beer -1.8% 4.8% Approx. -1% the profit structure. Happo-shu -6.2% -1.9% Approx. -2% New genre -8.7% 1.7% Approx. ±0% RTD products 3.7% 6.2% Approx. +6% Non-alcohol beverages -9.0% 33.4% Approx. ±0% Whiskey and spirits, etc. 14.0% 2.7% Approx. +3% (sales amount) Target Sales Volumes for Main Brands NEW Ichiban Shibori total Nodogoshi total Tanrei total +6.9% +3.9% –2.4% NEW RTD total Non-alcohol total +6.2% +33.4% KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 71 SECTION 4 Kirin’s Businesses Japan Integrated Beverages Business Progress Made in Fiscal 2016 Kirin Beverage Built a robust brand portfolio In the sugar-free tea category, the Nama-cha brand was revitalized, and the sales volume rose 44% year on year In the coffee category, FIRE was renewed and progress No. 4 share in the domestic non-alcoholic was made in fostering and strengthening the brand beverages market* Reformed the profit structure Overwhelming position in the black tea Sales volume of cans and small PET bottles increased 8% category with the Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha brand Strengthened the management of sales promotion Nurturing such brands as Kirin Nama-cha, expenses for large PET bottle campaigns By focusing on the main brands, the sales volumes of Kirin FIRE, and Kirin Mets Gogo-no-Kocha and Nama-cha significantly increased, and * Kirin estimate (fiscal 2016) in addition to increased operating rates and productivity at plants, losses due to waste were lowered and costs were reduced by ¥6.1 billion Used alliances to solve structural issues Alliance with Dydo Drinco contributed to increased vending machine sales Sales Volume by Category (10,000 cases) XXX.X 23,496 23,350 2016 MTBP Basic Strategy 19,737 21,728 2,018 2,008 1,840 4,168 4,040 To realize profitable growth, Kirin Beverage will build a robust 2,104 3,902 902 1,080 3,387 761 brand framework and reform its profit structure. 2,312 2,040 682 2,418 1,569 2,731 2,620 2,379 2,639 3,330 Achieve profitable growth through structural reform 2,950 3,129 3,234 2,877 3,100 1,929 2,053 2018 Guidance  4,737 4,808 5,264 5,300 Operating profit margin: More than 3% (Fiscal 2015: 1.5%) (before deduction of management fees) 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY Building a robust brand portfolio Black tea Japanese tea Coffee Fruit / Vegetable beverages Focus on the three major categories Carbonated beverages Health / Sports beverages Water Others Reforming the profit structure Switch to sales force evaluation based on brand profitabilSales and Operating Income (Loss) ity; focus on beverages in cans and small PET bottles (¥ Billion) Reform supply chain cost structure 372.0 354.6 353.5 345.7 349.7 Raise labor productivity 5.1% Using alliances to solve structural issues 4.9% 1.5% Fiscal 2016 Business Report 1.5% 17.2 18.0 (3.8) 5.3 5.6 The sales volume of Kirin Gogo-no-Kocha exceeded 50 million cases for the first time. Kirin Nama-cha, which underwent a −1.1% 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY complete product renewal, recorded sales of 26.2 million cases, more than 1.5 times the original sales volume target. Net sales Operating income (loss) Operating profit margin * Operating income (loss) for fiscal 2013 is after deduction of corporate management fees. The overall sales volume of non-alcoholic beverages achieved growth of 8.1%, significantly higher than market growth. In addition, Kirin Beverage also made steady progress in the thorough reform of its profit structure, and profit increased substantially due to the higher sales volume and to cost reductions (¥6.1 billion). 72 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Businesses Fiscal 2017 Business Plan cans and small PET bottles. We will also continue working to To achieve profitable growth, Kirin Beverage will work to reduce SCM costs through improvements in plant manufacturstrengthen main brands and to create new value in the “health ing efficiency and other measures. Furthermore, Kirin Beverage and well-being” category. We will also continue the shift toward will take steps to further increase operational efficiency and to a highly profitable business structure. improve low-profit segments, such as the water category. Moreover, we will consider alliances with other companies and search Sales S −¥ 4.9 billion −1.4%  oft drink sales volume on par with fiscal 2016 for areas in which we can establish win-win relationships. Improve the price/mix by increasing sales of cans and small PET bottles Mercian Impact of part of the selling expenses being deducted from sales (1Q only) +¥0.7 billion Wine group with three functions: Operating income +4.1% winemaking, import/sales, and wineries R  educe processing expenses by cutting raw material costs, Leading share in domestic wine market* and reduce waste by focusing on the main brands and reducing SKU * Kirin estimate (fiscal 2016) Increase selling expenses (fixed sales promotion expenses and advertising expenses) aimed at strengthening the brand power Fiscal 2016 Business Report and Fiscal 2017 Target Sales Volumes for Main Brands Business Plan NEW In fiscal 2016, Château Mercian was highly evaluated at a number of wine competitions in Japan and overseas, and the imported wine Casillero del Diablo recorded substantial growth. Overall, Mercian’s wine sales volume increased significantly year on year. Sales declined, due in part to the deduction of certain selling expenses from sales, but profit increased due Gogo-no-Kocha Nama-cha FIRE largely to the appreciation of the yen. +1% +8% +3% In fiscal 2017, aiming for sustained growth of the overall wine market, Mercian will streamline its offerings to focus on brands in each category, expand the range of scenarios in Basic Strategy which consumers enjoy wine, and make proposals targeting Building a Robust Brand Portfolio expansion among its main consumer base. With Gogo-no-Kocha, Nama-cha, and FIRE as the main brands, Kirin Beverage will work to create value with a focus on health Sales and Operating Income and well-being, and will work to enhance existing products and (¥ Billion) develop new ones. In these ways, Kirin Beverage will move 69.1 69.3 67.0 66.3 66.1 forward with the establishment of a sustainable, robust brand 5.4% portfolio. In addition, working together with LINE Corporation, we will roll out new sales promotion activities through Tappiness, 3.3% Kirin’s unique vending machine service. 2.7% 2.0% 3.6 0.4% 1.9 2.2 1.4 Shifting to a Highly Profitable Business Structure 0.3 2013* 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY Kirin Beverage will continue to advance profit management by implementing initiatives such as sales target control focused on Net sales Operating income Operating profit margin * Operating income for fiscal 2013 is after deduction of corporate management fees. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 73 SECTION 4 Kirin’s Businesses Overseas Integrated Beverages Business Lion Dairy and Drinks Business Lion (Oceania) 2018 Guidance  Implement the Turnaround Plan to grow profits Operating profit margin of 5% or more (2015: 2.3%) A food company in Oceania with a Beer, Operating income before amortization of goodwill, etc. Spirits, and Wine Business as well as a Measures to Improve Profitability  Dairy and Drinks Business Prioritize resource allocation to focus categories and brands No. 1 shares of the beer markets Focus sales efforts on milk-based beverages and other higher profit products in both Australia and New Zealand* Deliver value based on Health and Nutrition Leading national brands in multiple Strengthen brands through The Goodness Project categories in the Dairy and Reform cost structure of the entire supply chain Drinks Business Supply chain cost reductions in line with the Turnaround Plan * Kirin estimate (as of the end of September 2016) Fiscal 2016 Business Report In the Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business, the purchase price of imported beer increased due to the depreciation of the Australian dollar. As a result, the operating profit margin was down 1.2%. However, on a local basis, Lion achieved the planned 2016 MTBP Basic Strategy levels of sales and operating income. In the Dairy and Drinks In the Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business, a key new challenge Business, Lion advanced cost reductions through a reevaluafor fiscal 2017 and thereafter will be the recovery of profits foltion of the entire supply chain management, and achieved an lowing the loss of a sales license for ABI* brand products. In increase in profits despite a decline in sales volume. the Dairy and Drinks Business, Lion will increase profitability by implementing ongoing cost reductions while focusing on Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business—Progress during Fiscal 2016 sales in high-profit categories. Revitalized the market * Anheuser-Busch InBev Beer market in Australia grew slightly. During the campaign period, market growth was evident, it is believed that the Beer the Beautiful Truth campaign contributed to this growth Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business Strengthened growth categories Revitalize and grow the Australian beer market Volumes of the craft beers James Squire and Little Creatures increased. Completed the acquisition of craft breweries 2018 Guidance  in Australia and New Zealand (Australia: Panhead; Maintain market position New Zealand: Byron Bay) Maintain high operating profit margin (2015: 27.0%) Started overseas rollout of Little Creatures Measures to Improve Profitability  Reduced cost base Revitalize the market Cost reductions through increased efficiency (implemented Beer the Beautiful Truth campaign to revitalize the market in fiscal 2015) Strengthen growth categories Further strengthen our growing craft beer business Develop growing cider category Lion Dairy and Drinks Business—Progress during Fiscal 2016 Reduce indirect costs Prioritized resource allocation to focus categories and Reduced costs, gained operational efficiencies, other cost brands reduction initiatives undertaken in fiscal 2015 to be realPositioned milk-based beverages as “Full Force” category, ized in fiscal 2016 and increased the sales volume of the main brand Dare Delivered value based on Health and Nutrition Rolled out The Goodness Project Reformed cost structure of the entire supply chain The cost reductions through the Turnaround Plan enabled profits to increase despite the sales volume decrease of 10.4% Fiscal 2017 Business Plan In the Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business, Lion will work to build 74 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Businesses a new brand portfolio and achieve a recovery in profit. In the Lion Dairy and Drinks Business +A$36 MM Dairy and Drinks Business, Lion will further strengthen its sales capabilities in the milk-based beverages category and will conSales +2.0% tinue to implement cost reduction measures through a review Increase in the sales volume of milk-based beverages, of the overall supply chain management. In these ways, we will yogurt, specialty cheeses, etc. aim to increase sales and profits. Increase in sales volume by rebuilding the sales network and reinforcing sales capabilities Decrease in the sales volume of white milk Grow Earnings from Lion & Kirin Brands Post-ABI in Australia +A$19 Business portfolio management Strengthen flagship Sale of the wine business in Australia brands and brands Operating income* MM +26.2% in growth categories Cost structure reform Yen base: +¥1.5 billion Increase productivity through business Generate marketing transformation and IT Increase profitability by driving improved portfolio mix with expenses and Resource reallocation high margin categories management resources Sales team allocated to ABI brand sales Continue to cut costs through the supply chain * Operating income before amortization of goodwill, etc. Revitalize Australian Continue and evolve the “Beer beer market the Beautiful Truth” campaign Sales and Operating Income Brasil Kirin Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business Lion Dairy and Drinks Business (Million A$) 12.0% (Million A$) 2,669 2,706 2,409 2,040 26.4% 1,820 1,856 Operates beer and soft drink 27.0% 25.8% 4.9% businesses throughout Brazil 4.0% Strong presence 721 698 637 2.3% in northern and northeastern Brazil 46 72 91 Nurturing premium and craft beers 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY in southern and southeastern Brazil Sales Operating income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) Operating income ratio before amortization of goodwill, etc. Lion Beer, Spirits, and Wine Business Sale of Brasil Kirin Shares −A$296 MM In fiscal 2016, in a market with negative growth, Brasil Kirin Sales −11.0% achieved gains in the sales volume of both beer and soft Decrease in sales volume due to ABI brand loss drinks. Results were seen with measures to increase efficiency, Decrease in sales due to the sale of the Australian wine such as the sale of a plant, and Brasil Kirin was able to set a business target date of fiscal 2019 for a return to profitability at the operIncrease the craft beer sales volume and improve the unit price and mix by continuing the pricing policy ating income level. However, we believed that there were certain limitations in transforming Brasil Kirin into a sustainable and high-profit business on its own. To find the best option for Operating income* −A$60 MM Yen base: −¥5.1 billion −8.7% increasing shareholder value, we considered a wide range of actions, including a business alliance and the sale of shares. As a result, in February 2017 we concluded a stock purT  he weak Australian dollar will have a lower impact on the purchase expenses for imported beer chase agreement with Bavaria S.A. (a wholly owned Brazilian Although sales expenses will decrease by the amount subsidiary of Heineken International B.V.) whereby all shares in spent on ABI brands, marketing investments will increase Brasil Kirin are to be transferred to Bavaria. Moving forward, for own brands and Kirin brands steady, sustained plan implementation will be a key issue in * Operating income before amortization of goodwill, etc. achieving a smooth business transfer. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 75 SECTION 4 Kirin’s Businesses Overseas Integrated Beverages Business Progress Made in Fiscal 2016 Myanmar Brewery Expanded brand portfolio Developed and launched KIRIN ICHIBAN as a foreign premium brand and Myanmar Premium as a domestic premium brand, and established a gap-free brand portfolio Manufacturing and sales of beer in Myanmar Strengthened business platform No. 1 share of beer market in Myanmar In addition to the new packaging line, completed prepara(approximately 80%)* tions for increasing brewing capacity, which will enable the Strengths include dominant brand equity and company to respond to peak demand in 2017 Made progress in increasing production efficiency through a strong distribution network technological support from Kirin Brewery * Kirin estimate (as of the end of September 2016) Expanded sales in the supermarket channel in the household market Fiscal 2017 Business Plan Myanmar Brewery will implement appropriate marketing strategies by product category and advance human resources development to enhance organizational capabilities. Furthermore, the company will utilize Kirin’s technologies and know-how to expand production facilities. Kirin has decided to acquire 51% 2016 MTBP Basic Strategy of Mandalay Brewery in northern Myanmar. Moving forward, By increasing production capacity and expanding the brand Myanmar Brewery will steadily work to capture market growth portfolio, Myanmar Brewery will steadily capture market growth by acquiring new production and shipping facilities in and maintain and strengthen its dominant position as market northern Myanmar. leader. Invest to strengthen position as market leader Acquire Mandalay Brewery • Acquire the Mandalay brand 2018 Guidance  •F urther expand production facilities Maintain market position •A cquire production and shipping Capture share of market growth facilities in northern Myanmar Measures to Improve Profitability  Expand brand portfolio Explore launch of premium brand in Myanmar Robust brand portfolio Expand production facilities Strengthen business platform • Improve facility efficiency and Foreign premium Expand production facilities increase production through Strengthen and expand sales channels technological support from the Domestic premium Kirin Group • Expand can lines • Expand bottle lines Fiscal 2016 Business Report Mainstream beer Rapid progress was made with the process of integration Economy beer following the acquisition, and the sales volume of core product Myanmar Beer recorded favorable growth. In this setting, Myanmar Brewery took steps to strengthen its brand Sales and Operating Income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) portfolio. In addition, the Kirin Group provided technical sup(Billion kyat) port to expand and increase the efficiency of Myanmar 286 Brewery’s production facilities. 247 39.3% 36.4% 97 104 Sales Operating income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) Operating income ratio before 2016 2017 (Plan) FY amortization of goodwill, etc. 76 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Kirin’s Businesses Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses approval and progress is being made toward its launch. With Kyowa Hakko Kirin a continued focus on global strategic drugs, Kyowa Hakko Kirin will advance initiatives to rapidly launch products and to maximize their value. Pharmaceuticals Business Strengths in therapeutic antibodies Progress Made in Fiscal 2016 that leverage its leading-edge, Improved global competitiveness unique biotechnologies Kyowa Hakko Kirin has been working with Ultragenyx to Integrated range of capabilities extending from jointly develop KRN23. In June, KRN23 received breakR&D to manufacturing and sales through therapy designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), while at the end of the year the Bio-chemicals Business European Medicines Agency (EMA) accepted the application Providing customers around the world for approval for this drug. with substances related to amino acids and nucleic acids in the fields of pharmaceuticals, medicine, and healthcare Sales and Operating Income (¥ Billion) 355.7 331.3 325.1 335.7 336.0 16.4% 11.3% 2016 MTBP Basic Strategy 11.9% 13.2% 10.3% Aiming to make a leap forward to become a global specialty 54.3 38.8 46.8 38.0 pharmaceutical company, Kyowa Hakko Kirin plans to achieve 34.7 core operating income* of ¥100 billion or more in 2020. To that 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Plan) FY end, Kyowa Hakko Kirin will launch global strategic products in Net sales Operating income Europe and the United States. Accordingly, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Operating profit margin will continue to invest in R&D for new product development +¥0.2 billion and will move forward with the development of an overseas sales system. Sales + 0.1% * Core operating income (pre-consolidation) = Operating income + Amortization of goodwill + Equity in earnings of affiliated companies G  rowth in new products in the domestic and overseas Pharmaceuticals Business Realize solid growth as a global specialty pharmaceutical company Drop in the sales of patent-expired products due to the increased market penetration of generics 2020 Guidance  Increased licensing revenue from overseas Core operating income* of ¥100 billion or more (pre-consolidation) +¥3.2 billion Invest to Achieve Outstanding Growth  Improve global competitiveness Operating income + 9.4% Launch global products in Europe and the United States Increase gross profit through increased licensing revenue Build a global sales framework and organization Lower R&D expenses following the completion of the trials for pharmaceuticals in late-stage development in Japan In the Bio-chemicals Business, increase sales in highly Fiscal 2016 Business Report and Fiscal 2017 profitable businesses (online sales, overseas, etc.) year on Business Plan year In the Pharmaceuticals Business, sales decreased year on year due to the market penetration of generic drugs as well as the Three Global Strategic Products for Which Approval is Expected by 2020 impact of the domestic drug price revisions enacted in April. In Development Code Indication / Target Disease Japan, however, favorable sales were recorded by core drug KW-6002 Parkinson’s disease NESP ® as well as by new drugs. In research and development, KRN23 X-linked hypophosphatemia KRN23, a key product under development that will lead to KW-0761 Adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL), Cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) exceptional growth for Kyowa Hakko Kirin, quickly received KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 77 Financial Information Main Financial Data over the Past 11 Years Fiscal Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 Sales ¥1,665,946 ¥1,801,164 ¥2,303,569 ¥2,278,473 ¥2,177,802 Less: Japanese liquor taxes 402,321 400,555 380,691 359,743 342,527 Net sales 1,263,625 1,400,608 1,922,877 1,918,730 1,835,274 Japan Integrated Beverages Business — — — — 934,765 Overseas Integrated Beverages Business — — — — 403,977 Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses — — — — 404,714 Other businesses — — — — 91,818 Operating income 116,358 120,608 145,977 128,435 151,612 Operating income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) — — — 157,769 193,600 EBITDA* 1 191,161 213,129 264,620 212,838 269,392 Normalized EBITDA* 2 — — — — — Ordinary income 120,865 123,389 103,065 144,614 140,969 Net income (loss) 53,512 66,713 80,182 49,172 11,394 Normalized net income*3 — — — — — Cash flows from operating activities 123,685 114,585 131,281 189,907 218,025 Cash flows from investing activities (153,239) (269,621) (169,330) (321,654) (140,917) Cash flows from financing activities (50,012) 121,555 26,684 174,208 (140,197) Fiscal year-end Total assets ¥1,963,586 ¥2,469,667 ¥2,619,623 ¥2,861,194 ¥2,649,197 Interest-bearing debt 302,762 673,872 723,703 963,209 859,376 Shareholders’ equity*4 993,989 1,054,811 927,812 981,322 962,476 Per share data Net income (loss) per share (EPS) (Yen) ¥ 55.98 ¥ 69.86 ¥ 84.01 ¥ 51.54 ¥ 11.95 Normalized EPS (Yen)* 5 — — — — — EPS (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) (Yen) 66.18 79.72 34.72 81.92 94.31 Dividends per share (Yen) 17.00 21.00 23.00 23.00 25.00 Financial indicators ROE (%)*6 5.4 6.5 8.1 8.3 8.8 Operating income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) / Net sales (%) — — — — 10.5 Net debt / Normalized EBITDA (Times) — — — — — Consolidated dividend payout ratio (%)*7 30.4 30.1 27.4 44.6 26.5 Note: Figures are rounded down to the nearest million yen. *1 For fiscal 2007 and before: EBITDA = Income before income taxes and minority interests + Interest expense − Interest income − Dividend income + Depreciation + Amortization of goodwill, etc. For fiscal 2008 and thereafter: EBITDA = Operating income + Equity in earnings or losses of affiliates + Depreciation + Amortization of goodwill, etc. ± Special income and expenses (Losses on impairment regarding goodwill, etc., are excluded.) *2 Normalized EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation + Amortization of goodwill, etc. + Dividends received from entities accounted for by the equity method *3 Normalized net income = Net income + Amortization of goodwill, etc. ± Special income or expenses after income taxes and minority interests *4 Shareholders’ equity = Total net assets – Non-controlling assets – Subscription rights to shares (as recorded on the balance sheet) *5 Normalized EPS = Normalized net income / Average number of shares outstanding during period 78 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Financial Information ¥ Million Change (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2016 / 2015 ¥2,071,774 ¥2,186,177 ¥2,254,585 ¥2,195,795 ¥2,196,925 ¥2,075,070 –5.5 323,375 315,549 310,798 301,365 305,697 296,028 –3.2 1,748,398 1,870,627 1,943,786 1,894,429 1,891,227 1,779,041 –5.9 859,672 871,842 869,377 851,591 885,856 857,225 –3.2 454,216 579,391 685,254 693,175 624,169 561,439 –10.1 332,843 322,976 331,377 325,149 355,777 335,733 –5.6 101,665 96,417 57,778 24,513 25,424 24,642 –3.1 142,864 153,022 142,818 114,549 124,751 141,889 13.7 189,812 202,675 198,086 171,542 158,537 169,915 7.2 247,602 297,185 — — — — — — 307,339 301,486 273,183 258,922 253,006 –2.3 136,818 138,452 132,134 94,211 128,199 140,676 9.7 7,407 56,198 85,656 32,392 (47,329) 118,158 — — 112,868 115,426 108,779 107,063 113,880 6.4 196,792 212,061 205,517 155,247 171,011 226,468 32.4 (361,658) (48,379) 85,526 (139,397) (70,659) (77,520) — 193,214 (160,008) (272,357) (80,701) (78,221) (145,184) — ¥2,854,254 ¥2,951,061 ¥2,896,456 ¥2,965,868 ¥2,443,773 ¥2,348,166 –3.9 1,144,786 1,037,188 858,911 873,003 821,478 711,762 –13.4 852,922 948,943 1,075,861 1,101,833 663,842 680,662 2.5 ¥ 7.70 ¥ 58.44 ¥ 90.76 ¥ 35.27 ¥ (51.87) ¥ 129.49 — — 117 122 118 117 125 6.8 70.58 124.87 159.92 108.57 (2.83) 172.00 — 27.00 29.00 36.00 38.00 38.00 39.00 2.6 6.9 12.4 14.0 8.6 (0.3) 21.9 10.9 10.8 10.2 9.1 8.4 9.6 — 2.86 2.25 2.76 2.67 2.33 38.3 24.8 29.5 32.2 32.5 31.2 *6 ROE = Net income / Average shareholders’ equity For fiscal 2009 and thereafter: ROE calculated before amortization of goodwill, etc., and these figures exclude losses with no effect on cash outflow *7 For fiscal 2010 and 2011: Figures for consolidated dividend payout ratio use EPS (before amortization of goodwill, etc.), and these figures exclude losses with no effect on cash outflow For fiscal 2012 and thereafter: Figures for dividend payout ratio use normalized EPS KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 79 Financial Information Management’s Discussion and Analysis Note: Unless otherwise stated, all comparisons are with the previous fiscal year (fiscal 2015). Under the pure holding company structure adopted in July 2007, consolidated financial disclosures by Kirin Holdings Company, Limited (“the Company”), relate to the worldwide operations of the group of companies operating under this organizational structure (“the Kirin Group,” or “the Group”) and are in accordance with Japanese GAAP. As of December 31, 2016, the Kirin Group comprised 188 consolidated subsidiaries and 18 equity-method affiliates. Overview of Operations and Business Environment included in manufacturing expenses), and accounted for 3.5% of In the fiscal year under review, looking at the global economy, a consolidated net sales (excluding liquor taxes). Of these expenses, modest recovery was seen in China and other emerging Asian the R&D expenses for Kyowa Hakko Kirin, which handles the countries as well as in resource-producing countries. However, a Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses, were ¥53.5 bilsense of uncertainty persisted in the global economy due to fluclion, accounting for 84.7% of consolidated R&D expenses. tuations in international financial and capital markets coupled with Consolidated operating income (after amortization of goodwill, changes in the political environment and concerns regarding etc.) increased 13.7%, to ¥141.8 billion, following progress in geopolitical risks in several countries. measures to improve profitability, which resulted in a significant The Japanese economy experienced a modest recovery trend improvement in income at Kirin Beverage as well as a ¥25.0 billion overall. Consumer spending was generally stable against a backdecrease in costs at Group companies. Accordingly, the ratio of drop of steady improvement in the job market and wages, although operating income before amortization of goodwill, etc., to net sales sluggish consumption was seen in certain sectors. (excluding liquor taxes), increased by 1.2 percentage points, In this environment, we positioned raising Group profitability as to 9.6%, and the ratio of operating income after amortization of our top priority in our quest to restructure and revitalize Kirin on a goodwill, etc., increased by 1.4 percentage points, to 8.0%. Groupwide basis. We thus proceeded to reinforce business competitiveness through clearly prioritized investments. Looking at key Non-operating income and expenses, ordinary income initiatives of the medium-term business plan, efforts to “restructure Overall, non-operating income and expenses resulted in a net and revitalize low-profit businesses” progressed better than non-operating loss of ¥1.2 billion. Factors behind this net loss planned, largely due to the recovery of performance at Kirin included a ¥4.3 billion decrease in equity in earnings of affiliates Beverage and Brasil Kirin. Also, progress was in line with plans as well as lower gains on investment in subsidiaries primarily regarding efforts to “invest to achieve outstanding growth in the associated with the Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses. Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses.” Attempts to These factors offset the strong performance of San Miguel Brewery “invest, strengthen, and grow the profit base in beer businesses,” Inc. Ordinary income, the sum of operating income and net nonmeanwhile, were stifled by a year-on-year decline in overall beer operating gain or loss, was up 9.7% year on year, to ¥140.6 billion. sales volumes at Kirin Brewery. Special income and expenses Consolidated Statements of Income Major items included in special income were a ¥24.6 billion Consolidated sales and gross profit cancellation fee from the termination of the beer distribution Consolidated sales (including liquor taxes) decreased 5.5% year license with Anheuser-Busch InBev N.V. in Australia and a ¥15.4 on year, to ¥2,075.0 billion. This decrease can be attributed in part billion gain on sales accompanying the conclusion of an agreement to lower beer sales volumes at Kirin Brewery and the impacts of to transfer shares of a subsidiary of Brasil Kirin (the Macacu Plant). deducting sales promotion expenses from second-quarter sales at Special expenses amounted to ¥27.2 billion and primarily included Kirin Beverage in the Japan Integrated Beverages Business. Other the business restructuring expense recorded by Lion. However, factors leading to this decrease included the influence of foreign this amount was significantly lower than the massive amount of exchange rates on the Overseas Integrated Beverages Business. special expenses posted in the previous fiscal year. As a result, net Excluding liquor taxes, consolidated net sales declined 5.9%, special gain of ¥40.0 billion was recorded, an increase of ¥150.8 to ¥1,779.0 billion. billion from the previous fiscal year. The cost of sales (excluding liquor taxes) was down 6.7%, to ¥861.6 billion, while gross profit declined 5.2%, to ¥917.3 billion. Net income attributable to owners of the parent The gross profit margin (excluding liquor taxes) increased by 0.4 Following the increase in operating income and the recording of a percentage point, from 51.2% to 51.6%. substantial special gain, net income attributable to owners of the parent reached a record high of ¥118.1 billion, a significant SG&A expenses and operating income increase of ¥165.4 billion from the previous fiscal year. Earnings Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses declined 8.0% per share (EPS) were ¥129.49, and EPS before amortization of year on year, to ¥775.4 billion. Although R&D expenses rose in the goodwill, etc., was ¥172. Normalized EPS* increased ¥8 from the Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses, this increase was previous fiscal year, to ¥125. ROE before amortization of goodwill, offset by a decrease in sales expenses at Kirin Brewery and a etc., was 21.9%. decrease in SG&A expenses at Brasil Kirin. The ratio of SG&A expenses to net sales (excluding liquor taxes) decreased by 1.0 * Normalized EPS = Normalized net income/Average number of shares outstanding during period percentage point, to 43.6%. Normalized net income = Net income + Amortization of goodwill, etc. ± Special income R&D expenses included in SG&A expenses rose 2.7%, to or Expenses after income taxes and minority interests ¥62.8 billion (¥62.9 billion including R&D expenses that are 80 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Financial Information Summary of Consolidated Statements of Income ¥ Billion Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Change (%) Sales 2,196.9 2,075.0 –5.5% Less: Japanese liquor taxes 305.6 296.0 –3.2% Net sales 1,891.2 1,779.0 –5.9% Cost of sales 923.1 861.6 –6.7% Gross profit 968.0 917.3 –5.2% Selling, general and administrative expenses 843.3 775.4 –8.0% Operating income 124.7 141.8 13.7% Operating income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) 158.5 169.9 7.2% Non-operating income 29.8 20.8 –30.0% Non-operating expenses 26.4 22.1 –16.3% Ordinary income 128.1 140.6 9.7% Special income 29.1 67.3 130.6% Special expenses 139.9 27.2 –80.5% Income before income taxes and minority interests 17.4 180.7 938.5% Income taxes 45.9 47.0 2.6% Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 18.8 15.5 –17.7% Net income (loss) attributable to owners of the parent (47.3) 118.1 — Financial Indicators Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Change (%) Net income (loss) per share (EPS) (Yen) (51.87) 129.49 — EPS (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) (Yen) (2.83) 172.00 — Normalized EPS (Yen) 117 125 6.8% Normalized net income (Billions of yen) 107.0 113.8 6.4% ROE (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) (%) (0.3) 21.9 — Analysis of Change in Consolidated Sales ¥ Billion Analysis of Change in Consolidated Operating Income ¥ Billion Year-on-year change Year-on-year change Japan Integrated Beverages Business –38.3 Japan Integrated Beverages Business 19.2 Decrease in sales at Kirin Brewery –22.6 Increase in profits at Kirin Brewery 7.2 Decrease in sales at Kirin Beverage –17.4 Increase in profits at Kirin Beverage 11.6 Decrease in sales at Mercian –3.0 Increase in profits at Mercian 1.6 Overseas Integrated Beverages Business –62.7 Overseas Integrated Beverages Business*4 10.0 Decrease in sales at Lion –66.0*1 Decrease in profits at Lion –7.2*1 Decrease in sales at Brasil Kirin –16.3 *2 Increase in profits at Brasil Kirin 3.3*2 New consolidation of Myanmar Brewery 22.4 *3 New consolidation of Myanmar Brewery 8.8*3 Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses –20.0 Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Businesses –12.0 Decrease in sales at Kyowa Hakko Kirin –21.2 Decrease in profits at Kyowa Hakko Kirin –12.0 Other –0.7 Other –0.5 Total –121.8 Total 17.1 *1 Fiscal 2016 exchange rate: 1 Australian dollar = ¥82.33 (Fiscal 2015: ¥93.16) *4 Change in operating income (before amortization of goodwill, etc.) *2 Fiscal 2016 exchange rate: 1 Brazilian real = ¥31.83 (Fiscal 2015: ¥36.30) *3 Fiscal 2016 exchange rate: 1,000 Burmese kyat = ¥90.62 KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 81 Financial Information Management’s Discussion and Analysis Consolidated Balance Sheets Net assets Assets Net assets as of December 31, 2016, stood at ¥946.0 billion, up Total assets as of December 31, 2016, were ¥2,348.1 billion, a ¥8.0 billion, or 0.9%, compared with the previous fiscal year-end. decrease of ¥95.6 billion, or 3.9%, compared with the previous As a result, the shareholders’ equity ratio was 29.0% at the end fiscal year-end. Current assets were down ¥33.7 billion, to ¥748.1 of the fiscal year, compared with 27.2% at the end of the previous billion. Non-current assets declined ¥61.8 billion, to ¥1,600.0 bil­ fiscal year, and net assets per share were up ¥18.44 from the end lion, following the amortization of intangible assets and a reduction of the previous fiscal year, to ¥745.92. in assets stemming from the influence of foreign exchange rates on overseas subsidiaries. Liabilities Total liabilities as of December 31, 2016, amounted to ¥1,402.0 billion, a year-on-year decrease of ¥103.6 billion, or 6.9%. Current liabilities fell ¥15.5 billion, to ¥650.3 billion. Non-current liabilities declined ¥88.0 billion, to ¥751.7 billion, as a result of lower interest-bearing debt. Summary of Consolidated Balance Sheets ¥ Billion End of Fiscal 2015 End of Fiscal 2016 Change Current assets 781.9 748.1 –33.7 Cash and time deposits 66.4 58.9 –7.4 Notes and accounts receivable, trade 397.6 393.5 –4.1 Inventory 227.7 207.6 –20.1 Other 90.0 88.0 –2.0 Non-current assets 1,661.8 1,600.0 –61.8 Property, plant and equipment 711.7 705.2 –6.5 Intangible assets 458.5 401.9 –56.6 Goodwill 269.2 228.9 –40.2 Other 189.3 172.9 –16.4 Investment and other assets 491.5 492.9 1.3 Total assets 2,443.7 2,348.1 –95.6 Current liabilities 665.9 650.3 –15.5 Notes and accounts payable, trade 142.0 135.8 –6.2 Interest-bearing debt 158.1 134.9 –23.2 Other 365.7 379.6 13.9 Non-current liabilities 839.7 751.7 –88.0 Interest-bearing debt 598.9 513.7 –85.2 Other 240.8 237.9 –2.8 Total liabilities 1,505.6 1,402.0 –103.6 Shareholders’ equity 645.6 728.9 83.2 Total accumulated other comprehensive income 18.1 (48.2) –66.4 Share options 0.4 0.5 0.1 Non-controlling interests 273.8 264.8 –8.9 Total net assets 938.0 946.0 8.0 Total liabilities and net assets 2,443.7 2,348.1 –95.6 82 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Financial Information Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Cash flows from financing activities The balance of consolidated cash and cash equivalents as of Net cash used in financing activities increased ¥66.9 billion, to December 31, 2016, was down ¥2.6 billion from the previous ¥145.1 billion. Proceeds from long-term debt of ¥38.3 billion and fiscal year-end, to ¥57.7 billion. increase in commercial paper of ¥45.0 billion were outweighed by repayment of long-term debt of ¥129.2 billion, payment for Cash flows from operating activities redemption of bonds of ¥30.0 billion, and ¥43.1 billion in cash Net cash provided by operating activities was ¥226.4 billion, an dividends paid. increase of ¥55.4 billion compared with the previous fiscal year. Cash-decreasing factors included a ¥15.4 billion increase in gain As a result, the cash flow-related indicators were as follows: on sale of shares of subsidiaries and affiliates and a ¥122.9 billion Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 decrease in loss on impairment. However, these factors were Equity ratio (%) 27.2 29.0 outweighed by cash-increasing factors including a ¥163.3 billion Equity ratio based on market capitalization (%) 61.5 73.9 increase in income before income taxes and minority interests and Debt service coverage ratio (%) 480.4 314.3 a ¥29.6 billion decrease in working capital outflows resulting from changes in such items as trade notes and accounts receivable, Interest coverage ratio (Times) 13.0 22.9 inventories, trade notes and accounts payable, liquor taxes Notes: payable, and consumption taxes payable. 1. Equity ratio = Equity/Total assets 2. Equity ratio based on market capitalization = Market capitalization*/Total assets Cash flows from investing activities * Market capitalization equals market price on last trading day of period × Total shares outstanding at end of period (excluding treasury stock). Net cash used in investing activities increased ¥6.8 billion, to 3. Debt service coverage ratio = Interest-bearing liabilities*/Operating cash flow ¥77.5 billion. Major cash outflows included payment for purchases * Interest-bearing liabilities refers to all liabilities with interest payable recorded in the of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of ¥95.0 ­liabilities section of the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 4. Interest coverage ratio = Operating cash flow/Interest expense* billion (up ¥17.9 billion from the previous fiscal year) and payment * Interest expense refers to the amount of interest paid recorded in the Consolidated for acquisition of marketable securities and investment securities Statements of Cash Flows. of ¥20.7 billion. These outflows exceeded major cash inflows including proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets of ¥20.1 billion and proceeds from sale and redemption of marketable securities and investment securities of ¥16.1 billion. Summary of Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows ¥ Billion Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Change Cash flows from operating activities 171.0 226.4 55.4 Income before income taxes and minority interests 17.4 180.7 163.3 Depreciation and amortization 94.6 77.4 –17.1 Amortization of goodwill 27.3 22.3 –5.0 Other 31.6 (54.0) –85.6 Cash flows from investing activities (70.6) (77.5) –6.8 Acquisition of non-current assets (77.1) (95.0) –17.9 Other 6.4 17.5 11.0 Cash flows from financing activities (78.2) (145.1) –66.9 Increase (decrease) in interest-bearing debt (33.9) (99.6) –65.6 Cash dividends paid (41.1) (43.1) –2.0 Other (3.1) (2.4) 0.7 Translation adjustments (2.3) (6.3) –4.0 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 19.8 (2.6) –22.4 KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 83 Group Companies (As of December 31, 2016) The Kirin Group is headed by Kirin Holdings Company, Limited, a pure holding company, which has 188 ­consolidated subsidiaries and 18 affiliated companies accounted for using the equity method. Percentage Company Name Location Description of Business of Holding Japan Integrated Beverages Management and provision of specialized services for Japan Kirin Company, Limited Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Integrated Beverages Business Kirin Brewery Company, Limited Tokyo, Japan Manufacturing and sales of beer and other alcoholic beverages, etc. 100.0 Kirin Beer Marketing Company, Ltd. Tokyo, Japan Marketing and sales promotion for beer and other alcoholic beverages 100.0 Import, manufacturing, and sales of wine and other alcoholic Mercian Corporation Tokyo, Japan 100.0 beverages Kirin Beverage Company, Ltd. Tokyo, Japan Manufacturing and sales of non-alcoholic beverages 100.0 Kirin Beverage Value Vendor Company, Planning and sales of non-alcoholic beverages and food products to Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Limited sell via vending machines Manufacturing of domestically produced whiskey and spirits, etc., Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd. Shizuoka, Japan 100.0 at the Fuji-Gotemba Distillery Development of SPRING VALLEY BREWERY brand craft beer products, SPRING VALLEY BREWERY COMPANY Tokyo, Japan and planning, operation, and management of restaurants attached to 100.0 microbreweries YO-HO BREWING COMPANY* Nagano, Japan Manufacturing and sales of craft beer 33.3 Administration of alcoholic beverages business in China, identification of new investment opportunities and other business development 1 Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 100.0 activities in China, sales of Kirin brand products in the Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone Kirin Brewery (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd. Guangdong, China Manufacturing and sales of beer 100.0 2 Taiwan Kirin Co., Ltd. Taipei, Taiwan Import and sales of Kirin brand products in Taiwan 100.0 Administration of local manufacturing and sales of Kirin brand prod3 Kirin Europe GmbH Dusseldorf, Germany 100.0 ucts in Europe Marketing of Kirin brand products in the United States, exports to North 4 Kirin Brewery of America, LLC California, U.S.A. 100.0 and South America 5 Four Roses Distillery, LLC Kentucky, U.S.A. Manufacturing and sales of bourbon whiskey 100.0 Oceania Integrated Beverages Ownership and management administration of operating companies New South Wales, 6 Lion Pty Ltd in Oceania (alcoholic beverages, dairy products, juice beverages 100.0 Australia businesses) New South Wales, Manufacturing and sales of beer and other alcoholic beverages Lion-Beer, Spirits & Wine Pty Limited 100.0 Australia in Australia Lion-Dairy & Drinks Pty Ltd Victoria, Australia Manufacturing of dairy products and drinks, etc., in Australia 100.0 Auckland, New Manufacturing and sales of beer and other alcoholic beverages Lion-Beer, Spirits & Wine (NZ) Limited 100.0 Zealand in New Zealand Other Overseas Integrated Beverages 7 Brasil Kirin Holding S.A. São Paulo, Brazil Manufacturing and sales of beer and non-alcoholic beverages in Brazil 100.0 Formulation and implementation of integrated beverage business 8 Kirin Holdings Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100.0 strategies in Southeast Asia 9 Myanmar Brewery Limited Yangon, Myanmar Manufacturing and sales of beer in Myanmar 55.0 Manufacturing and sales of non-alcoholic beverages and food products 10 Interfood Shareholding Company Dong Nai, Vietnam 95.7 in Vietnam Metro Manila, 11 San Miguel Brewery Inc.* Manufacturing and sales of beer in the Philippines 48.6 Philippines 12 China Resources Kirin Beverages British Virgin Islands Manufacturing and sales of non-alcoholic beverages 40.0 (Greater China) Company, Limited* 13 The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Manufacturing and sales of Coca-Cola products and other nonNew Hampshire, alcoholic beverages in seven states in the northeastern region of 100.0 Northern New England, Inc. U.S.A. the United States AZUMA KIRIN Indústria e Comércio de São Paulo, Brazil Manufacturing and sales of sake and food products in Brazil 100.0 Bebidas e Alimentos Ltda. 84 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Percentage Company Name Location Description of Business of Holding Pharmaceuticals and Bio-chemicals Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan Manufacturing and sales of ethical pharmaceuticals 52.8 Administration and management of subsidiaries conducting 14 Kyowa Kirin International plc Scotland, U.K. 100.0 development and sales of ethical pharmaceuticals Manufacturing and sales of pharmaceutical and industrial raw Kyowa Hakko Bio Co., Ltd. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 materials, healthcare products, etc. Kirin-Amgen, Inc.* California, U.S.A. Research, development, and licensing of pharmaceuticals 50.0 Others Manufacturing and sales of milk, butter, cheese, fermented milk, Koiwai Dairy Products Company, Limited Tokyo, Japan and other dairy products and of margarine, jam, honey, and other 99.9 food products * Equity-method affiliates 14 3 13 5 1 4 12 9 2 10 11 8 7 6 Information by Region Composition of Sales* Composition of Property, Plant and Equipment Others Others 9.4% 8% Brazil 5.8% Brazil 16% Oceania Japan Japan ¥2,075.0 billion ¥705.2 billion 17.6% 67.2% 52% Oceania 24% * Sales are classified into countries and regions based on the location of the customer. KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 85 Investor Information (As of December 31, 2016) Information Related to Total Shareholders’ Return 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Year-end stock price (Yen) 1,012 1,513 1,497 1,648 1,902 Dividends per share (Yen) 29 36 38 38 39 Cumulative dividend income per share – 36 74 112 151 (from fiscal 2013, Yen) Amount of increase in stock price per share – 501 485 636 890 (from fiscal 2013, Yen) Total shareholders’ return per share* Absolute amount (Yen) – 537 559 748 1,041 Rate (%) – 53.1 55.2 73.9 102.9 * Total shareholders’ return per share is calculated at fiscal year-ends, starting in fiscal 2013, as if the investment was made at the closing stock price at the end of fiscal 2012. Trends in Stock Price and Trading Volume (Yen)(Yen) 2,400 24,000 2,100 21,000 Stock price (left) 1,800 18,000 1,500 15,000 1,200 12,000 Nikkei 225 stock average (right) 900 9,000 600 6,000 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Million shares) 150 Trading volume 120 90 60 30 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Corporate Website More detailed activity information and data can be found on Kirin Holdings’ corporate website. WEB Investor Relations WEB Creating Shared Value http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/ir http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csv 86 KIRIN REPORT 2016 Trade Name Number of Employees (Consolidated) Kirin Holdings Company, Limited 39,733 Head Office General Meeting of Shareholders NAKANO CENTRAL PARK SOUTH, 10-2, Nakano 4-chome, March 30, 2017 Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001, Japan Stock Listings Date of Incorporation Tokyo, Nagoya, Fukuoka, Sapporo February 23, 1907 Note: On July 1, 2007, accompanying the shift to a pure holding company structure, Transfer Agent Kirin Holdings Company, Limited changed its name from Kirin Brewery Company, Limited. Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation, Corporate Agency Division, Paid-In Capital 10-11, Higashi-suna 7-chome, Koto-ku, Tokyo 137-8081, Japan ¥102,045,793,357 Tel: +81-3-6701-5000 (business days from 9:00 to 17:00) Number of Authorized Shares Depositary 1,732,026,000 JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. JPMorgan Service Center Number of Outstanding Shares P.O. Box 64504 St. Paul, MN 55164-0504, U.S.A. 914,000,000 Tel: +1-800-990-1135 (toll-free) Tel: +1-651-453-2128 (outside U.S.A.) Number of Shareholders 169,600 Major Shareholders Number of Shares Held Percentage of Total Name of Shareholder (Thousand shares) Shares Outstanding The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust account) 53,885 5.9 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account) 41,901 4.6 Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 32,996 3.6 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 4) 17,463 1.9 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 505225 17,058 1.9 The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 14,501 1.6 STATE STREET BANK WEST CLIENT–TREATY 505234 12,644 1.4 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust account 7) 12,523 1.4 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON 140044 11,179 1.2 THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON SA/NV 10 11,107 1.2 Note: Calculations for the percentages of total shares outstanding above exclude the 1,484,000 shares of treasury stock held by the Company. Shareholder Composition Composition by Number of Shares Held Government /Local Less than 100 shares More than 100 shares government 0.1% 1.5% 0.0% More than 1,000 shares 14.4% Individuals Financial institutions 21.5% 33.2% More than 10,000 shares More than 5 million shares 6.3% 47.4% More than 100,000 shares Securities firms 10.1% Foreign investors 4.1% 32.7% More than 1 million shares Japanese corporations, 20.2% Other corporations 8.5% KIRIN HOLDINGS COMPANY, LIMITED 87 for the Global Goals In regard to this report, for the greenhouse gases emitted in the production phase, the Company has employed carbon offset measures utilizing credits from the DAKFOCAM Wastewater Project, which Printed Printed ininJapan Japan controls methane emissions through the use of biogas in Vietnam. This project has been certified by Published May 31, 2017 Gold Standard, a certification body that aims to measure progress toward the SDGs.
