UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 Period covered 1 January to 31 December 2016 Date submitted to UN Global Compact website 30 April 2017 UN Global Compact 1 Communication on Progress About Lloyds Banking Group Statement from Chief Executive We are a leading provider of financial services to individual and business customers in the UK. We have around 25 million customers and 1 million small business customers. Our main business activities are retail and Our strategy is to be the best bank for customers and commercial banking, general insurance, and long-term savings, protection and investment. We provide our services through a number of shareholders. Given our UK focus, our purpose is to help well-recognised brands, including Lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland Britain prosper and we believe that operating sustainably and Scottish Widows, using a range of distribution channels, including the and responsibly is the way to create long-term value and largest branch network and digital bank in the UK. More information about help the people, businesses and communities in the UK. the Group and our strategy is available in the Strategic Report section of the 2016 Annual Report. I am pleased to reaffirm Lloyds Banking Group’s support of We employ approximately 73,000 colleagues. We have recognition the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in agreements with two trade unions, Accord and Unite, which collectively the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and negotiate on behalf of around 95% of colleagues. Anti‑Corruption. In our first annual Communication on Progress Our supply base comprises approximately 4,000 companies, the majority of we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact which are in professional services sectors such as management consultancy, and its principles into our business strategy, culture and legal, HR, IT, marketing and communication. In 2016 we paid £5.3 billion to daily operations. our suppliers. 99% of our direct suppliers are located in the UK, other European countries or North America. I look forward to providing you with a further update on our progress in 2018. Find it fast Yours sincerely,  Human rights Page 2 Labour Page 6 António Horta-Osório Group Chief Executive Environment Page 10 Anti-Corruption Page  14 2 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 3 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 1. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 4 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 5 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Approach to human rights We aspire to conduct business in a way that values and We understand that human rights encompass more than Colleagues and other stakeholders can raise concerns respects the human rights of our colleagues, customers, just the individual and take into account social, ethical and through our grievance mechanisms, such as the Group’s Outcomes suppliers and those of the communities in which we environmental issues in our investment, lending and Speak Up Line or Colleague Conduct Management Team. operate. We understand that the financial system has a service operations. We are signatories to the United Should any human rights violations be identified, we will ➔➔ Zero cases identified of human rights unique interaction with human rights and we have policies Nations Principles for Responsible Investment and the take the actions necessary to remediate the situation. abuses in the period and governance processes in place to mitigate risks. Equator Principles which is a credit risk management framework for determining, assessing, and managing We have an effective top-to-bottom governance structure ➔➔ Initial training on modern slavery and In 2015, we welcomed the UK Modern Slavery Act and providing an environment where colleagues are trafficking offered to supplier managers are committed to doing business responsibly and taking environmental and social risk in project finance. supported to work responsibly and manage risk as part of our response to the UK Modern meaningful steps to ensure that workers’ fundamental We have a number of internal policies and procedures effectively. This structure includes our Board and rights and freedoms are respected. We have a zero that reflect our commitment to operating responsibly Board-level Responsible Business Committee and Slavery Act tolerance approach to slavery, trafficking or forced labour and ethically both at a business and an individual level. extends to every part of our business through our Group ➔➔ During 2016, 286 concerns were raised in any part of our business or supply chain. We will publish These include our Ethical Policy Statement, Group Executive Committee and Executive-level Responsible with the Speak Up team and 171 progressed our Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement on Colleague Policy, Speak Up, Anti-Bribery Policy, Code Business Management Committee. or before 30 June 2017. of Supplier Responsibility and our Code of Responsibility. to investigations. Of the investigations Our Code of Supplier Responsibility highlights the completed by year end 57% were upheld “We have a zero tolerance approach importance we place on respect for human rights across and remedial action was taken all our business relationships. where appropriate to slavery, trafficking or forced Colleagues are required to review the Code of labour in any part of our business Responsibility each year as part of the Mandatory Training or supply chain.” curriculum, which also includes mandatory Speak Up (whistleblowing) training. Once the training is completed, We aim to align our activities and policies with it is expected that colleagues understand their international best practice and recognised standards. We responsibilities to work in line with our Code, and operate adhere to the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights in line with our values every day. as well as the rules and regulations of each country in which we operate. As signatories to the UN Global Compact, we align with its ten principles and also support the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights which we use as a framework to understand our human rights impacts and define our responsibility to respect human rights. In addition, we support the UN’s wider development agenda through the UN Sustainable Development Goals. For information on the more specific labour standards that we comply with, please refer to the Labour section in this report. 6 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 7 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 2. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 8 UN Global Compact UN Code of OurGlobal Compact Responsibility 9 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Approach to labour At Lloyds Banking Group, our efforts to be a responsible We have sought to understand the level of risk in our We provided introductory training to Group Sourcing We are committed to being a more disability confident business require building a culture on integrity and supply chain and found that the majority of our direct colleagues in late 2015 covering the requirements of the employer. More than 5,000 colleagues disclosed a respect. We have a zero tolerance policy approach to suppliers represent a low risk for modern slavery and Modern Slavery Act and the risks of slavery and human disability in our most recent colleague survey. We also all forms of discrimination, slavery, trafficking or forced human rights abuses. Most of our suppliers are in low risk trafficking. Further training for Group Sourcing colleagues potentially serve around six million customers affected by labour in any part of our business or supply chain and sectors and low risk geographies. Whilst we recognise is being rolled out in 2017. Modern Slavery will be disability or long-term health issues. We are recognised our commitment to respect labour rights is guided by that we are not immune to the risks of human rights abuse, featured as part of our revised mandatory e-learning as a leading employer for disabled people with cutting the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights we consider the risks to be considerably less than if these course for supplier managers from 2017 and guidance on edge practices for customers and colleagues; in 2016 we and the International Labour Organisation’s Core Labour suppliers were located in other jurisdictions or sectors. Modern Slavery risks is provided on our online supplier won a Business Disability SMART Award for the third year Standards and its Tripartite Declaration of Principles. In 2017 we published our revised Code of Supplier management portal. running for our workplace adjustments process and were As outlined in the human rights section of this report, we Responsibility which defines what we expect from our We want to ensure that every colleague feels valued highly commended for our colleague disability network. have a number of internal policies and procedures that suppliers to ensure responsible sourcing is an integral and empowered to thrive. The Group has approximately We have a range of programmes to support colleagues reflect our commitment to operating responsibly and part of how we do business. We expect all suppliers to 75,000 employees and recognition agreements with who become disabled or develop a long‑term health ethically. Our Code of Responsibility applies to all sign up to this Code and provide us with additional two trade unions, Accord and Unite, who collectively condition. Our workplace adjustments process, which colleagues, contractors and temporary employees and evidence to demonstrate their approach to responsible negotiate on behalf of around 95% of colleagues. includes physical equipment, has supported over 18,000 provides an overarching framework to ensure the highest business issues. We offer colleagues a competitive reward package that colleagues to date. Since 2002 we have been running possible standards of behaviour each and every day, underpins a culture of performance and aims to strike Personal Development and Career Development The Code addresses seven specific issues including including in relation to diversity and inclusion. They also the right balance between reward, risk management Programmes for disabled colleagues. 1,500 of our human rights and details the expectations we place on set out the Group’s commitment to colleague and performance. colleagues have completed this programme to date. our suppliers and those in their supply chains. Our remuneration, and health and wellbeing. expectations are that suppliers: We seek to enable colleagues to achieve a positive Outcomes We do not tolerate discrimination in respect to balance between their work and their lives outside employment and occupation. We recognise that everyone ➔➔ Respect the human rights of their employees and to of work and provide a number of opportunities, such ➔➔ 32.4% of roles held by senior women, is different and we’re working hard to build an inclusive comply with all relevant legislation, regulations and as flexible working, to help them do this. We work to directives in the countries and communities in which meaning we are on track to achieve our bank that reflects the diversity of modern Britain. Our safeguard and promote colleague wellbeing, by ensuring Group Inclusion & Diversity strategy is focused on the they operate a psychologically-sound working environment to help target of 40% by 2020 areas of gender, ethnicity, disability, LGBT and agility ➔➔ Prohibit forced labour (slavery) and human trafficking prevent work-related illness and by providing support ➔➔ Zero fines, investigations, and legal cases with each area sponsored by individual Group Executive and health advice in times of need. We are committed to in their supply chain and give their employees the connected to forced or child labour in Committee members. right and ability to leave employment if they choose achieving the highest standards of health and safety and fire protection for our colleagues, customers and anyone the period “We do not tolerate discrimination ➔➔ Prohibit child labour who visits our premises. ➔➔ Ranked number one private sector in respect to employment and ➔➔ Ensure that wages meet legally mandated minimums In 2016 we became the first UK company to include employer in the Stonewall Top 100. The without unauthorised deductions gender dysphoria in our Private Medical Benefit provision. Group was also named a Times Top 50 occupation. We recognise that As a founder member of a group of leading employers ➔➔ Allow their employees to legally organise and join Employer for Women and Top 10 Employer everyone is different and we’re associations (such as trade unions) supporting workforce agility in the UK, we’ve been for Working Families working hard to build an inclusive looking closely at ways to become more agile as an bank that reflects the diversity of ➔➔ Provide clear and uniformly applied disciplinary and organisation over the past 18 months. To bring agile ➔➔ Supporting 26,000 colleagues to work in grievance procedures including prohibiting mental, working to life we launched a ‘Getting Smart about Agile an agile way modern Britain.” physical or verbal abuse Working’ campaign, which had a high profile across the whole Group. In 2016 we’ve also implemented a new job ➔➔ Ensure working hours are in accordance with local sharing website, a new approach to agile hiring and agile regulation and industry practice and voluntary working training for all colleagues. overtime is at a manageable level 10 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 11 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 3. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 12 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 13 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Approach to environment As a leading provider of financial services to individual Our approach to environment has four dimensions We also encourage suppliers to have an environmental We have colleague training and awareness programmes and business customers in the UK, we have an important including environmental performance, environmental management system in place. in place including a voluntary Sustainability Network role to play in facilitating and financing the transition risk, supporting the low carbon economy and influencing We continue to develop products and services to support comprised of over 800 colleagues to encourage to a more sustainable, low-carbon, resource efficient positive change. We state publicly in our Group customers’ transition to a lower carbon, more resource environmental good practice inside and outside economy. Our success is linked to our environmental Environmental Statement that we will work with efficient economy. This includes: the workplace. performance and how we respond to challenges such as stakeholders to ensure we run our operations in an resource scarcity, population growth and security of efficient and responsible manner – minimising waste and ➔➔ Providing a free tool for SMEs to create a sustainability Outcomes energy supply. We exercise the precautionary principle improving energy, water, paper and building efficiency. action plan and policy (which can also be used to environmental challenges which is supported by a This is monitored through our Environmental Action Plan in contracts) ➔➔ 12.95% reduction in greenhouse gas range of activities to promote greater environmental (EAP) which sets reduction targets up until 2020. emissions since 2015 responsibility and environmentally friendly products ➔➔ Since 2014 we have launched two Environmental, We also strive to reduce CO2 emissions which are mostly and services, such as renewable technology. attributable to our consumption of gas and electricity. Social and Governance (ESG) bonds totalling ➔➔ 2.9% reduction in energy consumption We seek to comply with the spirit, as well as the letter of Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions are subject to limited ISAE £500 million. Lloyds Bank became the first UK bank since 2015 to develop an ESG deposit scheme in response to applicable environmental laws and regulations with 3000 (Revised) assurance by Deloitte. Deloitte’s client demand to invest in products that create ➔➔ Launched a £1 billion Green Loan Initiative regards to the environment. Where none exist, we set Assurance Statement is available online. positive impacts to incentivise energy efficient commercial ourselves appropriately high standards. We take account Stakeholder engagement is fundamental to creating of environmental risks in our lending and investment ➔➔ In March 2016 Lloyds Bank launched its innovative real estate lasting environmental change. We have a range of activity and actively seek to provide finance to enable responsible sourcing initiatives in place including a focus £1 billion Green Loan Initiative for commercial real ➔➔ Funding of renewable energy projects the transition to a more environmentally sustainable estate lending. The initiative – the first of its kind in the on reducing environmental impact in our supply chain. reached 7.4GW in capacity, covering solar, economy. Our environmental standards apply to all As a minimum, we expect suppliers to: UK – provides clients with loans at discounted margins locations and aspects of our business. to help incentivise energy efficiency and finance offshore and onshore wind, waste to energy ➔➔ Have a written environmental policy or statement in investment in green buildings. We completed the first and biomass “Our success is linked to our place that addresses CO2 emissions, waste and tranche of deals in the second half of 2016, totalling energy £72 million. We have now set a target in our Helping environmental performance and how Britain Prosper Plan to fund 10 million square feet we respond to challenges such as ➔➔ Abide by all rules and regulations related to the of commercial real estate to become more energy protection of the environment, the handling of efficient by 2020, the equivalent of ten London Shards resource scarcity, population growth dangerous and hazardous materials and any and security of energy supply.” mandatory GHG emissions reporting ➔➔ In 2016 our UK-based team was responsible for financing renewable projects with a combined ➔➔ Keep dangerous and hazardous materials to a capacity of more than 1.78GW minimum and make Material Safety Data Sheets available for all hazardous materials as required ➔➔ Reduce the use of paper products such as cheque and credit slip books 14 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 15 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress 4. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 16 UN Global Compact UN Global Compact 17 Communication on Progress Communication on Progress Approach to anti-corruption Lloyds Banking Group is at the heart of communities, “We have a moral and ethical duty We measure our performance in this area on an on-going Outcomes serving the financial needs of over 30 million customers basis by looking at: in the UK. That is a great responsibility and one that we to act with the highest standard ➔➔ Number of incidents such as those involving a ➔➔ No fines or external legal cases involving take very seriously. We have a moral and ethical duty to of integrity and will not tolerate acts colleague or supplier offering or accepting a bribe the Group during 2016 act with the highest standard of integrity and will not tolerate acts of bribery or corruption committed by any of of bribery or corruption committed our employees, including the Board of Directors, and any by any of our employees, including ➔➔ Number of breaches in our policy such as risk ➔➔ All colleagues completed necessary third parties who act on our behalf. Lloyds Banking Group assessments completed by businesses mandatory training is a member of the Transparency International Business the Board of Directors, and any third ➔➔ Number of completed training sessions Integrity Forum. parties who act on our behalf.” ➔➔ Number of staff in financial crime roles To tackle bribery and corruption, we have policies and Across these higher risk sectors, we work with our procedures in place to comply with all applicable laws ➔➔ Number of waivers submitted by business units customers in these sectors to: in relation to our Group Policy and regulation where we operate. This includes an Anti-Bribery Policy which prohibits the payment, offer, ➔➔ Implement effective market-based solutions that take In relation to high risk sectors, businesses within the acceptance or request of any benefit which could be into account any social and environmental concerns Group are expected to identify any higher risk sectors constructed as a bribe and takes a broad approach to about their operations or jurisdictions and implement appropriate controls to defining corruption as misconduct associated with the ➔➔ Operate safely and securely within a defined address any bribery and corruption issues identified. This abuse of power for private gain. This is informed by framework that upholds human rights includes enhanced due diligence and also sign off from Guidance issued by the UK Ministry of Justice to support the business’ own risk area as well as a requirement that the UK Bribery Act 2010 which applies to us wherever we ➔➔ Aligns their operations with the principles of the Nominated Senior Manager within the business would operate in the world. UN Global Compact (including anti-corruption) be required to approve the relationship prior to any All colleagues, including contractors, complete annual contracts or formal agreements being signed. anti-bribery training and are encouraged to confidentially ➔➔ Assess the long-term impact of their activities across the entire supply chain with consideration of report any instances of suspected bribery via the indigenous people and communities whistleblowing service, Speak Up, or their line manager. Colleagues are also encouraged to speak out if they As a minimum, we expect our suppliers to: have any suspicions regarding violations to the standards in our Codes of Responsibility and other policies ➔➔ Adopt a Code of Business Responsibility or similar and procedures. that covers adherence to local laws; bribery and We have identified and developed clear positions about corruption and business integrity (including improper sectors that feature heightened risk, which is publicly payments, conflicts of interest, fraud, competition, available in our Statement on Controversial Sectors. These gifts and hospitality and brand and intellectual include defence, forestry, mining, oil and gas and power. property protection) Our approach and governance is overseen by the Financial Crime Standards Committee which meets monthly to discuss and resolve issues in a semi-open forum. Tell us what you think: If you have any questions regarding any aspect of this report or our approach to doing business responsibly please contact us: Responsible.Business@lloydsbanking.com Group Chief Executive’s Office Lloyds Banking Group 25 Gresham Street London EC2V 7HN @LBGNews Available in alternative formats on request.
