Wipro Sustainability Report 2015 2016 A Climate of Change The theme of this year’s report ‘A Climate of Change’ underscores among many others. Evidence points to local climate change as a several points simultaneously : while on one hand, the reality of primary cause for the decline of many of these civilizations – it could climate change is widely recognized as well as the urgency to act on be the shift in a river’s course like in the case of the Harappa it, the undeniable fact remains that after 25 years of the Rio-92 civilization or a long period of El Nino events leading to extended conference and in spite of concerted global efforts, actual progress drought ending the Moche civilization in Peru in the 8th century AD. on climate change has been slow – in fact, many would argue that Fast forward to the present when a large number of scientists believe there has hardly been any progress at all as absolute greenhouse that the Holocene era has already ended because, starting with the gas emissions have only increased in this period even though their industrial revolution of the 19th century, our earth has seen a steady intensity per unit of GDP might have come down. One of the reasons increase in the average temperature by nearly 1ºC in the last 150 offered for this halting progress is our inability to understand climate years. But this time is different from the previous natural cycles of change as a wicked problem. Wicked problems are characterized as climate change as the current phase of warming seems to be entirely those that defy easy definition or straightforward solutions. Wicked human induced prompting scientists to press for a change in the problems like climate change are complex because they span a wide name of the current era from the Holocene to the Anthropocene. Our range of inter-related social, economic, environmental and special section thus covers a vast range of climate history ending geopolitical issues. This complexity manifests as the ever shifting with the predicted effects of anthropogenic climate change by the boundaries between the known and the unknown. This explains why year 2100. the reports by the global body, IPCC (Inter Governmental Panel for Climate Change) are written in the language of probability, Climate change however is just one manifestation of deeper and likelihood and chance. Thus, it is impossible to say with 100% bigger issues that humanity faces. Whether it is a billion people still accuracy how much temperature rise the planet will see by 2100 as living in extreme poverty or growing inequality accompanied by compared to the nineteenth century. This biophysical complexity is displacement, migration and conflicts or new technologies that both further compounded when seen through social or economic lens promise and threaten in equal measure or basic issues such as which parts of the world will be affected more? Can a ‘Moon Mission’ providing access to good education and healthcare for all, the type global program to accelerate the transition to clean energy help common underlying factor is one of great complexity. What kind of in reversing the situation? What should get priority first in a country approaches and responses will work ? The answers are not clear but like India – Jobs or Environment? These questions exemplify the what is clear is that a range of factors need to come together for nature of wicked problems as they don’t have linear solutions that fit genuine progress to happen – good governance, good science in with our current templates of understanding. along with the right technology, the pursuit of economics as if people mattered, strengthening institutions and processes that are And yet, climate change is not new to our planet. As our special participatory and democratic… just to name a few. The change that section ‘The history of climate’ shows, climate change cycles caused is required to make all this happen has to come from different by changes in the earth’s axial tilt and in its orbit around the sun have directions – it must come from government, from business, from led to alternate periods of warming and cooling. The last such ice citizens, from academia and civil society. Centralized approaches to age ended around 11,000 years ago. Ever since, we have had an problem solving will no longer work. We will need to quickly evolve exceptional run of stable climate with an average global temperature hybrid models of decentralized problem solving combined with more of 15ºC. This era, called the Holocene is when humans shifted from institutionalized interventions. But most important, all this will require being hunter-gatherers to life as we know it today. Agriculture was co-creating the right climate of change. This climate of change is one invented, the first tools made, cities set up and populated, arts and that is based on trust, co-operation and wisdom. Creating this is our crafts created… in other words, the Holocene saw civilizations collective responsibility and at Wipro, we are keen to be part of this flourish everywhere. But civilizations ended too along the way – the change we want to see. Mayan, the Egyptian and closer home, the Indus Valley civilizations, Contents Letter from the Chairman . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Sustainability Dashboard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 About This Report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Report Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Materiality Determination . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Organization Profile . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Wipro and Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Sustainability Megaforces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Overview of Wipro's Sustainability Journey . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Wipro's Sustainability Framework . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Sustainability Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Transparency and Disclosures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Wipro and its Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Workplace Sustainability Ecological sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Customer stewardship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Financial Stewardship . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Supply Chain Sustainability . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Partnering for Social Change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Assurance Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Feedback and Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 00 Dear Fellow Stakeholders Welcome to our sustainability report for the year 2015-16, this is our ninth annual sustainability report. In the world of business, nine years is a long time …especially so in the Information Technology sector where the pace of change can be bewildering even to those expecting rapid change. In contrast, change in social and environmental matters happens more slowly. This is largely due to the complex interlinked nature of the issues and the huge scale involved. Change in the social sector cannot be brought about by any single agency but happens as a cumulative build-up of several actions taken by multiple stakeholders over a period of time. That is not to say though that at the level of the individual stakeholder, the efforts put in and the corresponding progress cannot be significant. It can be so even over the shortterm. And such progress energizes action and continuing commitment on the part of the stakeholder. The way we see Wipro’s role in social change is to bring in a combination of our core values and a sense of responsible citizenship; this, we think, can make lasting impact, however small that may be when seen against the larger canvas. Let me now presentsome highlights from our sustainability journey during 2015-16. Azim H Premji Chairman, Wipro Ltd. Letter from the Chairman Climate Change and Energy: The 2015 Paris agreement on State University, New Jersey, and Michigan State University, we climate change explicitly recognized that the target of containing have worked with over 350 teachers in 20 school districts to develop temperature rise within 2 degree centigrade may not suffice and that their capacities to be better teachers and change leaders in their the world must work towards a 1.5 degree centigrade target if we districts. The real impact though lies in the multiplier effect that will be have to be in the safe zone. At Wipro, we have set for ourselves a generated as the teachers and other partner institutions act as target of doubling our renewable energy footprint over the five year agents of lasting change. This program is also a manifestation of one period of 2016-2020 and reducing our direct greenhouse gas(GHG) of our principles thatone must engage on social issues in every footprint by 35%. We have also set broad targets for 2025 and 2030 region and geography where we have significant presence in line with the 1.5 degree centigrade global goal. This will build on Working with communities everywhere: We work with our top of the work we have done so far for example, our twin pillars of proximate communities in the areas of primary health care, children energy efficiency and renewable energy have helped save over with disability, education for the underprivileged and community 350,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions over the last five years. ecology through Wipro Cares, a trust funded by employee Livable and Sustainable Cities: More than half the world’s contributions matched by Wipro. Over the last three years, the scope population lives in cities, a figure that will go up to 75% by 2050. and scale of our work has increased almost ten-fold. Our work with While in India, the corresponding figures are lower, our rates of children with disability now covers most major categories of physical urbanization are faster than the average and it is estimated that more disability and focuses on the entire spectrum from early childhood to than 600 million people will live in cities in India by 2030. The livability high school. of most of our cities is unfortunately far below global standards as Our approach is integrative, focusing as much on infrastructure and per various surveys. At the very minimum, a livable city must have technical aids as on nutrition, teacher capacity in this field and reasonably clean air, uniform access to clean water and sanitation community participation. It is a matter of satisfaction that our work and good public transportation. We have been engaged on these across domains has benefitted more than 300,000 people from issues in different ways, both within our operational boundaries and underserved and underprivileged across 11 states in India, outside. including remote regions of Nagaland in the North-East. We have Let me talk briefly about our work on water. Our project of also been gradually strengthening our community engagement in implementing Nano / ultra-filtration in order to increase the use of the U.S.A, South Africa, Philippines and Singapore. Underlying all treated waste water for our cooling systems has started yielding this is the power of more than 40,000 employees who contribute by tangible results and we are seeing a marked difference in freshwater way of money, volunteering or both. I realize though that we can do use. We have also been engaged for the last three years in much more on this count and one of our clear focus areas will be to developing a better collective understanding of urban water. significantly increase employee involvement. In Bangalore, our ‘Participative Groundwater Management Program’ In fact I would like to extend this and say that while we have (PGWM) has completed a detailed mapping of the groundwater progressed well on many fronts, we can do much more in all areas, aquifer over a 33 Sq.km area around our Sarjapur facility. Alongside, be it scaling up our renewable energy footprint, minimizing fresh it has brought together experts in urban water, government water use, expanding our network of partners to bring about representatives and citizen groups together to forge a deeper systemic changes in education and improving our internal understanding of how to enhance our water self-sufficiency and processes of governance. conserve our water commons. A similar initiative at the level of We live in challenging times. Rising inequality, ecological stress and Bangalore city, the Karnataka State Water Network drives advocacy geopolitical dynamics, all feed into each other amplifying each and actions in five geographical clusters across the city. A sixth other’s effects. It’s critical therefore that real, genuine leaders come horizontal cluster focuses on rejuvenation and restoration of lakes. to the fore whether from business, government or civil society. Education as a force multiplier: When we started out on our We must act in consonance and with a clear sense of urgency of sustainability journey in 2001, we decided to focus on education and purpose. We must also act with a sense of intrinsic hope and faith for communities. We saw education as a powerful force multiplier which it is only this that will ensure that we move forward even in the face of has cascading impacts on almost all other areas of development. difficulty and obstacles. Since then our work in education has grown in multiple directions covering systemic reforms, engineering education and sustainability education. I have spoken about our interventions in these areas in our past reports. Here I would like to highlight our work on STEM education With Best Wishes (Science, Technology, Engineering and Math) with schools in the U.S. which we started four years ago. In collaboration with University Azim H Premji of Massachusetts, Boston, Mercy College, New York, Montclair 000 Sustainability Dashboard Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability Dashboard In this section, we are presenting our goals and measures in condensed form, but a complete understanding of these dimensions is possible only in the detailed analysis that follows in subsequent sections. Workplace Sustainability Highlights Employee Engagement and Empowerment ? Sustained use of Yammer as the enterprise social networking platform over 85,000 users with 7,500 groups ? Engagement scores in the Employee Perception Survey (EPS) increased by 100 basis points compared to EPS 2013 Employee Well-being and Safety ? 18 locations in India certified for OHSAS 18001 ? 1,60,000 employees, contractors and service providers attended trainings on Health & Safety, Safe Transportation, Hospitality, Security, Emergency Response Drills Diversity and Inclusion ? 32% of workforce constitute women ? 105 nationalities in 55 countries ? 368 employees with disabilities as on March 31, 2016 th ? 100+ high potential women employees enrolled as mentees in the ongoing 4 batch of Women of Wipro (WoW) Mentoring Program Capacity Building and Career Development ? Approximately 15,000 employees trained through an innovative platform called “Future Ready” for building Awareness on Digital Technologies for all customer-facing roles ? Over 20,000 employees trained on core digital technologies through Digital Foundation Academy. ? Over 4,000 employees benefitted from a program called Cutting EDGE program which trained employees on advanced skills for Digital transformation Visions and goals for future ? Create a culture that drives performance and enhances overall employee experience ? Strengthening Careers for employees by building Talent from within and a scalable talent supply chain model ? Build talent capabilities in line with the vision of the organization ? Increase the effectiveness of HR processes and employee delight-through digitization and Talent Analytics. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability Dashboard 000 Ecological Sustainability Highlights Energy and Emissions ? In India, energy consumption per employee showed a 6.7 % decrease over the previous year, from 224 units in 14-15 to 209 units per employee per month in 15-16 ? Global GHG emissions intensity reduced from 1.67 to 1.46 tons per employee per annum ? Renewable energy contributes to 23% of total electricity consumptions for India offices ? Annual GHG savings of nearly 141302 tons Water ? The per employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.295 m3 per month, a 4.78 % reduction when compared with 1.36 m3 in year 2014 15 ? Around 52% of freshwater extracted is recycled ? About 32% of our total water requirement is recycled Waste ? 92% of total waste from India operations recycled or reused ? 100% of organic waste recycled ? 60% of MSW recycled and remaining landfilled Campus Biodiversity ? Completed the first phase of work on biodiversity retrofit projects at our two campuses in Pune; increased native species by 4 times to 240 in one of the campuses ? Phase two of biodiversity park (wetland park) in Electronic City campus is in progress Visions and goals for future ? Continue to strengthen energy efficiency programs in buildings ? Doubling renewable units of energy by 2020 from 65 Mn. to 135 Mn. units ? Improve water efficiency (fresh water use per employee) by 5% year on year Financial Stewardship Highlights ? Direct economic value generated amounting to Rs. 512,440 Mn. (7735 Mn. USD) ? Rs. 48,168 Mn. worth of economic value retained ? 47.9 % of revenue spent on employee wages and benefits 000 Sustainability Dashboard Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Customer Stewardship Highlights Customer Engagement ? Net Promoter Score increased by 420 basis points for 2015-16 as compared to the previous year ? Overall satisfaction performance of increased from 89.7% to 91.5% in 2015-16 Innovation ? Total R&D expenses for the year stood at Rs. 2561 Mn. ? In FY 2015-16, the company continued to strengthen its IP portfolio with 514 new patent applications filed ? Made 6 investments with a cumulative spend of US$ 15 million in cutting edge start-ups in areas such as Digital, Internet of Things (IoT) etcetera Data Privacy and IT Security ? No substantiated instances of data privacy breaches ? An overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels) by Ecovadis ? Designated as “CSR Thought Leader’ by Verego Visions and goals for future ? Committed spend of US$ 5 million in FY16 in start-ups working in technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises. Supply Chain Sustainability Highlights ? Sourcing from minority and women owned enterprises contributed to 5.4% of total central procurement-tracked spend for India operations ? By value 75% of the procurement for the year was from local (India based) suppliers Visions and goals for future ? To conduct social compliance audit for 300 identified suppliers Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability Dashboard 000 Social Responsibility Highlights Wipro Education ? Seeding Fellowship program launched to support early stage organizations working in school education ? Continued supporting 16 organizations through programmatic grants, fellowships, conferences and publications. This included engagement with four new & upcoming organizations being supported from last year ? Instituted an award for children’s literature in partnership with Goodbooks Trust and The Hindu Lit Fest Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program ? Launched to improve Science and Math education in schools primarily serving disadvantaged communities in cities in USA ? Works with 250-300 teachers across 20 school districts who go through a 2-3 year fellowship ? Work in progress in 5 school districts each in Boston, New Jersey & New York in participation with University of Massachusetts, Montclair State University and Mercy College ? External evaluation study of Wipro SEF in Q1 highlighted that the program is being positively received by participants and has resulted in numerous outcomes (on instructional practices, reflective skills, sense of community etc.) for Fellows, District Coordinators and associated schools & districts Wipro earthian ? Increased reach to 2000 schools, 1500 colleges and 2200 teachers in 45 districts across 21 states ? Wipro-earthian Sustainability quiz was successfully launched at the IIMA Confluence festival and the IIMB Exemius festival where 227 teams and 681 students participated ? Round table discussion on sustainability educationattended by 60 regional colleges in Orissa was organized Wipro Cares ? A total of 33 project across domains all over the country ? Health care services of Wipro Cares reach out to around 30,000 people in nearly 60 villages ? Environmental initiatives reach out to around 2000 waste workers in Bangalore. ? The education program reaches out to more than 64,000 children from disadvantaged communities in 8 cities ? ‘Education of children with disability’ projects supports the educational and rehabilitative needs of over 2500 underprivileged children through 12 projects ABOUT THIS REPORT 1.1 Report Profile 1.2 Materiality Determination 1.3 Organization Profile 000 Report Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Report 1.1 Profile Reporting period for this April 1, 2015 to March 31, 2016 sustainability report (Referred hereafter in short as '15-16) Date of most recent Wipro Sustainability report for the previous report fiscal year 2014-15, released in March 2016 Link to the previous report http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/14-15/ Reporting cycle Annual basis Comprehensive according In accordance criteria GRI G 4 Guidelines Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Report Profile 000 Scope and Boundry Businesses ? Wipro Technologies ? Wipro Infotech ? Wipro Business Process Services ? Wipro Eco Energy services Geographies ? Americas ? Europe ? India ? Japan ? Middle East ? Asia Pacific Scope of reporting Financial performance indicators All geographies Environmental performance indicators India (energy data reported for overseas locations) Employee metrics All geographies Social performance metrics Primarily India Other qualitative reporting All geographies (unless otherwise specified) The GRI Content Index in accordance with option ‘Comprehensive as prescribed by GRI G4 Guidelines details the coverage of relevant information. The index is available at http://wiprosustainabilityreport.com/15-16/?q=gri-index Approach Like our previous reports, we continue to adopt the stakeholder format of reporting. Given that stakeholder inclusion and engagement is such a crucial cornerstone of the AA1000 and the GRI frameworks, we believe that the stakeholder format is more appropriate for focusing attention on key material aspects for each of the stakeholders. Each individual section on this report is structured as our response to concerns of the respective stakeholder identified through the materiality assessment. We have opted to conduct an independent assurance of our sustainability report as part of our company policy. DNV GL has been engaged to verify the content of this report. 000 Materiality Determination Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Materiality 1.2 Determination Sustainability reporting should aim to be a faithful reflection of the organization’s values, vision, plans, progress and challenges on the different dimensions of sustainability. Determining ‘materiality’ helps an organization to understand issues that are relevant to its stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. The process has to be centered at the intersection of organizational relevance and stakeholder priorities. It should be the first step for organizations in informing their sustainability charter and this is how we started our formal sustainability journey in 2007-08. But the dynamic of the fast evolving terrain of corporate sustainability demands that companies reassess their sustainability strategy and materiality determination approaches at regular intervals. It is in this spirit that we undertooka materiality recalibration exercise during 2014-15. In this section, we discuss the rationale, approach and outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. Materiality Recalibration Materiality is informed by the socio-economic context in which an organization operates and the needs of its primary and/or influencing stakeholders. It requires us to keep ‘ears to the ground’ by understanding stakeholders’ perceptions and expectations, the business context, local and macro developments and changing thresholds of sustainability risks and opportunities over time. The strategic review of our materiality framework was completed in 2015. The revision process involved taking a fresh look at the material dimensions and recalibrating them without assumptions or pre-determined notions. Weexamined our current sustainability strategy and tried to identify issues which have evolved since we last revised our materiality framework. We present below the approach and progress on this exercise. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Materiality Determination 000 The Driving Principles In addition to the classic framework that maps issues on the basis of ‘Relevance to the Organization’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, our materiality framework incorporates the following driving principles: 1. ? Incorporation of multiple dimensions: Material dimensions vary from one organization to another as the context of each company and the industry or geography in which it is operating is not necessarily the same. The issues faced by a business can be different even within the same sector and geography. The materiality determination should reflect the complexities of multiple environmental, social and governance dimensions that are relevant to Wipro as a company and to the IT Services sector. It is also important to look at the probability and impact of the issues over a long period of time. The societal and global context could shift and what would have been peripheral in the short term could eventually become central and critical. 2. ? Individual stakeholder view: The conventional materiality matrix typically places issues based on relevance to the company and relevance to stakeholders; however, given that a company will have multiple stakeholders who are often very different in the roles that they play, it makes little sense to talk about ‘stakeholder relevance’ as an abstract, macro notion unless it is mapped to the next level of detail to the individual stakeholder. 3. ? Intrinsic worth: In the conventional materiality matrix of ‘Relevance to Wipro’ and ‘Relevance to Stakeholders’, certain critical sustainability issues may not score high on either of the dimensions. And yet, they have an intrinsic worth that compels serious and deep engagement. Therefore, our new framework will look at all these three factors. Our Approach The questions ‘Who are your stakeholders?’ and ‘What are their material issues?’ are important starting steps and we consider these questions as the building blocks of our sustainability initiatives and reporting. Based on GRI G4 Guidelines and AA1000 principles of ‘Stakeholder Inclusiveness’, ‘Materiality’ and ‘Sustainability Context’, we have adopted the following approach to determine materiality for our company. Defining Identifying Prioritizing stakeholders issues issues Seeking stakeholder feedback Seeking stakeholder feedback Benchmarking Understanding sustainability context Asessing internally Figuring in intrinsic worth Stakeholder Identification Defining who an organization’s primary stakeholders are, can be relatively straightforward within the business ecosystem. But when it comes to larger social and environmental contexts, the meaning of stakeholders can assume a form that is unduly large or amorphous. Here it becomes important to understand and identify those attributes of stakeholders that makes them important to business and necessitate meaningful engagement. We began our identification by defining those attributes and then mapping our value chain to determine stakeholders who qualify the attributes. Impact Influence Interest Those who can impact or are Those who can influence Those who are interested in impacted by our business the way we operate our success or whose well-being is of interest to us We also looked at three additional factors while finalizing our stakeholders Legitimacy Urgency Diverse perspectives Stakeholders with legitimate Stakeholders with a Stakeholders who can further claims, either contractual or relationship or claim of a organization’s understanding ethical time-sensitive nature of an issue 000 Materiality Determination Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 These led us to identify the following eight stakeholders groups. Readers will note that, except for minor semantic differences, these are the same stakeholders that appear in our previous reports. Therefore, the materiality recalibration exercise essentially reaffirmed our earlier decision in this regard. Employees Investors Partners and Government and Academic Institutes Policy Networks Customers Suppliers Communities & Civil The Young Citizen & Society Networks Future Generations While the first four have direct and operational/ business value chain impacts, the other four are part of the larger community and society that we operate in. Identification of Issues Material issues and their relative importance to Wipro and our stakeholders are not static and are likely to change with time. In line with this, we followed a threefold approach based on the Five Part Materiality Test proposed by Account Ability. We try to present a 360 degree perspective on our business and ecosystem through this process and its outcomes. Test 1: Direct economic impacts Internal Assessment Relevance Test 2: Organizational values and commitments to Wipro External Benchmarking Test 3: Business peer-based norms Relevance to Test 4: Stakeholder behavior and concerns stakeholders Stakeholder Feedback Test 5: Societal norms Internal assessment A significant part of materiality determination stems from the organization’s overall mission, values, commitments and competitive strategy as well as the impact of or on its economic performance. An internal perspective on risks as identified through organizational processes like risk assessment studies and audits or self-assessments using disclosure frameworks is also considered in the process. Listed below are the sources of information. ? Financial reports (Annual reports & Form 20F) ? Sustainability reports ? Disclosures Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI), Carbon Disclosure Project (CEP), Vigeo etc.) ? Other risk assessment studies and audit reports Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Materiality Determination 000 External benchmarking We conducted an extensive review of literature to identify issues considered as material and identified as risks by our business peers and also to understand expectations expressed in international standards and agreements. Listed below are the sources of information. ? Annual reports, sustainability ? SASB Materiality Map reports, Form 20F of peers ? FICCI India Risk Report ? ISO 26000 Guidance on Social Responsibility Stakeholder feedback Stakeholder inclusiveness is central to the materiality determination process. It is important to consider reasonable expectations and interests of stakeholders so as to provide a balanced view of the issues that emerge. At Wipro, we engage with our stakeholders regularly to understand their concerns and develop plans to address those concerns. From the above mentioned sources, a universe of all issues or dimensions that could be material for our businesses was identified. Prioritization of material issues The sustainability context of each of the issues or dimensions identified was detailed so as to understand their materiality to our business and industry. Following this, a prioritization exercise was undertaken by looking at the intrinsic worth of each issue as well as its relative priority. The stakeholder’s feedback was also taken into account by incorporating their ratings for each of these dimension against four criteria of 1) Relevance to Wipro’s business operations; 2) Relevance to stakeholders; 3) Impact; and 4) Time horizon of impact. Redefine Engage Strategize ? List all material dimensions ? Engage with larger group of ? Develop a revised materiality ? Prepare a shortlist of high internal stakeholders matrix based on stakeholder priority dimensions after ? Consult key external feedback core internal stakeholder stakeholders-customers, ? Develop programs and consultation suppliers, community, external engagement plans experts from business, ? Communicate to stakeholders academia and society This consultation process conducted in 2014-15 was part of materiality recalibration exercise and we have covered our senior leadership, employees and experts in the field of sustainability. We had involved participation from 12 of our senior leaders and 35 employees through email based questionnaires and social media. In addition, about 11 experts from academia and industry also provided their feedback. We also considered inputs from investors and customer gathered through different engagement exercises and the above exercise provided important insights into our stakeholders’ priorities, concerns and expectations from the company. Materiality Reporting for the Year From 2014 – 15 reporting year onwards, we are following the GRI G4 guidelines for our reporting. In line with G4 requirement to focus on ‘what matters’ and ‘where it matters’, we undertook an exercise to determine the most material issues to include in this report from multiple dimensions of risk, returns and relevance. We adopted the following steps to identify material aspects for reporting. ? Mapping the identified material issues to GRI G4‘Aspects’. Issues not connected to aspects are retained as ‘Topics’ ? Defining the boundary of each Aspect and Topic based on impacts ? Deciding the scope of reporting for other issues/dimensions 000 Materiality Determination Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 From the universe of issues or dimensions that was identified as material, a total of 19 aspects and 6 topics have been finalized for reporting. Depending on the relative importance, the other identified issues identified will be detailed in the respective sections as part of disclosure of management approach. The outcomes of the process were shared with all relevant functions for review and the consequent feedback was incorporated. Materiality Map Universe of Issues / Dimensions Considered Environment People Employees Corporate governance and and Ecology and community ethical business conduct ? Biodiversity ? Corporate citizenship ? Accounting for externalities ? Emissions and philanthropy ? Competition ? Energy ? Disability ? Corporate governance ? Environmental ? Employee Health, Safety and ? Corruption, bribery, corporate frauds performance and well-being ? Customer privacy reporting ? Fair labour practices ? Customer Satisfaction ? Environmental ? Gender ? Data security regulations compliance ? Human rights – freedom of ? Economic performance ? Natural and man-made association, nondiscrimination, ? Execution of strategy catastrophes forced labour, child labour etc. ? Government policy ? Urban resilience ? Knowledge and skills ? Intellectual property rights ? Waste development ? IT systems security & operational resilience ? Water ? Talent attraction, development ? Innovation and retention ? Management vision & leadership stability ? Open source ? Operational efficiency and speed ? Outsourcing related issues ? Regulatory compliance ? Service delivery ? Stakeholder communication ? Supply chain management ? Tax strategy ? Transparency and disclosures Given below is the mapping of identified aspects and topics to respective sections and primary stakeholders. Stakeholder Aspects / Topics Aspect/Topic Boundary Respective Sections ? Employment People supply chain – Global Workplace Sustainability ? Occupational Health and Safety (employees, contract and ? Diversity and Equal Opportunity support staff) ? Non-discrimination Employees ? Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining ? Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms ? Labour Practices Grievance Mechanisms ? Compliance ? Capacity Building and Career Development Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Materiality Determination 000 Current and ? Energy ? Water, Waste, Biodiversity Ecological Responsibility future generations ? Emissions Operations in India as they ? Water constitute 80% of overall ? Effluents and Waste footprint and higher impact ? Campus Biodiversity ? Energy, Emissions – Global ? Urban Resilience Supply Chain (includes Business Travel and commute) contribute to 77% of overall environmental impact. ? Campus biodiversity Wipro campuses in Bangalore and Pune ? Urban Resilience -Primarily India Customers ? Customer Privacy ? All our customers and Customer stewardship ? Customer Satisfaction businesses ? Innovation Investors ? Economic performance ? Economic performance: Financial Stewardship ? Anti-corruption Across the value chain, primarily India ? Anti-corruption: Supply chain and business functions, primarily India Suppliers* ? Supplier environmental ? Social aspects of Supply Supply Chain Sustainability assessment Chain: India based Workplace Sustainability ? Supplier assessment for labor suppliers practices ? Environmental aspects of ? Supplier human rights supply chain: Categories assessment based on life cycle ? Supplier assessment for impact assessment of services and on society products (see natural capital accounting) Community & civil ? Community and Education ? Communities in India and Social Responsibility society networks; other counties where we The education have significant operations. ecosystem Other countries include South Africa, United States of America etcetera. * As described in the section ‘Our Value Chain’, our suppliers are of three categories – Human Resources, Service Providers and Materials & Equipment Providers. We are covering aspects and topics related to our primary supply chain (contractors directly engaged in customer delivery) in the section ‘People Sustainability’ and product and services supply chain related aspects in the section ‘Supply Chain Sustainability’. Note: The issues in italics are topics not included in GRI G4 aspect list. 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization 1.3 Profile In this section, we present an overview of Wipro’s key organizational metrics both, at a strategic and operational level.We also articulate our approach to corporate governance covering the key areas of Board Governance, Strategic Risk Management, Codes of Conduct and Policies, Disclosures and Ombudsprocess. All of these together provide the cornerstones of our overarching approach centered on being a responsible organization that combines financial performance with environmental stewardship and a workplace that is fair as well as empowered. Company Profile Wipro Ltd (NYSE:WIT) is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with 170,000+ workforce serving clients in 175+ cities across 6 continents. The company posted revenues of $7.7 Billion for the financial year ended Mar 31, 2016. Wipro helps customers do business better by leveraging our Wipro is globally recognized for its innovative approach towards industr y-wide experience, deep technology exper tise, delivering business value and its commitment to sustainability. comprehensive portfolio of services and vertically aligned business Wipro champions optimized utilization of natural resources, capital model. Our 55+ dedicated emerging technologies ‘Centers of and talent. Today we are a trusted partner of choice for global Excellence’ enable us to harness the latest technology for delivering businesses looking to ‘differentiate at the front’ and ‘standardize at business capability to our clients. the core’ through technology interventions. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Values, Tenets, Vision, Policies Spirit of Wipro represents the core values of Wipro which act as the guiding principles for our culture and actions. This Spirit is rooted in current reality, but it also represents what Wipro aspires to be hence making it future ready. They bind us together and inspire us to excel in the way we think and act. Spirit of Wipro Intensity to Win Make customers successful Team, innovate and excel Act with Sensitivity Spirit of Wipro Respect for the individual Thoughtful and responsible Unyielding Integrity Delivering on commitments Honesty and fairness in action THE CUSTOMER To earn our clients’ trust and maximize value of their business by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, Wipro’s Vision leading technologies and best in class delivery processes Measured by our aspiration to achieve industry leading growth Vision, tenets and values are the foundational cornerstones of an institution and shape its essential core i.e. ‘what it stands for’. To translate these into operating frameworks is the job of policies and codes of conduct. To be effective, policies must be comprehensive, yet simple to understand and implement. Some of our key policies are as below. Policies Code of Ecological Corporate Health Supplier Human Business Sustainability Social and Safety Code of Rights Conduct Policy Responsibility Policy Conduct Policy Policy 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Milestones Wipro, one of the world's most trusted brands, is a name with a long history. Here's a snapshot of our journey to date: Incorporation of Wipro enters Wipro Ltd. demerges its ‘Diversified Westorn India the IT Software Business company into a seperate Vegetable business company to be named ‘Wipro Products Ltd. Enterprises Ltd.’ Wipro Ltd. to focus exclusively on IT Business 1980 2000 2015 1945 1984 2013 Wipro enters Wipro listed in Carved out Wipro Digital the IT the NYSE and business as a seperate unit. hardware enters the BPO Announced its intention to business acquire Designit, global strategic design firm specializing tranformative Strategic Business Units and Service Lines We invest significant resources in understanding and prioritizing industry verticals. Our IT Services business segment is organized into six strategic business units by customer industry. Wipro’s service offerings are aligned with the technology needs of our customers. While our focus is on being a strategic provider of IT Services and the system integrator of choice, we also provide IT Products as a complement to our IT Services offerings. In the India and Middle -East markets, we are a leading provider of system integration services where we provide a full suite of services such as hardware solutions, software licenses and services. To fulfill system integration projects, we provide IT hardware and software licenses. Global Infrastructure Services Business Consulting Process Services Banking, Retail, Consumer Financial Services Packaged Goods, and Insurance Transportation and Government Global Media Manufacturing and Telecom and Hi-Tech Business Application Wipro Services Analytics Energy, Natural Healthcare, Resources Utilities Life Science and Engineering and Services and Construction Product Wipro Digital Engineering Solution Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Geographical Presence UK Germany United Arab France Emirates Europe India Rest of world Sweden Saudi Arabia Japan Quatar India and ME Netherlands China Finland Bahrain Australia Switzerland Oman USA Singapore Romania Kuwait Canada Malaysia Egypt Americas Portugal Brazil Taiwan Austria Hong Kong New Zealand Asia Pacific & Other Americas Europe India and ME Emerging Markets 52.5% 25.6% 10.6% 11.3% 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Key Organizational Metrics Key Financial Metrics 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Revenue (Rs. Billion)* 374.256 434.269 469.545 512.440 Profit After Tax (Rs. Billion)* 61.684 78.405 87.059 89.414 Total Capitalization (Rs. Billion) 348.799 396.478 488.541 593.523 Equity (Rs. Billion) 284.983 344.886 409.628 468.302 Debt (Rs. Billion) 63.816 51.592 78.913 125.221 Total Assets (Rs. Billion) 439.730 502.304 600.033 724.921 Other Organizational Metrics Number of shareholders 213,603 210,471 213,588 227,369 Number of Employees 134,541* 159,000* 142,282* 156,718* Note: * Figures are only for core employees in IT business. Does not include partner employees, retainers and support service workforce. Recognitions Wipro recognized as member of Dow Wipro selected as a member of the Wipro won the NASSCOM award for Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), Vigeo Emerging Market Sustainability the Best program in Gender Diversity World for the seventh time in a row. Index (the 70 most advanced companies for 2015-2016 in IT/ ITES companies Wipro is also a member of the DJSI in the Emerging Market Region) Emerging Markets Index Wipro features in the A List of CDP’s Wipro named as a 2016 World’s Most Wipro won Asia-Pac Award in the global report as well as the India Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Workplace Category at Disability Matters Climate Change Report 2016 Institute for the 5th successive year Asia-Pac Conference held at Bangkok Wipro recognized as one of the 100 Wipro Ltd received ‘A’ Rating with a most sustainable corporations in Asia PLATINUM Sustainable Plus Label in the 2016 Channel NewsAsia from CII Sustainability Ranking and ranked Number One in Asia Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Business Innovation and Excellence Awards ? Wipro wins Aecus Innovation Award for its Incident Management Mobile Solution implementation at National Grid ? Wipro retains the 11th spot in Interbrand’s Best Indian Brands 2016 ? Wipro won the CISCO Digitizing India Awards in collaboration with CNBC for NRC Assam Project under Digital Innovation in Citizen services (eGovernance) category ? Wipro Receives 2015 EMC Global Growth Alliances Partner Award ? Wipro named a 2015 Best Outsourcing Thought Leadership Awards (BOTL) winner by The Outsourcing Institute ? Wipro Wins Seven Awards At CIO Choice Honor & Recognition 2015 Good Governance and Management Practices Corporate Governance At Wipro, Corporate Governance is more than just adherence to the Statutory and Regulatory requirements. It is equally about focusing on voluntary practices that underlie the highest levels of transparency and propriety. Independence Accountability ? Majority of the Board comprised of External ? Corporate Internal Audit Function Direcly Directions (7 out of 10) Reports to the Audit Commitee ? Audi, Risk and Complaince, Nomination & ? Ombdusperson reporting to Audit Commitee Compensation Commitee comprise of entirely ? Among First Indian Companies to adopt Non-Executive Independent Directors Sarbanes Oxley Act’s Certification Process in Wipro Corporate Governance Transparency ? Timely, adequate & equivalent access to information to all stakeholders Corporate Social responsibility ? First Indian Companyto publish consolidation and segmental accounts ? ‘Wipro Cares’ contribution to society through ? Disclosure when Exchanges are closed (both education, extending human touch and in India and the US) during non trading hours facilitating employee involvement in community ? Announcement of quaterly audited financial ? Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) results within 15 minutes on approval by the an initiative for creating capacity on the ground Board of Directors for systemic reform in education. (Primary & ? Early adoption of standards (e.g. As30/ Hedge Elementary School) Accounting) Early adoption of IFRS ? Filing with SEC in line with US registrants ? Quarterly audited accounts with no qualifications. Quarterly & annual results sent by email to shareholders 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely, Governance by Shareholders Governance by Board of Directors Governance by Sub-Committee of Board of Directors Audit/Risk and Compliance Committee | Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee with the additional responsibility of CSR Strategy Committee | Administrative, Shareholders and Investors Grievance Committee (Stakeholders Relationship Committee) Governance by Management Process Code of Conduct Compliance The Ombudsprocess Effective corporate governance requires a clear understanding of the respective roles of the Board and of senior management and their relationships with others in the corporate structure. To ensure this, the Board of Directors has adopted ‘Corporate Governance Guidelines’ which codifies the best corporate governance practices. These guidelines provide a systematic and structured framework for the Board to review and evaluate the Company’s performance in an independent manner, while at the same time providing assurance to the Directors in terms of their authority to oversee the Company’s management. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines give an overview of the responsibilities of the board, board composition, board meetings, board committees and process of management review. Board of Directors As of March 31, 2016, we had seven non-executive directors and three executive directors, of which one executive director is the Chairman of our Board. Effective April 1, 2016, two more independent directors were appointed making the total number of non-executive independent directors nine.All of the seven non-executive directors are independent directors and free from any business or other relationship that could materially influence their judgment. All the independent directors satisfy the criteria of independence as defined under the listing agreement with the Indian Stock Exchanges and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance standards. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines specify the board The board undergoes familiarization program and other continuing nomination process as well as board membership criteria. We education programs which are aimed at developing and enhancing consider different factors of expertise and experience on economic the collective knowledge of economic and social topics related to and social aspects in board selection. These factors such as their duties as Directors on an ongoing basis to enable them to independence, alignment with company's values, diversity and perform their duties better and to recognize and deal appropriately complementarity in terms of age, skills and knowledge, with issues that arise. management experience, industry background, perspectives, etc., ensures selection of a Board which can act in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders. Technology BFSI FMCG Telecom Academia/Consulting Healthcare 5 1 2 1 2 1 Board Diversity in Industry Experience Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Board members are not prohibited from serving on Boards and/or The Board Profile giving an overview of the background and Committees of other organizations, except for companies that are in experience of Board of Directors can viewed is provided in pages 16 competition with the businesses pursued by the Company. However, to 21 of ourAnnual Report FY 2015-16. members of the Board are required to comply with applicable The guidelines can be viewed at regulatory requirements with respect to limits on number of http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/Corporatedirectorships in the both the country of incorporation of the country Governance-Guidelines.pdf and the country of residence. The Board Profile section in our Annual Report discloses other board memberships held by our Board of For more details on our corporate governance, please refer to page Directors. Service on Boards and/or Committees of other number 35 and 109-118 of ourAnnual Report FY 2015-16. organizations shall be consistent with the Company’s conflict of interest policy. Related Party Disclosures As a part of our philosophy of adhering to highest ethical standards, transparency and accountability, disclosures are considered critical in the company. Disclosures help us adhere to regulatory requirements as well as in proactively informing and engaging with our various stakeholders. Due care is taken to disclose timely, consistent and accurate information through annual financial reports, sustainability reports and other public reports to shareholders and the public regarding financial performance, liabilities, control and ownership, and corporate governance issues. Wipro is a promoter group led company with the promoters having other diverse businesses and interests. Our Annual Financial reports include disclosures on shareholding pattern of promoters as well as top 10 shareholders. Given the fact that the promoter group has occasions to engage in Related Party Transactions (RPTs), disclosures on the same are made in our annual reports in the interest of transparency. Such transactions are guided by `Policy on Related Party Disclosures', an abridged version of which is made available in our website at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/abridged-policy-for-related-party-transactions.pdf. Refer to page 167 of our latest Annual Report for 2015 16 for details of related party transactions during the financial year. Risk Management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function backed by a qualified team of specialists with deep industry experience who develop frameworks and methodologies for assessing and mitigating risks. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) works in close co-ordination with Business teams, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Quality, office of the CIO, Delivery, Internal Audit and other Functional teams. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) enables and supports business objectives through risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance to all stake holders including Customers, Shareholders and Employees. This is done by identifying, assessing and mitigating risks within key business and functional processes through a collaborative approach. As part of this, the leveraging of technology and tools for continuous monitoring and reporting of risks is crucial. ERM Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security, Information Security & Business Continuity, Data Privacy and Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk charts of most organizations. To effectively mitigate these risks, we have deployed a risk management framework which helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks. The framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally recognized standards. 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Our Corporate Governance philosophy is put into practice at Wipro through the following four functional layers, namely, Governance by Shareholders Audit/Risk and Compliance Committee | Board Governance, Nomination & Compensation Governance by Committee with the additional responsibility of Board of Directors CSR Strategy Committee | Administrative, Shareholders and Investors Grievance Committee (Stakeholders Relationship Committee) Governance by Sub-Committee Code of Conduct of Board of Directors Compliance The Ombudsprocess Governance by Management Process Effective corporate governance requires a clear understanding of the respective roles of the Board and of senior management and their relationships with others in the corporate structure. To ensure this, the Board of Directors has adopted ‘Corporate Governance Guidelines’ which codifies the best corporate governance practices. These guidelines provide a systematic and structured framework for the Board to review and evaluate the Company’s performance in an independent manner, while at the same time providing assurance to the Directors in terms of their authority to oversee the Company’s management. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines give an overview of the responsibilities of the board, board composition, board meetings, board committees and process of management review. Board of Directors As of March 31, 2016, we had seven non-executive directors and three executive directors, of which one executive director is the Chairman of our Board. Effective April 1, 2016, two more independent directors were appointed making the total number of non-executive independent directors nine.All of the seven non-executive directors are independent directors and free from any business or other relationship that could materially influence their judgment. All the independent directors satisfy the criteria of independence as defined under the listing agreement with the Indian Stock Exchanges and the New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance standards. Our Corporate Governance Guidelines specify the board The board undergoes familiarization program and other continuing nomination process as well as board membership criteria. We education programs which are aimed at developing and enhancing consider different factors of expertise and experience on economic the collective knowledge of economic and social topics related to and social aspects in board selection. These factors such as their duties as Directors on an ongoing basis to enable them to independence, alignment with company's values, diversity and perform their duties better and to recognize and deal appropriately complementarity in terms of age, skills and knowledge, with issues that arise. management experience, industry background, perspectives, etc., ensures selection of a Board which can act in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders. Technology BFSI FMCG Telecom Academia/Consulting Healthcare 5 1 2 1 2 1 Board Diversity in Industry Experience Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Board members are not prohibited from serving on Boards and/or The Board Profile giving an overview of the background and Committees of other organizations, except for companies that are in experience of Board of Directors can viewed is provided in pages 16 competition with the businesses pursued by the Company. However, to 21 of ourAnnual Report FY 2015-16. members of the Board are required to comply with applicable The guidelines can be viewed at regulatory requirements with respect to limits on number of http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/Corporatedirectorships in the both the country of incorporation of the country Governance-Guidelines.pdf and the country of residence. The Board Profile section in our Annual Report discloses other board memberships held by our Board of For more details on our corporate governance, please refer to page Directors. Service on Boards and/or Committees of other number 35 and 109-118 of ourAnnual Report FY 2015-16. organizations shall be consistent with the Company’s conflict of interest policy. Related Party Disclosures As a part of our philosophy of adhering to highest ethical standards, transparency and accountability, disclosures are considered critical in the company. Disclosures help us adhere to regulatory requirements as well as in proactively informing and engaging with our various stakeholders. Due care is taken to disclose timely, consistent and accurate information through annual financial reports, sustainability reports and other public reports to shareholders and the public regarding financial performance, liabilities, control and ownership, and corporate governance issues. Wipro is a promoter group led company with the promoters having other diverse businesses and interests. Our Annual Financial reports include disclosures on shareholding pattern of promoters as well as top 10 shareholders. Given the fact that the promoter group has occasions to engage in Related Party Transactions (RPTs), disclosures on the same are made in our annual reports in the interest of transparency. Such transactions are guided by `Policy on Related Party Disclosures', an abridged version of which is made available in our website at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/abridged-policy-for-related-party-transactions.pdf. Refer to page 167 of our latest Annual Report for 2015 16 for details of related party transactions during the financial year. Risk Management Risk Management at Wipro is an enterprise wide function backed by a qualified team of specialists with deep industry experience who develop frameworks and methodologies for assessing and mitigating risks. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) works in close co-ordination with Business teams, Legal, Finance, Human Resources, Quality, office of the CIO, Delivery, Internal Audit and other Functional teams. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) enables and supports business objectives through risk-intelligent assessment and mitigation mechanisms while providing reassurance to all stake holders including Customers, Shareholders and Employees. This is done by identifying, assessing and mitigating risks within key business and functional processes through a collaborative approach. As part of this, the leveraging of technology and tools for continuous monitoring and reporting of risks is crucial. ERM Framework The risk landscape in the current business environment is changing dynamically with the dimensions of Cyber security, Information Security & Business Continuity, Data Privacy and Large Deal Execution figuring prominently in the risk charts of most organizations. To effectively mitigate these risks, we have deployed a risk management framework which helps proactively identify, prioritize and mitigate risks. The framework is based on principles laid out in the four globally recognized standards. 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Audit Committee of the Board Governance Oversight Po Tone @ The Top lic y/ Fr us am uo in ew nt Framework or k Standard ERM Co Corporate Management Framework People, Im ERM Team pl oy Process Technology e ov de pr & t De men ve lo Risk Management p Risk Business Units Identification Analysis Evalute Treatement Monitoring Ownership & Function Risk Categories Governance Strategic Operational Compliance Reporting Refer to pages 35 36 in our Annual Report 2015 16 for more details on our risk management model and risk analysis. Major Risk Management and Risk Mitigation Initiatives Major Risks Mitigation Plan Information Security and Cyber Security Strong counter measures implemented and programs to continuously monitor the breaches that could result in systemic effectiveness of the controls have been implemented. Focus on sustaining controls and failures, loss, disclosure of confidential continuous improvement of solutions. information. Intellectual Property violating or misusing Elaborate program has been rolled out in the past years to assess and mitigate the risks on our clients’ intellectual property rights or for account of intellectual property both customer and Wipro owned. The same assist in breaches of third-party intellectual property identification, monitoring and creating awareness across the teams. The program has also rights or confidential information in been enhanced to address risks arising out of access provided to social media & connection with services to our clients. collaboration platforms. Data Privacy regulations relating to Data Privacy programs have been augmented by the creation of a dedicated Data Privacy personal and health information dealt with team with specific emphasis to revalidate all existing frameworks, policies and processes both by and on behalf of Wipro increases that can be leveraged across by the respective teams, covering all applicable geographies the risk of non-compliance. and areas of operations. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Regulatory Compliances covering various A program on statutory compliance is in place with the objective to track all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws relating regulations, obligation arising out the same and corresponding actions items that requires to various aspects of the business to be adhered to ensure compliance along with necessary workflows enabled. The program operations are complex and nonis monitored for compliances and regularly reviewed to ensure compliances are in place. compliances can result in substantial fines, Additional programs exist to cover specific regulations relating to immigration, anti-bribery sanctions etc. etc. Service Delivery risks relating to complex Risk Management framework has been deployed for large value deals to assess solution programs providing end-to-end business fitness, credit risks, financial risks, technology risks among other risk factors. Additionally solutions for our clients. contract compliance programs are in place with regular reviews, early warning systems as well as customer satisfaction surveys to assess the effectiveness of the service delivery risks and preempt any risks arising from the same. Functional and Operational risks arising Appropriate risk and control matrix have been designed for all critical business processes out of various operational processes and both design and effectiveness tested under the SOX & Internal Financial Control Programs. Risk Governance The Board Committee on Audit, Risk and Compliance consisting of non-executive independent directors has the responsibility of periodically reviewing the company's policies for risk assessment and risk management and assess the steps taken to control such risks. The committee also reviews and approves the Strategic and Operating Plan of Enterprise Risk Management function of the Company. Concomitantly, the internal Audit function at Wipro also plays a key role in identifying and highlighting potential risks to Board Committee. High risks including concerns related to Ombudsprocess, sexual harassment prevention and critical security incidents are tracked and reviewed periodically. They are reported to the Audit committee of the board every quarter. Customer related issues and key employee engagement developments are also reviewed by the board. Code of Conduct Wipro has a corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) that provides the broad direction as well as specific guidelines for all business transactions. The COBC is applicable to all business practices and employees, contractor employees and consultants and it covers critical aspects like customer relations; protecting customer information; supplier selection; conflicts of interest; gifts, entertainment & business courtesies; communicating with the public; confidential information; intellectual property, competitive/business intelligence, protecting the privacy of employee and personal information; business records and internal controls; safeguarding company assets; insider trading; anti-trust and fair competition; anti-corruption; political involvement/lobbying; global trade; human rights; diversity and non-discrimination; harassment-free workplace; safe and healthy work environment; and sustainability and corporate citizenship. The COBC is socialized at multiple points of an employee's lifecycle benchmarking with the best and most ethical companies in the it is first covered as part of the induction program of new hires and world, and keeping up with the statutory changes. subsequently, every employee has to take an online test annually to Wipro will take appropriate disciplinary action including up to assert their familiarity with the tenets of the COBC. The code can be termination against any employee, agent, contractor or consultant, accessed at http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdfwhose actions are found to violate the terms of COBC. We have a files/code-of-business-conduct-and-ethics.pdf zero tolerance policy for non-compliance with the non-negotiable The COBC is the central document on which the Company’s ethics aspects of COBC e.g. child labor, anti-corruption etc. 360 degree compliance message is disseminated to all employees. Hence, it is feedback process rates Wipro managers on how well they align with constantly reviewed by the Legal & Compliance team to ensure it the principle of unyielding integrity. stays current with trends and changes in corporate ethics, 000 Organization Profile Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Compliance Framework Compliance processes at Wipro have the oversight of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and the Corporate Compliance Committee. We have a dedicated in-house Legal & Compliance team focused on compliance to identify and analyze the legal and regulatory changes resulting in creation and update of policies and processes. The team oversees compliance with local business laws and regulatory compliance in each of the countries we operate. It is important to assure the stakeholders that internal systems are fair and just. Global Immigration Management System (GIMS), Integrated Risk management and Human Resources are the main internal stakeholders with significant compliance related risks. As a result, the legal and compliance team reviews the process of these functions. Dashboards are maintained across Business Units and Support Functions and reviewed for contractual compliances periodically. For Corporate, Taxation and Labor law compliances external consulting firms are involved. In 2014, Global Compliance Management Project was started with Other modes of maintaining awareness of ethical compliance the objective of documenting a statutory compliance policy among employees include focused training sessions organized for framework and automating the framework. As part of the project various functionsProcurement, Operations and Administration, Compliance Landscaping is being done under the broad categories Human Resources, Finance and Accounts, Internal Audit. At these Corporate and commercial laws; Industry specific laws; classroom sessions, key policies relevant to the participants are Employment, Human Resource & Immigration laws; Environment, discussed and feedback is taken for addressing any changes to Health & safety; and IT and Data Protection (Excluding tax laws). To processes and policies. Mailers on Compliance are periodically ensure compliance with all laws applicable to the company a tool circulated by the Ombudsprocess group through emails, posters at (SCCP Program) is being implemented to track global statutory key employee access locations. External Trainings are organized compliance. An external service provider has been engaged for this regularly for Legal & Compliance, Finance, Accounts and Internal project. Audit teams on anti-corruption laws of USA and UK, best practices on implementing anti-corruption processes in organizations. These Training programs on ethical compliance and the Ombudsprocess sessions are conducted by US external counsel, consulting firms are regularly conducted at various leadership levels. At these and peer companies. In accordance with mandatory local law, all interactive sessions, key applicable ethical policies are explained, manager-level employees located in the states of California and actual company case studies and judicial pronouncements on Connecticut within the US are required to undergo training and ethical matters are discussed and statistical data on the complaints/ certification on prevention of sexual harassment. concerns received by the Ombudspersons and the processes adopted to address these are shared with the participating leaders. There has been no significant instance of non-compliances in the Every new hire is required to attend an ethical compliance session last financial year. titled “Spirit of Wipro Session” where key aspects of ethics framework are communicated. After the session, every employee takes a test and certification for compliance to the COBC. The Ombudsprocess Wipro is committed to the highest standards of openness, probity and accountability. An important aspect of accountability and transparency is a robust mechanism that allows partners, customers, suppliers and other members of the public, to voice concerns in a responsible and effective manner. What this means in concrete terms is that whenever a stakeholder discovers information that reveals serious malpractice, impropriety, abuse or wrongdoing within the organization then the stakeholder should be able to report without fear of reprisal Anyone can report a concern to the ombudsperson online at www.wiproombuds.com In Wipro, our Chief Ombuds-person works with designated OmbudsIn 2015 16, a total of 1397 complaints were received via the persons in each Business Unit. The process ensures confidential Ombudsprocess and the action-taken cases as of March 2016 was and anonymous submissions. An organization wide multi-lingual 1337. Based on self-disclosure data, 68% of these were from Ombudsprcess is available 24 x 7 (phone and internet enabled) for employees and the balance were mainly anonymous and from other all our stakeholders. stakeholders like vendors and customers. The top categories of complaints were people processes (38%) and workplace concerns Complete details of the Ombuds process for employees is available and harassment (21%). A total of 111 complaints of sexual at the following links in our website. harassment were raised in the year 2015, of which 107 cases were For Employees disposed and appropriate actions were taken in all cases within the http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdfstatutory timelines. This information is periodically communicated to files/wipro_ombuds_process.pdf the board. For non-employees The Ombudsprocess statistics for 2015 – 16 and earlier years are http://www.wipro.com/documents/investors/pdf-files/wiproprovided below. ombudsman-process-non-employees.pdf Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organization Profile 000 Break-up of Complaints received through the Ombudsprocess Types of Complaint 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 FY #s HR / People Process 43% 38% 38% 526 COBCE / Security Policy 7% 5% 10% 134 Harassment Sexual 12% 9% 9% 125 Falsification or Destruction of Information 8% 11% 13% 176 Harassment Workplace 19% 23% 21% 287 Others 11% 13% 11% 149 TOTAL 100% 100% 100% 1397 Total Number of Complaints 787 1093 1397 Type of Actions Taken Action Type 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 FY #s Separation 11% 8% 5% 63 Warning Letter 10% 8% 6% 75 Counseling / Advisory 20% 17% 17% 230 Process/Policy Change 1% 2% 2% 32 Benefits Granted 15% 15% 14% 181 Others 43% 49% 57% 756 Total 100% 100% 100% 1337 Actions Taken on Sexual Harassment Complaints Action Type 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 FY #s Separation 23% 24% 21% 25 Warning Letter 33% 33% 17% 20 Counselling 22% 11% 18% 22 Others 22% 33% 45% 54 Total 100% 100% 100% 121 Source of Complaint Reporter 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 Employee 539 652 951 Anonymous 170 311 285 Others 49 70 102 Vendor 16 33 31 Contractor 9 21 25 Customer 4 6 3 Total 787 1093 1397 Besides the Ombudsprocess, the stakeholders also have the option of sharing their concerns with us via mail mentioned in our website. We have location registers at all our locations which can be used by any stakeholder group to express their concerns. Wipro also invites experts in the field of crime and investigation to conduct master classes on topics relevant to the business. This financial year, K. V. Ravindranath Tagore, Retired Additional Director General of Police took an ombuds master class on ‘Corporate Investigation Boundaries and Experiments’. The session covered aspects like investigation of cyber crimes, scientific methods of investigation, forensic science and prevention of crime. The concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity which are mandated by law to report are communicated to the relevant agencies as and when such issues happen. WIPRO AND SUSTAINABILITY A Strategic Overview 2.1 Sustainability Megaforces 2.2 Overview of Wipro's Sustainability Journey 2.3 Wipro's Sustainability Framework 2.4 Sustainability Governance 2.5 Transparency and Disclosures 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability 2.1 Megaforces A thriving global society, now and in the future, depends on the 2015 was the year when three landmark agreements on human stable functioning of all interacting components of the Earth System development were signed: the new Sustainable Development Goals (ecology and society). Unfortunately, scientific evidence indicates (SDGs), a new framework for global sustainable development that human influence has altered Earth System processes to a point financing, and a new climate change agreement at the COP 21 in that we have begun transgressing planetary boundaries that have Paris.The objectives of the seventeen SDG’s are to end poverty, kept civilization safe for the past 10,000 years. Scientists claim that protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all as part of a new we have entered a new geological epoch 'the Anthropocene' sustainable development agenda. The COP 21 at Paris concluded characterized by manmade actions interfering and changing the with a legally binding and universal agreement on reducing environment. greenhouse gas emissions to limit the global temperature increase to 2 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels climate, from all The changes in the Earth system can be understood through the world nations. Even though the outcome of the summit can be framework of nine planetary boundaries proposed by a team led by considered ‘very little and too late’, the summit succeeded in Johan Rockstrom at the Stockholm Resilience Centre, it shows that reaching at a global consensus for a complex problem. Also it at least three planetary boundaries have been transgressed (rate of resulted in countries committing on post-2020 climate actions they biodiversity loss, human interference with the nitrogen and intended to take under the new international agreement, known as phosphorus cycle), while some are at risk of being surpassed (landtheir Intended Nationally Determined Contributions (INDCs). system change, and ocean acidification). No country or government can attempt to solve these complex While the world income (GDP per capita) has increased problems without business coming on board as willing partners in exponentially over the past century, income inequality did decrease this journey by bringing technology, ingenuity, enterprise building till the 70's-80's and is now showing a rebound to levels seen near capacities and creating markets for development of sustainable the beginning of the century (IMF). About a billion people are alternatives. In this, business has to collaborate with all stakeholders estimated to be living in extreme poverty today. A quarter of all across its value chain and with the community to transition to a future children under the age of five years is estimated to be stunted due to that is equitable to all stakeholders and is cognizant of malnutrition. In 2015, on average 24 people were forced to flee each interdependent issues and planetary boundaries. minute due to conflict, four times more than a decade earlier. 775 million adults and 122 million youth worldwide lack basic literacy skills, and of this, more than 60 per cent of them are women. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 Global Economic System Current Scenario The global economic system is vulnerable to multiple risks which have the potential to undermine financial and social stability of societies. The risks include asset bubble in a major economy, failure of a major financial mechanism or institution, fiscal crises due to excessive debt burdens generate sovereign debt crises and/or liquidity crises, unmanageable inflation or prolonged ultra-low inflation or deflation in a major economy or region (World Risks Report, 2016). There is also a growing problem of structural unemployment in advanced economies. Even though the world has recovered from the latest financial crisis, the danger of complacency compared to other risks exists. Business Implications The volatile nature of economic environment and the multitude of risks that can disrupt the financial order pose serious threat to long time sustainability of businesses. Businesses need to be alert and should proactively address critical areas of concerns to insulate themselves from any potential crises. They should avoid unduly large debt and related financial exposures and exercise prudence in their risk taking strategies. Climate Change Current Scenario The fifth assessment report of IPCC asserts with greater certainty that climate change is a reality. The report says that the atmosphere and ocean have warmed, the amounts of snow and ice have diminished, sea level has risen, and the concentrations of greenhouse gases have increased and human influence on the climate system is evident from the increasing greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere, positive radiative forcing, observed warming, and understanding of the climate system . Climate change can directly or indirectly lead to hunger, water scarcity, health problems, and poverty over varying time frames. It can impact employment and livelihood opportunities thereby limiting opportunities to access education, housing and energy. It can also cause large scale migration and displacement as a result of climate change related emergencies like extreme heat, floods and droughts, tropical storms and changing patterns of infection of diseases. The cost of climate change is both financial and social. The IPCC AR 5 predicts global mean losses to be in the order of 1 to 5% of GDP for 4°C of warming with even higher regional losses. Inaction can create risks of major disruption to economic and social and herein lies the implications for businesses. Discussions on climate change have moved from ascertaining the probability and estimating risks and costs to developing strategies for mitigation and adaptation. The Fifth Assessment report talks about adaptation and mitigation strategies that need to be implemented. Businesses are expected to play a greater role in implementing those strategies. WRI, CDP and WWF launched ' Mind the Science, Mind the Gap' initiative to develop sector specific methodologies to help companies set science based emission reduction targets based on IPCC's recommendations i.e. what is required by companies across different sectors to limit global temperatures rise by 2 degree centigrade by 2100 from preindustrial levels. Business Implications Businesses will face a multitude of risks and opportunities related to climate change. The risks include (a) increased energy and other resource costs (b) increased insurance costs related to extreme and adverse climate events and (c) potential future litigation, claims and legal action. On the other hand, opportunities for businesses lie in the field of emissions trading, carbon credits, carbon offsetting or ecofriendly technologies or products like hybrid cars and renewable energy. Process improvements that can save energy and reduce GHG emissions can also enhance brand value and reputation. The opportunities are not without challenges both scientific and political. For example, renewables face the challenges of energy density, efficiency, scalability and grid integration while offsetting programs like large scale afforestation can adversely impact other resources due to land use change like water and biodiversity. 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Water Crises Current Scenario Global water demand (in terms of withdrawals) is projected to increase by 55% by 2050. Currently agriculture accounts for 69% of the world's total freshwater withdrawal and a 19% increase of agricultural water consumption is further expected by 2050. But the rise in demand of water is mainly because of growing demands from manufacturing (400%), thermal electricity generation (140 %) and domestic use (130 %). Water and food security are inextricably linked. Multiple factors like population, shift in food consumption patterns (non-local and higher protein food) and shift towards mechanization without the application of local and traditional resources, knowledge and skills are increasing the demand for water. If this situation is not resolved, the impending water crisis can threaten food security. Urbanization supported by the increase in tertiary economic activities (services) and industrialization has also contributed to the misuse of water resources primarily driven by the shift to water being viewed as one other resource that an external entity ( the state in most cases) is supposed to provide. This situation is likely to be exacerbated further due to Climate change driven changes in precipitation patterns. The UN Water forecasts that 1.8 billion people will be living in countries or regions with absolute water scarcity and two thirds of the world population will be living in `water-stressed' areas by 2025 (UN Water, 2007). World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2016 reflects this problem and identifies water crisis as one of the top high impact and high likelihood risks. Business Implications Water scarcity can lead to implementation of stringent policies on water allocation and regulation e.g. development of water markets that cap usage and stricter water quality standards. Subsidies may be replaced with full cost pricing which may increase water prices. Agricultural crises can increase food prices and this along with increased water prices can affect disposable income of consumers. This can impact profits of businesses and economic growth. Water is a commons which has tangible societal and cultural connects. The societal license to operate for a business may be challenged in times of scarcity and there will be pressures to implement water saving measures, new processes technologies and products to reduce the water foot print by businesses. Disruption in water supply can directly impact continuity of business operations at a local level. Consumers are likely to consider water efficient products or from companies which are seen as water responsible. Urbanization Current Scenario Urban living is often associated with better access to employment, livelihoods, education, health care and other social services as well as greater opportunities for social and cultural participation. It is largely lead by increased mechanization in farm/rural sectors and opportunities from industries and service sectors in cities. Currently, 54% of world's population lives in urban areas, projected to reach 66% by 2050 (UN, 2014). Nearly 90% of projected increase would come from Asia and Africa. Most recent and emerging urban areas are low on livability indices. They suffer from haphazard planning which is mostly post facto and reactive. Accessibility of basic services is often an issue for disadvantaged sections of the society, leading to urban inequality. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 Business Implications Cities are the ecosystems for businesses to access rich and diverse social capital. It can be argued that they have been the centers of economic growth since the past few decades and will continue to do so in the future. Poor social infrastructure impedes this possibility. While the state will continue to play a key role in creation of this infrastructure, they suffer from significant knowledge and governance deficits. Businesses must play an active role here by engaging with local governments and communities to look at solutions for some complex problems. Integration across traditional sectors like Integrated transport solutions, smart cities sharing information are some of the ways to make emerging cities sustainable. Biodiversity Loss Current Scenario Biodiversity is critical for the proper functioning of ecosystems and ensures the delivery of various ecosystem services from provisioning of clean air, water and food to decomposition of wastes and supporting pollination and nutrient cycles. Biodiversity is also an important source of flora and fauna with medicinal characteristics. Around 50000 70000 plant species are currently used in or as medicines. Given the importance of biodiversity for the sustainability and survival of humankind, biodiversity loss is found at the nexus of many risks ranging from food price volatility to infectious diseases. Large tracts of biodiverse ecosystems have been converted to cropland to ensure short term food security. Scientific studies have found that cropland expansion is one of the principal causes of biodiversity loss. There is also a relationship between biodiversity loss and soil degradation which in the long term could affect food production leading to food price volatility. Loss of biodiversity can also amplify environmental issues like coastal flooding and desertification. The WWF Living Planet Report has been long emphasizing that 1.6 planet Earths are required to support the current lifestyles of humankind. This figure called the ecological foot print of mankind (WWF, 2016). Ecological footprint is the sum of biologically productive land and sea required to produce the resources which human beings consumes and to absorb associated wastes and to provide space for infrastructure. Business Implications A study in 2008 by The Economics of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB) has calculated the total annual economic cost of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation to be between 3.3 7.5% of global GDP for the year. No business sector can escape the risks associated with biodiversity loss; either direct or indirect. The type and extent of exposure to the risk could be different for different industries. The risk exposure would be greater for primary industries such as agriculture, forestry and fishing and secondary industries dependent primarily on primary produce fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) for example. 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Inequality and Inclusion Current Scenario According to the Millennium Development Goals Report 2014, extreme poverty has reduced by half in 2010 compared to 2010 figures a reduction of 700 million people. The fight against diseases like Malaria, Tuberculosis and HIV in poorer countries has shown good results. However, a study by the World Institute for Development Economics Research at United Nations University reports that the richest 1% of adults alone owned 40% of global assets in the year 2000. The UNDP report titled 'Humanity Divided: Confronting Inequality in Developing Countries' published in 2013 talks about how income inequality has significantly increased in many countries during the last two decades. The report says income inequality increased by 11 percent in developing countries between 1990 and 2010 and more than 75 percent of the population is living today in societies where income is more unequally distributed than it was in the 1990s. This global trend of inequality is left unchecked, it can undermine social and economic development. Social inequality or discrimination due to gender, nationality/ethnicity and disability further adds to this economic inequality. Diversity as a key engine of innovation and balance has been accepted by social historians and increasingly businesses. Eliminating discrimination and including disadvantaged minorities in mainstream social processes is a crucial driver of more resilient and innovative communities. Empowerment of women, for example, has shown to be closely correlated with variety of social outcomes family planning, the prevention of human rights abuses like child labor, better management of community resources like water and healthier families. Business Implications Businesses action on inclusion has centered on livelihood generation, micro credit and low cost technologies for bridging the resource and information gaps. While this needs to continue, there is a force multiplier effect when diversity and inclusion programs are integrated across their own operations value chain. The business sector should prioritize commitment to promote diversity and inclusivity at the workplace and in its extended supply chain. Business action on inequality and inclusion should incorporate aspects like diversity criteria in the procurement, local or traditional knowledge and socio economic contexts, for examplehow to engage with the informal economy. Human Rights and Labor Relations Current Scenario The World Report 2016 published by Human Rights Watch discusses several instances of human rights violations which happened in the previous year. An earlier report by Human Rights Watch describes companies as the most powerful and sophisticated actors on the world stage, not governments. There are instances where corporate accountability has failed and human rights were violated by companies directly or indirectly and Human Rights Watch has documented such cases of corporate complicity with human rights violations. These are not restricted to extractive industries (mining, refineries) but also include companies with poor human rights and health and safety compliances across other business sectors. Business Implications Investors, media, consumers and communities, primarily from the developed economies, have been particularly successful in bringing the spotlight back on human rights compliance for suppliers of large businesses, many of who are based out of emerging and low-income countries. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises ( OECD Guidelines ) and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights ( UN Guiding Principles ) reflect the importance of proactive business interventions on upholding human rights principles. An important challenge which businesses may face is in effecting interventions where the sphere of control and influence is limited. Businesses should take efforts to ensure that business decisions and interactions are guided by the context of issues and informed consent of affected parties. Companies must set examples on transparency by reporting publicly on human rights, and the social and environmental impacts of their work. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 Pervasive Digitization Current Scenario According to International Telecommunications union (ITU), there are more than 7 billion worldwide in 2015, corresponding to a penetration rate of 97%. Between the years of 2000 and 2015, global internet penetration grew seven fold from 6.5% to 43% and 3.2 billion people are using the internet by end of 2015. This is driving creation of new business models which strives to ake technology as well as other accessible and affordable. With ICT becoming ubiquitous in day to day life, several technological risks arise. The World Economic Forum's Global Risk Report 2016 talks about risks related to the growing role of information and communication technologies to individuals, businesses and governments. The major risks identified by the report are critical infrastructure failure/ breakdown, data fraud/theft and cyber-attacks. These technological risks are strongly connected to each other and also to risks such as terrorist attacks and global governance failure. Business Implications ICT companies have greater responsibility in strengthening the critical infrastructure and put in place systems to protect against disruptions or attacks as the risks associated utmost important to national security and business continuity. Companies are increasingly being subject to various government disclosures on data privacy and cyber security issues. As a result, there is onus upon businesses to put in place resilient infrastructure and communication protocols. Businesses are legally obliged to comply with lawful government demands. At the same they also have the responsibility to uphold universally accepted human rights principles. In this context, there is onus upon businesses to address this issue by balancing legal compliance with compliance with human rights principles. Financial Implications of Climate Change At Wipro, the implications of climate change are of deep interest and we have been engaged with the multiple questions on this for the past seven years. We have studied and identified risks and opportunities that have the potential to generate a visible change in our business operations, revenue or expenditure. The risks and opportunities have been identified in the context of regulatory changes like introduction of fuel / energy taxes, physical climate parameters like changes in precipitation extremes and droughts, and other climate related developments like increasing humanitarian demands. We have followed a comprehensive approach for identification of risks and opportunities and estimation of their financial implications. Our analysis outcomes are detailed in our response to Carbon Disclosure Project every year. The quantification of some key impacts is provided below. For more information, visit www.cdp.net and search for the Wipro response. ? An aggregate impact of USD 95 Million of increased operational ? An aggregate revenue opportunity of $ 268 Mn. over the over the costs over the next five years (2016-17 to 2020-21) on account of next five year period, 2016-17 to 20-21 in the spaces of Energy increase in electricity and diesel costs due to change in Management Services, Smart Grids and Utility Systems fuel/energy taxes and regulations ? A total revenue opportunity of $ 302 Mn. over the next five years ? An estimated impact due to employee absence and loss of constituting; (a) $184 Mn. from the finance solutions portfolio productivity caused due to disruption in city infrastructure and which includes solutions in financial modeling/pricing for climate tropical diseases is estimated to be a $ 44.7 Mn. over 5 years insurance, natural resources valuation, carbon/embedded water trading and (b) $114 Mn. from the healthcare solutions portfolio ? An estimated impact of depleting water resources of $ 1.3 Mn. which includes solutions for health monitoring over the next five years considering the increase in the cost of private sourcing of water ? A total financial impact of $ 2.5 Mn. per year and $ 6 Mn. over the next fiveyears due to(a) increased employee absence from work and (b) increased electricity costs resulting from higher cooling demand respectively, both due to changes in temperature extremes 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Overview of Wipro’s 2.2 Sustainability Journey Wipro started its formal sustainability journey in 2001 with Wipro Cares, our community care program followed by Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) in 2002, an initiative that addresses issues of systemic reforms in school education. This pursuit of Good Citizenship is a deliberative choice Wipro has made in line with the core values of Wipro. Over the years, our programs have expanded in scope and scale with significant initiatives getting added around ecology, workplace and employee engagement, customer stewardship, and suppliers. Running through these diverse programs is a common thread of thinking that reflects our position on sustainability. ¢ Business wields enormous power and influence in today's measure. In the absence of this, the approach to sustainability world, both, economic and sociopolitical. With this power is likely to be peripheral and hollow. What this also implies is comes the concomitant responsibility to do good in the larger that there is nothing that business must do that seems to be canvas. For us, this starts with a set of foundational values as driven by the need to oblige or comply. embodied in the Spirit of Wipro: `Intensity to Win', `Act with ¢ Related to the previous point is our conviction that we should be Sensitivity' and `Unyielding Integrity'. These values emphasize deeply engaged with our partners rather than treat it as an respect for all stakeholders and are the ethical bedrock of outsourcing exercise. This involvement must manifest in a conducting business which is non-negotiable under any carefully and deliberately chosen set of initiatives without circumstance. spreading oneself thin. For similar reasons, we prefer to avoid ¢ In engaging with the issues of sustainability, business must do using the term Corporate Social Responsibility as the term can so in a manner that is consistent with its core drivers; a spirit of be perceived to have a patronizing connotation to it; innovation, financial and operational rigor, a keen focus on Sustainability is a more inclusive and appropriate term that outcomes are hallmark attributes of the business sector and suggests a proactive, comprehensive, and collaborative these must inform business action in sustainability in equal approach. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 During the course of our sustainability journey, we have tried to establish a formal framework for our sustainability program which address proactively the concerns of our stakeholders as well as contribute to their well-being. We identified our workforce, customers, suppliers, proximate communities, civil society networks and future generations as our stakeholders with whom we share mutual relationship of interest, influence and impact. Our engagement with our stakeholders and our materiality assessment gave us insights into issues relevant to our business as well as stakeholders and identify possible areas of engagement. For more information on our stakeholder identification and materiality assessment, refer to section on `Materiality Determination'. We have formulated eight guiding principles to guide our approach to sustainability. The principles add to the rigor of our sustainability program. The principles are listed below and is discussed in detail in the subsequent sections. Leverage the power of Set well defined and partnership measurable sustainability goals Principle Principle 8 1 Explore disclosures Principle Principle Vest formal as catalysts for selfaccountability at all transformation 7 our 2 levels of leadership approach to sustainability Focus `within as Principle Principle Integrate into 6 3 well as outside mainstream planning, the boundary' budgeting and review processes Principle Principle Define progress measures that 5 4 Create organizational are appropriate to context capacity at multiple levels emphasize the long term and the qualitative equally 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro’s 2.3 Sustainability Framework The principle of focusing ‘within as well as outside the boundary’ informs our strategic choice of looking at sustainability as a boundary-less continuum and this forms the backbone of our sustainability framework. This continuum spreads across two conceptual dimensions-business responsibility and social responsibility. Business responsibility is about the organization fulfilling its essential duties and obligations, and running its business with integrity and ensuring that the ecological footprint of its operations is minimized. This translates to: Abiding by the law of the land in spirit and letter, Basing operations on sensitivity for the in all its activities. environment, with a concomitant goal of minimizing its ecological footprint. Practicing high levels of corporate governance, ensuring transparency and diligent discharge of Managing social impacts of business and fiduciary responsibilities. ensuring integrity of human and labor rights within the sphere of influence in the supply chain. Being fair, and delivering on commitments to all immediate stakeholders employees, customers, partners, vendors and investors. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 The second dimension of social responsibility is about looking beyond the boundaries of organization and contributing towards development of the larger community. While this categorization is conceptually useful, the right approach is to look at both the dimensions as an integrated continuum which is based on the same fundamental principles. Ecological Sustainability Minimize Wipro's internal Business footprint on energy, water and waste Responsibility Workplace Sustainability Promote employee diversity, empowerment & continuous learning Customer Stewardship Provide products and solutions that enable customers to become greener Supplier Sustainability Collaborate with suppliers to help them become more sustainable Social Responsibility Education Work on Issues of deep systemic reform in India’s education ecosystem Community Care Work on Long term disaster rehabilitation & issues of health, education & environment Advocacy and Shape policies by engaging with government, NGOs Public Policy and industry networks 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Sustainability 2.4 Governance The sustainability governance mechanism at Wipro derives greatly from the above guiding principles. At Wipro, sustainability is every one’s job. The responsibility is spread across hierarchies, functions and businesses with multiple functions seeing themselves as key stakeholders in its success; among these, the Global Operations team, the People Function, the Investor Relations team and the Legal team play a major role in several of the programs. However, the oversight of sustainability programs rest at the corporate level with our Chairman, Board of Governors and Group Executive Council. Board Oversight The Board Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee times and in each of the meetings, update on CSR initiatives were headed by an independent director acts as CSR Committee an discussed. apex body that oversees Wipro's sustainability policy and programs. The overarching responsibility for our sustainability charter rest with The Committee comprising of entirely independent directors has the our Chief Sustainability Officer who reports to the Chairman. The additional responsibility of reviewing the Company's policies on CSO is also part of our Group Executive Council, the senior most Corporate Social Responsibility, including public issues of executive body in the organization which comprises of a core group significance to the Company and its stakeholders. The Committee of corporate leaders. comprises Dr. Ashok Ganguly, Mr. N Vaghul and Mr. William Arthur Owens. During the financial year 2015-16, the Committee met five Organization Structure The operating structure of Wipro’s multiple sustainability initiatives is programs as well as reporting rests with Head of Sustainability. This based on the idea of building a Coalition or network of partners – includes the responsibility of formally reviewing and approving internal and external – with nodal responsibility lying with a distinct sustainability disclosures and seeking assurance for reports. group. The initiatives are handled by four functional groups at the The sustainability organization includes four functional groups corporate level which carry distinct responsibility and accountability namely ecoeye, Wipro Cares, Wipro Applying Thought in Schools but are part of a common sustainability charter under the Chief and Wipro – earthian. Sustainability Officer. The operational oversight of sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 The sustainability organization includes four functional groups namely ecoeye, Wipro Cares, Wipro Applying Thought in Schools and Wipro – earthian. eco-eye Wipro Cares Wipro Applying Ecoeye Wipro Cares Earthian Thought in Schools Carries the primary responsibility Wipro’s Sustainability Works on our Responsible to drive for sustainability programs at education program for community development our education reform corporate level. Also has the schools and college brings initiatives. agenda. oversight of sustainability together two of our key disclosures like GRI concerns: Education and Sustainability report, Business Sustainability. Responsibility Report etcetera. Collectively, these four groups pull together the different strands of our sustainability initiative and steers it in the defined direction. Reporting Structure Board Sustainability Committee Chairman Chief Sustainability Officer Chief Executive Officer VP & Head of Sustainability Functional Groups Responsibility Matrix All key organizational stakeholders have vested responsibilities related to planning, execution, evangelization, review, as well as advocacy of the sustainability agenda of the company. Given below is the responsibility matrix for our environment programs (energy, water, waste and biodiversity). Other sustainability programs have similar matrix pertinent to their operations. Planning & Review Execution Internal Evangelizing External Advocacy Board of Directors Group Executive Council Business Leadership Facilities Management Group Infrastructure Creation Group Ecoeye Sustainability Office Employee Chapters Human Resources Finance Corporate affairs, Brand & Communication Risk Office Legal and Compliance 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Transparency 2.5 and Disclosures Advocacy and Public Policy Our areas of focus on policy and advocacy have centered on Water, Energy and Climate Change, e-Waste, Education and Diversity. We work through industry platforms like CII, NASSCOM as well as with research partners who carry expertise in these domains. Our primary identified stakeholders for public policy and advocacy are ? Relevant government ministries and departments, both at the ? The CII led Indian Business for Biodiversity Initiative center and the states where we operate in; Our interactions have (CIIIBBI) been largely with the Ministry of Environment & Forests, Ministry ? The Leaders for Nature (LFN) framework of the India, of New Renewable Energy, & Ministry of Corporate Affairs Chapter of the International Union of Conservation ? Industry networks and associations play a crucial role as Networks (IUCN) catalysts for awareness, advocacy and action on the multiple dimensions of sustainability; by providing a common platform for ? Research and Advocacy NGOs: Issues like Energy, Climate industry representatives to share and exchange ideas and Change, Water, Biodiversity, Community Education, Health etc. practices, industry association can help foster a virtuous cycle of require strong civil society involvement as the third pillar along feedback led improvement. Industry networks also lend strength with government policy and business engagement. NGOs and and credibility in the dialogue process with government on academic institutions, by combining the right blend of field work important matters of policy and directives. The industry networks and academic rigor can generate valuable insights that can that we have been an integral part of are: inform the work of practitioners, policy makers and industry professionals. Illustrative examples of such organizations that ? The CII-Godrej Green Business Center (GBC) we work with are : Carbon Disclosure Project and CSTEP in the ? The CII-ITC Center for Sustainable Development area of energy and Climate Change, BIOME and ACWADAM in ? CII National Environment Committee the area of Water, IUCN ( India chapter) in the areas of ? The NASSCOM working groups on Gender Diversity Biodiversity , and our network of nearly 60 education partners across the country. ? The TERI-CBS (Council for Business Sustainability) forum Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 Advocacy Engagements ? Energy: As part our partnership with SERRIUS (Solar Energy Research Institute for India and the United States), we are working with CSTEP and IISc, Bengaluru, on scalable models of decentralized Solar PV based smart micro grids. The program’s objective is to identify suitable sites/villages in Karnataka based on stakeholder discussions and site visits for feasibility and design. Future work packages include design, development and distribution models, including monitoring and financing models.ii) As a member of the TERI-CSD ( Business Council for Sustainable Development) India program, we participated in the program track on Energy Efficiency that seeks to advance best practices on energy management and efficiency in different industry sectors. ? Water continued to be a major area of collaborative focus for us in 2014-15. The two major advocacy platforms that we have been deeply involved in are summarized below. ¢ Advancing the agenda of the Karnataka State Water Network (KSWN) along with the CII Karnataka chapter. The KSWN brings together stakeholders from government, academia, civil society and business to address the most pressing issues in water in Bangalore and surrounding areas. Five area-wise clusters were formed with specific action plans drawn up Water, Energy, for each. Biodiversity, Waste Management ¢ The Responsible Water program seeks to address the pressing issue of ground water in the Sarjapur area in Bangalore. It does this through a combination of scientific hydrogeology and the involvement of several citizen groups in community centered water management. ? Biodiversity: Our participation in advocacy on biodiversity issues was through two national levels forums – the CII-India Business for Biodiversity Initiative (IBBI) and the Leaders for Nature program from the India chapter of IUCN. ? Waste Management: In collaboration with InfoActiv, an Australia headquartered organization that focuses on e-Waste, we helped create a platform in the Electronic City Industrial area in Bangalore, India. Apart from this, we continued to be part of the sub-committee on ‘Waste’ in the CII National Environment Committee. We continued to strengthen our participation in advocacy on the cause of corporate sustainability as a whole ? As Co-Chair of the CII-GBC Greenco forum (Bangalore chapter), the goal is to drive the adoption of the ‘Greenco’ framework by industry at large in Bangalore and surrounding areas. The Greenco framework encourages companies to establish a multi-dimensional framework of ecological sustainability that spans the areas of Energy, Water, Waste, Biodiversity and Product Stewardship. We have been closely involved in the development and launch of the Greenco rating program for IT Services (offices). Horizontal areas in Sustainability and CSR 000 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 ? A consultation/workshop on multilingual education titled “Sharing and Reviewing Field Practices in multi-lingual education (MLE)” was co-organized by Muskaan and Eklavya. This was attended by various organizations working on an MLE approach in the country. Discussions opened up different aspects of multilingual education and helped participants understand these in detail. ? Wipro and Goodbooks partnered with The Hindu to institute the first of its kind awards for children's literature in India, The Hindu Young World-Goodbooks Awards in 2016. The award aims to promote excellence in children's writing and illustration in India, to acknowledge innovative publishing trends, and to recognize children's literature in India as an independent and important genre. The first awards (4 categories) were distributed at the Hindu Lit for Life Fest in January 2016. ? The multi-state comparative study on Textbook markets provided insights into how they operate in India. The preliminary findings were presented at the Azim Premji University Summer School on Education and the annual Comparative Education Society of India (CESI) conference. ? Centre for Learning held a conference “Worlds of Fear: School Cultures” in Dec 2015. The School Education conference explored the relationship between fear and institutions (including schools) and learning by trying to understand how fear inhibits learning, how understanding of fear in schools can help us understand fear in wider social spheres and how fear-free school culture can help create a humane progressive society. ? The proceedings of the 15th Wipro annual Partners’ Forum on the topic of ‘Improving Public Education: Role of Civil Society’ have been published and distributed. Summary videos of Forum sessions were also disseminated online through our YouTube channel. ? During 2015-16, we also participated in industry research and advocacy on key Diversity and Inclusion themes. We continued our engagement with external stakeholders where we hold advisory board / core committee positions, namely with Catalyst, NASSCOM and CII. ? Wipro is part of the core CII committee for employment of people with disabilities and also part of the NASSCOM working group on gender inclusion . ? Catalyst is a leading nonprofit organization which works on expanding opportunities for women and business. Wipro’s CEO is on the Catalyst Board of Directors and is also the chair of Catalyst India Advisory Board. Diversity Speaking engagements in public forums play an important role in building sustainability awareness and advocacy. We actively participated as speakers in several events all through the year, some examples of which are: GRI conference on reporting practices on Disability at Amsterdam, CII-Godrej Green Business Center’s Annual Greenco conference, XUB’s annual sustainability conference, MDI Gurgaon’s conference on Ethics, Sessions at IIMB’s Executive Education workshop on CSR and IIM Lucknow – Center for Emerging Economies conference on ‘Sustainability and Marketing’. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 The Path Ahead Our sustainability advocacy and outreach will continue to be based on the following three important pillars: ? Promoting decentralized, community-centric governance and management models that involve a wide range of stakeholders ? Providing carefully crafted inputs policies on government policy and (iii) Increasing awareness and fostering exchange through ? Participation as speakers in a variety of forums, events and workshops the right direction. Our approach will be to continue to work with our network of academic and civil society partners as well as with industry networks. We will strengthen and expand our partner network as appropriate. The areas of focus for 2016-17 will be ? Energy and Climate Change ? Water ? Biodiversity ? E-Waste ? School Education, Sustainability Education and Education for Children with Disabilities ? Diversity in the workforce and supply chain ? Horizontal areas of Sustainability and CSR Our Programs Well-being and safety is a critical component of doing business at Wipro and it is embedded in our core values of acting with integrity and sensitivity. We work towards enhancing well-being of our employees through workplace safety and security initiatives with special focus physical and emotional health. For more information, refer to ‘Employee Well-being and Safety’ Education is one of the themes identified by Wipro to help in societal change and development. Currently, there are multiple distinct tracks running on school education, each with its own overarching goals but with shared synergies wherever relevant. Wipro Applying Thought in Schools works towards systemic reform of education in the country. The Wipro Cares program in school education focuses on supporting access to and ensuring continuity of school education for underprivileged children as well as children with disability, especially those from disadvantaged backgrounds. Wipro School Education Fellowship (SEF) was started with the purpose of strengthening Science and Math teaching in schools through teacher capacity building. For more information, refer to ‘Partnering for Social Change’ 000 Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Our Programs At Wipro, diversity and inclusion principles are embedded in our organizational values, culture, policies and processes. We have a structured program ‘Women of Wipro’ to develop and nurture the women talent in the organization. For more information, refer to ‘Diversity and Inclusion’ Wipro’s water stewardship program has water efficiency, responsible sourcing and water security as its stated objectives. Our engagement with water include a broad range of programs, both, within Wipro and outside like recycling waste water, use of water efficient fixtures, rain water harvesting and Participative Ground Water Management. For more information, refer to ‘Water Stewardship’ Wipro contributes to the cause of affordable and sustainable energy by investing in renewable energy resources, adopting energy efficient practices as well clean energy technologies and infrastructure. For more information, refer to ‘Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation’ Wipro is a global information technology, consulting and outsourcing company with 170,000+ workforce and revenues of $7.7 Billion. The company contributes to the economic growth and development for all by creating jobs while upholding highest labor standards across operations and the value chain. Refer to ‘Workplace Sustainability’ and ‘Financial Stewardship’ Inclusive and sustainable industrial development and technological progress furthers the cause of income generation. Wipro continues to work on technological innovations which can drive sustainability by way of digitalization and dematerialization, system integration and optimization and offers a range of sustainability inspired solutions to our customers. For more information, refer to ‘Innovation’ and ‘Sustainability Inspired Solutions’ Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Sustainability: A Strategic Overview 000 Our Programs Wipro through its community programs is working closely with industry, government and communities on different challenges posed to urban living. We have identified mobility, waste and water management as the themes of engagement. For more information, refer to ‘Urban Resilience’ Wipro sustainability program aims to reduce its ecological footprint and a number of initiatives have been developed to improve resource and energy efficiency across its value chain. The focus is on energy efficiency, responsible water use, and pollution and waste management. For more information, refer to ‘Ecological Sustainability’ Understanding the implications of climate change to the planet and business in specific, Wipro has set ambitious scientifically valid and traceable goals to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 people emissions intensity figures by half from the 2010 baseline and developed robust mitigation programs. The programs include energy efficiency measures and renewable energy procurement and generation. For more information, refer to ‘Energy Efficiency and GHG Mitigation’ Wipro currently runs a significant initiative around campus biodiversity in two of our campuses in India. It is our objective to convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones and design all our new campuses based on biodiversity principles. For more information, refer to ‘Campus Biodiversity’ WIPRO AND ITS STAKEHOLDERS 3.1 Workplace Sustainability 3.2 Ecology Sustainability 3.3 Customer Stewardship 3.4 Financial Stewardship 3.5 Supply Chain Sustainability 3.6 Partnering for Social Change Organizations do not exist in silos; it can be even said that every organization is the sum total of interactions with different stakeholders so as to create value for all parties involved either directly or indirectly. In such a system of interdependencies, engagement with stakeholders is central; however over the past few decades, stakeholder engagement has become more than just interactions happening over the normal course of business. Engaging with stakeholders has a greater purpose of understanding risks and opportunities associated with the social, environmental and economic climate that a business is embedded in. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Summary of Stakeholder Engagement At Wipro, we look at stakeholder engagement as a sine qua non for fostering responsible and sustainable business practices that benefit both, the organization and the Customers Employees stakeholders. What follows is a summary representation of our engagement with the eight stakeholders. This acts as a valuable input to our materiality determination process. Rationale for Building relationships with customers is core to People are at the core of a knowledge-based engagement understanding their business needs and emerging organization like ours. Partnering with employees to trends. Close engagement helps Wipro to understand their expectations and feedback enable communicate unique and differentiated value to us to strengthen our people processes and thereby customers. strengthen our talent pool enabling better retention outcomes. Strategic objective Partnerships with customers to meet their present ? To solicit feedback and employee perception to of engagement and emerging business information technology enhance and improve people processes and requirements. improve employee satisfaction. ? To empower employees and provide them with voice in key people decisions Key material issues ? Quality and timeliness of delivery Empowerment, Continuous Learning , Quality of ? Impact on customer’s business goals Work, Work-Life balance, Compensation & ? Does Wipro meet the expected norms on Benefits, Workplace facilities, Health & Safety , environment, labor and human rights and Counseling and Advice, Diversity in the workplace, corporate responsibility? Career planning, Appraisal and Feedback, Integrity and transparency at workplace, the company's larger vision on sustainability and social issues Steps taken to ? Deeper engagement with customer across levels address stakeholder ? Develop better review, communication and concerns feedback processes Modes of Strategic and operational reviews, Customer Meets, Open houses, Performance reviews, 360 degree engagement Formal customer feedback and surveys feedback, All hands meet, Focus groups, Leadership webcasts, Blogs and discussion groups, Perception Surveys Frequency Ongoing and continuous; Surveys are annual and Ranges from daily (blogs) to annual ( 360 degree project-based feedback) Primary internal The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Strategy Officer, The Human Resources group, Environment Health custodian Chief Business Operations Officer, the Chief Quality and Safety group ( joint responsibility for health and Officer, Sales & Marketing functions & their teams safety) Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Suppliers Investors Rationale for Supplier engagement helps reduce risks from Engaging with our investors helps gain diverse engagement quality and disruption of services. perspectives on business strategy and performance. It also helps us proactively communicate our performance and future plans which in turn can help strengthen our brand and reputation. Strategic objective Partnerships with suppliers to meet diverse To communicate our strategy and performance as of engagement business operations requirements well as our views on economic environment; To seek feedback on our performance Key material issues ? Ease of doing business with Wipro across the ? Corporate governance Order to Payment life cycle ? Financial performance ? Ability to meet corporate responsibility ? Labor & Human rights requirements – with regards to ethical business ? Attrition conduct, social practices and environmental ? Compliance impacts Steps taken to ? Communication Strengthen our governance systems and processes address stakeholder ? Capacity building concerns ? Collaboration with suppliers ? Feedback and grievance handling mechanisms Modes of Regular operational reviews, Supplier meets, Annual General Meeting, Annual Report, Investor engagement Vendor survey meets, Analyst conferences, Roadshows, Shareholder voting, Investor complaints Frequency Will vary from monthly to annual Ranges from Quarterly to Annual ; Analyst meets and roadshows may be periodic depending on situational requirement Primary internal Central Procurement Office, Wividus Shared Chief Strategy Officer custodian Services, Facility Management Group 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 The Education Communities ecosystem: and Civil Partners & Society Academic Networks Institutes Rationale for Education is one of the strategic long term The imperative for business to engage deeply with engagement community engagement programs identified as communities and society stems from the force multipliers for effecting social change and fundamental axiom that for business to flourish, the sustainable development. It is one of Wipro's main fabric of society must be strong. planks of societal engagement. Strategic objective Developing a good understanding and capacity To engage on systemic issues that are force of engagement building of civil society organizations working in multipliers for social change and sustainable school education is the core objective of our development. education program. Key material issues ? Quality of education in schools ? Education for disadvantaged children e.g. ? Teacher capacity development children of migrant laborers, children with ? Understanding of good education hearing disability etc. ? Availability of resource organizations and ? Primary healthcare for rural communities people in specific areas in school education ? Environment issues that affect disadvantaged communities e.g. Water, solid waste ? Long term rehabilitation for disaster affected area Steps taken to ? Facilitating mutual learning among partner Designing programs to address the specific needs address stakeholder organizations through annual partners’ forum of the communities with whom we are associated. concerns ? Cross-leveraging the learning from diverse partner experiences through our engagement with partners ? Enabling established partner organizations to play resource organization role to younger organizations Modes of Periodic visits, conference calls, email, reviews, Periodic meetings with partners, open meets with engagement reports of workshops or events, annual forums community, Partner newsletters Frequency 34 times a year for each partner/project Varies from monthly to quarterly Primary internal Wipro's CSR group , WATIS the school education Wipro's CSR group, Wipro Cares, Location custodian team leadership Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Government The Young and Policy Citizen Networks and Future Generations Rationale for Corporations must engage with government as part The young citizen has enormous potential as a engagement of the larger charter of bringing about systemic change agent and in creating lasting positive impact changes in society through legislation, policies and to the environment and society. Trying to safeguard directives. the interests of future generations is a fundamental act of responsibility leading to inter-generational justice. Strategic objective To participate meaningfully and to influence policy To ensure a safe and sustainable planet for future of engagement directions for larger social good generations. Key material issues ? India's policies on climate change, energy ? Ecological sustainability of our planet at a efficiency, water, e-waste, biodiversity and ICT local, national and global level for social change ? Issues of inclusiveness and fairness ? Legislation policies on workplace inclusion, labor ? Meaningful work and livelihoods and human rights ? The role of corporate social responsibility ? Taxation legislation in the countries we operate in Steps taken to Active involvement in both, policy formulation and in Design and execution of several projects that address stakeholder a more general process of debate and dialog on addresses societal and environmental problems concerns var ious challenges of development and beyond the scope of business sustainability Modes of Planned meetings, workshops, taskforces and Indirect inference from our school and college engagement steering committees of industry network bodies interventions as well as with Wipro's employees Frequency Varies from monthly to annual Primary internal Corporate Affairs group, Senior Leadership, Wipro Human Resources Group, Wipro's Sustainability custodian Sustainability team Group, Wipro-earthian team 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Workplace 3.1 Sustainability People are at the core of a knowledge-based organization like ours. We firmly believe that we cannot build a great business without nurturing talent from within. We are committed to partnering with employees and strengthening our talent pool by providing them with growth and career enhancement opportunities. Today we have a large and diverse workforce (150,000+ employees in 58 countries as on 31st March 2016) and we continuously design and implement processes and programs to foster people development, leadership development and skill enhancements among our global team. Organisation Context The dynamic business landscape shapes our talent management approach and is geared to deliver transformation, change and growth. The strategy is built on the foundation of our values and informed by globally recognized principles of business responsibility. Some key trends that are shaping our people strategy are ? Complex marketplace, characterized by rapid transformation of ? Difference between talent that is sought & talent that is available. business models and technology landscape. The high demand ? Changes in workforce patterns and legal regulations: Our for automation and digitization has reduced technology cycles employees are located globally, at Wipro offices and across client and skills are becoming commoditized more rapidly than before. locations. A significant portion of our management focus is ? The IT services marketplace is also a highly competitive one, with invested in engaging with our employees; thus creating the need an ever-increasing focus on talent and innovation. Meeting to build managerial and leadership capabilities in the context of rapidly evolving customer requirements requires a high level of an increasingly virtual work environment. In the recent past, competence, expertise and learning agility. Co-innovation, changes to immigration laws & regulations and risks to offshore collaborative working and crowd sourcing are capabilities which business models have also made an impact on our people are fast becoming the norm. strategy, particularly in our approach to attract local talent. We strongly believe that in order to prepare for this dynamic business environment, we need to continue building a best-in-class organizational culture to attract, build and retain talent across levels, globally. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Understanding the Stakeholder – Global Workforce A majority (79%) of our employees are based in India while more than 30,000 employees work in other countries. A significant portion of our employees based overseas (outside India) are locals (42.3%). Our overall employee base comprises of 105 nationalities. Our gender ratio has increased to 32% from 30%. As on March 2015, 368 employees had voluntarily declared their disabilities through our online self-declaration form. The average age of our workforce is 30.6 years and a significant portion (60%) is under the age of 30. Understanding Material Aspects While our values are at the core of our actions, we believe that it is only through focused and continuous engagement with our stakeholders that we can build a truly inclusive and empowered enterprise. These inputs are gathered as part of our materiality determination effort, as well as from feedback received from social audits and assessments. Aspects that stand out as most critical and vital to the organization as well as stakeholders, are identified as the top areas of materiality, for action and reporting. Our analysis of employees’ perception, expectation and feedback forms a primary input in designing our talent management processes. Our approach to soliciting and acting on this feedback determines our performance in processes like talent attraction, engagement, and retention.We conducted our annual Employee Perception Survey (EPS) to gather employee feedback in 2015. The Engagement score recorded in the EPS survey is considered as an indicator of organizational performance. The feedback from the survey acted as an input to the materiality determination process.Additionally, our customers, investors and peer organizations also influence our people value chain and provide perspectives on material issues & risks. Finally, the geo-political situations, particularly in markets where we have high dependencies also form a vital input to our people strategy. The key platforms of engagement and issues identified for aspects pertaining to human capital, are summarized in the table below: Influencing Current and Emerging Material Aspects Stakeholder Areas of Focus and Impact & Topics Identified Employees ? Simplification of people processes to enhance workplace experience ? Skill building to address emerging technology capability areas ? Career growth opportunities ? Capability building of managers ? Comprehensive compensation & benefits ? Well-being and safety Customers ? Helping customers solve their business problems and create competitive differentiation for them in the market. ? Enhanced focus on operational efficiencies in the immediate term ? Driving expertise and reskilling towards technologies of the future ? Talent engagement ? Diversity & Inclusion ? Capability building ? Need for collaboration, co-creation and learning agility and Career ? Employee well-being and safety development ? Heightened focus on social aspects of supply chain ? Employee well-being ? Increased focus on compliance with Global standards and safety ? Diversity and Investors ? Alignment with sustainability frameworks like Dow Jones Sustainability Index Inclusion ? Heightened focus on sustainable organizations Peer ? Talent attraction & retention strategy organizations ? Talent Pool availability Others ? Macro-economic and financial systems, government, civil society, regulatory bodies ? High dependency on US and European markets ? Emergence of multiple low cost English-speaking destinations ? Risks to offshore business models ? Changes in immigration laws / regulations 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Organizational People Strategy Our people strategy is designed to fulfill organizational strategy in the current and emerging business context. We have taken an integrated talent management approach that spans the complete employee life-cycle, through processes and functions like hiring, on boarding, continuous engagement, assessment and capability building, career development & career planning, leadership development, employee well-being and benefits & rewards. Our talent strategy has the following core elements: Details on each of the people strategy elements are explained in the subsequent section. Commitment to Human Rights ? Spirit of Wipro values ? Code of business conduct and etnics ? Ombdusprocess ? Prevention of Sexual Harassment policy Careers and Employee Capability engagement ? Employee developement ? Feedback platforms to and training Our People captrue voice of employees (e.g. EPS, Ombuds, ? ? Role assesssments Specialist frameworks Strategy Enterprise wide platform) ? Informal feedback forums ? Managerial & Leadership development ? Freedom of Association ? Engaging with extended contract workforce Diversity Employee Well-being and Inclution and Safety ? Global diversity and inclution policy ? Workplace safety and security ? Non-discrimination and meritocracy ? Comprehensive Rewards ? Women of Wipro (WoW) and insurance & medical benefits persons with Disability (PWD) ? Counselling support program ? Global workforce Commitment to Human Rights We believe that economic value cannot be sustained unless it is created on a foundation of ethics and responsibility. Creating a safe and empowered workplace with a culture that drives equal opportunity, non-discrimination, meritocracy and one in which employees feel ‘listened to’ are therefore our core priorities. We imbibe these principles in all our processes like hiring, compensation, access to training, promotions, etc. and do not engage in or support discrimination based on ethnicity, nationality, race, caste, religion, age, disability, gender and sexual or political orientation. Our people practices are shaped by the Spirit of Wipro values, Code of Business Conduct (COBC), as well as principles of the U.N. Global Compact, U.N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the International Labor Organization’s declaration on Fundamental Principles & Rights at Work (1998). While these provide the guidelines and direction for responsible Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 business conduct at a global level, our policies are shaped and customized by local regulations and law of land. Our COBC imbibes our commitment for human rights and zero tolerance for discrimination at all stages of the employee lifecycle (Protect-Respect-Remedy of UN principles). Our values and code of conduct are socialized at multiple times in the employee life-cycle through touch points like induction and on boarding, classroom sessions, all hands meets, awareness mailers/posters and through our mandatory online COBC certification which all employees undertake every year. All employees are entrusted and empowered to highlight concerns and grievances via the Ombuds process and Prevention of Sexual Harassment Committee. Please refer to page XX for details on our Ombuds process and page XX for details on Prevention of Sexual Harassment. The policy also assures all stakeholders that a concern raised in the spirit of the policy will not be under risk of retaliation/retribution, even if unsubstantiated upon investigation. These Committees including the Audit/Risk & Compliance committee review progress and formulate strategies to address material issues pertaining to compliance. Freedom of Association In India, employment and livelihood of unorganized and casual labor local employee representative groups and work councils in Ireland, is a priority due to the uncertain terms of employment. IT services Netherlands, Finland, Sweden, Germany, Austria, France, Poland, organizations however, adopt good practices with respect to Romania and Australia. The HR function meets these groups employment terms, compensation and benefits and are leaders in periodically to inform and consult on any changes that can impact talent management. With the emphasis on innovation and learning, work environment and terms and conditions such as change in job the workplace provides a meaningful experience to employees, with functions or structures. The consultation discussions include a good working conditions and progressive people practices. Trade structured approach involving intimation of change, impact, unions are therefore not prevalent in the Indian IT sector. redeployment / re-skilling approach if required, number of affected employees, criteria used for selection of employees for the change, We do however recognize the right of our employees to free etc. association and union representation, without fear of reprisal, discrimination, intimidation or harassment. A small proportion of our employees (~1%) are represented through registered trade unions, Employee Engagement and Empowerment With the advent and deep influence of social media, we have witnessed a dynamic shift in the way employees communicate and seek information. Over the years, our focus on participative engagement has increased and our programs have been more closely aligned to cater to our diverse and multi-generational workforce. Our employee engagement programs are driven at multiple levels – organizational, unit/team and individual. Key organizational changes and announcements are cascaded through emails, online posts, posters, kiosks, on-floor sessions and through business and HR teams. The leadership team engages with employees throughout the year through online chat sessions, Leader blogs, organizational level ‘Wipro Meets’, business unit level ‘All Hands Meets’, round table discussions and functional review meets and off sites. Another important enablement to engagement is through business managers and HR teams who meet employees through one-to-one meetings & team discussions. Additionally, customized engagement frameworks are used by business units to address needs specific to employees in that unit or to that business/domain. Our online enterprise-wide social platform has allowed employees across the globe to network and collaborate, thus removing the physical boundaries of a geographically widespread workforce and increasing the feeling of connectedness in a global organization. It has also allowed employees to provide real-time feedback through online polls & directly connect with senior leaders or functional teams. Additionally, employees have been able to network, form special interest groups, seek role opportunities and work on collaborative projects without location or team constraints. Over 85000 Wiproties currently (As on close of FY 15-16) use this platform, with over 7500 public and private groups.The adoption of these forums by employees (as indicated by participation levels/usage) indicates how well ingrained they are into the organizational culture. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Employee Engagement Avenues Leadership HR Connects Connects Employee Employee Perception Yammer Advocacy Survey Group Mailers, Posters, Blogs, Announcements, Social Media, Intranet Yammer Feedback in Action Employee Feedback ForumsEmployee Perception Survey (EPS) Employee Perception Survey is a biennial organization wide employee survey through which we capture employee engagement & feedback. It measures the perception of employees on key aspects of the organization that shape their experience of life and work at Wipro. It measures the level of employee engagement and seeks feedback on aspects like organization, leadership, manager, team and collaboration, role, career & opportunities, work processes & tools, rewards & recognition. The survey questionnaire has been designed internally and is administered in multiple languages to cater to a global diverse workforce. The last biennial Employee Perception Survey (EPS) was conducted in December 2015. EPS 2015 showed an increase of 4% points in participation over the last full survey, EPS 2013. The employee engagement score increased by 1% point as compared to the previous complete survey (EPS 2013). Diversity & Inclusion, Customer Focus and Wipro Values continues to be among the top 5 drivers of engagement as compared to EPS 2013. Health & Safety, Role-Job and Rewards saw an increase of score as compared to EPS 2013. Our in-house built EPS analytics tool provides analysis of the results at various levelsgeography, business unit, gender, career levels, age, nationality, tenure, performance rating. Wipro runs a lot of initiatives to support Gender Diversity and hence we do track and monitor the engagement scores of women. Gender wise results across career grades and engagement drivers/questions were also studied. The focus areas highlighted through quantitative and qualitative analysis form the themes of focus group discussions and one to one interviews to consolidate our findings. Survey results and identified action areas are communicated throughout the organization through mailers and cascade sessions by business leaders and HR. Each business unit includes action plans specific to their units in addition to the organization-wise action plans. Action areas for the upcoming year have been finalized which includes key initiatives around Manager Effectiveness, Careers & Capability, Diversity and Inclusion. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Contract Employee Engagement Wipro’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics contains our stated commitment to human rights and through our Supplier Code of Conduct, we also encourage our suppliers to do the same. Our focus on responsible people practices extends across our people value chain, and covers contract employees and retainers, primarily located across our operations in India. Many of them are deployed at our client sites, and a customized Partner Employee Engagement team (PEET) in our Global Infrastructure Service is responsible for building an engaged and motivated contract employee workforce. The PEET team consists of human resource professionals and undertake responsibilities like induction and orientation, performance management, engagement, retention, rewards and recognition, training and career development etc. for contract employees deployed on IT delivery projects. The PEET team drives various initiatives like client-site visits to meet contractor employees to understand needs and concerns, driving programs to build capacity, facilitating conversion of contract employees into retainers or full time employees etc. Quarterly / Half yearly / annual audits are conducted by PRO (Partner Relation Office) on the empanelled partner to ensure that they comply with the statutory and labour compliance. The PRO (Partner Relation Office) is responsible for vendor selection and management; it ensures compliance of partner agencies to legal and statutory employment norms. Reviews and statutory audit checks were conducted by PRO in 2015-16 to ensure continuity of the process and procedures that are laid down. In FY 15-16, the PEET team led various initiatives like client-site visits to meet contractor employees to understand needs and concerns & initiated programs to build capability through training programs. Focused initiatives through these programs have led to higher engagement and retention levels. In 2015-16, the partner employees’ engagement across sites was gauged through the “site-o-meter”, with a coverage of 74%. “Site-o-Meter” is an employee engagement pulse check survey to check on the employee satisfaction levels. The areas of concern / improvement have been taken up with action plan and “PEET Matters” an interlock session was organized for the partner employees with the Representatives from Partner organisation, PEET HR and PRO (Partner Relation Office) for grievance management and addressing people issues. Our key focus area continues to be to check and implement processes and procedures at regular intervals and in a phased manner based on audit findings, feedback from various forums, open houses, and employee connect programs. In the coming year, we would also focus on continuous up skilling methodologies coupled with technical evaluations & assessments to identify the best technically skilled employees for conversion to core rolls of Wipro. Our key focus area continues to be to check and implement processes and procedures at regular intervals and in a phased manner based on audit findings, feedback from various forums, open houses, and employee connect programs. In the coming year, we would also focus on continuous up skilling methodologies coupled with technical evaluations and assessments to identify the best technically skilled employees for conversion to core rolls of Wipro. A further extended people supply chain, consisting of employees who are in soft service functions such as Housekeeping, Security and so on. For individuals who are in support services, we ensure compliance with human rights by ensuring that the supplier comply with our Supplier Code of business Conduct. However, enhancement on dimensions such as diversity, employee development has remained a challenge due to the transient nature of the workforce who may not work with the same employer for long duration. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Employee Well-being and Safety Wipro regards high standards of safety and health as a cornerstone of a successful business. A healthy workforce not only leads to higher productivity and cost saving, but also develops an engaged and happy workforce. With medical care expenses growing the world over, our effort in preventing health hazards is seen as a vital element in reducing employees’ financial burdens. Our comprehensive wellness programs and insurance offerings is also a value proposition for prospective candidates. Policies, Principles and Commitment A safe workplace is a fundamental human right and we are committed to providing this to all our employees, partners and visitors to Wipro facilities. Through our programs, we believe in influencing all aspects of an employee’s life – including physical, mental and emotional well-being. Every year, through the mandatory certification of our Code of Business Conduct, we reinforce our commitment towards a healthy, safe and harassment-free workplace and evangelize individual responsibilities of each employee. We have also institutionalized key policies like health and safety policy, prevention of sexual harassment policy and a robust grievance redressal system. Governance Taking cognizance that employee well-being and safety is an aspect which impacts at various focal points, the overall responsibility for health & safety is assumed by the HR, EHS, Audit, Risk andCompliance team. At global locations, the location operations, facilities management and human resources team assume joint responsibility of the employee health and safety aspects. Around 80% of our workforce works in locations across India and majority of them work from Wipro facilities. Taking this into account, we have established a core EHS team with city-wise EHS coordinators who drive compliance to standard procedures defined at a corporate level. The EHS Team along with stakeholder and service providers organize awareness programs on health and safety, thereby impacting performance on health and safety aspects. Safety committees are formed at major locations and consist of cross functional members from senior management, stakeholder, service providers and employees. Major locations exceeding 2000 employees have safety committees which meet quarterly and participate in risk assessments, safety inspections, incident investigations and hygiene audits. Remaining locations report work place hazards in the HSE portal and get discussed in city-wise committee meetings. Decisions taken during these meetings are communicated along with corrective actions and target dates in order to minimize risks. These committees bring together stakeholders at various levels to promote positive occupational health & safety culture. The safety committee meetings represent 100% participation from the representative employees. Approach We have an integrated Risk Assessment in place of Initial Environmental Review and Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment. The risk assessment is evaluated every year and also as and when the accidents / incidents / near misses are noticed. Employees, stakeholders and Service providers are part of this risk assessment. Our internal audit team conducts checks on the effective implementation of ISO 14001 / OHSAS 18001 standard requirements every 6 months by involving cross functional teams. 18 locations in India are certified or ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. Apart from the Internal Audits, the corporate internal audit team also conducted the audit at selected locations to check the effectiveness on the closure of the gaps identified in internal audits and the report is submitted to the senior management as part of the Management Reviews. In addition to this, we also participate in client audits and provide information and data related to health & safety. As part of hazard communication / recognition, employees also record their observations on Environment, Health and Safety under various categories like Major/ Minor/ First-Aid / Near-misses etc. through our intranet portal. The incidents are further investigated and the root cause is analysed for implementation of corrective and preventive actions to avoid recurrence. This has resulted in reduction of work related injuries across the locations. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Focus Areas Our approach to health & safety is multi-pronged. Protection of employees from injury or occupational disease is a major continuing objective. To this end, we continued our effort to enhance safety & security at the workplace by prescribing policies & procedures, creating awareness and imparting trainings. Focus Areas Key Actions / Performance Highlights ? Ergonomics Ergonomics was identified as a significant risk in risk assessment reports due to the sedentary nature of IT roles. Wipro has therefore set-up Ergonomic center at all major locations to assist employees on postural problems. Based on the Ergonomic cases reported at the ergonomic center, sessions were conducted for employees with emphasis on Repetitive strain injuries (RSI) that may be caused by workplace activities. Workplace ergonomics consultants assist in preventing and managing work related injuries and work related stress. Work place evaluation was organized and corrective actions prescribed to employees on optimal positions & postures at the work stations. Ergonomic services has helped employees to identify risk factors & understand measures on preventing injuries at their workstation. ? Emergency preparednessAs part of Health and Safety objective on safe work place, mock drills were organized for identified potential threats like fire/ electrical shocks / medical emergencies etc. across locations. This enhanced awareness among the employees and the staff working at critical areas to respond and follow the procedures in real scenarios, thus reducing the probability of negative impact on employee safety. In accordance with law, fire safety systems are regularly tested Enhance workplace to ensure 100% functionality to handle emergencies. safety and security ? Women's safety Our security teams were trained on gender sensitization as a part of their on-job with additional focus training and induction. Cab pickup and drop facility with security escort is available for women on Women's Safety employees travelling late in the night or early in the morning. Women of Wipro committees were formed to discuss concerns and suggestions on women’s safety. Over 1886 women participated in women employee security awareness sessions and self-defense sessions. ? Food safety Our focus on food safety is considered significant as major locations have cafeterias run by food business operators (FBOs). This is one of the core areas where hygiene practices are monitored and inspected to avoid the risks on employee health. We have started the inspection of FSSAI requirement implementation at one of the locations through a competent outsourced agency. The observations and corrective actions taken are communicated to other locations and as a proactive measures, other locations have started the daily monitoring and inspecting of the cafeterias to ensure FSSAI practices are adhered by the FBOs. Employees are also consulted on food safety concerns during the food safety / cafeteria meetings and corrective actions are initiated. Our 24 in-house cafeterias/ kitchens comply with the FSSAI requirements. In comparison with last two years audit reports, on an average 80 % of FSSAI requirements are implemented at our cafeterias & kitchens. Thirteen base kitchens were assessed during last year across PAN India and 25 internal audits are organized across pan India locations to check the effectiveness on the implementation of FSSAI requirements. The results of the food safety/ cafeteria meetings are showcased in management reviews as part of Health and Safety performance. ? Workplace safety We consider indoor air quality as a significant risk on employee’s health aspect as employees work in air conditioned offices. The risks are assessed with adequate controls and environmental parameters are monitored in cognizance to ASHRA standards. Where ever indicators deviate from permissible levels, root cause analysis is done and corrective measures undertaken to avoid injuries / illnesses. This ensures a safe workplace for the employees and align with the health and safety objective of employee well-being. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Focus Areas Key Actions / Performance Highlights ? Mitr Our Employee counseling and Support forum, Mitr was established over 12 years ago. It enables employees to reach out to counselors 24x7 in-person and on phone and seek assistance for issues pertaining to personal or professional life. Mitr counselors include professionally trained and volunteer Wiproites as well as external counselors from an Employee Assistance Program service provider. In addition to this, Mitr also includes counseling on legal and financial matters rendered by experts. The program is free of cost for employees and their family members and is completely confidential. Awareness is created through intermittent email campaigns and posters as well as through webchats on common issues. The online portal also has insightful self-help modules for employees to refer. ? Fit for Life The online portal provides employees’ access to tools such as health calculators, diet and nutrition advice from experts, access to health counselors and a plethora of articles, blogs and success stories from employees. Online chats, awareness sessions are also conducted under the aegis of Fit for Life. At several locations, through Fit for Life, employees can also find Yoga classes, fitness class and health club memberships at subsidized rates. Sustain a balanced ? Work-life balance Wipro offers multiple time-off options in the form of leaves, sabbaticals, half day approach to employee working, flexible work arrangements, reasonable accommodation etc. Employees are encouraged well-being with focus on to avail vacation time and mailers are intermittently broadcasted as reminders to plan their leaves. physical and emotional ? Medical insurance All employees globally are covered under a health and life insurance plan. In health countries where local governments do not provide for such insurance or where it is not mandated by law, these plans are offered by Wipro through prevalent insurance companies. Employees’ family members may also be covered. Additionally, employees may also have options to avail top-up insurance coverage at special negotiated rates to cover for any additional medical expenses. Clauses related to disability provide income protection / continuity of salary for defined periods. ? Safety Awareness: 45th National Safety Day Facilities management group organized various activities to commemorate National Safety Day. These included pledges, rewards, and mock scenarios on emergency preparedness, trainings and talks on safety. Safety day awareness campaigns helped the organization in proactive reporting of hazards by the employees to eliminate risks and in adopting the safe work place practices in order to reduce work injury rate. Additionally, Wipro Limited has recognized the contractors who followed the safe work practices and adherence to SOPs at workplaces at respective locations on the National Safety day. ? Health awareness initiatives We have OHCs set up at major locations and these provides services ranging from basic health care to emergency care units. Medi-Assist Healthcare services manages the Occupational Health Centre Management at all major locations with qualified medical staff. OHC’s are operated 24/7 at major campus locations and aim at monitoring and managing adverse health effects that may occur at the work place by promoting good workplace health practices, imparting health education, conducting employee awareness programs, capturing illness trends and by developing a framework to interpret employee health statistics to drive fitness and Evangelize Wipro's align with the health and safety objective of wellbeing. Daily dash boards are monitored at OHC to commitment on health check for major ailments and thus help in identifying and mitigating risks proactively through and safety through awareness sessions. awareness and training ? Pandemic Preparedness and Vaccination camps During the H1N1 pandemic outbreak, Wipro initiated pandemic awareness sessions through professional physicians on the among employees on knowledge and guidelines in enabling employees to anticipate, recognize and control the possibility of infection by H1N1 virus. Few of the employees participated in the identification, evaluation and control of H1N1 virus hazards and risk assessment. An awareness campaign on Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 hygiene practices was carried out during the H1N1 outbreak and included sanitization of workplaces, tracking of suspected cases and display of precautionary measures on hygiene practices etc. Timely awareness and effective communication of all stakeholders helped in managing this outbreak and preventing loss of productivity, absenteeism and customer escalations. ? As part of food safety management, Typhoid vaccination camp was organized for food handlers across Wipro India who are involved in the food preparation at our cafeterias. Organizing such vaccination camps helped the organization to eliminate food borne diseases affecting the employee’s health. ? Post Chennai floods, free vaccination camps were organized at Chennai and 5824 employees / service providers & their families are vaccinated as part of social cause. Focus Areas Key Actions / Performance Highlights As part of continual competency development, job specific trainings are identified for different functions to make our contractors and sub-contractors adopt to the safe work culture in the organization. These trainings include Electrical Safety, LOTO, Elevator Rescue of Passengers, Safe driving, Accident Prevention and Accident Reporting, Office Safety, Computer Safety, Ergonomic Awareness, Personal Protective Equipment, Hazard Recognition, Hazardous Communication, Waste management, Awareness on Bio-Hazard, First Aid and Emergency response etc. Over 160,000 participants (employees, contractors and service providers) attended Occupational health and safety trainings in FY 15-16. Though the trainings are additional controls as identified in Occupational health and safety risk assessment, this helped the staff working at critical areas to adhere with safe working procedures and further resulted in reduction of work injuries. Trainings and awareness on Health and Safety is one of the proactive measures in enhancing the safety culture among the contractors/ service providers. As part of emergency preparedness and response, Wipro Limited organized the First Aider training programs on basic first aid measures for ERT members across PAN India through professional experts Capacity building for from recognized Hospitals. service providers through function specific training 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Key Metrics Data 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Incidences of Industrial Injury (excl. personal transport) 254 257 227 Incidences of Industrial Injury (incl. personal transport) 483 530 514 Cases of Occupational Diseases – Ergonomic 697 549 363 Industrial Injury Lost Days (excl. personal transport) 503 760.5 577 Industrial Injury Lost Days (incl. personal transport) 8141 8918.5 8285 0.500 0.450 0.400 0.317 0.350 0.298 0.300 0.264 0.250 0.200 0.167 0.144 0.150 0.117 0.100 0.050 0.000 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 IIR (excl. personal IIR (incl. personal Lost Day Rate Occupational transport) transport) Diseases Rate Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Diversity and Inclusion A diverse workforce is a reflection of a changing world and marketplace. Our client portfolio is diverse in composition in terms of locations, culture, industries and technologies they deploy. In order to address the increasing complexities and intangible problems of such a diverse clientele, it is imperative to cultivate a workforce which can generate a rich mosaic of ideas and practices and enhance innovation. We are committed towards embracing a heterogeneous workforce which brings forth an amalgamation of demographics, culture and thought in order to enhance customer delight. Nurturing diversity and making inclusivity a part of Wipro’s culture has remained a key focus area for the organization and is a strategic enabler to ensure business growth and performance.Our D & I Program was formally launched in 2008 to give shape and direction to this commitment. Policies, Principles and Commitment Wipro is committed to being an equal opportunity employer and diversity and inclusion principles are embedded in our organizational values, culture, policies and processes. Our commitment towards non-discrimination and meritocracy is explicit in our COBC and Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy. Executive commitment, an engaged community and its participation is instrumental in shaping a vision that drives action. The impetus for the D & I charter thus comes from the top, with our chairman, Mr. Azim Premji as the key signatory and the CEO, Executive Vice President Human Resources and the Legal Council forming the D & I Council. Diversity and Inclusion is evangelized as key behavioral component in our values, policies & processes. This makes D&I a mainstream business driver and a must-have trait, rather than a stand-alone / aspirational initiative. As signatories to UNGC and U.N. Women’s Empowerment Principles, we express our commitment to becoming a responsible business leader and role model. Management Approach and Governance The focus of our D & I program is multi-dimensional and consists of four pillars – gender, persons with disability, nationality and underprivileged communities. Worldwide, research has indicated that there has been slow progress in these areas as indicated by low work participation rate for women in organized sector, under-representation of women in leadership positions, high unemployment rate of persons with disabilities, etc. Over the years, Wipro’s diversity agenda has focused on driving initiatives to address these areas. We understand that the success of transformational initiatives bring to fore focus areas and industry trends which help in shaping depends on how much the larger organization believes in the our D & I charter. These focus areas/goals are reviewed on a strategy and the strength of the initiative and its success in trickling quarterly basis by the D & I committee and the Board of Directors. down to the lowest levels in the organization. With this in mind, our D Our commitment to D & I is also extended to our Suppliers through & I charter and agenda is supported cross-functional project teams the Supplier Code of Conduct and we encourage engagement with and senior leaders assume leadership of individual diversity pillars. qualified suppliers owned by persons of disabilities, women or Our collaboration with research partners and industry platforms like minority communities. CII, NASSCOM, Diversity and Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Focus Areas Wipro is an equal opportunity employer and merit in qualification, performance & capability form the sole criteria for selection, remuneration and promotions for new applicants and existing employees alike. We believe that number-based targets / percentages to increase diverse workforce can impact meritocracy and deviate from our holistic approach of ensuring meaningful employment across different functions and levels. We have therefore consciously refrained from integrating such targets into the goals and objectives of leaders and relevant teams. We believe that creating an organizational culture in which employees feel included and secure to report concerns and violations without fear of retaliation, is the key to preserving human rights and fostering a culture of inclusion. With this in view, we have focussed on creating policy and process frameworks that support an inclusive work environment. We have zero tolerance towards retaliation and this encourages employees to report concerns & discrimination issues to managers, senior leaders and the human resources team. Additionally, we have a long-standing whistle-blower process (Ombudsprocess) and helpline which is available to employees 24/7 in multiple languages. Concerns raised are investigated by a neutral Ombudsman. Our Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Program was formally launched in 2008 to give shape and direction to this commitment. The programme is multidimensional and consists of the following pillars. ? Gender ? Persons with disability ? Nationality ? Persons from underprivileged communities Women of Wipro (WoW) Program Recognizing that at different life-stages the needs and expectations of women employees are different, Wipro adopted a life-stage based approach to its gender equity initiative and ‘Women of Wipro’ program was launched in 2008. . Focus on gender diversity in Wipro in 2015-16 has been around developing and nurturing the women talent in the organization through various initiatives. Overview of Gender Diversity Initiatives WoW mentoring Your career WoW speaker program your choice series For high potential Training Modules for Senior women on women employees in Hi-Po women to boards/top level middle management Women in ensure long term executive teams of technology Forum engagement Vital signs customer Encouraging and Tracking gender organizations are increasing women diversity trends using invited address our technologists in various metrics to teams Wipro and increasing increase the thier visibility percentage of women in leadership positions Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Focus Areas Strategic Lever Initiatives Drive crossInvolvement of business leaders and ? Vital Signs is a program that tracks the entire People Supply functional functional teams would enable us to align Chain in order to check for Gender Balance at each of the involvement in our D and I initiatives to larger business stages. Any dip in % at a particular stage is analyzed to gender equity strategies and drive higher focus on identify root causes and suitable recommendations are initiatives tracking and monitoring of key indicators made to remedy this ? Findings of this project are currently being evangelized with Functional Heads Increased focus Data trends across industry show lower ? Senior Women leaders represented Wipro in the prestigious on 'Women in representation of women in core Grace Hopper Technology' technology areas. Gender balance in ? Conference hosted by Anita Borg Institute with the focus and technical roles will bring out diversity in aim to drive Women in engineering initiatives. thought and innovation. By bringing focus ? Workshops on Idea Patenting were organized for women on this area, our endeavor is to assist in employees. informed decision making and provide career enablers for aspiring women ? Career Individual Development Plans for middle technologists. management women technologists is tracked as an aim to develop their careers. Sustain Wipro's Representation of women reduces from ? Our online mentoring tool 'Learning Networks' allowed the flagship 'Women junior to middle to senior management. A invited mentees to choose their own mentors based on their in Leadership' forum for high potential women in middleaspirations, expertise and preferences. mentoring management to connect with senior ? 100+ high potential women employees enrolled as mentees program leadership team allows in addressing in the ongoing 4th batch of Women of Wipro (WoW) concerns, developing perspectives and Mentoring Program managing aspirations. ? Your Career Your Choice is a Classroom based Training Module for High Potential women employees who have recently taken on managerial roles. The program aims to be a positive reinforcement for them to relook at their careers with a long term view and evaluate the specific strengths they bring to the table. Build Our participation in industry forums helps ? Wipro has participated in various eminent forums by bodies Wipro's thought in evangelizing our D and I philosophy like SHRM, Academy of International Business, NASSCOM, leadership on amongst our peer organizations. We Catalyst, WECC, NHRDN, and Trilegal during the year. The gender diversity believe that sharing and embracing best themes covered included Empowering Women Leadership, practices is the key to developing an Maternity Benefits, Building Awareness to Driving Change, Promoting Young Women in Engineering and Gender inclusive landscape. Balanced Leadership. Key Highlights Over a period of time, a number of initiatives under the WoW program have resulted in higher engagement levels for women as measured by our Employee Perception Survey (EPS) and we have maintained Gender Diversity with over 30% of our employee strength being women. In FY 15-16,Women of Wipro mentoring Program has won the prestigious NASSCOM award for the Best program in Gender Diversity for 2015-2016 in IT/ ITES companies. While our return to work ratio for women employees has dipped slightly from around 96% to 94% in FY 14-15, our retention rate for women who return after parental leave has increased from 89% to 93%.In FY 14-15, 3134 women availed one or more of our parental leave options. Additionally, 1750 male employees availed parental leave globally, forming almost 36% of all employees who availed these leaves. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Persons with Disabilities (PwD) Program Our inclusion framework for Persons with Disability (PwD) focuses on 6 key themes of Policy, Accessible Infrastructure, Accessible Information Systems, Recruitment, Training and Awareness. Our partnership with Diversity and Equal Opportunity Centre (DEOC) continued through the year to advice upon the inclusion initiatives for employees with disabilities. Accessibility Engagement Recruitment ? Build accessibility ? Leadership ? Hire from market through physical connects, through infrastructure and Training Winclusive, Yam Policies NGOs/Institutes information Jams ? Provide intership systems ? Sensitivity ?Policies revised to ? International with Wipro trainings allow inclusivity ? Digital self Disability Day, (e.g reasonable ? Making the identification from ? Ovarall awarness AHM accommodation recruitment for persons with through Diversity process inclusive disability & Inclusion ?Policies audited module wrt UN guidelenes Nothing about us, without us Involving Employees with Disabilities in Inclusivity Initiatives Collaborate with Collaboration with NGOs open up pre? We continued our recruitment efforts through collaboration NGOs / institutes hire opportunities for training & mentoring with NGOs and hired 17 talented candidates with disabilities. to active seek to improve employability of persons with ? Job fairs held in collaboration with CII and NGOs like Sarthak, deserving disabilities and expands the talent pool. Ability Foundation and Enable India. candidates for employment ? Wipro has supported NGOs train the prospective employees and then hire the trained employees. ? Prehiringsuppor t like internship oppor tunities to studentsfrominstitutes like ELMS Global (Bangalore), Ekansh Trust (Pune). Sustained focusSupporting an accessible 'entry-to-exit' ? Wipro’s Building Standards (earlier based on National Barrier-free enables employees with disabilities to Building Code 2005) have been modified to include workplaces navigate with ease and creates a more international norms developed by United Nations inclusive workplace. ‘Accessibility for the Disabled, A Design Manual for a Barrier Free Environment’ and the latest draft of the Building Code prepared by National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People (NCPEDP) and Accessibility, India. These standards lay the foundation for compliance for all new buildings. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Focus Areas Strategic Lever Initiatives Barrier-free Creating inclusive communication ? Our ‘Winclusive’ initiative was integrated with our online communication systems and accessible software enterprise social networking platform to enhance applications enables us to effectively communication and interaction between employees. engage with all employees and create an Winclusive is a vibrant community of employees with environment of equal opportunity and disabilities that discusses the IT-enabled applications’ accessibility and provides suggests and change requests. harmony. The Yammer page of Winclusive has 230 employees. ? Our ‘Kinesics’ portal provides employees across the globe a medium to learn the basics of sign language and apply it to terminology prevalent in IT environment. It was upgraded with a focus to improve accessibility of our information systems. Engagement Proving forums for engaging with persons ? Networking opportunities were provided to persons with with disabilities and involving them in disability connect at Global Forums In 2015, a Wiproite was shaping our inclusivity charter helps in chosen among four others from India to represent at UN’s; improving accessibility on an ongoing One youth representative with hearing impairment presented basis a paper in the Youth Program conducted by Disabled People’s International (DPI) during the Conference of State Parties in the United Nations in New York in 2015. ? Exclusive ‘Annual Global All Hands Meet’ for People With Disability @ Wipro was organized to provide a platform for leadership connect, networking interaction with Industry experts in the field of disability and to reward and recognize PWDs and their managers at Wipro who have excelled in their work and also supported Wipro in making it inclusive. Advocacy Wipro is involved in creating awareness ? Wipro provided support to the disability initiatives & and sensitivity through various platforms Campaigns organizedby other independent bodies. For instance, Collaboration with Ability Foundation, Wipro sponsored their event Ability Fest ‘A film screening festival to create awareness in the area of disability’. ? We organised a Campus Connect for Visually Impaired students from Deal Foundation. ? Wipro participated in a Guest session on insights from Industry experts for a Seminar on ‘Sourcing NonConventional Talents makes Business Sense’ by NHRD, Kolkata. Key Highlights In 2015-16, Wipro won Asia-Pac award’ in the Workplace Category at Disability Matters Asia-Pac Conference held at Bangkok. As on March 2016, 368 employees had voluntarily declared their disabilities through our online Self Identification Form. Number may vary since a number of employees with disability do not prefer to declare their disability and wish to stand at par like all others. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Nationality While serving global customers, employing people across the globe travelling to overseas locations are expected to participate in a 2-day is an equally important aspect of our vision of becoming a truly global classroom based ‘Onsite Readiness Program’ which includes a company. Our global workforce consists of employees in 58 module on cultural sensitivity. countries and from 101 nationalities. We have more than 30,000 Apart from Onsite Readiness and Cross-culture Sensitivity employees outside India, of which 42% are locals, creating a strong programs, specific culture sensitization sessions are conducted for ‘local national’ footprint in our international geographies. In FY 15all team members of an account. Some of the national cultures that 16, we stepped-up effort in hiring business school graduates and have been covered are French, American, Australian, German, and graduate engineers from major universities in US and Europe. Dutch cultures. India culture sessions have been conducted for We have invested in specialized online tools such as ‘Globe Smart’ to customer teams. develop sensitivity towards various cultures. Additionally, employees Persons from underprivileged societies We believe that creating opportunities for people from underprivileged societies will not just expand our candidate pool, but also add a highly committed workforce into the organization. Our plan is to focus on three key strategies to increase our foothold: ? Collaborate with colleges/universities in small cities to drive recruitments. ? Collaborate with NGOs/Foundations which impart skills trainings to graduates from underprivileged societies. ? Collaborate with state governments in areas like the north-east to impart expertise and training to trainers. The 2 key initiatives Collaboration with Rural BPO Mahindra Pride School (MPS) Wipro’s rural BPO centre was launched in 2011 as a In 2013, Wipro BPS initiated a ‘Train & Hire’ program to Back Office to Back Office Model as the result of a tie-up up skill students from economically and socially with Swami Dayananda Education Trust. The trust deprived sections of society in partnership with strives to provide quality education to the economically Mahindra Pride School, enabling them to become selfbackward regions of Tamil Nadu. reliant and financially independent, by getting a placement at Wipro BPS. The program is the result of The centre started as a pilot initiative with 50 employees, true co-operation by the Mahindra group and Wipro who but soon grew to a strength of 100 employees at its 1st run a joint screening and selection process to select anniversary. The centre has a seating capacity of 300+ entrants. Post that, the Mahindra team focuses on seats and the strength in FY 2015-16 was 170. developing the communication skills and personal The centre benefits from a large number of colleges in a grooming of the candidates. Wipro, on the other hand, relatively small radius. More than 13,000 students has instituted Industry specific domain academies, that graduate from these colleges annually, thus providing a trains and prepares them for healthcare, finance & large talent pool. The growth witnessed in the last 4 accounting and investment banking roles. Training years is testimony of how such a model can play a crucial delivery is handled by Wipro’s SMEs, operations leaders role in the development of villages and preventing large and accredited trainers. During the training, it is also scale migrations into cities. The vision of this centre is to ensured that students are adequately taken care of with create more job opportunities for the rural talent pool by respect to conveyance, foods and uniforms etc. bringing in new business to this location. Since 2013, Wipro BPS has hired on regular basis from MPS. Under the aegis of this program, around 360 students so far have been hired in Chennai. In the long run, this program construct will help young students to become employable not only for Wipro but for the larger services sector encompassing industries such as IT, Hospitality, Airlines and more. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Capability Building and Career Development In the face of changing client expectations and the advent of rapidly changing technologies, it has become imperative to have a platform that equips the organization with futuristic skills and competencies. Anticipating and defining future needs and developing these competencies in the employees is vital to organizational sustainability. Wipro offers multiple learning & development opportunities to employees at various stages of their career. These are aimed at up skilling, cross-skilling, and re skilling through a number of training programs in technical, domain, soft skills, and leadership aspects. While dedicated teams identify learning needs at an organizational level, employees partake in identifying their individual learning needs through appraisals, feedback surveys, and career tools. Focus Areas Capability building and career development initiatives at Wipro encompass building awareness on career paths, identifying developmental areas for current & aspired role through a rigorous performance management process, mentorship, and building capability through training & assessments. Performance Management One of the key outcomes of the performance management process is employee development. This is enabled through formal feedback discussions as a part of the appraisal process and creation of an Individual Development Plan (IDP) for the employee. The appraisal process includes a robust competency based feedback process as well. For middle and senior management roles, competency based feedback is provided through a 360-degree feedback based on Wipro Leaders’ Qualities (WLQ). At junior management level, feedback is given on role based behavioural competencies by their managers. Appropriate development plans and interventions are then charted out based on discussion between manager and employee. In FY 15-16, we moved away from ‘bell curve’ rating fitment, hence giving managers complete ownership to rate their team’s performance, while at the same time being accountable to align individual to unit performance Based on the feedback received from employees through various feedback forums like Employee Perception Survey & open houses, Performance Management System was modified and launched as a pilot in three teams with the appraisal cycle of FY 15-16. The new process is much simpler, faster and it includes a robust developmental element through regular discussions between manager and employees. Also, Agile Performance Management was introduced to a few accounts that follow the agile methodology of working. Apart from Goals and Objectives that are defined for each agile role holder, the performance management process includes a 360 degree feedback for the employee including client feedback, where applicable and evaluation against standard team metrics. The above new processes will now be applicable for the entire organisation from current year onwards. A primary outcome of the performance management exercise is succession planning and leadership development. The Talent Review and Planning exercise is conducted at the beginning of the FY and is used to identify short-term, medium-term and long-term successors for critical, senior and executive management roles. Capability Building through Role Based Assessments and Trainings Role-based assessments are conducted for key roles (e. g. Program Transformation (TT)’ team. These teams assume primary Manager, Delivery Manager, Architects) for new hires and role responsibility for driving training & development initiatives across aspirants. These assessments are based on a group of parameters Wipro. While LPS focuses on leadership development, talent identified for a role holder to successfully perform in the role. These analytics, organization culture & change and team effectiveness, the help the organization, to take data based decisions for role TT team focuses on building technical and behavioural capabilities. movements and learning and development initiatives. It helps the A detailed and comprehensive competency framework and individuals to prepare Individual development plan/ change roles engagement with customers enables both teams to gauge the based on assessment centre output. present inventory of skills and design initiatives to bridge the gap We also have TrendNxt covering 60,000 +employees, a skill based towards future needs. learning framework that aims at enhancing employees’ technical Our infrastructure supports both traditional and ‘new-gen’ ways of knowledge year on year. It follows a credit point approach, wherein learning. While dedicated facilities like learning centres, training labs credits are earned by undertaking technical certifications and are used for instructor led classroom sessions, enterprise solutions attending technical training. like 24 x7 access to e-Learning modules, Webex, Video Based Our Learning & Development (L & D) team comprises Wipro’s learning’s, simulation based learning, etc. are being widely adopted, ‘Leadership and People Sciences (LPS)’ team and the ‘Talent providing convenient and flexible learning environment. 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Key Highlights Average training days per employee, we recognize that the metric is ? Approximately 15,000 employees trained through an innovative becoming increasingly less relevant as in a knowledge based platform called “Future Ready” for building Awareness on Digital organization, a significant part of the learning takes place outside Technologies for all customer-facing roles. classrooms through on-job trainings, peer learning, online courses ? Over 20,000 employees trained on core digital technologies and experiential learning and hence not used. through Digital Foundation Academy. Our aim is to incorporate more insightful indicators to track our ? Over 4000 employees benefitted from a program called Cutting performance for example making our programs scalable, through EDGE program which trained employees on advanced skills for use of digital platforms for a global audience and ensure maximum Digital transformation, such as Digital Architecture, Big Data, participation from our employees. Wipro’s online Learning Networks Analytics and Mobile Apps Development. platform allows employees to connect to experts across the organization and seek mentorship. Since its launch in 2013, For a number of our capability building programs, Yammer has been Learning Networks now has close to 1300 Registered Mentors, used extensively for social learning. For example, groups have been close to 10000 registered Mentees. created focusing on specific technologies/roles in the organization, where employees can come together to effectively learn from each Another key metric is Utilization which can get impacted by how other. After classroom training, the faculty use this platform to quickly we can reskill/upskill our talent in line with the customer engage with the participants for continued learning. The discussions /market dynamics and deploy them on billable projects. In FY 15-16, are analyzed to derive feedback which enables L&D to improve our gross utilization was at 68.8%. In order to ensure we have training programs. To generate interest, we launched a competition optimum utilization of our talent, there are initiatives such as Train to across the various groups in Yammer on how they could use the Bill, wherein employees whose projects are nearing end or are social media platform effectively for learning. The groups were between projects to be deployed to new projects, are imparted just in measured on the number of discussion threads and responses, as time training to suit the needs of the new project. The L& D team well as the quality of the posts. There was enthusiastic participation works with the business teams to identify the gap in the skills of the and many of the groups demonstrated creative and innovative ways employee. Just In Time training is provided to address skill gaps so of using social media for learning. Over a period of just 6 months, that the employee can then be deployed in new project opportunities. more than 8,000 employees participated in learning groups, posting This initiative aligns training to the business demand and helps in 85,000 threads of discussion. rapidly fulfilling customer requirements. One key area of focus in FY 15-16 has been to ensure that our employees are trained in Digital and quickly deployed. Comprehensive Benefits and Rewards Wipro’s compensation and benefits program takes an integrated approach and provides a range of options for better financial and social security including tax-managing options, insurance & medical packages, assistance in managing financial and personal issues, retrials, etc. Our programs are reviewed intermittently to ensure relevance to today’s changing workforce and mirrors the latest industry offerings, based on the region’s local regulations / laws and norms. Allowances and benefits are further customized for employees who travel outside their home country for short-term project deputation, to suit immediate financial / settling-in needs. Standard benefits like leave plans, insurance, retrials (contribution to / provision of retirement plans / superannuation schemes in accordance with local laws & industry practices) and other emoluments are provided to our full-time and fixed-term employees, based on the country of operation and law of land. Our benefits & rewards programs are customized as per local regulations, expectations & norm and range from assistance in money management, performance & behavioural based rewards, time-off/work-life balance related benefits, medical and insurance options and retrials. The compensation & benefits programs available in each geography are outlined in detailed policy documents and are available to all employees on the company intranet. In order to familiarize the human resources teams on the compensation philosophy and benefits across geographies and empower them to answer employee queries, an in-house Compensation and Benefits (C & B) certification program is held every year in multiple batches. The program consists of a workshop facilitated by Wipro’s C & B experts and is followed by an exit test which leads to the certification. Additionally, organizational / business-unit level sessions are also held to create awareness amongst employees through avenues like HR-facilitated workshops, chat sessions, webinars, teleconferencing and mailers. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 The table summarizes the range of benefits offered to our employees. While several of these benefits are available to full-time employees globally, the applicability of individual programs depends upon the country of operation. Expats in select countries like Nigeria, middle-east, Latin America etcetera & or/non-English speaking countries also receive benefits like assistance for children’s education, assistance to visit home country etc. Financial Rewarding Work-life Medical and Assistance/Benefits Performance & Behavior balance Insurance Benefits Tax-saving/ customizable Winner’s Circle, our points Leave options like maternity, Health and Life insurance salary components. based rewards platform for paternity, extended maternity, options provided even where top-down and peer-to-peer annual leave, sick leave, not mandated by law / not recognition was revamped. adoption leave, leave without provided by local government. Locally curated catalogue pay. Along with employees, option with over 5 million products to enroll family members may globally for employees to also be provided. redeem their points. Availability of detailed Customized business unit Sabbatical leave program Disability / income protection / statements on earnings, rewards & recognition (unpaid study leave for continuity of salary for deductions, benefits etc. for mechanisms. maximum 2 years). specified durations when on better planning & analysis. disability covered under insurance policies. Interest free loans / salary Along with performance, Half-day half-pay working Group personal accident advance for defined behaviors like collaboration, arrangements on-review insurance, survivor benefit purposes and emergency teamwork, etc. are recognized basis. program may also be requirements. and rewarded. provided. Forex advance / settling Reasonable accommodation Option of Top Up insurance allowances for employees policy was extended to all Covers at negotiated price. on deputation employees in to request workplace / work-time / dress code adjustments. Retirement Saving Scheme(s) to help employees plan and invest for their retirement Wipro Advantage – An online, in-house shopping portal providing employees with special price tie-ups for various products, lifestyle, health & financial categories. The portal has an enrolment of 59,000 employees since inception. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological 3.2 Sustainability Wipro recognizes the environmental challenges that face humanity today are as critical as are economic imperatives and hence ecological sustainability is an essential part of our approach to responsible corporate citizenship. The concerns of ecological Sustainability have become so central to all our lives that the debate has moved beyond discussing the causes and is focused on finding urgent solutions to the several problems that face us. Understanding Life Cycle Impacts Companies best positioned to compete in the future will be those that are able to decouple growth from unsustainable dependency on vulnerable natural resources. . And the first step is to measure and understand full life cycle impacts across the value chain and how it can inform our program design and stakeholder engagement. Through the natural capital valuation exercise (covered under the sub section “Lifecycle impacts”), we have attempted to get an overall integrated environmental impact assessment of our operations and upstream suppliers. In addition, we continue to explore additional and specific quantitative and qualitative metrics to evaluate water (see sub section “Responsible Water Framework”) and waste management in our campuses. We also aim to baseline and set specific goals to reduce our footprint associated with key Scope 3 categories (like emissions from Business Travel and Commute), Ozone depleting refrigerants, indoor air quality and noise pollution. Natural Capital Impacts Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. The overall objective of the project, (done in association with Trucost) is to quantity and value the natural capital impacts of Wipro’s IT Services operations and supply chain for the 2015-16 financial year. The valuation looks at our global operational footprint (from energy related emissions, water consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and management, land use change) and upstream value chain impacts from business travel, employee commute and the embedded natural capital in all goods and services we procure. Operational data, business data and employee commute valuation is derived from on actual data, extrapolated for a few global locations and environmental categories. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based on Trucost’s econometric Input-Output model which takes into account spend across different sub-categories of procurement. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Summary of Natural Capital Valuation GHG Water Air Land Use Category Water Waste Change Emissions Pollution Pollution Operations 36.64 % 39.5 % 12.6 % 45.5 % 16.9 % 14.1 % Business travel 23.43 % 11.1 % Employee commute 16.32 % 17.2 % Purchased goods 7.4 % 33.8 % 26.7 % 3.6 % 47.9 % and services (Scope 3) Fuel and energy 16.22 % 26.7 % 60.7 % 54.5 % 51.2 % 38 % related activities(Scope 3) Understanding Material Aspects for Stakeholders The feedback from our stakeholders help us identify material aspects to our business. Given below is an articulation of stakeholder concerns and corresponding material aspects and sections in the report. Stakeholders Emerging Concerns Material aspects Sections Water scarcity in the vicinity of our operations is a major concern for our employees. A large section of our employees stay close to offices Responsible Water Water Program Demand management is required for water sustainability and this requires user (employee) centric behavioral interventions Reducing footprint at point of generation and Pollution and segregation at source requires user Waste Employees (employee) centric behavioral interventions Waste Management In-campus biodiversity programs are a platform for employee engagement in Biodiversity Campus Biodiversity conservation and citizen science areas Investor led sustainability frameworks like Various environment Carbon Disclosure Project and the Dow aspects including Energy, Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) cover Greenhouse Gas environmental aspects in comprehensive emissions, Water detail. Investors are looking at strong, Abstraction, Water and Air All the sections proactive environmental programs from Pollution, Solid Waste Investors companies as part of the latter’s risk Management and mitigation strategy Biodiversity 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Stakeholders Emerging Concerns Material aspects Sections Customers extend the boundaries of their Various environment own responsibility through their supply chain aspects but sustainability programs which requires predominantly Energy All the sections companies to improve their social and and GHG Emissions Customers environmental footprint. Trucost study on natural capital valuation Various environment points to the fact that externalities account for aspects, but nearly 50% of the total environmental impact predominantly Energy for Wipro. This is across emissions, water and GHG Emissions, All the sections abstraction and pollution, air pollution, land Water Abstraction, Water use and waste. Supply chain engagement and Air Pollution, Solid hence is a core element of operational Waste Management Supply Chain environmental programs. Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), renewable energy procurement and Energy Efficiency & Energy generation are increasingly being covered in GHG Mitigation regulations. Civil Society Biodiversity conservation and ecosystem Campus Government services are primary interest areas with civil Biodiversity Biodiversisty society organizations. Future Generations Program Areas Wipro’s ecological sustainability program directly addresses four of the eight mega forces. It is an integral part within many of our key programs, internal and external and across stakeholders. Our program focuses on the following aspects: Energy Water efficiency Pollution efficiency and and responsible and waste Campus Urban GHG mitigation sourcing management Biodiversity resilience Wipro’s ecological sustainability program Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Our journey in ecological sustainability reinforces some foundational principles: ecological sustainability foundational principles Both the environmental impacts and The need to assess programs though Acknowledge issues, explore outcomes of measures we implement different measurements, metrics and alternatives and prioritize responses are multiple & interrelated rigorous goal setting specific to the context We continually assess operational risks to the environment and apply the precautionary principle in our approach to get insights and plan our environmental programs. What follows is a brief description of our policies, systems and programs we follow as part of our ecological sustainability charter. Scope of Reporting The environmental reporting covers all our operations globally. India: 61 locations comprising of 23 owned locations and three data centers representing 80% of our workforce. Overseas: 139 offices in 48 countries and 7 customer datacenters. A majority of the Wipro overseas offices operate out of leased facilities. We have energy consumption data available for 53% of the facilities by seat capacity while for the balance 47%, we have used done extrapolations based on assumptions to arrive at best estimates. The uncertainty due to these extrapolations is estimated to be less than 1% (See our CDP 2016 report for more details). We report only energy consumption from purchased electricity for overseas offices as the energy consumption under other heads like heating and cooling is negligible. Since these are multitenanted leased spaces, utility data is being tracked at Wipro level for the location. Aspect India* Overseas Energy Based on actual consumption data Based on actual consumption for 60% of our overseas locations and remaining estimated based on regional intensity figures Water Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures Waste Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures Commute Based on actual consumption data Estimated based on regional intensity figures *The energy, water and waste reporting for India accounts for 80% of our impact from all operations 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Environmental Management Systems Our programs and management systems are pivoted and derived from 9% Client Offices our policy on our Ecological Sustainability Commitment, available at 10% http://wipro.org/resource/Ecological_Sustainability_Policy.pdf. We Leased have been following the guidelines of the ISO 14001 framework for Offices 76% Certified more than 15 years now as one of the cornerstones of our Locations Environmental Management System (EMS). Over the years, the 5% EMS Certification: ISO14001 system has been embedded into the internal practices and Due for by Employee certification Occupancy processes and is now being consistently applied across the smaller and/or leased office space operations. 18 of our campus sites in India and two leased sites in Australia are certified to the standards of ISO 14001:2004. Environmental Expenditures We shifted to an integrated facility management sourcing (IFMS) arrangement with third party (partners) across our key owned locations. The IFMS outsourcing contracts also include Operations and maintenance of pollution control equipment, hence from this reporting year we are not able to separately delineate these expenses. In Mn Rs. 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Treatment and disposal of waste 2.01 1.36 1.35 Treatment of emissions 3.89 2.90 2.68 Operation & Maintenance of Pollution control equipment 3.62 4.05 4.05 Training and Education 0.05 0.10 0 External certification of management systems 0.17 1.60 1.37 Research and development 0 0 0 Other environmental management costs 4.53 5.40 5.4 Installation of Cleaner Environmental Technologies _ _ 38.32 (e.g Solar Water Heater) The increase in the expenses incurred by Installation of Cleaner Environmental Technologies is because of the new initiatives we adopted in our campuses which includes smart water metering, aerators etcetera. Refer to the section ‘Responsible Water Program’. Compliance Wipro complies with all applicable environmental regulations and in the reporting period, there were no instances of environmental fines imposed or negative consequences due to our operations. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Energy efficiency and GHG mitigation Approach Our approach to energy efficiency and GHG mitigation is centered on the following approach. Baselining energy and Setting ambitious, scientifically Developing robust emissions parameters valid and traceable goals mitigation programs A robust mechanism of measuring and reporting performance metrics is a primary requirement to set scientifically valid, traceable and accountable goals. We have standardized the process for accounting of Scope 1 and 2 emissions and have also completed the valuation of externalities (all Scope 3 heads). In our framework of goals which ended in 2015, we aimed to reduce our Scope 1 and Scope 2 people emissions intensity figures by half from the 2010 baseline. This financial year, we undertook a target setting exercise to propose targets running from the current year to 2019-20. Over the last couple of years, different frameworks have evolved for setting GERTs (GHG Emissions Reduction Target). Once such framework is the science based target setting from WRI (World Resource Institute) that tries to align itself with the 2 degree imperative i.e. global emissions by 2050 to be 20% of 1990 levels so as to stay within the threshold of 2 degree rise in average surface temperature. While we have studied and incorporated the WRI framework to the extent that is relevant, our methodology has also been driven by empirical considerations that are more pertinent to the IT industry sector and to India. We propose our next phase of targets running from the current year to 2019-20; we have suggested targets for 2025 and 2030 also but these will be subject to revision when the next five year target setting exercise is done in 2020. Our goals comprise five sub-targets, two on GHG and three on energy: Absolute Scope 1+2 Scope 1+2 GHG Absolute Energy Energy Intensity Renewable Energy 1. GHG emissions Absolute emissions 2. emission intensity on Floor Area (FAR) 3. Consumption Reduction 4. in terms of EPI Cumulative 5. Doubling the present 65 Mn. reduction of around basis Cumulative reduction of 11% units to a target of 35000 tons. reduction of 33 % in in EPI over 5 135 Mn. units in GHG intensity from years 2019-20 140 Kg / Sq. Mt (kpsm) to 94 kpsm of CO2-eq For Energy Efficiency, in line with industry standards, we are shifting from ‘Per Employee’ based metrics to Floor Area (FAR) based metrics. The accepted standard is EPI or Energy Performance Indicator which is equivalent to Energy Per Unit of Floor Area for a defined number of working hours per day. We have deliberately not set a Carbon Neutral goal or an offset program for reducing Scope 1 and 2 emissions due to the externalities involved in most alternatives like embedded carbon and water footprint, land use change and broader ecological and social sustainability issues involved in such programs. For example, mass afforestation of a single species over a large area may help achieve a carbon reduction goal but have a high negative impact on water sustainability, biodiversity and livelihoods. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 The full trajectory of Wipro targets till 2050 is given below. Carbon intensity ( Kg CO2 per Sqm ) Absolute emissions ( Scope 1 and 2, Mt CO2 ) 250000 210873 140 200000 175000 94 140172 150000 62 67495 100000 27 39769 14 50000 0 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 2015 2020 2030 2040 2050 Mitigation Programs Our GHG mitigation strategy consists of two key elements. The visual below depicts a graphic representation of this strategy. 15% 5% Energy Renewable Efficiency Energy-Generation 80% Renewable Energy-Purchase Energy Renewable Efficiency Energy of these, strategic RE procurement will contribute the maximum to GHG emission reductions. Energy Efficiency Over the preceding five year period, we have implemented a variety of energy efficiency measures ? Green Buildings: We were one of the early adopters of Green believe, is a conservative estimate considering that many Building Design with 19 of our current buildings certified to the servers run for 7 days a week and the power rating ranges from international LEED standard (Silver, Gold, and Platinum). 0.75 Kw to 1 Kw (we have considered the lower power rating for the savings estimate calculation). ? Server virtualization: Since 2007, we have been working on a server rationalization and virtualization program, through which ? Operational Efficiency Measures: Over the years, significant we have decommissioned old physical servers and replaced the focus has been given to reduce the energy consumption of our processing capacity with virtualization technology on fewer locations by bringing in various operational efficiency measures numbers of servers. As of March 2016, we have 2088 virtual in our operation. Examples include switching over to energy servers running on 147 physical servers – contributing to an efficient lighting across our campuses, automating our utility energy savings of approximately 9 Million units annually, an operations, correcting our design inefficiency through regular increase of 3% over the previous year. This assumes a saving of audits. 0.75 KW/hour for every physical server avoided. This, we Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Renewable Energy ? Strategic procurement: For the reporting period of 15-16, we a gap in meeting our renewables targets. Our assessment is that procured 75 Mn. units of Renewable energy through the PPAs it will take a few years before the market matures. In order to (Power Purchase agreements) with private producers, which avoid double accounting, we have taken adequate steps by amounted to approximately 23% of our total office space energy including non-tradability of Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) consumption. However this fell short of our target of 82 Mn units for contracted power through contracts and including verification for the reporting year. The mainstay of accessing RE for open of generation in the regulators national REC registry. access consumers like us has been through direct power ? In-situ renewable energy use: The pilot rooftop Solar PV purchase agreement from producers in select states. Each state installations at 3 of our campuses followed by extensive use of in India has its own regulatory mechanisms in allowing open solar water heaters in our guest blocks and cafeterias have access –this is driven by either the distribution company’s resulted in equivalent savings of 1.3 Mn units of grid electricity. finances or the infrastructure not being in place to enable large scale evacuation and storage of renewable power. This has led to Business Travel and Commute: The IT services outsourcing model require frequent travel to customer location overseas, across the delivery life cycle. Business Travel and Employee Commute together contribute to around 21% of our overall emissions footprint. Policies on usage of different modes of travel based on distance and time taken, need based travel approval and shift towards processes which enable travel planning by employees are some of the cost and process optimization measures implemented over past few years. Employees have various choices for commuting informed primarily by distance, flexibility, work timings, costs, city infrastructure and connectivity in the case of group or public transport. In addition to company arranged transport (30-37%), more than 45% of employees utilize public transport. Highlights of Energy and GHG Emissions Related Performance Absolute Energy Consumption The total energy consumption, electricity and back-up diesel generated, for office spaces across all global operations in IT is 322 Mn Units (India adds to 299 Mn units). Data centers India and overseas (USA and Germany) contribute to another 91 Mn units. Breakup of consumption by source of energy is as follows. MwH Equivalent 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Biogas (m3) 39 45 48 Charcoal (Kg) 244 235 211 LPG (Kg) 7565 7555 7796 Diesel (L) for Elec 42067 40766 43754 Purchased Electricity (Grid) 289817 305591 294050 Purchased Electricity (Renewable) 70934 65681 75980 Solar Heater 1332 1332 1332 Solar PV 281 281 135 TOTAL 412279 421487 423306 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Energy Intensity of Office Spaces In India, energy consumption per employee showed a 6.7 % decrease over the previous year, from 224 units in 14-15 to 209 units per employee per month in 15-16. At a global level, the comparative figures were 223 units for 14-15 and 230 units for 2015-16 registering a 3.1% increase over the previous year. Office space energy intensity showed a decrease of 3.7% from 195 to 189 units per sq. meter per annum. This is primarily from energy optimization measures, retrofit of older equipment with more energy efficient equipment and consolidation of operations accompanied by a transition from leased to owned facilities with the resulting increase in overall utilization of office space and better quality of maintenance operations. The following series of charts illustrate various metrics of our performance on energy and GHG emissions. Emissions Intensity of Energy Used in Office Spaces 2.00 1.77 19.00 1.80 1.72 1.71 CO2 eq. Kg per square feet per annum CO2 eq. Kg per square feet per annum 1.67 1.53 17.00 1.60 1.46 Emission 1.40 Intensity-India 15.00 1.20 11.95 13.00 Emission 11.54 Intensity-Global 1.00 10.72 11.00 0.80 Emission per Sqft-India 0.60 9.00 0.40 7.00 0.20 5.00 0.00 2013-14 (incl RE) 2014-15 (incl RE) 2015-16 (incl RE) Absolute Emissions Profile The three year Absolute Emissions Profile (includes comparable scope 3 categories from previous years) Year (MT CO2e) 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Fuel 34,271.00 34,613.00 35,511 Refrigerant 7,228.00 6,726.00 8,845 Direct Transport Logistics 1,674.00 Employee Commute 85,860.00 102,704.00 102,155 Business Travel 108,915.00 141,790.21 176,593 Waste 588.00 579.00 953 Upstream Fuel+Energy emissions 90,987.00 99,479 Purchased goods / services 65,000.00 38,416 Purchased Electricity 274,858.00 281,636.00 281,683 RE Purchase (Offset) -60,114.00 -53,858.00 -62,304 Net Scope 2 214,744.00 227,778.00 219,379 Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Scope 1 and 2 emissions GHG Scope 1 and 2 (Tons of CO2 eq.) Tons of CO2 eq, Percentage 270000 269117 58244 260000 256244 254072 253640 Data Centers 256032 Office Space 250000 244444 242062 19% 240000 Global Global Global 230000 81% India India India 220000 0.00 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Absolute GHG Emissions: Scope 1 and 2, Split by Geo and Office / Data Centers 250,000 Emissions 13-14/incl RE 189,871 Emissions 14-15/incl RE GHG (Tons of CO2 equiv.) 200,000 187,129 182,952 Lost Day Rate 150,000 100,000 38,403 36,239 50,000 15,045 22,005 28,535 11,801 11,578 16,916 19,988 0 India Row India Row office space data center Emissions split (by office space and Data centers India and Rest of World) Scope 3 Emissions 300000 278265 250000 245073 195363 200000 Scope 3 Global 150000 (Tons CO2 eq.) 100000 50000 0 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 A break-up of our Scope 3 categories (other indirect sources) reporting is provided below. Out of the 14 categories of scope 3 reporting as per the new GHG corporate value chain standard, we are presently reporting on six applicable categories. Sources of Evaluation Metric tonnes Emissions calculation Scope 3 emissions status CO2 E methodology Purchased goods Relevant, calculated 38416 Estimated based on category spend data. Refer to Notes on and services Calculation Methodology in our online report www.wiprosustainabilityreport/15-16 for explanations. Capital goods Relevant Included under ‘Purchased goods and services” Fuel-and-energy-related activities Relevant, calculated 99479 Well to tank and T&D losses. Refer to Notes on Calculation (not included in Scope 1 or 2) Methodology in our online report www.wiprosustainabilityreport/15-16 for explanations. Upstream transportation Not relevant Not applicable for our business, as we operate in the services and distribution business. Waste generated Relevant, calculated 953 Based on emission factor for nearly 35 categories of waste in operations under broader categories of organic, inorganic, e-waste, hazardous and other mixed wastes. For computing GHG emissions from Waste, we have applied the conversion factors available in the WARM (Waste Reduction Model) tool from U.S. EPA ( Environmental Protection Agency) Business travel Relevant, calculated 176593 Employee commuting Relevant, calculated 102155 Upstream leased assets Relevant, calculated 0 Incorporated under Scope 1 and 2 reporting. Downstream transportation Not relevant and distribution Processing of sold products Not relevant End of life treatment of Relevant, calculated Through our e-waste take back program we have collected sold products 140 tons of electronic end of life in 2013-14, which also includes some non-Wipro products sold as part of integrated IT services projects. The emission from the e-waste disposal is estimated at 1.40 tons of CO2 equivalent (as per US EPA’s WARM tool emission factor). All e-waste is collected and recycled by authorised recyclers. Downstream leased assets Not relevant Franchises Not relevant Investments Not relevant Total 417496 A summary of the above GHG mitigation programs, excluding direct commute and travel reduction, is provided below. Measures across Energy efficiency, RE, travel substitution and virtualization have helped in GHG savings of nearly 141302 tons. Mitigation Programs Estimated GHG Savings in the reporting period in tons CO2 Renewable Energy Procurement 62304 Renewable Energy Generation (inch Solar Water Heating) 1290 Energy Efficiency Measures (Includes vitualization) 17421 Travel Substitution initiatives (Live meeting, Virtual conferencing) 60,287 Total (Tons) 141302 Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Water Stewardship Approach At Wipro, we view water from the three inter-related lens of Conservation, Responsibility and Security; our articulated goals are therefore predicated on these three dimensions. Water efficiency Responsible Sourcing Water security Improve water efficiency To ensure responsible sourcing Recognizing water availability as (fresh water use per and responsible water a business risk, to proactively employee) of our operations. management in proximate assess and plan for the water communities, especially in security of the organization in a locations that are prone to water manner that is congruent with scarcity. other two objectives. Goals Responsible stewardship: To ensure responsible water 1. To improve fresh water use per employee by 5% 2. management in proximate communities, especially in locations that are prone to water scarcity Water Efficiency We launched a program in 2013 with the aim of minimizing freshwater consumption by 20% over the following two years through an integrated approach as articulated below: Implementing standard metering infrastructure and procedures across campuses. Demand side optimization (improving efficiency through flow restrictors across campuses and arresting leakages). Improving recycling levels through ultra-filtration with eventual use for non-contact applications other than landscaping and sanitation. Integrating rain water harvesting into the consumption side of the campus water cycle. Improving water governance by building user awareness and involvement of water plumbers. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 New Initiatives We are working towards making our facilities more and more water –sustainable. This has been achieved with the use of water efficient fixtures, waste water treatment technologies, rain water harvesting and smart metering for monitoring. Aerators Waterless urinals We have installed Aerators in all our We have retrofitted existing urinal system wash basins across the campuses during with waterless urinal system by installing the last fiscal year 2015-16. Aerators key valves in some of the locations. This provide a constant flow rate of 0.5 GPM system doesn’t require water for flushing. through variable pressure optimizing This in turn has reduced water water use to great extent. consumption and energy related to pumping of the system. Smart water metering Waste water reuse We have installed smart water meters in Entire waste water generated in the our campuses to ensure continuous campus is treated at our sewage monitoring of water consumption data in treatment plants. Recycled water is used real time. These smart meters have for landscaping and flushing. We have enabled us to identify wastage areas so installed Ultra filtration and Reverse that immediate action can be taken. osmosis in three of our major locations and reusing the treated water for cooling systems, this has reduced our fresh water consumption by 40%. Nano filtration Conventional water softeners is being Rain water Harvesting replaced by membrane softeners (Nano filtration) which gives good quality Rainwater harvesting and integration into softened water. Nano filtration removes freshwater use is a significant nearly all viruses, most of the natural improvement area for water sustainability organic matter and a range of salts. across our campuses. We plan to Nano filtration removes divalent ions, integrate rain water use into primary which make water hard, so it is used to freshwater use cycle across identified soften hard water. large campuses over the next two year period. Presently rain water constitutes 2% of the total fresh water. Employee Participation We are encouraging employee to participate and share their view on the sensitive issues like water and waste. We celebrate world water day along with the employees. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Responsible Water Framework We have attempted to go beyond the standard notions of water efficiency to something that is more holistic and inclusive of non-business stakeholders from civil society, government and academia. This is described in brief below. The Responsible Water framework, developed in association with one of our partners provides a set of quantitative and qualitative metrics that collectively evaluate aspects of campus design and people density, harvesting of endowed water (rainwater), embodied energy of different sources of water and aspects of knowledge, transparency and governance in campus management. An integrated framework like this helps consider and evaluate water decisions from economic as well as ecological contexts. Two of the metrics are presented in the table below for four of our campuses. Responsible Siting (RS) is the freshwater demand that can be potentially met by rainwater. This metric is reflective of the rainfall endowment of the campus, campus design (with respect to harvestable surface water from rooftops) and the current/expected demand profile of the campus. Water Sustainability (WS) is amount of total demand met by rainfall and treated water. Location Responsible Siting (RS) Water Sustainability (WS) Comments SJP-2 0.45 0.26 Low RS due to higher campus Bangalore density/footprint. RWH implemented for two buildings and integrated with fresh water PDC-2 0.62 0.39 RS would drop significantly after planned Pune new development in campus. Scope for increasing rain water harvesting exists. External assessment in progress HDC 0.35 0.45 1/5th of annual freshwater demand can be Manikonda met by rainwater. Low RS due to lower rainfall in region. Planned CDC-5 1.03 0.30 High potential for rainwater; nearly half of Chennai annual fresh water demand can be met by rainwater from rooftops. Civil work challenges due to marsh land/ low water Responsible Sourcing Ground water, municipal water supplies and private purchase contribute to nearly 99% of the total fresh water consumption. The water supplied by the municipal bodies and the industrial association are sourced by them in turn from river or lake systems. Water that is purchased from private sources can be traced to have been extracted from local aquifers. We take care not to withdraw water from water bodies that are recognized to be particularly sensitive due to their relative size, function, or status as a support source for endangered species. None of our operations impact any nationally or internationally designated water conservation areas. 34 of our 59 locations in India are leased and located in prime city areas. For these locations, waste water is discharged to CSTP’s (Common Sewage Treatment plants) and to the municipal sewerage systems. We take care not to discharge waste water into any subsurface waters, surface waters or sewers that lead directly to rivers, oceans, lakes, wetlands, and ground water. The treated water from our sewage treatment plants are tested and are in conformance with the parameters specified by the respective local pollution control boards. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Performance Water Withdrawal by Source (Kiloliters) 250,0000 200,0000 150,0000 100,0000 50,0000 0 Ground Municipal Private Rainwater TOTAL Water Water Supply Purchase Utilized 2012-13 350344 815028 799090 6240 1970943 2013-14 253262 729873 883832 10206 1877173 2014-15 266973 695039 824755 10098 1796865 2015-16 303567 764943 755022 32917 1856449 Water Consumed Vs Water Recycled (Kiloliters) 2000000 1854698 1877173 1789496 The per employee water consumption for the reporting year is 1.295 m3 per month, a 4.78 % reduction when compared with 1.36 m3 in year 2014 -15. The reduction 1500000 in freshwater consumption has been primarily through better water accounting, demand side optimization and 888828 959620 884245 increasing water governance through involvement of 1000000 facility teams. We recycle 959956 m3 of water in 26 of Total FW Recycled Total FW Recycled Total FW Recycled our major locations, using Sewage Treatment Plants 500000 (STPs). Recycled water as a percentage of freshwater extracted and total water requirement are around 52% and 32% respectively. 0 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Way Forward One of our focus areas will be to monitor, measure, manage and reduce water wastages. Re-evaluation of the water flow equation for every location, with broad inclusion of diverse treatment procedures will be deployed. We will use the logic of comparison between the total water that flows in and that flows out of the campus and account for the gaps observed. We will continue to expand the uses of treated water by further increasing the scale of UFRO treatment for usage in non-contact purpose. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Pollution and Waste Management Pollution of the air and water poses one of the most serious threats to community health and welfare and industry – which is one of the principal sources of pollution – holds special responsibility for effective mitigation and abatement. Approach Our approach to waste and pollution management extends beyond the organizational boundaries to what happens downstream all the way to the landfill. Our waste management strategies are centered around either i) recycling the waste for further use or ii) arranging for safe disposal. To operationalize our strategy, we follow the following processes. ? Segregation of waste into organic, inorganic-waste, hazardous, packaging, bio medical and other categories. ? Recycling segregated waste either in-house or through outsourced vendor arrangements. ? o 90% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. ? o A majority of the balance mixed solid waste is also handled through authorized vendors however its trail is not entirely known to us or verifiable and therefore, we have adopted a conservative approach of classifying it as untreated waste. ? o Segregation is to be done at source (point of generation) with the intent of ensuring recyclability of segregated waste. Further segregation of Municipal Solid Waste within the campus may not be attempted as the segregated waste will be soiled and is not (or cannot be) segregated. This may ultimately disposed in landfills – as the vendors will see no value recoverable from waste. ? o Enable better segregation in work areas by removing individual single bins and ensuring segregated waste is put in separate bins. ? o Location Hospitality team will work with Cafeteria and tuck-shop vendors to ensure use of reusable cutlery and to report all waste, total generated in the campus and its disposal. Mandating suppliers/vendors to take back waste generated inside the campus without a view on its traceability (handling and final destination) does not absolve us of our responsibility. ? o Vendor awareness on waste to be centered on product design, packaging etc. ? Comprehensive and independent waste assessment audits audit across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams. ? o The comprehensive external waste assessment we conducted across our locations for electronic waste and solid waste streams pointed to areas of improvement in governance and traceability of waste streams across the recycler ecosystem. We would work with our partners and vendors in driving better practices and behaviors keeping in mind both human and ecological impacts of any changes. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Goals Waste Management The below goals have been set on the basis of an extensive independent audit done during 201213. While our earlier goal centered on only the aggregate level of recycling, the recalibrated goals seek to be more granular and are set at a category level. This will require close working of ? 100% of organic waste to be handled in-house at owned locations ? 100% of paper, cardboard, hazardous and e-waste, mixed metals/scrap and plastics to be recycled/ handled as per approved methods ? Reduce Mixed solid waste intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 ? Reduce landfill intensity to half by 2017 (3 year target) as compared to 13-14 ? Reduction of construction and demolition debris Air pollution Air pollution is closely linked to energy reduction goals, especially from Scope 1 sources (Generated power through DG sets). Performance against Goals Waste Management The series of figures below provide detailed statistics on the multiple categories of waste generation, recycling and disposal pertaining to our operations. Other waste includes broken furniture, tiles, and worn/torn carpets – which is largely recycled. ? Organic Waste Converters (OWC)’s commissioned in all owned locations 5 .71% ? 90% of organic waste is being handled in-house 2 .25% Landfill Incineration ? Bio-gas currently operational in 3 locations and being 82 .21% evaluated for 3 other locations Recycled ? 100% of waste is handled as per approved methods 9.83 % Internal Recycled ? Internal audits are done as part of EHS External ? Modified Operational Control Procedures (OCP) and e-waste recycler requirements being rolled out in FY2017 Q1 ? 116 tons of construction and demolition waste across locations is now segregated and sent to municipal authorized landfills. Alternative options being explored 92.4% of the total waste from our IT India operations is recycled -through both, in-house recycling units and through authorized vendor tie-ups. Details of different categories of solid waste disposal (All figures in metric, unless mentioned specifically) Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Waste Disposed in Tons Handling methods Disposed Provided by Organizational Category 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Directly contractor Defaults Garden Waste 475 630 645 RECYCLED 100% Food Scraps 574 905 1152 RECYCLED 100% Dimensional Wood/ RECYCLED 100% 34 83 32 Lumber STP Sludge 1284 1309 3666 RECYCLED 100% Organic Waste (Total) 2368 2928 5496 Magazines 5 5 0 RECYCLED 100% Newspaper 10 9 8 RECYCLED 100% Office Stationary 11 2 1 RECYCLED 100% Paper 98 160 108 RECYCLED 100% Tissue Paper 86 184 236 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Inorganic Waste (Total) 211 361 353 Cardboard 101 124 113 RECYCLED 100% Styrofoam 2 1 2 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Thermacol 16 6 4 INCENERATION 3% LANDFILLED 97% Packaging Waste (Total) 119 131 120 Bio Medical Waste 192 kgs 401 kgs 228 kgs INCENERATION 50% LANDFILLED 50% Electronic Items 247 320 22 RECYCLED 100% Tube lights & CFL's 6 11 10 RECYCLED 100% Used Oil 48 54 29 RECYCLED 100% Batteries 189 52 75 RECYCLED 100% Oil soaked cotton waste 1 432 5 INCENERATION 100% DG Filters 2 2 10 INCENERATION 100% Ink Cartridges 664 kgs 4 4 RECYCLED 100% Hazardous, Biomedical 493 429 184 E-waste (Total) Mixed Metals 125 124 50 RECYCLED 100% Mixed Mis. Solid Waste RECYCLED 60% LANDFILLED 40% 263 308 296 Mixed Plastics 39 36 51 RECYCLED 100% Other Scrap 121 87 154 RECYCLED 60% LANDFILLED 40% Other Waste (Total) 549 588 551 Total Waste 3739 4436 6704 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 We noticed an increase in sludge from 1309 to 3666 which is largely due to a technical issue with equipment at one of our site. Major renovations across the campuses contributed to the increase in construction debris which constitute a major part of other scrap. Electronic Waste During FY 15-16, the total end of life E-waste collected and recycled through authorized vendors was 320 tons. We ramped down our hardware manufacturing business and closed operations in March 2014. While we continue to still offer product take back service for our B2B customers, we foresee a continued drop in the quantum of EOL from consumers over the next 3-4 years. We have started working on the recommendation of e-waste audits conducted earlier for better management of electronic waste. Based on the recommendations, e-waste recycler guidelines and operating procedures have been revised as per the new e-waste guidelines from the government. These now include comprehensive records verification for better material traceability. All recyclers go through an empanelment procedure. Oil spills There were no incidents of significant spills of oil or chemicals during inbound transportation in the reporting period. Air emissions We ensure adequate maintenance of our DG sets present in 47 of our locations, this helps in minimizing the emissions of air pollutants like oxides of Nitrogen (NOx), oxides of Sulphur (Sox) and particulate matter. A scheduled PPM (Planned Preventive Maintenance) is in place for carrying the maintenance of the DG sets to check the efficiency of the DG sets. Monthly stack monitoring is also carried out to check NOx, SOx and SPM levels to ensure the emissions are within the regulatory norms. The average of stack emissions of 100 DG’s at 18 of our larger locations is as follows. 350 296.1013544 300 226.4070072 250 2014 15 200 150 28.21062655 55.86356218 2015 16 100 45.22969796 24.31648494 50 0 NoX SoX SPM The age of DG’s is a significant factor which can impact emissions. We also have hired DG’s at some locations running for extended periods of time, in some cases for 24X7, due to insufficient supply of grid power. This leads to reduction in efficiency of combustion over extended period of time. Indoor Air pollutants Indoor air quality is seen to have a correlation with health of employees and can be a cause of some respiratory ailments. We regularly monitor presence of Indoor air pollutants like VOC (Volatile organic compounds), POP (Persistent organic pollutants) and other hazardous air pollutants. The data across few campuses in March 2014 shows negligible detection of such pollutants. In the next year, we plan to set up comprehensive mechanisms to monitor and audit indoor air quality and report aggregate values of the same across campuses. Controlled emissions of ozone depleting substances (ODS) The quantity of refrigerants, including R-22 in 2015-16 was 5.4 metric tons for 34 locations. Out of that, R22, a ODS substance under Montreal Protocol amounts to 2 tons. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Campus Biodiversity IT Services is predominantly an urban-centric sector and the impacts on biodiversity are rarely direct and not of the same order or scale as in biodiversity zones in the hinterland e.g. the Western Ghats reserve. Therefore, our approach since inception more than five years back has been to turn our focus inward on our own campuses, many of which have reasonably large non-built up spaces. Our goals are twofold: (i) to convert five of our existing campuses to biodiversity zones and (ii) to design all our new campuses on biodiversity principles. Existing campus retrofits We have initiated two programs in the last three years to convert existing campuses to biodiversity zones (i) our Electronic City campus in Bangalore (ii) our campus in Pune. Electronic City campus biodiversity project The first stage of our campus biodiversity project the butterfly park – was completed in March 2013. The park is witness to hundreds of migratory butterflies who stop over in the park for nearly a month in their 400 Km pre monsoon annual migration from western to the Eastern Ghats in India. The second phase of the project, a ~3 acre Wetland park, is currently underway and expected to be completed in mid-2016. Pune campus biodiversity project We have started work on biodiversity retrofit projects at our two campuses in Pune with a baseline assessment of flora and fauna biodiversity. This project envisages thematic gardens – aesthetic and palm garden, spring garden, Ficus garden, spice and fruit garden – through plantations of native spaces specific to the local geography. For one the Pune campuses, the total number of native species has nearly trebled from 49 to 167 in the first year. The Electronics City biodiversity project was featured as case study in a CII publication released at Conference of Parties at Korea. Wipro is one of the five member companies in India of “Leaders for Nature (LFN)”, a joint initiative of IUCN, Confederation of Indian Industries (CII), Hivos, & Wildlife Trust of India (WTI). In all these programs we work closely with expert partners in biodiversity, conservation, ecological design and communications. Building employee connect through expert talks, workshops and field visits to community research centers in forests, is a critical aspect of the program. As part of this larger advocacy, we arranged for industry workshops that were facilitated by International Union of Conservation Network (IUCN) at Kolkata and Bangalore on Wetlands and Urban Biodiversity. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Urban Resilience The growth of Indian cities has been widely studied and analyzed.Driven by industry led growth and the structural shifts in village based economy of agriculture and animal husbandry, we are seeing a significant shift in population towards urban centers. According to a study by McKinsey and Co, there will be 69 metropolitan cities by 2025, each with a population of one million or more, which collectively will be home to 78 percent of India’s urban population. Gandhi had written then that India is to be found in its 7 million villages and not cities. It may not be too presumptuous to say now that the future of India lies in how well it manages it cities. Cities are seen as magnetic hubs of modern social development that attract enterprise through access to skills and markets, engender social diversity through cosmopolitanism and trigger technology led innovation and improvisations. However unprecedented growth, lack of foresight, political will and rent seeking across the spectrum have exposed the weak foundations of many urban cities. Water, solid waste, mobility, maintenance of commons like lakes/water bodies, ground water, parks and playground, public health, inequality (slums comprise a fifth of the total population in Indian cities) get inadequate attention from policy makers and public executive bodies. A resilient city would seek to engage on important urban aspects with all its key stakeholders. Wipro through its community programs is working closely with industry, government and communities in creating platforms that enable working on some fundamental and sticky issues. Themes of Engagement Water ? Participative ground water project: To develop understanding of ground water and how it can inform community led management ? KSWN – Karnataka state water network: In association with CII, a platform to bring together different stakeholders to work on urban water issues. Since its inception in 2014, it has facilitated interventions and exchange of ideas between five water sustainability zones/areas in the city. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Mobility ?Working with urban public transport body in Bangalore for better adoption of public transport by employees. ?Enabling employee groups on cycling and car pooling Waste ?Access to social security and benefits for city’s informal waste pickers ?Facilitated sessions on waste segregation and composting for employees and their families ?Working on an e-waste program for the Electronics City Industrial Township Authority (ELCITA) cluster 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Participative Ground Water Management (PGWM) Ground water is a primary source of water in Bengaluru, especially for peripheral areas of the city which are not connected to the city municipal supply (BWSSB). Around 40% of total water requirement of the city is met through ground water, which is largely unregulated. It is a scarce resource and many areas including the South east areas (Electronics CitySarjapur-Bellandur-Whitefield corridor) are severely stressed. There is a high reliance on private supply (tanker) of water, the source of which is again mostly ground water. Ground water being a shared common pool resource, the governance choices are complex – from unregulated to centralized responses to community centered management. Data plays a crucial role in assessing groundwater resource and then in planning towards managing the resource. However, groundwater resources continue to be a ‘blind spot’ in urban planning on one side and ‘Groundwater Management’ on the other. Through the three year Participative Ground Water Management (PGWM) Project, we aim to pilot a community centered participatory approach to management of ground water. The watershed area selected for this program, is part of the Yamalur watershed, and extends for approximately 34 square kilometers around Wipro’s corporate office. A central idea of the program is to build advocacy with government organizations and city authorities through community centered engagement. The broad outputs of the program in the first phase (18 month, till Dec 2015) were as follows: Conversations/engagements with diverse stakeholders residents, government bodies, and academia through events, conducted tours Preliminary understanding of certain characteristics of aquifer: possible water level zones, relationships with land use and surface water (lakes) Documentation of best practices, potential uses of treated water, treatment solutions and understanding of change enablers and levers. This has been done based on quality and quantitative studies of around 16 water bodies (lakes), continuing monitoring of around 30+ borewells, open wells, land use, geology of the region and case studies and responses at a reasonably granular level. The two websites http://aquifer.mapservices.in/ and http://urbanlakes.org contain detailed information from the first year work. The next phase of the program, from Jan 2016, focuses on community engagement through communication and action research projects. It will broadly comprise of two tracks hydrogeology science track and the social track. Both of them reinforce and inform each other. Facilitate implementation of identified projects in the community on use of treated water for lake, ground water recharge and creation of wetland for a lake Social Creation of water literacy material and on-ground community events (public spaces, schools, conducted tours) Social Interventions with schools, disadvantaged communities, CREDAI (builder forum) and government Social On-ground community events (public spaces, schools, conducted tours) Social Complete hydrogeological study for identified clusters, lake systems and overall Hydrogeology aquifer characteristics This program is being anchored by BIOME Environmental Solutions based in Bengaluru with hydrogeology expertise from ACWADAM (Pune) and mapping-IT solutions from Mapunity (Bengaluru). Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Urban Waste Management and Welfare of Waste Pickers Bangalore with a population of 95 lakh and spread over 800 sq. kilometers produces between 4000-6000 tons of waste per day. The responsibility for the proper handling, collection, transportation and disposal of waste in the city lies with the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). The predominant method of disposal is dumping in open landfills, which has tremendously detrimental impacts on the quality of air, water and soil. The BBMP has a sanctioned staff of 12,000 for waste management in the city, but only 7000 are on the rolls. The citizen to staff ratio is a paltry 401:1. (The Times of India May 2012). The present formal system of waste collection is thoroughly inadequate with many areas left uncovered, resulting in garbage piling up on street corners. The informal economy workers have long compensated for clothes picked out from waste heaps and a stick to sort through inadequate waste management systems in the city by collecting trash, the working conditions of informal waste pickers leaves a lot to discarded materials that have zero value and convert it into a be desired. tradable goods through their labor in extraction, collection, sorting, The Hasirudala project aims to organize waste workers, i.e. wastegrading and transporting. These informal economy waste workers pickers in Bangalore to enhance and upgrade their skills for (numbering 1500020000) are also among the most vulnerable innovation in waste management services leading to their increase populations in the city. According to one CHF survey a significant in income by 10-40%, their formal inclusion in the waste number of waste pickers are women who belong to socially management market approved by Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagar marginalized populations, including backward castes (conducted by Pallike (BBMP) and increased access to social, nutrition and Global Communities (formerly CHF International) and MSSS environmental security measures provided by state and other (Mythri Sarva Seva Samithi)in 2010). The survey found a significant institutions. number of young (18 to 40 years), illiterate and economically & socially disadvantaged people engaged in waste picking in the city. Hasiru Dala’s significant achievement in its first year of inception has In addition to traditional waste pickers, a significant proportion of the been to be able to integrate informal waste workers in operating 27 migrant population in the city is working with waste. The waste Dry Waste Cleaning Centers (DWCC). The city administration pickers’ access to water, sanitation and housing facilities in the city directly signed a memorandum of understanding with the waste still remains inadequate with the situation being worse among pickers to operate dry waste collection centers known as Kartavya migrant waste pickers living in temporary accommodation and because of organization’s consistent advocacy with the municipal lacking basic identity cards, no services to collect waste etc. The body. The given space has the potential to be transformed into a working conditions of waste pickers are also deplorable. Safety gear cooperative fair trade scrap store and a place where public citizens, is not a priority for formal economy waste workers and in the informal officers of the BBMP and waste pickers can interact and share ideas. economy; it is not even a possibility. Armed only with old shoes and The following are some of the outcomes of this project during FY 2015-16. The analyzed data of the members of Hasiru Dala shows that waste pickers were able to divert 8610 tons of low and high value dry waste, and 3713 tons of organic waste from landfill site for recycling. Hasiru Dala provided composting services to bulk generators, city owned Organic Waste Collectors (OWC) and housing wards and serviced over 19000 households in the bulk generator residential segment. Also provided managerial assistance to DWCCs run by waste pickers / scrap dealers and operated 5 Bio gas units till November, 2015 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Customer 3.3 Stewardship Information and communication technologies now play a central role in driving efficiency and productivity improvements through dematerialization and automation for most businesses. This trend is being further strengthened with the continuing influence and adoption of new disruptive technologies like Big Data, Analytics, Internet of Things and Mobility. The trend of disintermediation is changing the way customer and business interactions takes place. Disintermediation gives consumers direct access to information that otherwise would require a mediator. As a result, new business models are being created and e-commerce is gaining wide acceptance. Unique opportunities for product innovation made possible by IT is resulting in democratization of ICT making technology more accessible and affordable to customers. All these trends contribute to IT becoming ubiquitous in everyday life addressing different needs of end users. However, technology is not without its associated risks and challenges. The pervasive nature of technology also raises concerns related to data mismanagement, increase in surveillance, loss of privacy, and possible abuse. WEF Global Risks Report 2016 lists large-scale cyber-attacks and major data fraud/theft among the top 10 in terms of likelihood. Customer stewardship hinges on meeting customer expectations by being responsive to the emerging trends and offering portfolio of products and services which integrate resource efficiency, dematerialization, organizational transparency, connectedness and collaboration. Engaging with customers is critical to meet customer expectations and it is the foundation on which stewardship rests. Understanding Material Aspects for Customers The Annual risk assessment exercise conducted by Enterprise Risk Management Function has identified Cyber security, Data Privacy, Information Security & related Business Continuity and Service Delivery as major areas of risk management. For more details, refer to Organization Profile or Financial Stewardship sections of this report. <Link> Our internal materiality assessment and stakeholder feedback have identified customer privacy, data security, customer satisfaction, innovation and open source as material issues to our business. This is further reinforced by feedback from our customers which clearly indicates Customer Privacy, Data Security, Customer Satisfaction, Innovation and Open Source as the most material issues to their business. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Identified Material Aspects Our report-map on these dimensions is shown below. GRI Aspects / Topics Section Customer Satisfaction Customer Engagement <Link> Customer Privacy Data Privacy and IT Security <Link> Innovation Next Gen Technologies <Link> Open Source Next Gen Technologies <Link> Strategic Approach and Policy The Wipro Strategy is based on our vision of delivering maximum value to our customer businesses based on a solid relationship of trust, collaboration and competence. This we ensure by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class delivery processes. Collaborating with customers to ‘Do Business Better’ Deep Industry Innovation Insights Network Culture Uncovering key Engage, retain, Collaboration characteristics develop for with customers; Differentiation of industries Delivery enabling 360 deg employees; at the Front and offering models transformation. relationship; partners and through unique targeting faster, Investment in Collaborative community industry and solutions efficient and next gen offerings and client insight business technologies innovation with aligned KPI’s product partners Differentiated Standardization Strategic Client of Delivery Partnerships Engagement ‘Delivering on commitments’ and ‘Making customers successful’ as stated in ‘Spirit of Wipro’ is the bedrock principle of our approach towards customer stewardship. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Customer Engagement According to a research conducted by Harvard Business School, a 5% increase in customer retention can result in a profit increase of up to 75%, depending on the industry. The key to retaining customers is building strong relationships with them which is a sustained, ongoing and long term process. But such efforts are justified by the lifetime value (LTV) of the retained customer. Customer retention is eventually more cost effective as it requires comparatively less service, at the same time providing more business. It is also revenue enhancing as a satisfied customer may contribute to new customer acquisition through positive referrals. Approach of Customer Centricity Our unique Customer Centricity framework is used in all key accounts to drive appropriate actions that continually help customer satisfaction. The key objectives of our framework are detailed below. Customer Value Dissatisfaction Assure Experience Creation Reduction Hygiene Enhancement Value creation to Actions on stated Actions to ensure standards Actions related to customer, over and above areas of are maintained and avoid engagement and contracted dissatisfaction future dissatisfaction relationships We implement this framework by way of two channels. Voice of Voice of Customer (VOC) Employee (VOE) Customer surveys Customer connect Voice of Customer The Voice of the Customer is heard at various levels i.e., at project level, program level, account level and through direct feedback, informal meetings, governance meetings and senior management interaction with the client. The processes include Program CSAT, program CSAT, Quarterly pulse surveys and the Annual CSAT conducted through third party surveys. These are conducted formally and at appropriate intervals to capture customer feedback on Wipro. The Strategic Marketing Group conducts surveys on brand perception where they also understand customer’s expectations of Wipro and Wipro’s position relative to its competitors. Regular visits by senior leaders to customers are another key source of information. We also conduct webinars with our alliance partners to capture the customer voice. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSAT) Conducted annually for all customers Survey Administered by across all strata to capture voice of Annual Third-Party (NPS and Average customer and align to customer Survey score for other key questions) business requirements Short Pulse survey for Survey Administered by Q1, Q2 and Q3 for focused Pulse Survey Third-Party (Average Score) accounts (Quaterly) Survey Administered by Project CSAT, Programme Wipro Tool (Average mile stone feedback Project Feedback Score and % of 6+ projects) Tool Administered Ticket level feedback End User CSAT survey (Feedback typically on scale of 1 to 5) Annual CSAT survey is Quarterly Pulse Survey is Project CSATs are obtained End user CSAT feedback is administered annually to get administered once in a to enhance customers administered to customer feedback on various facets of quarter for the Q1, Q2 and experience while dealing respondents who are end engagement including core Q3 of the financial year to with Wipro. Customer users. These feedbacks are delivery, presales, people get feedback predominately feedback is obtained on analyzed by respective engagement and Wipro’s from Senior and Middle Projects and Programs at program teams. value addition to customers manager and few CXOs. different points of time from CXO, Senior and Middle during execution on different managers of customer aspects like Delivery, organization. Quality, Service and Project Management sections. The Customer Connect Process Wipro communicates and connects with its customers through a matrix framework. Every key account has a dedicated Client Partner to own and manage the relationship. The Client Partner profiles the account and proposes/ offers solutions that are strategically relevant to customers. An execution process document and system maintenance technical document for each engagement ensures that all customer needs are documented and agreed between the two parties. Business Unit heads interact and engage with customers via on which a leader is given feedback by his peers, managers and monthly governance meetings, quarterly business review meetings, reportees. This feedback is both quantitative and qualitative and is and client-visits every quarter. Service Line heads visit and attend all analyzed and shared with employees. This is integrated with the the important meetings. In addition, the CEO visits key accounts performance appraisal process to ensure that right actions are put in regularly. Executive sponsors are assigned for all mega accounts to place to improve customer satisfaction. maintain and build the relationship. The Wipro Leaders survey is an annual 360 degree feedback mechanism. In this ‘Customer Centricity’ is a key leadership attribute 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 The Customer Satisfaction (C-SAT) Action Planning framework CSAT is an important business objective and it is linked to employee performance linked payouts on a quarterly basis. We follow the following framework to seek, understand and analyze customer feedback. The customer feedback obtained through the surveys is analyzed and improvement opportunities are identified. Once actions are identified, the value creation actions (CVI) and Dissatisfaction Reduction Actions are communicated to the customer. Frequent updates on progress, through quarterly business reviews and other appropriate forums are provided to build customer confidence in the process, and ensure that the actions taken truly have a positive impact on customer satisfaction. Senior leaders review feedback reports at regular intervals in different forums such as Quality Improvement Councils and Management Review Meetings. Governance of Customer Relationship Management The Customer Advocacy Group (CAG) in Wipro is part of the Quality organization and drives customer satisfaction improvement initiatives for the organization. This group is responsible for enabling and tracking the early warning system and for addressing alerts before they can potentially become serious customer issues. The team is also responsible for driving effective closures of customer escalations. Key Metric 1 Key Metric 2 Key Metric 3 Revenue Generated from Net Promoter Score Customer Acquisition Existing Customers Net promoter Score (NPS) measures The number of new customers acquired Revenue generated from existing customers’ engagement with Wipro and by Wipro in 2015-16 increased from customers / retained accounts is a good is measured on a 10 point scale. The 174 to 194 whereas the number of indicator of customer satisfaction and respondents based on their ratings are active customers increased from 1054 retention. Data for the last four reporting categorized as ‘promoters’, ‘detractors’ to 1223. periods is given below. or ‘passives’. This measure is widely used across industries. Our Net Promoter Score shows a continuous 98.5 1223 98.4 improvement trend as it has increased 98.4 1054 by 420 basis points for 2015-16 as 978 986 98.3 compared to the previous year. 98.2 98.1 98.1 98.1 261 97.9 98 97.9 192 194 97.8 174 97.7 97.6 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Active Customers New Customers Sustainability Expectations from Customers Apart from technology driven value creation, our global customers also expect transparency and compliance on different sustainability aspects within our operations and in our extended value chain. Responses to most customer proposals and contract renewals require an extensive disclosure of our sustainability programs and performance. In many cases, customers require acceptance and alignment with their supplier code of conduct that contain several sustainability related principles. Third party supply chain CSR raters like Ecovadis and Verego regularly assess and profile our sustainability performance in their platform which is used by more than 30 Wipro customers. In the recent assessment by Ecovadis, we have achieved an overall CSR rating of Gold (highest among possible three levels). Verego has rated us “Best in Class” across all the 5 areas (Leadership, Ethics, People, Community and Environment). We also have been benchmarked against over 4000 other companies that responded to CDP’s 2015 supply chain information request sent on behalf of 74 CDP supply chain members with over US$2 trillion spend and received a disclosure score of 100. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Data Privacy and IT security The Global Risk Report 2016 of the World Economic Forum includes (a) breakdown of critical information infrastructure and networks and (b) massive incidents of data fraud/theft among the top risks faced by the world. With cloud services such as SaaS, PaaS and IaaS becoming increasingly important to the way businesses operate, the resilience of critical information infrastructure becomes critical. It is crucial to ensure access to systems and data at all times. Any service disruptions or suboptimal system performance can lead to businesses incurring higher costs and suffering reputational damage. It can even become business continuity issue, especially for organizations whose business models are technology centric. Such systemic failures can negatively impact industrial production, public services and communications. The breakdown of IT infrastructure could be triggered by technical failures, weather events, natural disasters or terrorist attacks. The Risk report identifies large scale state-sponsored, state-affiliated, criminal or terrorist cyber attacks as a significant risk which can cause an infrastructure breakdown and/or loss of trust in the Internet. The magnitude of data to be handled by today’s organization is gigantic. This abundance of data opens the door to many opportunities in all spheres of lifeeconomic, social, and political. But with ‘big data’ which can create ‘big impacts’ comes big responsibilities. The globalized nature of the internet as well as the intensive virtual interactions and extensive data storage makes this a significant risk to corporate organizations. Any leakage or misuse or unauthorized access of information could expose companies to legal and reputational risks. Insufficient protection of database and network, unclear management of personal information and vague database access rules are the main reasons behind any data breach. The nature of the IT services industry does not require Wipro to store any customer proprietary data in its systems and networks. In rare circumstances where, as part of project requirement, it is needed to view Customer data, it is accessed remotely with the data being stored and hosted in customer’s systems. This avoids the risk of customer information vulnerability in Wipro's systems. Policy on Protection of Data Privacy 'Protecting Customer Information' is a key section of Code of have also established and implemented Security Incident Business Conduct of Wipro and communicates our stand on the Management policy that covers procedures for reporting and protection of personal information of our employees, customers and handling policy violations & data breaches. Our policies are in relevant stakeholders. Wipro mandates compliance to this code compliance with globally accepted data protection principles. through periodical certification and company -wide awareness and Wipro’s ISMS is published on an intranet portal ISMS which testing of the code every year. In addition to the section in Code of provides applicable IT security and privacy policies for different Conduct, Wipro has also defined Privacy policy and this policy is target segments (Employees, Third Party Contractors, Leadership published in the website (URL: http://www.wipro.com/privacy-policy/ team System Administrators and Sales teams and contains all ). This policy communicates Wipro’s approach to protection of relevant details on policies, standards, procedures and guidelines personal information collected electronically. There is an internal related to information security. Data Protection and Privacy policy defined under Information Security Management System (ISMS) with the objective –‘to define collection, protection and usage of personal data & company confidential information as per applicable laws and regulations’. We 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Policy in Action through the Information Security Management System To ensure effective implementation of privacy policy within Wipro, a Automated monitoring tools and detective controls have been comprehensive and mature framework of systems and processes implemented for detecting leakages of confidential data from Wipro. have been evolved. Applicable statutory regulations are identified The data breach notification procedure template, which is deployed and documented with supporting compliance procedures and specifically for each customer account/program/project, is also policies to manage the entire process of legal and regulatory provided. A security incident notification form is also designed for compliances. For example, generally accepted Data Protection (DP) notifying the data breach incidents and published on the intranet principles pertaining to fair and lawful purpose, adequacy, accuracy, portal accessible for all employees. retention of data, safeguards for processing and data transfers are Data privacy specific training programs are designed and imparted mapped to the processes and practices of Wipro's Information to employees of customer accounts on all applicable privacy Security Management System (ISMS). regulations. In addition, innovative methods are employed to spread Privacy risk assessments are undertaken with the objective of Information security and privacy awareness amongst all Wipro users identifying potential areas of risks relating to privacy of employee such as e-mailers, blogs, and theme based awareness campaigns. data collected, processed and stored within Wipro’s internal Wipro's technology infrastructure in various locations of operation Information Systems within various geographies. The mitigation ensures adequate resilience in the basic IT infrastructure, which measures in-line with ISMS practices are implemented to address helps critical business operations run during disaster situations. the risks. Compliance verifications are performed through regular Technology disaster recovery planning includes physical internal and external audits. (ISO27001:2013 for Information infrastructure, computing infrastructure and communication Security and other Business Continuity framework principles). infrastructure. Wipro’s corporate (i.e. non-customer data) data Changes to applicable privacy laws, regulations, and policies space assets residing in our enterprise information systems and across various geographies are monitored and assessed for their applications are backed up on a regular basis and the backup impact on the enterprise from Information Security/ Business integrity tests are periodically performed as per Wipro Information Continuity perspective. Necessary inputs are sought from the Legal Security Policy. team to assess the impact for any legal risks involved while undertaking key enterprise level initiatives. Governance The Security Organization in Wipro is established with clear roles and responsibilities for implementing information security and business continuity in the organization. The General Counsel of Wipro is the authority to review the effectiveness and progress of information security and business continuity programs. Information Risk Management & Policy Compliance Group (IRMC) headed by the designated CISO (Chief Information Security Officer), a group that holds the overall responsibility of governing the Information Security risk and compliance practices within Wipro. Further, on the Risk Management initiatives, IRMC works closely with Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) team headed by Chief Risk Officer (CRO), which holds the responsibility for data privacy and reports to General Counsel as well as Wipro Board of Directors. It is generally understood and accepted internally that Information security and privacy is a joint responsibility of multiple stakeholders from various departments/functions such as Information Risk Management, Legal, Human Resources, Enterprise Risk Management office, senior leadership, Global Delivery Organization and the internal Information Systems teams. Performance on Data Privacy and Information Security Wipro is certified under the ISO 27001:2013 standard which provides assurance in the areas of information security, physical security and business continuity. Wipro has a well-documented Business Continuity Management System in line with BS25999 standard. This is a program through which preparedness for handling emergencies is addressed at business unit, location and cross functional levels. We report any breaches of privacy policy through our public reports (Annual Financial Report) and in our filings with the SEC. There were no incidents in the reporting year for which Wipro had to pay penalties or revenue losses. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Innovation Human experience in interacting with machines is rapidly evolving. Breakthroughs in Man-Machine Interfaces (MMI) using acoustics, gestures, biometrics, body movement and virtual reality coupled with context-aware applications are introducing higher levels of user engagement. Such interactions are dynamic, flexible, personalized, responsive, real-time and data driven. Growing project complexities, competitive pressures, operational challenges and the need to maintain and grow margins is driving companies to adopt technologies that will help them run business as usual, improve operational efficiencies and provide competitive differentiation. In essence, this will prepare organizations to fundamentally change the way they do business. Next generation digital technologies like Artificial Intelligence, Internet of Things, Big Data Analytics and emerging collaborative development methodologies like Open Source are driving this change. These emerging technological innovations can drive sustainability by way of digitalization and dematerialization, system integration and optimization. For example… Digitalization and System integration Optimization of Analytics enable better dematerialization can improves efficiency processes, activities, and and smarter decisionreduce or eliminate the across organization functions improves making need for an emissionsefficiency through intensive product or simulation, automation, process redesign or control Strategic Approach to Innovation Wipro has a two pronged approach to innovation – external and internal. Externally, we work jointly with our customers and with various academic institutes, research organizations both from a recruitment perspective as well as from a partnership perspective. For joint innovation with customers, Wipro has primarily four models: Enterprise Innovation Targeted Consortium Innovation Program Lab as a Service Initiative Approach Each model has specific use situations depending on the amount of investment and the nature of the innovation problems that are addressed. We also assess maturity levels of participating stakeholders while proposing these different engagement models. Wipro understands the necessity of having a strong Open Innovation Network and invests into building, supporting and participating in various such networks and forums. The bulk of the company's Open Innovation activity is aligned to the focus themes driven by the CTO Office and the strategic areas as identified by the respective individual business units. On the Internal Innovation side, a number of initiatives have been started that are designed on concepts of Open Innovation to inculcate a culture of innovation in people. They span the lifecycle of Idea Management from Ideation to Development. Some of them are Directed Idea Campaigns sponsored by business units (BU) which may want to crowd source ideas around a defined Use Case or Problem Statement. Ideas coming in as part of these are further taken up by the Sponsoring Business Units or the Idea Author is given a chance to develop it wherein CTO Office supports in the form of infrastructure and mentoring. Technology training and enablement initiatives like Code Storm enable people to learn and become proficient in new and emerging technology and languages by participating in Coding Contests and Hackathons. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Technology Themes for Innovation Wipro is playing a key role in fostering innovation at the intersection of different technologies and in creating new products, services and breakthrough applications. Here 'breakthrough' implies products, services, processes, ideas and answers that were not possible before. We do this by mapping the future landscape i.e. by sensing tomorrow and responding today. The following are the technology themes on which we are focused currently. At Wipro, we are working towards delivering solutions that are dynamic, adaptive and are designed to learn, Artificial anticipate, think and support decision making. Wipro has invested in developing a TM artificial intelligence Intelligence platform Wipro HOLMES (heuristics and ontology-based learning machines and TM experiential systems) which is built on Open Source technologies and addresses key domains in cognitive computing. With Wipro Digital we are working on reengineering customer journeys by using a design thinking approach Everything centered on users' needs and preferences. This requires bringing together end-to-end digital capabilities to Digital design and deliver digital transformation. Internet Enabled by connected objects, Wipro is capturing business insights in industrial applications and analyzing of Things these in 'near real time', in order to provide actionable insights and create delightful customer experiences. Wipro has been helping clients across industries and geographies create seamless customer experiences in Big Data this digital world by enabling real time insights, and improving business outcomes through data-driven Analytics decisions. Wipro has invested in a strategic partnership with Opera Solutions, a company that applies its machine learning science to the world's Big Data flows to extract predictive patterns or signals. Open Source software is changing the way the world builds software. This collaborative, iterative, and Open transparent development method is powering everything from reconstruction efforts in the aftermath of natural Source disasters like earthquakes to the design of electric cars, along with countless other projects. Open Source is emerging as an important tool as business growth and bottom-line success. Enterprises are increasingly looking at Open Source and Open Wipro has identified Open Source as a core technology initiative and Stack applications for end-to-end business collaboration, greater the company's investments in building a large cadre of skilled productivity, speed and efficiency. Open Source applications are personnel, including world class Open Source industry veterans and also being used to promote growth for adaptive enterprises. There is community experts, is beginning to reap dividends as reflected by a shift from the conventional application architectures that rely on increasing customer interest. Wipro’s services include the individual enterprises to Internet technologies and services that are development and implementation of Open Source policies and more open. The Next Generation of IT systems will address the processes, advisory and strategy consulting, roadmap challenges of availability on scale, moving from efficiency to development, integration, community engagement, legacy effectiveness and erasing the boundaries between personal and migration, governance, risk mitigation and support. enterprise computing. Wipro also helps customers build Open Source platforms on To keep pace with the rapid changes, organizations need to be Applications (Middleware, Security, Customer Experience nimble. Also, they need to adopt Open Source that offers lower cost Platforms, Mobile Frameworks), Big data, Infrastructure (Operating of ownership, faster developer centric innovation driven by large Systems, Databases, Virtualization, Cloud Technologies, Software communities, flexibility, no vendor lock-in, greater security and Defined Infrastructure), Internet of Things (IoT), Hardware and quality. Our investments put us in a strong position to help customers Testing. start their Open Source journey. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Wipro Ventures As part of a start-up engagement model, we have invested in building a world class ecosystem through a US$ 100 million corporate venture capital fund, Wipro Ventures, aimed at investing in cutting edge start-ups in areas such as Digital, Internet of Things (IoT), Big data, Open source, Cyber security and Artificial Intelligence (AI). In 2015-16, Wipro Ventures has seen strong traction and scale. We have made 6 investments with a cumulative spend of US$ 15 million and a further committed spend of US$ 5 million in FY16 in start-ups working in Big Data and Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, the Internet of Things, Mobility, Cloud Infra, Fintech and Security – technologies that are reshaping the future of enterprises. Governance Wipro follows a federated model for innovation with innovation being within and outside the organization through internal innovation driven through multiple structures. The CSO (Chief Strategy Officer) programs and by driving an external program that connects with the and his group invests in long term solution building and aids the ecosystem of startups, academia and research institutions. investment efforts of the Business Units /Service Lines by Business units (BU's) and Service Lines (SLs) also drive innovation supporting some selected seeding initiatives that are designed to within their respective industry or technology domain develop create new business services for Wipro. solutions and service products within their remits. The internal The CTO (Chief Technology Officer) and his group drive innovation process transformation group invests in tools and frameworks that through investing in a set of technology themes that can be applied help improve costs and productivity of our delivery processes for to create services in different industry verticals. The CTO Office also both infrastructure and application management services. anchors innovation crowd sourcing and open execution processes Intellectual Property and Patents in Wipro Our considerable R&D efforts have helped build our Intellectual Property (IP) portfolio substantially. Total R&D expenses for the year stood at Rs. 2561 Mn. In FY 2015-16, the company continued to strengthen its IP portfolio with 514 new patent applications filed. Currently Wipro holds 1085 patents including applications in various exciting and emerging areas such as Energy Management, Cognitive Computing & Machine Learning, Digital Enterprise, Digital Marketing, Cloud Computing, Internet of Things, Intelligent Networks, Smart Systems, Storage Management, Data Management, DevOps, Identity Management, Testing & Verification, Enterprise Security, Device Security, Home Entertainment, Knowledge Management and Fraud detection, among others. A significant portion of the portfolio is in the Telecom, Consumer Electronics and Semiconductor verticals. Sustainability Inspired Solutions Wipro, over the past few years, has built a portfolio of leading IT enabled sustainability solutions for our customers. The strengths of our positioning come from decades of working with partners and customers to understand stakeholder needs – and placing it in the context of a larger common purpose of providing ‘sustainability’ inspired solutions. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro EcoEnergy Wipro EcoEnergy, the clean tech business unit of Wipro Limited offers Enterprise wide Energy Management Services to help customers reduce their energy consumption, reduce CO2 emissions, and improve the efficiency in energy operations. The value proposition of EcoEnergy is to help its customers achieve 6% – 18% of effective cost savings through reduced consumption, optimized operations, monitoring and maintenance over a multi-year engagement. Cloud and Virtualization Services Wipro offers a cloud services portfolio which includes cloud infrastructure, business applications and processes. These services are designed to optimize, scale, manage and outsource customer’s IT resources thus helping them achieve efficiency and control costs and bring down upfront investments. One of the key virtualization solutions of Wipro is VirtuaDesk™ which is a Desktop as a Service offering for the virtual workplace, enabled through desktop virtualization technology. Taking advantage of cloud architecture principles and technologies, VirtuaDesk offers a high performing and cost-efficient solution for delivering virtual desktops and applications with key benefits of rapid virtualization deployment, increased business agility and improved risk management. Industry Focus The section below illustrates how ICT solutions are being applied to the more resource intensive sectors like oil and gas companies, automotive and manufacturing sectors. Wipro supports its automotive industry customers in achieving their sustainability goals through an innovative solution called EcoMeter Connect solution (US patent applied) which supports various stakeholders involved in the emission reduction business. This solution which is offered as a part of Connected Car platform is an innovative and cost effective way of tackling emission reductions and fuel-efficiency improvements. Wipro's EcoMeter Connect solution has the potential to improve fuel efficiency, reduce CO2 emissions, reinforce green driving and meet regulatory requirements. The solution captures information related to driving behavior that has an impact on eco parameters in terms of higher emissions or fuel consumption and the data is processed using Telematics Control Unit to estimate the Eco-Index. Driving behavior related data is sent to the back-end server, which runs an analytics engine to derive intelligence from the trip, and carry out multiple projections, comparisons and recommendations. The cloud-hosted server ensures that the users could use Automotive this application based on their needs and the pricing is based on a cost-effective model. Wipro offers a unique suite of Sustainability and Energy Management applications to manufacturing industry clients which helps them track real-time consumption, perform higher asset utilization and predict energy consumption patterns. Manufacturing Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Wipro offers environment centric solutions to energy, utilities and natural resources industries with focus on environment, health and safety. These integrated solutions are designed to help customers meet legal and regulatory requirements; reduce carbon footprints and hazardous emissions; efficiently manage water and waste; improve occupational Health Safety, process and asset safety; and reduce risks to employees, proximate communities and environment. The services portfolio includes the following. ? Sustainability/Global Reporting Initiative(GRI)/Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) reporting ? Carbon Management ? Health, Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) solution implementation ? Health, Safety, Security & Environment (HSSE) Data Management & Managed Services ? Incident/accident Reporting and Regulatory Compliance Energy, Utilities and ? Occupational Health and Medical Service Reporting Natural Resources ? Hazardous and E-waste inventory, disposal and reporting Understanding the specific need of industry in the context of dramatically increasing operating costs, Wipro offers an Energy Management platform together with a robust analytics framework to provide energy saving which could help in better control of energy consumption. The offerings include: Energy Energy Measures Energy Data Assessments Consultation Management Energy Design & Delivery of Sustained Energy Strategy Energy Conservation Saving via Energy Measures Platform 000 Wipro and Its Stakeholders Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Financial Stewardship 3.4 and the Investors The history of financial disclosures through annual and financial reports can be largely attributed to the voluntary disclosures of business performance from a few companies in the U.S. and U.K. to their providers of financial capital in the 19th century. Over the subsequent decades, accounting and reporting methods were refined and institutionalized. In the last couple of decades, progressive calls for transparency and accountability have led stock exchanges to enforce a number of requirements for corporate disclosures. The King Report on Corporate Governance (1994, 2002, and 2009) of the six forms of capital: financial, manufactured, intellectual, is widely regarded as the first integrated reporting framework on human, social and natural. The first two forms of capital are covered corporate governance and performance, covering both finance and in almost all annual reports while the others are covered to varying non-financial disclosures. Compliance with the Kings framework is degrees by some organizations depending on their context and required by companies listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. understanding of impacts to significant stakeholders. Similarly, in India, the National Voluntary Guidelines released by the The increasing recognition that social and environmental risks can Ministry of Corporate Affairs have been adopted by the Securities affect a company’s operational strength and continuity has prompted and Exchange Board of India for listed companies to publish a active engagement from investors, regulators and government. Business Responsibility Report (BRR) as part of their annual Investors are increasingly incor porating ESG criteria financial report. The International Integrated Reporting Council (Environmental, Social and Governance) into their investment (IIRC), a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, decision frameworks. Over the last decade, this has manifested in at standard bodies, the accounting profession and NGOs, is facilitating least four different ways as shown in the chart below. adoption of integrated reporting framework <IR> as the new corporate reporting norm. One of the core elements of the framework is accountability and stewardship of the stocks and flows Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro and Its Stakeholders 000 Stock Exchange ESG Assessments by Investors DJSI, MSCI, FTSE4 Good, BSE Listing CDP, Vigeo, Oekom requirement, Greenex and Carbonex Subcription to Principles Custom assessments and studies Responsible Investing Lifecycle impacts, Natural Capital (PRI) and <IR> Accounting & Social risk assessments In this section, we primarily focus on our engagement with the investor community and how accountability and good business conduct are integral implements of financial stewardship. Understanding the Our Stakeholder Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. Profile of Wipro Shareholders Particulars 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 No. of shareholders 213,603 210,471 213,588 227,368 ADR holders 11,162 10,146 9,725 16,120 Total shareholders 238,971 220,617 223,313 227,369 Shareholding Pattern Category of Shareholders % of Total Shares PROMOTER HOLDINGS Promoters and Promoter Group 73.25 PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING Mutual Funds/UTI 1.85 Banks, Financial Institution, Insurance companies, Central and State Govt. 2.82 FIIs/ Foreign bodies/Foreign Portfolio Corps 10.86 Private Corporate Bodies 2.33 Indian Public 4.95 NRI/OCB/Foreign Nationals 1.14 Trusts 0.12 Shares held by custodians, against which Depository Receipts have been issued 2.00 Others* (Clearing members and Directors and relatives) 0.07 NON PROMOTER NON PUBLIC SHAREHOLDING Employee trust 0.60 Total 100.00 *Others include shareholding of Clearing Members and Non-Executive Directors, Executive directors and Relatives. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 For more information, refer to the notes given page no. 50 of Annual Report for FY 2015-16. Our investors are increasingly getting aligned with ‘The Principles of Responsible Investment’ (PRI). PRI was developed by an international group of institutional investors under the umbrella of Principles for Responsible Investment Initiative (PRII), reflect the increasing relevance of environmental, social and corporate governance issues to investment practices. UNEP Finance Initiative and UN Global compact are partnering with PRII in this initiative. The table below represents alignment of Wipro's investors to PRI.The data presented below essentially means that the total number of PRI signatories in the world are 1,553 and 35% of all investors in Wipro are PRI signatories. Particulars 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 Signatories To PRI 1,204 1,304 1,395 1,553 Investors in Wipro * >30% >40% >35% >35% * % of PRI signatories to Domestic Financial Institution, FII and FPI investors only. Engagement with Investors Investors in Wipro are key stakeholders and must get fair returns for investing in our company. Our endeavor is to report the true and fair financial results in a timely manner and communicate the business outlook, risks and opportunities. With reliable financial results and consistent messaging of economic environment, investors are empowered to take investment decision best suited to their risk profile. We have multiple channels of communications to keep the investors informed about various development and events. Communication through proactive disclosures in our financial statement has been the bedrock of investor engagement at Wipro. Our senior management leaders along with our dedicated Investor Relations team participate in various forums like investor conferences and investor road shows, in addition to hosting investors who visit us. Our quarterly results, regulatory filings, transcripts of our earnings call and media presentations are available at http://www.wipro.com/investors/ Engagement Approach The figure below reflects the breadth of our engagement with Investors. Inform ? Website ? Press Release ? Quality Eaenings Release ? Investor Presentation ? Annual report ? Financial Information Breadth of Listen Dialogue Engagement ? Annual General Meeting ? Investors Road Shows ? EGM ? Meeting with Individual ? Board IndependentDirectors investor/analytics ? Press reports ? Investor Conference ? Feedback on Annual Report ? Analyst Meet-INDIA and US Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Details of Engagement The following table details the different types of engagement exercise undertaken by the company in 2015-16. Particulars Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 FY Investor Meetings 27 29 40 49 145 Conferences attended 4 5 5 3 17 Road shows conducted 3 1 2 1 7 AGM Held 1 1 Our goal is to have zero pending complaints or queries at the end of a period. The table below presents the number of complaints/ queries received and the number of queries responded to. Particulars Nature Received Replied Pending Non receipt of Annual report Complaint 334 334 0 Non Receipt of Dividend Warrant Complaint 267 267 0 Correction / Revalidation of Dividend Warrants Request 211 211 0 Non Receipt of Securities Complaint 7 7 0 SEBI/ Stock Exchange complaints Complaint 11 11 0 Others Request 0 0 0 Total 830 830 0 Identified Material Aspects Our engagement with investors help us understand issues material to them. A report map of material issues and their coverage in this report is given below. Cyber Data Information Security Intellectual Service Economic Accounting for Security Privacy & Business Continuity Property Delivery performance externalities Customer Stewardship Financial Performance Regulatory Corporate Behavior Workplace Environment Anti-corruption Anti-competitive Compliance and Governance and Culture Behavior Organization Profile Workplace Sustainability Ethical Business Conduct 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Economic Performance We are one of the leading providers of IT services globally. We develop and integrate innovative solutions that enable our clients to leverage IT to achieve their business objectives at competitive costs. We use our quality processes and global talent pool to deliver “time to development” advantages, cost savings and productivity improvements. Our IT Services business provides a range of IT and IT-enabled services which include digital strategy advisory, customer centric design, technology consulting, IT consulting, custom application design, development, re-engineering and maintenance, systems integration, package implementation, global infrastructure services, analytics services, business process services, research and development and hardware and software design to leading enterprises worldwide. Our vision is “To earn our Clients’ trust and maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class execution”. The markets we serve are undergoing rapid changes due to the pace of developments in technology, innovation in business models and changes in the sourcing strategies of clients. Pressures on cost-competitiveness and an uncertain economic environment are causing clients to develop newer business models. On the technology front, digital business has changed the nature of demand for IT services. Development of advanced technologies such as cloud based offerings, big data analytics, mobile applications and the emergence of social media are shifting the point of decision-making on IT sourcing within clients’ organization from the traditional Chief Information Officer to newer stakeholders such as Chief Marketing Officer, Chief Digital Officer, Chief Risk Officer etc. These trends on newer business models, emerging technologies and sourcing patterns provide us with significant growth opportunities. Our IT Products segment provides a range of third-party IT products, which allows us to offer comprehensive IT system integration services. These products include computing, Platforms and Storage, Networking Solutions, Enterprise Information Security, and software products, including databases and operating systems. We have a diverse range of clients, primarily in the India and Middle East markets from small and medium enterprises (“SMEs”) to large enterprises in all major industries. Business Strategy Our vision is “To earn our clients trust” and to maximize value of their businesses by providing solutions that integrate deep industry insights, leading technologies and best in class execution”. Our ambition is to achieve $15 billion in revenue with 23% Operating Margins by 2020 in our IT Services business segment. Technology has become increasingly central and core to enterprises across industry segments. In addition, consumerization of IT has led to blurring of boundaries between business needs and technology enablement. This has led to clear separation of priorities and shifting ownership between the Run side and the Change side of our clients’ businesses. Our strategy thus addresses our clients’ Run and Change agenda. The Run Strategy is about Modernizing the Core of our clients’ process and technology landscape i.e. help clients achieve significant efficiencies in their core operations through various levers in all of our core markets. The Change Strategy (i.e. Driving the Future) is focused on helping clients achieve digital transformation enabled by ‘Digital Capabilities’ brought by Wipro and its partner ecosystems. Modernize the Core – the Run Strategy Integrated Services 1 Enterprises are looking for the right partner in helping them to-end technology solutions from multiple service lines like with business outcomes. Traditionally, IT services have Applications, Infrastructure services and Analytics. In evolved across distinct set of services. In recent times, the integrating services to solve customer’s business problems, expectation from vendors is to solve client’s business the unit will consider reference architectures, selection of problem leveraging domain knowledge and synergistic tools and platform, cost effectiveness of solution and best integration of multiple services. The emergence of ‘As a practices. An example is the Managed File Transfer as a service’ consumption models is leading to a market demand Service (MFTaaS) platform which is a cloud offering for delivery of integrated services e.g. BPaaS (Business enabling large file transfers in organizations in a secure Process as a Service). manner. The MFT platform has transformed B2B (business to business) enterprise file transfers for global customers We have set up dedicated Integrated Services and including Fortune 500 customers. Solutions Group (ISSG) with a mandate of integrating endWipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Simplification 2 Enterprises are focused on cost reduction with improved We are building automation assets covering Application quality of service and reliability, coupled with variable Development and Management services. Our aim is to offer pricing arrangements. Wipro’s approach to achieve value added solutions through portfolio rationalization, enterprise objectives is to deliver simplification of client modernization, cloud migration and SaaS / PaaS offerings. technology landscape through consolidation, elimination We focus on target operating model with capabilities such and automation. as Cloud Ready AMS, Crowd Sourced AMS, and Digital Ready AMS towers. Hyper-Automation 3 Our focus is to help clients achieve their ‘Run’ goals through We developed Wipro HOLMESTM, a Cognitive AI Platform significant cost optimization in operations by deploying with a rich set of cognitive computing services based on cutting edge platforms and technologies that drive Hyperopen source software. It is focused towards solving key automation and achieve industrialization of service delivery. enterprise business use cases by injecting cognition into IT and Business processes. Wipro HOLMESTM enables Hyper automation is a focused initiative for us to drive, not development of various types of AI applications like only the delivery productivity, but also the new way of work Intelligent Virtual Agents, Anticipatory and Predictive as we see Cognitive and Robotic process automation (RPA) Systems, Cognitive Process Automation, Visual Computing drastically changing traditional IT delivery model. In FY and Human Computer Interface, Knowledge Processing 2015-2016 we have done successful Proof-of-Concept Systems. The automation platform is backed by the (PoC) in this area across large clients. In FY 2016-2017 we approach to deliver simplification in IT and Operations plan to do large scale roll out across various archetypes, landscape through consolidation, elimination and namely infrastructure and application managed services, automation. application development and testing services. Alliances 4 We have a dedicated unit to deepen and widen alliance ? Strategic Alliances: Multiple product lines with ecosystems to drive creation of new markets and solutions, significant business volume and potential. expand in key verticals/geographies and drive GTM ? Growth Alliances: Single practice alliances. outcomes. We have classified alliances as follows: ? Niche Alliances: Niche products with differentiated solutions. Localization 5 Key geographies such as Continental Europe, Canada, local delivery capability at multiple locations. We are Latin America, Africa and Asia-Pacific region are emerging investing dedicated efforts in growth markets like Latin as areas of growth for the IT services industry. We believe America, Canada and Africa. We expect locals as a that commitment to these geographies is important in percentage of the workforce to increase as we execute on growing our business. this theme and diversity is a key strategic priority as part of our globalization. We are driving a higher localization in all our key markets. In Continental Europe, we enhanced our local presence We are also taking many local initiatives in engaging with through acquisition of Cellent AG, an IT Services company the local industry, universities, community and entering into serving Germany, Austria and Switzerland. The acquisition partnerships with local entities. has stabilized and the traction is positive. We are enhancing 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 ‘Driving the Future’The ‘Change’ Strategy Digital and Advisory 1 With clients across industries driving adoption of Digital and Our acquisition in the Digital and Strategic Design space, leading with Digital transformation, expectations from Designit AS, has integrated well with our digital unit. service providers are to partner and enable organizations Harmonizing teams, cultures and capabilities has created design, strategize and partner in executing through the differentiated positioning in the market for us. Our clients are transformation process. In addition as Enterprises go beginning to see the benefit of design and engineering ‘Digital’, business stakeholders are playing a key role in working together to deliver remarkable customer influencing and driving technology decisions given the core experiences at speed and at scale. The joint-Go-To-Market role of Digital technologies in enabling businesses go (GTM) is securing synergy deal wins for us. For example, Digital. the design capability combined with our technology skills helped us win a large digital engagement with a global bank. Thus, as clients increasingly transform to become ‘Digital providers’ of products and services, we continue to invest In 2015-16, we have trained approximately 10,000 and build capabilities in Digital Strategy, Design, professionals in digital technologies. We are ramping up this Architecture and Engineering. These capabilities help capability significantly to cover another 20,000 Business and IT stakeholders achieve Digital goals professionals in 2016-17. Our focus is to build high caliber leveraging the breadth of talent at Wipro across superior teams covering high end engineers, top end coders, digital data analytics, engineering and design. architects, data scientists, digitization consultants, service design experts, specialized digital delivery practitioners, Our vision of the Digital business across advisory, design industry focused strategists and solution experts. Keeping and technology is securing mindshare amongst existing in line with this priority, we have launched the Digital and new customers. We believe Consulting capabilities in Academy to train super specialized engineering talent and Business and IT Strategy, Functional and Process are running specific enablement programs to transform Excellence are critical to the Advisory offering in Digital customer facing and delivery teams to be ‘Digital’ ready. We along with design and technology pillars. With this in view, opened Digital pods in London and New York to offer we have aligned our Consulting services with the Digital unit enhanced transformation services to global customers. to further boost the capabilities of both units. Non-Linearity 2 Given the need to address business challenges with speed Wipro HOLMESTM continues to receive strong adoption and to differentiate amongst service providers, we continue with 18 engagements across diverse industry segments. to drive use of intellectual property to drive non-linearity in During the year ended March 31, 2016, we successfully our business. completed a pilot engagement in deploying and implementing an eKYC Wipro HOLMESTM solution in a We have a significant thrust to drive non-linearity through Wall Street Bank. investments in Intellectual Property in the form of products (like Gallagher, Opus, Healthplan Services (HPS), We have filed for a number of patents on Wipro HOLMESTM Promax), platforms (like Wipro HOLMESTM), frameworks and initiated two new research programs in collaboration and solutions. with leading universities. Overall during FY 2015-2016 we filed for 514 patents and we now own over 1,085 patents We have formed a dedicated unit to drive non-linear (including applications) in nine jurisdictions. revenue growth by leveraging IP based products, platforms and solutions as well as through automation and innovative commercial constructs and delivery models. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 World class Ecosystem 3 Given the pace and scale of disruption in the technology Cellent is a leading IT consulting and software services landscape, it is imperative to have a proactive and company offering holistic innovative IT solutions and structured approach to work with the innovation ecosystem. services in the DACH region of Germany, Austria and Our ecosystem strategy is defined around building and Switzerland. nurturing four types of ecosystem plays through Start-ups, HPS offers market-leading technology platforms and a fully M&A, Consulting partnerships and academia partnerships. integrated Business Process as a Service (BPaaS) solution Start-up partnerships to Healthcare Insurance companies (Payers) in the individual, group and ancillary markets. The acquisition As part of a start-up engagement model, we have invested would be closely aligned with Wipro’s key levers for growth, in building a world class ecosystem through a US$ 100 which is, to dominate the services market through platform million corporate venture capital fund, Wipro Ventures, led or BPaaS offerings. Wipro would gain the competitive, aimed at investing in cutting edge start-ups in areas such as early mover advantage in the high growth public and private Digital, Internet of Things (IoT), Big data, Open source, exchange space for individual, group and ancillary markets. Cyber security and Artificial Intelligence (AI). In 2015-16, This would also strengthen Wipro’s Payer portfolio with Wipro Ventures has seen strong traction and scale. We have access to HPS’s Payer clientele. made 6 investments with a cumulative spend of US$ 15 million and a further committed spend of US$ 5 million in During the year ended March 31, 2016, we also announced FY16 in start-ups working in Big Data and Analytics, our intent to acquire the Viteos Group. Viteos Group was Artificial Intelligence, the Internet of Things, Mobility, Cloud founded in 2003. It has presence in US, India, Europe, Infra, Fintech and Security – technologies that are Cayman Islands and Singapore. Its service portfolio reshaping the future of enterprises. includes shadow-accounting services, middle and backoffice outsourcing services. It also licenses its platform to M&A investment managers. This acquisition will expand Wipro’s Acquisitions are a key enabler in driving capability build in capital markets portfolio in fund accounting services and industry domain, emerging technology areas, Digital and enhance Wipro’s Business Process Services capabilities. increasing market footprint in newer markets. We focus on Viteos’s proprietary platform, which offers transformation opportunities where we can further develop our domain and integration of post-trade operations can be leveraged to expertise, specific skill sets and our Global Delivery Model launch solutions across other segments of capital markets. to maximize service and product enhancements and higher These technology based solutions will bring in non-linear margins. We also use our acquisition program to increase and higher revenue realization. our presence in select geographies, increase our footprint in Consulting partnerships certain large customers and pursue select business opportunities. Key acquisitions consummated during the Clients are seeking to work with partners who can answer year ended March 31, 2016 are Designit, Cellent and HPS. strategic questions and execute on the mandate. We are exploring key partnerships in areas such as Digital that can Designit is a global strategic design firm, helping complement our strong capabilities in design, engineering businesses tap into the opportunities in the digital age by and technology. turning technology into meaningful experiences. With an international team of designers, strategists, and Academia partnerships technologists across nine offices in Denmark, Germany, The objective of academia partnerships is to drive a Spain, Norway, Sweden, Israel, Japan and Brazil, Designit research oriented/futuristic technology research and uses a strategic Design Process to design unified productcapability build aligned to academia objectives. Our focus is service experiences that bring end-user value, business to work with academia in United States, Europe, Israel and value and business transformation. This acquisition will India in the fields of computer and electrical engineering. complement the capabilities of an established design There are three models of engagement, project, program leader with Wipro’s engineering heritage and bring and joint research. We have current partnerships with compelling value to the clients. Designit’s expertise in universities and industry associations and our endeavor is experience-driven design complements Wipro Digital’s to expand these partnerships in the defined areas aligned to capabilities in technology, digital strategy, design, and our strategic areas of interest digital architecture. Together, the two organizations become a comprehensive and scalable global digital transformation partner to improve customer experience while radically digitizing business operations. 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Invest to lead in the future 4 Given that the disruption in technology is resulting in newer increase since threat attack area is increasing beyond the opportunities in the areas of Internet of Everything (“IoE”), enterprise. We have invested in building deep capability to Software Defined, Cybersecurity, Open stacks and AI, we secure our customers’ assets and IT estate from cyber continue to invest in emerging technologies. threats. IoE We have a dedicated unit in place to address the IoE Open Source We are leveraging the open source opportunity by delivering platforms, framework and ecosystem to drive thought leadership through community solutions based on use cases across industries such as and industry partnerships. We have a dedicated open Manufacturing, Retail, Utilities and Healthcare segments source council set up to drive collaboration and seamless (e.g., Heavy Equipment Asset Tracking). execution of open source services (e.g., Open Datacenter, Open Apps and Open Network) and solutions across Software Defined We have significantly invested in service lines. building a center of excellence to showcase our capabilities in SDX (software defined everything). There is a significant To enable effective implementation of the Run and Change focus to enhance skill sets across Software Defined strategies, we are making focused investments in brand Storage, Software Defined Network, Software Defined building, creating the right organization structure, Datacenter and Cloud. processes, technology, people and driving significant sales transformation through a number of focused programs. Cybersecurity Given the rise of connected devices and transition to cloud, the impact of threats will continue to Assessment of Financial and Economic risks Our annual financial report and the Form 20-F filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange commission for the reporting year lists a number of external factors or risks that may impact our business. These externalities are assessed regularly and inform business strategy. We present here a summary of the key external risks identified and our approach towards them. The engagement is informed by three primary factors (i) the different timescales in which they play out, (ii) the relative influence business has and (iii) meeting the concurrent and diverse needs of its various stakeholders. Currency fluctuations: A significant portion of our revenues are in foreign currencies, from our wide international customer base ; these currencies includeU.S. Dollar, the United Kingdom Pound Sterling, the Euro, the Canadian Dollar and the Australian Dollar while a large portion of our costs are in Indian Rupees. The exchange rate between the Rupee and foreign currencies has fluctuated significantly in recent years and may continue to fluctuate in the future. As our financial statements are presented in Rupees, such fluctuations could have a material impact on our reported results.We also undertake hedging strategies to mitigate exposure of exchange rate risk relating to foreign currency borrowing, including entering into crosscurrency interest rate swaps. Restrictive mobility legislations: Some countries and organizations have expressed concerns about a perceived connection between offshore outsourcing andthe loss of jobs domestically. With high domestic unemployment levels in many countries and increasing political and media attentionon the outsourcing of services internationally by domestic corporations, there have been concerted efforts in many countries to enactnew legislations to restrict offshore outsourcing or impose restrictions on companies that outsource. Global economic crisis: We derive approximately 51% of our IT Services revenue from the Americas (including the United States) and 28% of our IT Services revenue from Europe. If the economy in the Americas or Europe continues to be volatile or conditions in the global financial market deteriorate, pricing for our services may become less attractive and our clients located in these geographies may reduce or postpone their technology spending significantly. Reduction in spending on IT services may lower the demand for our services and negatively affect our revenues and profitability.Our clients are concentrated in certain key industries. Any significant decrease in the growth of any one of these industries, or widespread changes in any such industry, may reduce or alter the demand for our services and adversely affect our revenue and profitability. For instance, the drop in global crude oil price has significantly impacted the companies operating in the energy industry, impacting revenue and profitability of our Energy, Natural Resources and Utilities industry vertical. Disruptions in telecommunications: The offshore development center model necessitates maintaining a resilient and active voice and data communication infrastructure between our offices in India, our clients’ offices, and our software development and support facilities overseas. Redundancy and business continuity measures are critical in the event of a telecom disruption. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Taxation Risks: Our profits for the period earned from providing services at client premises outside India are subject to tax in the countries where we perform the work. Most of our taxes paid in countries other than India can be applied as a credit against our Indian tax liability to the extent that the same income is subject to taxation in India. Currently, we benefit from certain tax incentives under Indian tax laws. These tax incentives include a tax holiday from payment of Indian corporate income taxes for our businesses operating from specially designated Special Economic Zones (“SEZs”). Any changeto these incentives and other exemptions we receive due to government policies can impact our financial performance. Wage Pressure: Our wage costs in India have historically been significantly lower than wage costs in the U.S. and Europe for comparably skilled professionals, and this has been one of our competitive advantages. However, wage increases in India may prevent us from sustaining this competitive advantage and may negatively affect our profit margins. We may need to increase the levels of our employee compensation more rapidly than in the past to retain talent. Unless we are able to continue to increase the efficiency and productivity of our employees over the long term, wage increases may reduce our profit margins. Furtheremerging low cost locations, like Eastern Europe, China or Southeast Asia could also negatively affect our profits. IP Rights: Our intellectual property rights are important to our business. We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and design laws, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our intellectual property. We require employees, independent contractors and, whenever possible, vendors to enter into confidentiality agreements upon the commencement of their relationships with us. These confidentiality agreements generally provide that any confidential or proprietary information being developed by us or on our behalf be kept confidential. These agreements also provide that any confidential or proprietary information disclosed to third parties in the course of our business be kept confidential by such third parties. However, our clients usually own the intellectual property in the software we develop for them. Financial Performance Wipro's economic value add and distribution among its constituents is broadly consistent in FY 13-14 when compared with FY 12-13. 2012-13 2013-14 2014-15 2015-16 Particulars Rs. in Mn. % Rs. in Mn. % Rs. in Mn. % Rs. in Mn. % Revenue 374,256 100 434,269 100 469,545 100 512,440 100 Operating cost 127,283 34.2 141,706 32.6 152,921 32.6 173,752 33.9 Employee Wages and benefits 179,627 48.3 206,568 47.6 224,838 47.9 245,534 47.9 Payments to government India 16,576 4.5 21,767 5.0 25,087 5.3 23,306 4.5 Others 5,314 1.4 2,293 0.5 5,913 1.3 5,536 1.1 Payments to providers of Capital Interest 863 0.2 868 0.2 768 0.2 1,410 0.3 Dividend 14,188 3.8 19,920 4.6 29,455 6.3 14,734 2.9 Economic Value retained 30,405 8.2 41,147 9.5 30,563 6.5 48,168 9.4 The India IT sector has been a leading generator of direct and indirect employment as illustrated in the India IT sector overview. Also it has been a generator of foreign exchange for the country. In light of such contributions to the economy, fiscal incentives have been provided by the Government to the sector. Wipro has benefitted from such incentives extended to the IT sector as illustrated in the table below. We have not received any other direct or indirect financial assistance beyond the scope of the state policy. Particulars 2012 13 2013 14 2014 15 2015 – 16 Benefit from Income tax exemption (in INR. Mn) 11,077 13,987 14,471 13,171 Percentage of tax benefit to Profit Before Tax (PBT) 14% 14% 13% 11% PBT (in INR. Mn) 78,688 101,143 112,241 114,719 000 Ecological Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ethical Business Conduct Investors expect ethical conduct from businesses. They are concerned about loss of management time and resources dealing with such issues, legal liability and damage to reputation due to unethical practices like bribery, corruption, anti-competition and anti-trust. Even though large businesses have formal systems to ensure compliance and avoid unethical businesses, they are exposed to such risks from their supply chains. Corruption and bribery are significant risks to businesses, and they are more pervasive in the supply chain. This makes business functions dealing with suppliers and business partners vulnerable to such risks. Policy Our corporation wide Code of Business Conduct (COBC) provides extension of the Company and their conduct and behavior while the broad direction for all business transactions. The COBC is carrying out business dealings with Wipro or on behalf of Wipro can Wipro’s central and comprehensive compliance policy document have an impact on Wipro and its reputation. that provides the framework and a common language for ethical Other than COBC, we also have other policies like the abridged conduct for all employees as well as all our stakeholders. The COBC Policy on Related Party Transactions, Wipro Supplier Code of applies to all employees and members of the Board of Directors of Conduct, Code of Independent Directors and Code of Ethics for the Company as also to all individuals who serve the Company on Principal Executive Officer and Senior Financial Officers, which contract, subcontract, retainer, consultant or any other such basis. contextualize the communication for relevant stakeholders. Suppliers, service providers, external professionals, agents, channel partners (dealers, distributors and others) serve as an Approach From an anti-bribery compliance perspective, Wipro has the following processes internally to ensure an ethical culture across our businesses. A payment due diligence process where payments made by and on behalf of Wipro are reviewed to ensure adherence to anticorruption and anti-bribery A Standard Operating Procedure to enable employees understand and comply with the requirements for specific purposes like business courtesies, gifts, entertaining, charitable contribution, sponsorship, etc. Employees are advised to avoid transactions which might give the appearance of offering or accepting an improper payment, bribe or kickback. Due diligence mechanisms, internal controls and assessments on its third parties such as channel partners, dealers, collection agents, lead finders/hunters etcetera which includes a specific undertaking from identified vendors, service providers, consultants to affirm compliance to our Code of Business Conduct and more specifically to our anti-bribery policies An Ombudsprocess for receiving and redressing employees’ complaints, through which employees are encouraged to report any fraudulent financial or other information to the stakeholders, any conduct that results in violation of the Company’s COBC(on an anonymous basis, if employees so desire). For more information, refer to Organization Profile As part of COBC training, Wipro conducts entry-level training to all its employees across levels worldwide on corporate policies pertaining to Business Relationship, Gifts and Entertainment, Business Courtesies and Conflict of Interest. Compliance with Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, UK Bribery Act, the Indian Prevention of Corruption Act, are included as part of leadership training programs and of focused training programs. In addition to annual test and certification of Code of Business Conduct, a certification process is enabled for employees travelling to High Risk Countries and employees working in certain functions. Also, communication of COBC and their significance to Wipro are being done through emails, posters etc. Compliance Wipro has a continuing good track of ethical conduct and we comply with relevant legislations. There has been no significant instances related to bribery, corruption, anti-competitive or anti-trust practices in the reporting period across our business divisions. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ecological Sustainability 000 Natural Capital Valuation Natural capital can be defined as the world’s stocks of natural resources which make human life possible. Businesses rely on this natural capital to produce goods and deliver services. They depend on natural non-renewable resources (for example, fossil fuels and minerals) as well as natural renewable ecosystem goods and services (for example, freshwater and pollination). Businesses also rely on natural capital for its ability to absorb by-products of production such as pollution and water. Business extraction and production activities can damage natural capital with long term economic and social consequences. These economic and social consequences manifest themselves as at our global operational footprint energy related emissions, water physical, regulatory and reputational risks for companies. One of the consumption, air/water pollution, waste generation and, land use most useful ways for companies to account for these risks is to change, business travel, employee commute – as well as the quantify and value the environmental impacts generated across embedded natural capital in all goods and services that we procure their value chains in monetary terms. from our supply chain. The natural capital embedded in goods and services is primarily based on valuation methodology that is based Traditional ‘single parameter’ environmental metrics such as cubic on Trucost's econometric Input-Output model which incorporates meters of water or hectares of land provide an indication of the scale spending across different sub-categories of procurement. of dependency on ecosystem goods and services or environmental Monetization of impacts is based on emerging models and a impacts. However, they often fail to identify optimization selection of global and local factors hence certain assumptions and opportunities for business. Natural capital valuation, on the other accounting rules are inherent to the exercise. hand, provides a deeper insight because it also factors critical environmental parameters such as regional water scarcity and the In the 2015-16 financial year, the natural capital valuation of the ecosystem services provided by land. environmental impacts relating to Wipro’s operations and supply chain was equal to INR 11460 million (2.24% of Wipro’s revenue in There are several global and country led projects underway which the same period). This is in line with the global average for the ICT aim to develop environmental accounts and integrate them with sector. The largest contributions came from GHG emissions (50%), traditional national accounts (GDP) including India. UNPRI, in 2010, air pollution (19%) and water consumption (19.5%). The operational estimated the environmental costs due to activities of top 3000 value chain stage accounted for 36% of Wipro’s total environmental companies at US$ 6 Trillion per year. The Natural Capital Coalition cost. From a geography perspective, as expected, India accounts for (NCC), for example, is developing a Natural Capital Protocol to 70% of the overall environmental cost. The above figures are provide a standardized approach to natural capital accounting and “inclusive of our environmental initiatives in emissions reduction and valuation for businesses. water recycling, i.e. those initiatives which have a net positive impact Wipro, in association with Trucost, completed its first natural capital valuation. valuation exercise for the financial year 2013-14. The valuation looks For Wipro, this study provides useful indicators to understand impacts and assess the value of our environmental programs. For external stakeholders like customers and analysts, these data points provide a completely transparent full life-cycle understanding of our environmental footprint. Consolidated Natural Capital Valuation Natural Capital Valuation by Value Chain Stage Enviromental indicator 2015 16 2014 15 Enviromental indicator 2015 16 2014 15 GHGs 5.761 50% 5.108 51% Operational 3.815 33% 3.580 36% 2.205 19% 2.049 20% Supply chain purchased Sir pollution 1.428 12% 792 8% goods and services water consumption 2.245 20% 1.775 18% Supply chain Fuel and energy related activities 3.320 29% 3.196 32% Water pollution 822 7% 772 8% Supply chain Business travel 1.595 14% 1.249 12% Land use 240 2% 200 2% Supply chain Employee 1.319 12% 1.258 12% Waste 203 2% 170 2% commuting TOTAL 11.476 100% 10.075 100% TOTAL 11.476 100% 10.075 100% 000 Supply Chain Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Supply Chain 3.5 Sustainability The impacts or externalities of businesses are frequently influenced by their supply chain processes. Managing the environmental and social impacts of supply chain are interlinked to economic outputs over the long term – they can help businesses avoid disruptions, meet evolving customer and business partner requirements, foster innovation and protect the company’s reputation and brand value. It can also help further the business imperatives of efficiency, cost effectiveness and resilience in the supply chain. However, the fundamental and compelling reason for sustainability engagement in our value chain stems from our belief that it is the right thing to do in the larger interests of both, the suppliers as well as of society. The context, scale and complexity of modern supply chains pose challenges for business to identify, influence and control these impacts. Our supply chain management program is influenced by our understanding of the multiple drivers as well as the challenges associated with it. Understanding the Stakeholder Our Supply Chain The supplier ecosystem of Wipro can be broadly categorized into The second component of our supply chain is ‘product or services two broad heads. One category can be called as our ‘primary supply chain’ or ‘secondary supply chain’ which comprises of supply chain’ which comprises of our contract employees involved suppliers who provide products, business support services and in core delivery of IT Services and Solutions. Such employees utility management services for our operations. The list of categories typically have gone through a minimum graduate degree of procurement which form the ‘secondary supply chain’ is given qualification and are experienced in specialized technology and below. consulting skills aided by an intensive in-house capability building program. We considered them as part of our supply chain as they not engaged directly employed by Wipro. Our workforce currently includes 20,930 contract employees. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Supply Chain Sustainability 000 Supplier Category Spend by Contribution Technical Contracting & Recruitment Services (Covered in primary supply chain) 1% Non-Technical Contracting & Other HR Services 12% Insurance, finance & legal 4% Marketing 2% IT Hardware 14% IT software & services 22% Telecom 9% Direct materials 1% Transport & logistics 8% Facilities* 18% New infrastructure & civil construction 9% Operations and facility management require a diverse set of support services ranging from hospitality, housekeeping, physical security, landscaping, transport, catering, to equipment maintenance among others and for these services we largely rely on outsourced facility management service providers. Recently, we have transitioned to a model where for large locations, the entire responsibility for facility services is outsourced to a single property management organization (Integrated Facility Management Services IFMS). A significant number of contract manpower is employed as part of these facilities. Wipro actively encourages diversity in the supply chain and sourcing from the local economy. At an aggregate level, nearly 75% of our suppliers are based in India; by value 66% of the procurement for the year was from India based suppliers. For 2015-16, supplier spend from women and minority owned enterprises contributed to 5.4% of total central procurement spend for India operations. Diversity classification is based on supplier self-disclosure and is not verified. Supplier Segmentation Wipro has a formal process to identify suppliers who are strategic to its sustained business performance. The suppliers are classified into two categories: Strategic suppliers and Tactical suppliers. The Global Procurement Group finalizes the supplier categorization based on annual performance evaluation. Strategic Suppliers are suppliers which are essential for the success of strategic business outcomes for Wipro Sustainability or other serious issues with such suppliers may seriously dent Wipro’s ability to meet its’ objectives Tactical Suppliers account for only a small part of the overall spend of Wipro. 000 Supply Chain Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Understanding Material Aspects Supply Chain Risk Assessment In determining material issues of a stakeholder, a structured risk assessment exercise is very useful. Wipro's approach to identifying sustainability risks in the supply chain includes cross functional analysis of the risks pertaining to different organizational functions. The Enterprise Risk Management function owns the supplier economic risk assessment process and their focus is on ensuring continuous and non-interrupted supply of services/goods. Vendor Risk Assessment comprises a formal evaluation of a vendor company’s financial health which is determined by many factors including operational efficiency, susceptibility to corruption etc. The Group Sustainability Function partners with Central Procurement Organization, Facilities Management Group and other relevant stakeholders in identifying environmental and social risks in Wipro's supply chain through independent studies conducted periodically. Wipro commissioned Fronesys and Trucost in 2012 to conduct a preliminary risk assessment study of environmental and social risks in its supply chain. These studies provided valuable insights for the initial risk mapping exercise and prioritizing areas of supplier engagement. Trucost quantifies the natural capital impacts of Wipro’s operations and its supply chain using primary activity data and accepted valuation methodologies. Fronesys undertook hot social spot assessments for Wipro and identified high risk suppliers for engagement in terms of social risk for Wipro. The Ombuds process is also available for suppliers through a 24X7 hotline and on the internet. The concerns raised through the Ombuds process are another source of identification of risks in the supply chain. Given below is the condensed outcome of risk assessments in our supply chain. Impacts identified in the supply chain Supplier categories for whom the impacts are significant Economic Probability of Default ? All supplier categorie ? Bankruptcy ? Corruption risks ? High Waste Footprint Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation ? Petroleum and Coal Products ? Manufacturing and Telecommunications ? Environmental High Waste Footprint Utilities ? Telecommunications ? Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation ? Telecommunications ? High Waste Footprint Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing ? Administrative and Support Services ? Human Rights and Labor practices (Forms ? Office Services (Security, casual labor, food suppliers) ? Social of bonded labor, Statutory Benefits Denial, Facility Services ? Working Hours, Discrimination, Work Place Travel ? Harassment, Child Labor) Consumables ? Corruption ? Energy ? Bases on Trucost’s ‘Natural Capital Valuation’ which studied Stakeholder Feedback Feedback from our various stakeholders indicated the following issues as relevant to our supply chain. Customers Employees Investors Business Society & Community Global customers ? Demand for ? Investors requesting ? Competency gaps ? Externalities due to ? requesting information comfortable and safe information on our Financial prudence ? operations and assessing our working environment supply chain and Employment ? supply chain medium and long Local sourcing ? Business impact due ? term issues Diversity ? to operations impact Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Supply Chain Sustainability 000 Identified Material Aspects The understanding of risks in supply chain and also our stakeholders concerns informed the outcomes of our materiality determination exercise. Based on the identified risks, we have identified the following aspects as material from a sustainability perspective. GRI Aspects / Topics Section Supplier environmental assessment Supplier assessment for labor practices Supplier Supplier human rights assessment Engagement Supplier assessment for impacts on society (Corruption, Anti-competition) Program Procurement Practices (We refer to our high proportion of contract staff both, people involved in core delivery as well as skilled or unskilled support staff who work in campus operations as ‘people supply chain’. In this section, we will primarily address the secondary supply chain as the ‘people supply chain’ aspect has been covered in detail in ‘Workplace Sustainability’ section of our report. Pg. no.) Strategic Approach Based on our understanding of risks in our supply chain, our supply-chain approach is based on the principles of ethics and integrity, ecological sustainability and workplace responsibility. Ethica Ecolo Respo l gical n sible Wipro expects its suppliers We expect suppliers to Wipro expects its suppliers to to adhere to similar supply products and services adhere to principles of human standards of ethics and that exceed environmental rights, employee welfare, integrity as itself standards and to establish a health and safety, minimum program of ecological wages and maximum working sustainability in their own hours. We encourage sourcing operations from the local economy and supplier diversity The Procurement Organization The responsibility of managing procurement related activities of Wipro rests with the Global Procurement Group. The goal of the Procurement Group is to provide high quality products and services on a timely basis, consistent with organizational objectives and policies and at the same time by adhering to the highest ethical standards. The responsibility is divided among multiple buyer groups who handle different procurement categories. The Procurement Group works along with Enterprise Risk Management, Internal Audit and Legal teams to ensure compliance and to proactively address risks in the supply chain. 000 Supply Chain Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Supplier Engagement Program At Wipro, we believe that a supply chain program should take into account the socio-economic realities in the geographies where we operate. The supply chain sustainability charter should go beyond legal compliance and take into consideration emergent debates and issues. Fundamentally, our supply chain program is driven more by responsible engagement and commitment as informed by our values, rather than a compliance mindset. Policy and Guiding Principles Our Code of Business Conduct which provides the ethical guidelines and expectations for conducting business on behalf of Wipro also directs Wipro’s relationship with its suppliers and is applicable to all suppliers, agents, service providers, channel partners, dealers, distributors and vendors (“Suppliers”).In addition to the COBC, the Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) of Wipro further strengthens and augments the COBC with respect to environmental and social aspects of business practices, expected of our supply chain. The SCOC covers key risks in the supply chain like forced or compulsory labor, prohibition on child labor, equal employment opportunity and non-discrimination/ no harassment, minimum wages, environment, health and safety, and compliance with anti-bribery laws. The document also gives an overview of the process followed by Wipro so that it provides a ready reference template for its suppliers. The SCOC is communicated to all suppliers and it is mandatory for suppliers to accept and sign it. Wipro also has a procurement policy which acts as an internal decision making guide related to procurement. This policy details the procurement principles that the Global Procurement Group is expected to adhere to as well as other aspects of procurement like supplier selection, supplier diversity etcetera. Our supply chain governance program is informed by four guiding principles Understanding of the socio-economic context: We are mindful of Regulatory Compliance: Given the spread of supply chain across the fact that while one may have ambitious policies, commitments different geographies as well as sectors, the compliance landscape and codes of conduct in place, it has to take into account the complex can be quite complex. The impact of supply chain on different socio-economic realities in which it has to be operationalized. For stakeholders is dependent on the nature of business and operational example, in developing economies, supplier staff may not be aware context. As a result, the compliance requirements of one supplier of the nuances of human and labor rights. In certain cases, the category can vary from another. However, it is often found practice may be due to livelihood issues – for example, excessive compliance is not reflective of the ground reality. At Wipro, we try to working hours in some cases may be the norm to secure additional uphold all the regulations and wherever there is a conflict, our best income. Children in family owned or sole proprietorship could efforts are to minimize any dissonance sometimes be employed (or “helping”) in the business. Integrating best practices in supply chain engagement: Enforcement of unilateral actions in such cases, does not change Managing supply chain externalities is of key interest to business the practice on the ground but only diverts attention from the problem due to the deepening of complexities in the supply chain and the at hand. resultant risks. Customers and investors are looking at compliance Ability to monitor, influence and control: The ‘secondary supply levels and ethics of organizations as a key differentiator in their chain’ in many categories of procurement extends across multiple decision process. Industry forums like Electronic Industry branches/levels/tiers. Due to the factors mentioned in the first Citizenship Coalition, Sedex, Ecovadis etcetera are working towards principle, it would be naïve of us to claim compliance across all the indirectly driving continuous change in ethical and responsible tiers. In many cases, our visibility is limited to the first one or two tiers. business practices in global supply chains. Industry ratings such as For supply chain entities not critical or strategic to us – where Dow Jones Sustainability Index and CDP are increasingly giving suppliers are not a core part of our business or where spend does importance to the supply chain performance of organizations. There not contribute to either a reasonable proportion of the suppliers’ are many emerging standards and frameworks dedicated to this revenue or the available market supply. Our ability to influence cause. We intend to adopt and integrate best practices from all of supplier practices is that much more limited. Industry bodies and these sources to drive sustainability in our supply chain. large government procurement programs have a larger role in influencing change. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Supply Chain Sustainability 000 Supplier Engagement Approach Wipro has a multi-pronged approach towards supplier engagement which is represented below. Inform Communicate intent and requirements to our suppliers Understand Engage Collaborate Understanding the Engage with the suppliers to Educate our suppliers context and current improve their capabilities in on environmental, compliance of our managing their sustainability social and governance suppliers and performance best practices to be developing policies incorporated in their and processes business Assess Audits and assessments of suppliers A significant feature of our engagement is how we try and align our community or CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) programs with supplier engagement wherever it is possible. This can address some of the fundamental issues at hand – for example our bridge program in education for children of migrant laborers is an emerging area of engagement for our new infrastructure projects in in Bengaluru. Some specific requirements like eliminating “conflict minerals” in ICT equipment is difficult to monitor given the complexities in the supply chain. In this context, our program is largely about seeking disclosures from some of our key suppliers. Programs and Processes Our supplier engagement program integrates a process of continuous evaluation, capacity building and risk management. We expect these steps to encourage responsible behavior from our partners. Environment and social aspects are important factors in our supplier engagement and Wipro supplier code of conduct (SCOC) has to be mandatorily singed by all suppliers at the time of onboarding. During 2015-16 both CPO leadership and Chief Risk Officer took up A dedicated vendor helpdesk handles supplier queries on payment the Initiative of meeting suppliers across three locations including issues, policy clarifications and provides the initial contact for Chennai, Pune and Hyderabad. The team has covered a significant grievance redressal. Helpdesk received a total of 24300 tickets with number of suppliers exclusively in the FMG Category. This initiative respect to vendor queries from January 2015 till April 2016, which has been taken up with primary objective of meeting all the supplier reflects the reach and effectiveness of our initiative. The feedback to ensure they follow the risk and compliance, process, statutory from our vendors received through this initiative helped us improve guidelines etc. in alignment with the SCOC. our processes and initiate new steps like automation of sharing payment advices, periodical validation of vendor credentials in our We have identified material issues across main procurement database as well as exchange of ideas between critical vendors and categories – through desk based study as well as a few internal and our organization on possible process improvements to ensure external audits with a focus on human rights, labor practices and smooth interactions. regulatory compliance. 000 Supply Chain Sustainability Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Ombudsprocess Our organization wide multi-lingual Ombuds process is available 24x7 (phone and internet enabled) for our Suppliers and Contractors. Wipro’s Ombudsprocess allows and encourages any affected stakeholder including suppliers and contractors to report breaches of the COBCE and any other matter of integrity to the concerned Ombudsman. While a good proportion of Ombudsprocess cases are anonymous, based on selfdisclosure, we know that there were 33 complaints reported by suppliers during the year. There was an instance of serious supplier breach of our code of conduct as a result of which four vendors were blacklisted from our end. The Path Ahead Our Supply Chain Engagement is a journey where sustainability increasingly becomes central. Our focus for the next couple of years will be the following: Supply Chain Audits/Assessments covering compliance and sustainability risk aspects ? To conduct onetime audit for 300 identified suppliers and ongoing regular audit program. Supplier Diversity Program for FMG category ? To engage diverse suppliers for sourcing specific subcategories of products/services. Green Procurement program for ICT Hardware and Electronic End of Life ? To engage on key aspects with ~10 strategic suppliers based on our Green Procurement Guidelines. ? To make necessary changes in the procurement systems and process E-Waste management ? All empaneled vendors to be independently verified in Q3 as per modified Wipro requirements. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Supply Chain Sustainability 000 000 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for 3.6 Social Change At Wipro, we think it is critical for business to engage with the multiple social and ecological challenges that face us. Such engagement must be deep, meaningful and formed on the bedrock of long term commitment; for that is the only way by which real change can happen on the ground. This is also reflective of the fact that such an approach serves both, enlightened business interest and social good. Understanding the Stakeholder In the social space, our stakeholders are multiple and can be differentiated on the basis of domains and the overarching objectives of engagement. For example, in ‘Education’, some of the work that we do has direct impact on students from disadvantaged communities while our other programs are targeted at partners and teachers in the education ecosystem. Our primary stakeholders are as follows: ? Communities An important stakeholder for us is ? NGO & Community Organizations Non-governmental disadvantaged sections of communities, living in the proximity to organizations and civil society networks are important our operations. Our operations and facilities are situated in both implementation partners for our different community initiatives. urban and rural areas. Our domains of engagement with the We engage with them from at different stages of the Planningcommunity are in the fields of Education, Primary Health Care, Implementation-Review cycle. Disability and Disaster Rehabilitation. Within these domains, we ? Employees Employees play a significant role in our community choose to focus on those areas that have direct impact on the initiatives by way of monetary contribution and voluntary community. The geographies of community engagement span participation. India, the U.S.A, South Africa, Latin America, Australia and select countries of Europe and South – Asia. Our social transformation initiatives are now nearly fifteen years old. We decided to focus on Education and Communities when we started then. How did we choose these domains over others? Education is probably the most important catalyst of social development as it can bring about change that is truly sustainable and durable over the long term; our focus on our communities stems from the fundamental responsibility and tenet of corporate citizenship that every business should engage deeply with its proximate communities. Over the years, partnering with our stakeholders has given insights into their concerns and requirements. This has also helped us to engage in critical social issues with sensitivity, rigor and responsibility. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for Social Change 000 Understanding Stakeholder Priorities Rural Urban communities communities Healthcare, livelihood, Mobility, waste, primary education, pollution,education, water and sanitation, health environment Future Engagement generations partners Environmental Capacity building, sustainability education institution development Policy and Strategy Our approach to social responsibility and sustainability rests on three important pillars. ? The Strategic: We choose domains and issues to engage with that are force multipliers for social change and sustainable development. Social responsibility is as much about being a sustainable organization as it is about external initiatives. Therefore, some of our areas of engagement lie at the convergence of business goals and social purpose. ? The Systemic: Within the chosen domains, we choose to engage on systemic issues that require meaningful and challenging work. Given the nature of social change, this implies commitment over the long term, typically for several decades because real, genuine change takes long to happen ? The Deliberative: Our emphasis on depth and on long term commitment implies a deliberative approach that precludes spreading ourselves thin or engaging in cheque book philanthropy’. By implication, this also means that we are wary of expanding and growing our social programs as ends in themselves. Domains of Engagement Wipro’s social initiatives center on the following dimensions. Community Care Education Ecology Engaging with the community on Engaging in deep and meaningful Addressing serious challenges in issues of primary concern to them systemic work in the area of school energy, water, solid waste and and college education biodiversity *Refer to section on ‘Urban Resilience’ and Advocacy and Public Policy for more information on our engagements in Ecology domain. 000 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Social Programs Expenditure The Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Expenditure CSR spend as disclosed in Director’s Report of Annual Report 2015-16 is Rs. 1598 Mn. Of this, Rs. 1108.15 Mn. is spent on programs related to the above mentioned domains. Refer to 94 95 of ourAnnual Report FY 2015-16 for more information on CSR spend. Governance The review of our social programs is done at multiple levels. Every Our work with organizations is usually in the nature of programmatic three to four years, the program strategy is reviewed with the Chief support. They typically span a period of three years and may be Sustainability Officer (CSO), and revised as needed. Every year, an extended further, if needed. We work closely with our partners and annual review and goal setting exercise is done with the CSO and review the progress and participate in important decisions along with presented to the Chairman and Group Executive Council (GEC). them during the lifecycle of the project. However, our fundamental Every quarter, the progress is reviewed by the Chairman as well as philosophy is to leave it to our partners to design and run their the Board Committee on CSR. programs as they deem appropriate since they know best. Community Care Wipro has a presence in more than 57 countries around the world; of our workforce of more than 145,000 employees, 11% of which comprise nationalities other than Indian. We think that it is crucial to engage with proximate communities wherever we have significant presence. In line with this, we will continue to expand and strengthen our community programs in all the geographies where we have significant presence. This is a reaffirmation of our belief that at its core, social responsibility and sustainability must transcend boundaries whether organizational or national. It is important to point out here, especially in the context of rural communities, that seeing the larger integrated picture is important when executing programs in individual domains. Issues of healthcare, education, access to energy, water and sanitation and livelihoods are often closely interlinked. If executed well, the outcomes in individual domains can impact the larger canvas of community development. For example, the work that we do for long term rehabilitation after natural disasters helps strengthen the resilience of the affected communities in different ways e.g. intervention in livelihoods, access to education. Community Engagement through Wipro Cares Wipro’s community care initiatives are channeled through Wipro Cares, our not-for-profit trust, which engages with our proximate communities on the domains of primary health care, education for the underprivileged, education for children with disability, environment and disaster rehabilitation. The Wipro Cares funding model comprises employee contributions which are matched by Wipro. The Wipro Cares model is a great example of where employees play a key role both in terms of volunteering and monetary contribution. Nearly one in three employees or more than 50,000 Wipro employees are contributors to Wipro Cares, making this possibly the largest such initiative in India and one of the largest in the world. During 2015-16, nearly8000 employees from 25 chapters collectively spent more than 14400 hours in voluntary engagement on a wide range of social initiatives. Involved and engaged employees add great value to our programs. Volunteering also enhances their own sense of larger purpose and alignment with the company’s values. Inputs and Program Outcomes Wipro Cares partners with non-profit organizations for implementation of projects. Our inputs to organizations include: financial support to focus on their regular engagement through meetings, field visits, key objectives planning and review at important stages The below section lays out some of the key outputs and outcomes this year at a domain level. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for Social Change 000 The below section lays out some of the key outputs and outcomes this year at a domain level. Access to primary health care is a key determinant of an individual’s future trajectory in life, including the ability to engage in productive livelihoods and responsible citizenship. Wipro Cares works with partners who oversee the delivery of good quality primary health care services to underserved communities across Nagaland and Maharashtra. The North-East is relatively underserved in terms of development and therefore, it was realized as imperative to start engaging in the region. Our work in Nagaland is in remote, inaccessible villages where availability of primary health care services has been weak or non-existent till now. Similarly, the work that we support in Maharashtra is in the remote tribal district of Gadchiroli. In both instances, the primary goals are to build the capacity of the local community in managing their health needs, to augment government infrastructure and to train health workers to address the unique needs of the communities. Output Outcome ? Established new partnership in Nagaland to ? Rural communities having increased and provide primary health care services and improved awarenessregarding personal Primary health care continued support to existing partner in hygiene, diet, health issues and immunization Maharashtra. ? An empowered population with increased ? Around thirty thousand people across 59 capacity to handle own primary health care villages with access to affordable primary needs and demanding for their health rights health care services Wipro Cares complements Wipro’s other initiatives in education by supporting in a more direct way, access to educational opportunities for underprivileged children from marginalized communities. Our work focuses not only on getting children enrolled in schools but also enabling retention and better learning outcomes through remedial education. Through our partnerships, we also aim to provide counselling services for children and parents, support nutrition and healthcare needs of the children, develop vocational skills among adolescents, and facilitate holistic development of all children. Output Outcome ? Established partnership in new geographies ? Demand for education instilled in families of first through five new partnerships and continued generation learners from communities like support to existing partners, thereby reaching migrant labour, urban slum children, out to seven states across the country through orphan/institutionalized children sixteen projects Education for ? More than 65000 children belonging to underprivileged underprivileged communities in cities across children India with access to formal or non-formal education Started in 2014, an important initiative in Wipro Cares was on early childhood care and education for children with disability. This has scaled in size and scope significantly. Education for such disadvantaged sections is never about just schooling. It is linked to a whole host of other enabling factors like availability of nutrition, community support, specially trained teachers, assistive devices, access to healthcare etc. Our approach tries to integrate these dimensions to the extent possible. Our work in this space covers multiple categories of disability and focuses on early intervention and inclusive education. Output Outcome ? Established partnership in new geographies ? Early mainstreaming promoted through early through one new partnership in the National intervention and inclusive education Capital region and continued support to existing ? Increased awareness of disability among partners, thereby reaching out to six states underprivileged communities through twelve projects Children with ? Enhanced ability of families to manage the ? Educational and rehabilitative needs of 2500 needs of children with disability disability underprivileged children with disabilities from socio-economically underprivileged backgrounds 000 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Effective management of urban solid waste continues to be a high priority challenge for our cities. While the use of right technology, good governance and the active participation of civil society are important determinants of success, the work of the informal sector is often unrecognized. In this regard, Wipro Cares continues to strengthen a project that we had initiated in 2014-15 which focuses on providing social, nutritional and health security to workers in the informal sector in Bangalore’s waste management space. In addition, the program also provides a comprehensive skills upgradation program for such workers. Output Outcome ? Continuation of project and partnership ? Skill up-gradation of informal waste pickers to working towards welfare of waste pickers engage in organic waste management, organic ? 2000 waste pickers benefitted with access to terrace gardening etc. social and health security measures Environment ? 95% of collected solid waste, including ewaste, processed or disposed safely In the event of natural disasters, the disadvantaged communities get affected the most as the already fragile basis of their livelihoods gets further disrupted. Starting with the Gujarat earthquake in 2001, Wipro Cares has responded to several natural calamities wherein Wipro’s employees have also risen to the occasion and played a sterling role. By design, we focus on the more difficult challenge of long term rehabilitation of the affected communities. However, there are exceptions like the December floods in Chennai when we have also supported immediate relief measures. Output Outcome ? Established one new to work towards relief of ? Promotion of organic agriculture and allied flood victims in Tamil Nadu and continued activities and strengthened local livelihoods support of partner organization in Uttarkashi. ? Economic rehabilitation of communities in 22 ? Relief to flood-affected victims in Tamil Nadu villages affected by 2013 Uttarkashi floods floods of 2015 Disaster ? Farmers’ cooperative set up in Uttarkashi to rehabilitation facilitate market linkages Community Initiatives in South Africa – Wipro Siyapha In line with Wipro’s principle of ‘good citizenship’, Wipro in South Africa has instituted a set of policies, practices and initiatives which contribute towards the social goals of South Africa. These initiatives are also in line with the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (BBBEE) Act of South Africa, which aims to distribute wealth across as broad a spectrum of previously disadvantaged members of South African society as possible. The Act is centered on 5 elements ownership, management control, skills development, enterprise and supplier development, and socio-economic development. Companies are expected to have a social strategy that spans all these areas. The BBBEE Act aims to enhance the economic participation and Wipro Siyapha brings together multiple initiatives under the pillars of representation of previously disadvantaged South African skill development, enterprise development and socio-economic communities in the economy. Wipro South Africa strives to contribute development. These initiatives span the areas of education, skill towards these goals through policies and business practices. development and employment generation. Towards this end, there is a strong focus on localization of the workforce in South Africa. We also have a procurement policy in place that ensures maximum local procurement possible from companies in line with the BBBEE Act and other relatedregulatory requirements. Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for Social Change 000 Skill Development through Internship programs Wipro is extending its global expertise in IT services to South African nationals through its WEESA (Wipro Employability Enhancement for South Africa) program. Interns are selected following an intensive process consisting of aptitude tests and personal interviews. Upon selection, interns undergo a six months training exercise which includes a rigorous 3-month technical and soft skills training at Wipro’s Centre of Excellence in Johannesburg and a 3-month on-the-job training at client sites. Interns who do well in the program are offered employment in Wipro South Africa. Wipro Overseas Internship Program also offers a few of these interns the opportunity for further a two -month training in India. We also offer a one month graduate training program in Wipro’s Bangalore, India facility for the associates of one of our banking clients in South Africa. Enterprise and Socio-Economic Development In line with Wipro’s abiding commitment to education as an area of social change, Enterprise Development (ED) and Socio-economic Development (SED) initiatives in South Africa have a strong focus on education. Under the ED & SED pillars, Wipro has supported the setting up of computer learning incubators and libraries in schools and community centres in rural areas. We have also supported after-school centers in urban disadvantaged areas. We are currently in the process of devising a long term strategy to contribute to improvement in education in South Africa which will be similar in many ways to our school education programs in India. In addition to this, employee contribution through volunteering and donation drives are organized to encourage a culture of giving and participation by employees. Program Outcomes and Impact Existing initiatives over the last two to three years include: ? Completion of four batches of internships between 2012 and 2015 covering 113 students. Close to 40% of these students are currently working with Wipro in various projects in South Africa. In 2014, 5 Interns from the first batch traveled to India for further training. ? Completionof four batches of graduate training program for one of our leading banking clients from 2010 till date covering over 200 + South African associates. ? Support for the setting up of four libraries and computer learning incubators at rural schools/community sites; Selection and training of five MSME’s to run the facilities and earn an income from the projects. ? Support for the establishment of a toy library at an after-school learning center located at an urban community in Brixton, Johannesburg. 000 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Education Our work in education is driven by the belief that education is a key enabler of social change and a better society. We believe in a social vision of democracy where each citizen is not only capable in an individual sense but who also sees the ethic of equity, the essentiality of diversity, the ethos of justice, and is thus driven by social sensitivity. Schools have to be spaces that nurture these principles, capabilities & values. Our notion of good education derives from these anchors. Good education is that which enables the growth and development of the child in multiple dimensions, so that she is able to fulfill and expand her potential, as also to become an active, contributing and concerned citizen of the world. These multiple dimensions of development of the child are cognitive, social, emotional, physical and ethical. Good education develops the abilities of learning-to-learn, critical thinking, problem solving, conceptual understanding etc. and is not based on rote. We are involved in various initiatives over the years in education which try and address this across different groups in schools and colleges in the country. Over the years, these programs have evolved in scale, scope and maturity as captured in the highlights below ? School Education in India: We work on systemic issues in school education in India through a network of partner organizations. Wipro Applying Thought in Schools is a social initiative of Wipro’s that aims to build capacities for school education reform in India. ? Sustainability Education: Started in 2011, our program Wipro earthian brings together two of our key concerns: school education and sustainability. ? School Education outside of India:The program, Wipro Science Education Fellowships is currently active in Chicago, New Jersey, New York and Boston with the overarching goal of contributing to improve Science and Math education in schools that primarily serve disadvantaged communities in US cities. ? Skills development for students that is based on a comprehensive framework of postgraduate level education: Work Integrated Learning programs (WASE / WiSTA) are unique programs that blends rigorous academic exposure at the graduate level with practical professional learning at the workplace. Wipro Applying Thought in Schools (WATIS) Context The challenges in school education in India could be broadly efforts have led to many changes and improvement in education. classified as issues of access and quality, with equity being a crossThe National Curricular Framework 2005 recognizes holistic cutting concern. There have been significant strides made in the development of the child, learning with understanding and matter of access. While there are still pockets in many parts of the connecting the learning to the lives and contexts of the children as country where schools are not available, the majority of the some of the key tenets of education. Right to Education Act 2009 population today has access to public schools. However, inadequate made elementary education a right of all children up to the age of 14. staffing and other resources in the schools remains an areas of However, effective implementation of these policies and reforms concern. A large number of children continue to stay out of school requires systemic capacities across all levels in the education dropping out after enrollment. Rote learning is still a predominant system. feature of our education system. While on the one hand, classrooms and lessons disconnected from the child’s life and context alienate Overview of Our Work the child from learning with understanding, the focus on attaining Wipro Applying Thought in Schools was setup in the early 2000s to higher grades pushes out holistic development of the child as an work towards addressing these issues in education. These issues educational aim. Affluent parents invest significant amount of are complex and systemic and require deliberate, long term and personal resources to provide education for their children. sustained efforts. We believe that civil society organizations have an Inadequate resources and capacities in public schools (and low fee important role to play in bringing about such an educational paying private schools), where a large majority of the children study, transformation. Our core strategy has therefore been to develop add to a growing inequity in the educational system. These and our capacities in civil society organizations to work towards education other concerns in School Education are articulated in a document reform in a systemic manner. titled “Our Concerns on School Education”. The multitude and complexity of these issues make for slow progress in education being Over the past 14 years, we have associated with 60 organizations at an effective instrument of human development and social change. different levels and worked closely with 35 organizations. We have supported 67 educational projects and initiatives, involving over There have been many efforts at the Centre and the States in the 2300 schools and 13,250 educators across 17 states reaching out to areas of policy, legislation and curricular and examination reforms in about a million students. education. Civil society organizations have been working consistently on the ground to improve access and quality. All these Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for Social Change 000 Approach We work in partnership with civil society organizations in the following ways: Supporting organizational learning and Providing financial and other support to development by facilitating a reflective organizations to gain experience and learning network of educational practical understanding of working in organizations, and by nurturing early education and to build greater capacities stage organizations with the support of to work towards long-term and sustained established ones. educational improvement across different contexts and geographies in the country. Our support to organizations typically span a period of three years and may be extended further, based on the need and potential.We involve closely in the work by staying in touch with our partners and the field, through visits, review meetings and calls, and by participating in key decisions. At the end of the support period, a comprehensive review is carried out along with the partner where the need and potential is assessed and a decision is taken about further support. Program Outcomes and Impact The issues and challenges in education are deep-rooted and complex, sustained work is required at all levels of the education system to address these issues. We have chosen capacity building of civil society organizations who do such sustained and systemic work as our lever of change. Such an approach does not produce immediate visible results. The impact of our work in education is in many ways, indirect, non-linear and manifests only in the longer-term and often in unforeseeable ways. This is important because it represents strengthening of institutional capacity for reforms in education. The outcome we aim for through our program is the growth in the capacity of our partner organizations. Many of ourpartners have grown significantly in their impact in education at the state and national levels. They enhanced their capabilities and effectiveness in areas and domains they have been working in and developed new capabilities over the years. Another important outcome has been our partner network itself. Our Annual Partners' Forumhas emerged as a unique annual gathering of educational community, where practitioners get together to engage in reflective discussions and exchanges. New possibilities emerge, key educational issues are discussed and learnings and experiences from different contexts cross-leveraged in these gatherings. Some of the more specific outcomes and outputs from our work over the years have been listed below: Organizations & People Educational Material Public Advocacy School Reach out ? Associated with 60 organizations ? Published 8 books, ? Overall we have worked ? Student Learning in Metros Study at different levels of engagement. booklets and reports with over 2300 schools results widely shared; appeared ? Worked closely with 35 eg: Water Stories, Why and 13,250 educators as a cover story of “India Today” organizations and supported 67 the Sky is Blue across 17 states, ? Student Misconception videos projects. ? Developed Learning reaching around 1 disseminated to 10,000 schools Standards and million students. ? Developed strategic focus on a ? Quality Education Study becomes few themes and areas like Curriculum Map for ? The indirect reach of the most cited study in 2011-12; ecology, social sciences, primary classes our work through our large-scale advocacy campaign languages, affective education, ? Developed a video partners is manifold the number of schools that ? SLIM Study 2006 brought out the creating education material and series on Student need to go beyond rote public advocacy. Misconceptions we have reached out to (between 25-50X). memorization to conceptual ? Supported 18 Fellows for understanding individual work in Education; eg: ? QES 2011 highlighted quality in for writing a book on Learning education to be broader than Psychology of Children, academic learning documenting our projects etc 000 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Understanding Impact IOOI (Input, Output, Outcome and Impact) is a framework often used for Impact Assessment in social interventions. Since the intended long-term impact of our work is educational change at the systemic level and our strategy operates in a non-linear fashion, Impact in education is not something that can be easily assessed. Instead, we focus on Outcomes at the level of capability building and growth of our partners. The Outcomes as we report them are based on our interactions with our partner organizations, field visits, review meetings and reports from partner organizations. They have not been verified through independent assessments. In this section, we look at the following: 1. Input, Output and Outcome for this year at a program level captures the overall financial 2. Organization-wise Output and Outcomes using a few representative 3. Case studies which bring out the growth in capacity of organizations. outlay for the program (Input) and examples. the key Output and Outcomes. Input, Output and Outcome at Program level (2015-16) ? A strategic and operating framework has been developed for accelerated expansion of partner network to 100 organizations over the next 5 years. ? A five-member Governance Committee has been constituted for decision making. ? Seeding Fellowship program launched to support individuals and groups starting organizations working in school education ? Continued supporting 16 organizations through programmatic grants, fellowships, conferences and publications. This included engagement with four new & upcoming organizations being supported from last year. Six new organizations were finalized for support in line with expansion strategy : two of these pertain to ‘seeding fellowships’ and four towards organizational support ? Instituted an award for children’s literature in partnership with Goodbooks Trust and The Hindu Lit Fest ? Support to Eklavya for educational publications such as Beta Kare Sawal (a book for adolescent boys), an atlas for children etc., to be published in FY 16-17. ? Supported conferences on: multilingual education organized by Muskaan and Eklavya; Impact Assessment in Environmental Education conducted by Nature Conservation Foundation; Worlds of Fear: School Culture, organized by Centre for Learning and a conference on Nai Talim organized by Anand Niketan. ? The 16th Partner’s Forum on organizational sharing was held in April 2015. The 3 day forum was a well-attended affair with close to 100 participants from various organizations Input, Output and Outcomes (Organization-wise) – Some examples Below are some examples of organizations whom we have supported for three years or more. These include a diverse range of organizations, such as one working with first generation tribal learners developing a multilingual pedagogy, another one working for the education of street children developing a comprehensive education support model for care homes, an ecological conservation organization building their capacities to bring conservation and ecology education to schools and children and so on. Our inputs to organizations are common across board and include: ? financial support to focus on their key objectives ? regular engagement through meetings, field visits and planning and review at important stages Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for Social Change 000 Vikramshila Muskaan An established resource organization in elementary education in the An organization working with marginalized communities in the bastis country, working towards making quality education a reality for all of Bhopal. Muskaan works to create access to formal education for children. Vikramshila provides capacity building at various levels in children unable to access mainstream schools and to strengthen the public education system through teacher development and communities through collective efforts to address entrenched learning support programs. Wipro has been supporting Vikramshila poverty and marginalization. In education, Muskaan provides in its efforts to develop a social science program, with special focus access to meaningful education for first generation learners through on integrated approach to teaching and learning social sciences. balwadis and learning centres. In these centres, Muskaan makes use of the multilingual context and cultures within the classroom to developing and strengthening a multilingual approach to education Output Outcome ? Resource materials Vikramshila has gained significant Output Outcome based on an experience and strengthened its integrated capabilities in the area of Social ? Three new language Muskaan is gaining experience approach to social science education in the following concepts (tenses, and strengthening its sciences were ways: singular-plurals and educational capacities, developed/finalized ? A set of rich materials for social syntax) have been particularly in multilingual on the following science learning using an integrated worked in classrooms education, in the following themes: Gender, manner is now available. These using a multilingual ways: Diversity, have been extensively field tested in approach ? Systematizingclassroom Democracy, and West Bengal and Tripura across a Judiciary ? Different kinds of material practices into wide range of classroom contexts. developed for use in methodologies for ? Resource pack The process of creating materials, class, including material multilingual education. including the field testing them and revising them in Pardhi and Gondi. Adapting and developing modules and based on classroom responses was ? Puppet shows and plays new methodologies based teachers manual also an enriching learning based on the stories on theory and research were distributed to experience for Vikramshila. written by children from other parts of the teachers and Experience and expertise in social themselves were world. Creating learning resource persons in science curriculum and pedagogy developed to enhance resources for children from Tripura has developed in Vikramshila their creative writing their own contexts and ? About 150 teachers through this work. This can be skills, as well as to culture. Creating learning and resource extended to various contexts and improve their spoken resources for teachers and persons in themes in social science in Tripura language skills others working in a Tripuraattended and West Bengal and other contexts multilingual context. trainings and where Vikramshila will work in ? Language materials Working towards developing workshops on future. The idea of resource packs developed with curriculum and pedagogy Social Science. for teachers (including modules and involvement from for multilingual education for teacher manual) has emerged as an community members? Vikramshila has first generation learners. effective way for providing resource parents and childrenand started developing Growing into a resource materials for teachers. Through this teachers. Social Science organization for multilingual project, the teachers at Tripura are module for trainers ? Journals are being education. gaining first-hand experience of for upper primary maintained by many constructivism as a teaching teachers teachers about classroom practice and the importance of experiences. Articles are ? The social science connecting knowledge to the lived being written based on work was experience of a child this. One such article was showcased at Vikramshila has gained in several ways published in Sandarbh “Teachers Festival” organizationally too, through this work: magazine organized by Modern Academy ? It became a platform for wider ? A consultation on ‘Sharing of Continuing capacity building in the organization and Reviewing Field Education (MACE) as a whole as Vikramshila engaged Practices in MLE’ was coat Kolkata. the larger organization had organized with Eklavya opportunities to engage in the which was attended by ? A short course on project continually through a various organizations ‘Social Science – systematic, collaborative and working on MLE Nature and participatory process of inquiry and Pedagogy’ was deliberations. The content and offered for teachers approach from this work is being at MACE for their extended to other work done by in-service training. Vikramshila such as the Life skill modules Vikramshila has developed for other contexts. 000 Partnering for Social Change Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Wipro earthian Wipro-earthian is Wipro’s Sustainability Education Program which seeks to support and drive sustainability thinking and action by embedding in the learning process in schools and colleges across India. The program completed 5 years in 2015. In 2015-16, we saw very enthusiastic response reflecting in a massive increase in participation numbers, outreach and representation. We achieved wide geographical representation across 21 states, 45 districts and increased our reach to 2,000 schools, 1,500 colleges and 2,200 teachers. This was done by developing new partnerships with 6 state government bodies and 3 civil society organizations who played a key role in ground outreach. Our cumulative outreach was more than 10,000 educational earthian Sustainability quiz where we successfully ran quizzes at the institutes via social media and other digital channels. Fiscal year Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Ahmedabad Confluence 2015-16 saw the program being offered in four languages (Hindi, festival and the IIM Bangalo\re Exemius festival where 227 teams Tamil, Telugu and Malayalam)and our total submissions have and 681 students participated. Two noteworthy initiatives were the crossed 1,300 which is a threefold increase over the previous year launch of the Wipro Sustainability Fellowships at IIM Bangalore as and the highest ever. Nine college and twelve school teams were well as the curation of a round table discussion on sustainability selected as winners by national jury and felicitated by Mr. Azim education which was attended by 60 regional colleges in Orissa. Premji at the annual Wipro-earthian awards. As a part of our strategic collaboration with XUB, Bhubaneshwar we The Continuous Engagement Program (CEP) program aims to also facilitated a one month sustainability discovery program across promote integrated sustainability education in schools and colleges India for six students from the PG program at the Xavier School of and to co-create educational practices within institutions that leads Sustainability. The CEP program in schools focused on curricular to sustainability action and thinking. In colleges, the CEP was driven interventionwhere we developed a unique sustainability curriculum by a few key initiatives such as our Sustainability Internship program for Wipro-earthian schools which is being piloted in 9 schools across where we facilitated a diverse range of sustainability internship India. opportunities through our partner ecosystem for 10 students from 6 winning colleges. As a first, 2015 also saw the launch of the WiproProgram Outcomes and Impact ? Total mass outreach to over 10000 schools and colleges ? Partnered with CEE (Centre for Environment Education) and CPREEC (C P Ramaswamy Environment Education Centre) and state govt bodies for mass school outreach and teacher orientation workshops across India for 2000 schools and 2200 teachers ? Total school and college submissions crossed 1300 : a 3fold increase and the highest ever ? 100 students from 9 college and 12 school winning teams felicitated at earthian award ceremony on 6th February ? Sustainability internships facilitated for 10 students from 6 winning colleges with 3 partners( CSTEP, BIOME, TRUCOST) ? Launch of the Wipro-earthian Sustainability quiz at the IIMA Confluence festival and EXEMIUS (IIMB) engaging 227 teams and 681 college students ? Facilitated a 1 month sustainability discovery program for 6 students from Xavier University with partner NGO’s across India ? Co-curated the Sustainability Thinking, Action and Reflection (STAR) round table discussion on sustainability education in Orissa with participation from 45 regional colleges ? Facilitated 4 day experiential workshop conducted by ATREE in BR hills on the theme of Biodiversity with participation from 9 teachers from 4 schools ? Organized school sustainability curricular training workshops for 250 teachers from 9 schools across India ? Launched the Wipro Sustainability Fellowships at IIMB Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Partnering for Social Change 000 Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program in the U.S.A The Wipro Science Education Fellowship Program (SEF) launched in March 2013 is focused on improving Science and Math education in schools primarily serving disadvantaged communities in US cities. The program has been initiated in Chicago, in the New Jersey area, New York and in Boston. We have partnered with Michigan State University (MSU) in Chicago where 250 350 elementary and secondary teachers will be chosen over the next 3-4 years, and the University of Massachusetts (UMass) for the Boston program in Boston, Mercy College for New York and Montclair State University for New Jersey. The program works in close collaboration in over 20 school districts where in 250-350 teachers go through a 2 year fellowship within tense support to develop their capacities to be better teachers and change leaders. The district administrators are a part of the program. We intend to expand these programs to other cities in future. The current commitment of Wipro to these programs is about USD 7.8 million over a period of 5 years. This is a large and substantial commitment to improving science and math in school education, one of the largest such commitments made by a non US company. ASSURANCE STATEMENT 000 Assurance Statement Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Independent Assurance Statement Scope and Approach Wipro Limited(‘Wipro’ or ‘the Company’) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited(‘DNV GL’) to undertake an independent assurance of theCompany’s Sustainability Report 2015 -16 in its printed and web-based formats(the ‘Report’) for the financial year ending 31stMarch2016.Our responsibility in performing this work is regarding verification of Sustainability performance disclosed in the Report andin accordance with the agreed scope of work with the management of the Company.The intended users of this assurance statement are the management of the Company. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out during AugustDecember2016. We performed our work using DNV GL’s assurance methodology VeriSustainTM , which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) Revised* and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our scope of work for Report assurance included the verification of the qualitative and quantitative information on sustainability performance disclosed in the Report covering Economic, Environmental and Social performance of the activities undertaken by the Company over the Reporting period 1stApril2015 to 31stMarch2016 and based on the GRI G4. We evaluated the qualitative and quantitative disclosures including performance data using the report content principle including reliability principlefor the reported data including its measurement, recording and aggregation. We planned and performed our work to obtain the evidence that we considered necessary to provide a basis for our assurance opinion. We are providing a moderate level of assurance based on VeriSustain; no external stakeholders were interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. We understand that the reported financial data and information are based on data from Wipro’sAnnual Report for year ending 31st March 2016, which are subject to a separate independent audit process. The verification of financial data taken from the Annual Report is not within the scope of our work. Responsibilities of the Managementof WiproLimitedand ? Review of the current sustainabilityissues that could affect the of the Assurance Providers Companyand are of interest to identified stakeholders; The Management teamof the Company havethe sole responsibility ? Review of Wipro’sapproach to stakeholder engagement and for the preparation of the Report and responsible for all information recent outputs although we have no direct engagement with disclosed in the Report as well as the processes for collecting, stakeholders; analysing and reporting the information presented in the printed and ? Review of information provided to us by Wiproon its reporting web-based versions of the Report, including the maintenance and and management processes relating to the Principles; integrity of the website. ? Interviews with selectedleadership team andsenior managers In performing our assurance work, our responsibility is to the responsible for management of sustainability issues, and review management of Wipro only; however, our statement represents our of selected evidence to support the issues discussed. We were independent opinion and is intended to inform outcome of our free to choose interviewees and interviewed those with overall assurance to the stakeholders of Wipro.DNV GL provides a range of responsibility for the programmes to deliver the other services to Wipro, none of which constitute a conflict ofInterest Company’ssustainability targets for medium and long term with this assurance work. vision, mission and milestones; DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption ? Site visits were conducted at Wipro’s Corporate Office that the data and information provided by Wiproto us as part of our atBengaluru, and sites at Electronic City Bengaluru, review have been provided in good faith. DNV GL was not involved in Gopanapally Hyderabad, Mysuru in India and Atlanta in The the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report United States of Americato review the processes and systems except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL expressly disclaims for preparing site level sustainability dataand implementation of any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity sustainability strategy.The sites we visited were selected based may make based on this Assurance Statement. on their materiality to the group for environmental impacts as well as to give a geographical and divisional spread; Further we Basis of our Opinion had telephonic interview for sites located in Reading,United A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists Kingdom and Manila, Phillipines. performed work at the CorporateOfficeand selected sitesof Wipro Limited.We undertook the following activities: Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Assurance Statement 000 ? Review of supporting evidence for key claims and data in the Observations Report. Our verification processes were prioritised according to materiality and we based our prioritisation on the materiality of Without affecting our assurance opinion, we provide the following issues at a consolidated corporate level; observations. We have evaluated the Report’s adherence to the following principles on a scale of ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs ? Review of the processes for gathering and consolidating the Improvement’: specified performance dataand, for a sample, verification of data consolidation; and Stakeholder Inclusiveness The participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to ? An independent assessment of Wipro’s reporting against the Sustainability. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The stakeholder engagement process with key stakeholders is fairly During the assurance process, we did not come across limitations to established to identify sustainability challenges and concerns of the scope of the agreed assurance engagement.The reported data diverse stakeholder groups considering the Company’sOperations on economic performance is based on audited financial statements and the Report brings out the responses to key concerns of diverse by the Company’sstatutory auditors. No external stakeholders were stakeholders likeemployees, customers, investors and interviewed as part of this assurance engagement. shareholders, suppliers/service providers,etc.In our opinion, the Opinion level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing has come to our Materiality The process of determining the issues that are most attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describethe relevant to an organization and its stakeholders. sustainability performance of Wipro,including adherence toGRI The materiality determination process was re-evaluated based on G4’sPrinciples for defining Report Content, General Standard inputs from key stakeholders includingemployees,customers, Disclosures and Specific Standard Disclosures for the ‘in suppliers, non-governmental organisations, governments, accordance’ – Comprehensive optionof reporting as below: regulatory bodies, local communities and senior management of ? General Standard Disclosures:The reported information on Wipro,and in our opinion has not missed out key material issues from General Standard Disclosures generally meet the disclosure the Information Technologysector. The management of the requirements for ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive option. Wipro Companyhas established internal assessment process for has a well-established governance system and in our opinion, monitoring and management on a continual basis for their long term the reported disclosure with respect toGovernance could be organisational sustainability. In our opinion, the level at which the further strengthened in line with the reporting requirements Report adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. detailed in GRI G4 Reporting principles and standard disclosure. Responsiveness The extent to which an organization responds to ? Specific Standard Disclosures: The Report describes the stakeholder issues. generic Disclosures on Management Approach (DMA) and Performance Indicators for identified material Aspects as below: The Report has brought out responses to identified materialAspects in a comprehensive manner for the benefit of diverse stakeholders and has adequately disclosed the strategies and management Economic approach related to identifiedmaterial Aspects including challenges, Performance G4-EC1, G4-EC2, G4-EC3, G4-EC4; considering the overall sustainability context of the Information Environmental Technologysector, within the identified Aspectboundaries.In our Energy G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6,G4-EN7; opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is Water G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10; ‘Good’. Emissions – G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, Reliability The accuracy and comparability of information G4-EN19, G4-EN20, G4-EN21; presented in the report, as well as the quality of underlying data Effluents and Waste – G4-EN22, G4-EN23,G4-EN24; management systems. Overall G4-EN31; The majority of data and information verified at the Corporate Office, Supplier Environmental Assessment G4-EN32*,G4-EN33*; and operational sites visited for verification as part of assurance Social were found to be accurate and nothing came to our attention to Labour Practices and Decent Work suggest that reported datahas not been properly collated from Employment – G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3; information reported at operational level, nor that the assumptions used were inappropriate.Some of the data inaccuracies identified Occupational Health and Safety – G4-LA5, during the verification process were found to be attributable to G4-LA6*, G4-LA7, G4-LA8; transcription, interpretation and aggregation errors and the errors Diversity and Equal Opportunity – G4-LA12; have been communicated for correction and corrected by Wipro. In Society our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is Anti-Corruption – G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5; ‘Good’. Product Responsibility Customer Privacy G4-PR8. *This indicator has been reported partially & reason for omission related to Absenteeism & disclosure on Minority Groups has been explained within the Report. 000 Assurance Statement Wipro Sustainability Report 2015-16 Completeness How much of all the information that has been Neutrality The extent to which a report provides a balanced identified as material to the organisation and its stakeholders is account of an organization’s performance, delivered in a neutral reported. tone. The Report has fairly attempted to disclose the General and Specific The disclosures related to identified sustainability issues and Standard disclosures including the disclosures on strategy, performances are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of content and management approach and performance indicators for identified presentation. In our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to material Aspects for GRI G4’s ‘in accordance’ – Comprehensive this principle is ‘Good’. option of reporting. The reporting of performance and datarelated to identified material Aspect for the sector is generally acceptable.Hence in our opinion, the level at which the Report adheres to this principle is ‘Acceptable’. Opportunities for Improvement The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities for improvement reported to the management of the Company and are not considered for drawing our conclusions on the Report; however, they are generally consistent with the management’s objectives: ? Wipro may further strengthen its existing management systems to better manage its key sustainability challenges related environment and occupational health and safety across all geo locations. ? The Report maybring out the impacts of material aspects especially related to labour and human rights in the value chaini.e. re-evaluate materiality in the value chain for the reporting boundary related to material, social and environmental impacts of its suppliers/service providers. ? Sustainability performance targets may be revisitedand benchmarked across geo-locations of its operations for long term organisational sustainability. For and on behalf of DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited Bengaluru, India, 9th December 2016 Kiran Radhakrishnan Nandkumar Vadakepatth Project Manager Assurance Reviewer Associate Assessor Regional Sustainability Manager – India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited, India. DNV GL Business Assurance IndiaPrivate Limited, India. DNV GL Business Assurance India Private Limited is part of DNV GL – Business Assurance, a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training services, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. www.dnvgl.com FEEDBACK AND COMMUNICATION We welcome our readers' feedback, points of view and suggestions on Wipro's Sustainability Report 2013-14 in particular and on our sustainability program in general and look forward to hearing from you. It is your honest feedback that will enable us to strengthen and improve our sustainability program.You may write to us at any of the following contact points: Name Contact Details Wipro Sustainability Team sustain.report@wipro.com Mr.P.S.Narayan Wipro Limited Doddakanelli, Sarjapuyr Road, Vice President & Head Sustatinability Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 25056766 Email: narayan.pan@wipro.com Mr. Abhishek K. Jain Wipro Limited East Brunswick, Tower 2, Senior Manager Investor Relations New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 978 826 4700 Email: abhishekkumar.jain@wipro.com Mr.Santhosh Karagada Wipro Limited East Brunswick, Tower 2, Vice President & Head HR Americas & Europe New Jersey, USA Tel: +1 818 620 6506 Email: santosh.karagada@wipro.com Mr.Aravind Vishwanathan Wipro Limited Doddakanelli, Sarjapuyr Road, Head of Corporate Treasury and Investor Relations Bangalore 560 035, India Tel: +91 080 39916143 Email: aravind.vishwanathan@wipro.com WIPRO LIMITED, DODDAKANNELLI, SARJAPUR ROAD, BANGALORE 560 035, INDIA TEL : +91 (80) 2844 0011, FAX : +91 (80) 2844 0256 WWW.WIPRO.COM
