PRANDA GROUP UN Global Compact Report 2017 (English Version) Contents • Message from Chairman • CSR Operational Guidelines • Strategies and CSR Operational Frameworks • Operation of CSR In accordance with principles of the Stock Exchange • Results of Core Values & CSR Activities • PRANDA Group In accordance with principles of Sustainable Development Goals • Honorary Reward of PRANDA Group Message from Chairman Pranda Group continues to maintain the compliance with UN Global principles by operating business based upon UN Global Compact standard that particularly requires environmental awareness, human rights, and anti-corruption. Having been a member of UN Global Compact is considered as a significant milestone that reiterates business operation with responsibility across the world and reflects that running a business with particular concerns on the society and environment is utmost important for sustainable development of gems and jewelry industry. The Company is not only determined to comply with international principles but also attempts to support human rights value and employment standard. In addition, the Company has continuously drafted a policy and performed an act of not discriminating gender, nationality, religion, and disabilities by opening for jobs and offering professions for all types of the handicapped. The Company wishes to make the handicapped proud of themselves and able to utilize their full capacity and live their lives with other people without being society and family’s burden. At present, 30 selected handicapped are put in a suitable position in both the office and the plant, of which the number of normal workers as against the handicapped accounts for 60:1 Environmental impact and ethical behavior in business, in the policy of operation under the management philosophy of honesty, benefits of Shareholders, adherence to the principle of effectiveness and efficiency in administration with virtue and dignity including good corporate social responsibility and business principles. It recognizes the responsibility of shareholders who have a stake in the public both environmental & safety as well as the progress of the community and country. Pranda Group believes that being part of the UN Global Compact is a guiding principle of our commitment to CSR. We hope to be one of the companies that support the principles and continue to be a good example to the society and the nation. Mr. Prida Tiasuwan Chairman CSR Operational Guidelines Nowadays corporates all over the world give much importance to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) because only accomplishment in business, sustainability in the future and optimal profit achievement is not considered enough. Corporates must learn what and how to be responsible for society. Over four decades in the business, the Company has adhered and paid importance to CRS including encouraging employees to have social responsibility consciousness passing from generation to generation since start. Besides, they are ready to apply such concept to their ways of working and daily lives and keep developing CSR practices for better improvement. The Company has continuously operated the business with CSR concern starting from product designing and selection of production process, which will surely not contaminate environment and community. Moreover, the Company has intended not only to have CSR practices better than what are imposed by laws or equivalent to international standard practices but to develop community and society to go along well together for mutual benefits with sustainability. Pranda Jewelry Public Company Limited and subsidiary have run businesses with ethics and concerns about mutual and sustainable benefits for stakeholders. Therefore, the Company is setting up operational frameworks of social responsibilities and sustainability in accordance with international CSR practices in regard to economy, society and environment under the concept of good corporate governance so that all subsidiaries will work along together in the same direction. This will also make employee to have good attitude and corporate culture of CSR. The Company is thus having CRS implementation as follows: 1. Running business with good corporate governance with social responsibilities 2. Paying respect and treating stakeholders with fairness 3. Supporting activities for social benefits, society and environment including government agencies or private corporate that have activities beneficial to society and environment 4. Encouraging employees at all levels to give importance and participate in not only company’s activities with CSR concerns but volunteer works and as social activities as well. 5) Avoiding any practices that are contrary to moralities or give negative impact s to confidence and trust of the stakeholders for instance shareholders, employees, community where the Company is established, customers, business partners, government agencies concerned, society and country. Strategies and CSR Operational Frameworks To encourage doing business with concerns over social responsibilities and benefits of all stakeholders systematically across the organization for the ultimate goals that is the sustainability of the business, the Company has thus specifically set up the Committee to promote and work across functions in regard to shared valued and social responsibilities since 2007 with the following frameworks. Care for People  Pranda Group Academy  Quality of Life Project  Pre-school Child Development Center  Food Quality Inspection Project  Innovation Project Sustainable economy  Debt Reduction Project  Cooperative Project Environmental  Dual Vocational Training Community friendly  Occupational Support for the Disabled  7 Sor. Activity  Energy Saving Project Operation of Corporate Social Responsibilities In accordance with principles of the Stock Exchange of Thailand Business operation with social responsibility concern is in process in relation to 8 principles of the Stock Exchange of Thailand as mentioned as follows: 1. Business operating with fairness and ethics Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. believes in good corporate governance as the important factor supporting business to be more efficient. Management and employees at all levels always give collaboration and participate in operations that are executed in accordance with good corporate governance. The Company has kept building ethical consciousness to employees and paid significant importance to any actions giving benefits to all stakeholders with fairness. Therefore, the Company has had the policy of good corporate government in writing since 2000 and constantly used it in operations by Board of Directors, Management and employees at all levels till this practice finally becomes corporate culture creating shared values to which all employees adhere. They will also treat all stakeholders fairly, work at their best with transparency, honesty and traceable which creates trust and confidence to shareholders, investors, stakeholders and any parties concerned. The Executive Directors are hence taking charge of monitoring all operations to be continuously implemented in line with not only good corporate governance principles of Securities and Exchange Commission and the Capital Market Commission but internal standards to enhance efficient operational system and sustainable growth of business. 2. AntiCorruption Operations As the Company realizes anti-corruption problem may occur on any levels of employees, the anticorruption plan is thus set up together with the seminars are conducted for employees. Moreover, the Company has Code of Business Conduct relating to anti-corruption for instance, Code of Conduct of conflict of interest, one of Information Technology using, one of securities trading and one of giving and receiving gifts or assets or things, which is likely considered a motive to act or not to act illegally or immorally or any wrongdoings leading to benefit exploitation for themselves or their friends and families. Also, the Code of Conduct concerning responsibilities of Executive Management and employees is imposed to focus on corporate governance and strictly followed. Besides, employees take part in monitoring and preventing any actions or cases with stakeholders that can cause corruption. Furthermore, the Company has participated in anti-corruption activities held by both government and private sectors and joined Collective Action Coalition Program with The Institute of Directors of Thailand, The Thai Chamber of Commerce, The International Chamber of Commerce, The Thai Listed Companies Association and The Thai Bankers Association on November 9, 2010 to counteract corruption. It is reckoned the international Program supported by the government and National Anti-Corruption Commission (NACC). Also, the Board of Directors has announced anti-corruption policies for PRANDA subsidiaries on October 9, 2012 for all Directors, Management and employees to regularly follow. 3. Respect for Human Rights Owing to the fact that the Company recognizes the rights of every human being on the basis of equality and non-discrimination, any procedures in relation to personnel including recruiting, hiring, termination, development, promotion, job transition and delegation with morality and fairness regardless of race, national, religion, gender, age, education or other reasons. Additionally, services and transactions with entities from specific countries or individuals of specific nationalities are made with fairness pursuant to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights signed with UN Global Compact so that the Executive Directors, Management and all employees will follow accordingly. 4. Treating Employees with Fairness Owing to the fact that the Company strongly believes efficient and effective human resources are one of the keys to business success according to organizational reform plan, the Company thus gives importance to remuneration and other benefits including safety, health and working environment that enhances better quality of life, skill development and proper knowledge sources. Employment and Labor Relations – the Company respects right and adheres to the policy that giving constant importance to labors and considers employees valuable resources of the organization. Thus, there is the Benefit and Welfare Committee established to support employees to have fair rights and welfares. Health and Safety – the Company has recently been realizing importance of health and safety including working environment, so there are seminars for employees in regard to working environment and activities supporting quality of life and safety as well as other existing activities they already have every year such as welfare giving, health check, eye sight examination by doctors from the hospital, first aids training and practice so that employees realize their health and health of their friends and families are important. Besides, the basic drills of fire evacuation and prevention and the “Safety Week” activity are provided to give employees consciousness and see importance of safety of working environment and health. Also, there are other activities that stimulate and provide working skills to employees. Diversity and Equality of Opportunity the Company is aware of values of human resources and confident such resources are the most important key to business operation, so support and development of employees are continually taken care of under the Committee of Shared Value and CSR with the following 13 projects; Apart from the 13 projects as mentioned above, the Company has provident fund, 300 units of welfare housing, appropriate remuneration and benefits, opportunity for career advancement, employee participation, annual health check, free meals and so on and so forth provided to employees at all levels. In regard to employment standard, the Company follows the clear policy that no child or forced labor is hired, no request for financial guarantee from employee when hired and equality of opportunity and treat as well as recognition of the rights of employee taken into account by having the Benefit and Welfare Committee to participate, negotiate and run the meetings or activities concerned. Additionally, health and safety system in the workplace and the training of safety and hygiene in the workplace are also conducted for employees. 5. Responsibilities for Customers The Company gives priority to delivery of good and trustworthy quality products and services to customers under the International Quality Standard ISO 9001:2015 with commitment to produce jewelry and gems with international standard quality and quality control in every step of production process by the expertise, punctuality of product delivery for optimal customer’s satisfaction and continuity of product development. The Company is also committed to the productivities customers are satisfied most and using resources, time, personnel, capital, materials, equipment and tools, information, technology and process with efficiency and effectiveness. All these things need to be strictly and continuously done with quality of health, safety and environmental concerns. Moreover, the Company always strictly keeps treating business partners and creditors as committed with equality and fairness and with no request for benefits in bad faith. For the creditors, the Company regularly follows the terms and conditions stipulated in the loan agreements, discloses true and correct financial status. In addition, the proper procurement policy with partners is implemented fairly and efficiently under the fair competition, no illegal pursuit of confidential information of business competitors, like bribing other competitor’s employees, destroying reputation or framing competitors or taking any incorrect and unfair actions against them. 6. Environmental Conservation The Company is aware of importance of environment and participation in environmental protection, recycling and taking actions to prevent pollution or impacts on environment and community pursuant to general operating standards by using technology, efficient operational management relating to power and energy use, water quality and waste management. Additionally, there is a channel for employees and community to file complaints in regard to corporate operations. Participation in community or society development by acting as a good citizen and supporting activities that are beneficial to community and society in general is also paid. 7.Participation in Community Development The Company has kept participating in community development and encouraging employees to take part in volunteer projects and activities in order to create values and benefits to the communities surrounding the Company or areas related to the corporate. Participation with the communities, providing knowledge and skills and returning remuneration to employees with the goal to support and develop quality of society and have long termed sustainable economy including donations for the disadvantaged and any other victims are carried out constantly. The following CSR activities have recently been undertaken as described below. “Dual Vocational” Project The Dual Vocational Project has been carried out for more than 16 years by selecting students from public schools in the remote areas throughout the country, especially the following projects after the Silverware Project under the patronage of HRH Princess Maha Chakri Sirindhorn of the five public schools in Mae Chan, Chiangrai, Loey, Nan, Tak and Petchaboon to further vocational study in Jewelry in collaboration with the Kanchanapisek College Royal Goldsmith and the Bangkok Arts and Crafts College, Department of Vocational Education, Ministry of Education. The results of this project are as follows; โครงการ “ การศึกษาระบบทวิภาคี” Poor children Getting opportunity to study further at higher level with no expense, getting knowledge and direct vocational experience as a goldsmith, having the accredited Certificate of Vocational Education and stable career for the future Department of Developing vocational education channel to be more efficient in collaboration Vocational Education with private sector to produce needed human resources and save budgets drastically. Business Operator Building and developing resources living up to government standards, producing craftsmen for the company and overall industry in the future. 8. Innovation Project The Company has been aware that creativity and functional innovation development is important to add values to operational processes and create innovations either at individual level or corporate level. This makes good changes to stakeholders in term of economy, society and environment leading to accomplishment and sustainability of the corporate. Results of Core Values & Corporate Social Responsibility Activities. The Company strongly believes and has confidence in value of human resources, which is the most important factor for business operation. Therefore, the company pays much importance to continuous human resources development under the responsibility of Shared Value and CRS Committee. This is to support the following activities and projects under CSR concepts and according to the corporate policy. 1. The PRANDA Group Academy The PRANDA Group Academy is founded to enhance development of skills, knowledge and competency of Management and employees so that they can have efficient works and good visions by means of various trainings conducted for all levels, for instances Core Value Training, Working with Chemicals and Emergency Plan of Chemical Leak, Individual Development Plan (IDP) based on Competencies and SelfAssessment for Quality of Life, Do-ItYourself Health Care, Basic Knowledge of Jewelry Business, Safety Officers in Management Level and Safety Supervisors, Orientation Program for New Employees and other internal courses and courses conducted by other organizations. Besides all these courses provided to have employees trained thoroughly, the Company is also having a library where employees and their children can borrow books and search for information on internet. There are more than 3,000 books and magazines provided to the target group to access information and knowledge easily. 2. Quality of Life Development Quality of life Development in all aspects is provided to employees through variety of activities and programs to enhance immunity for life and better quality of life. 3. Pre-School Child Development Center The Pre-school Child Development Center has continually been operated for 28 years to help take care of employees’ children during working hours and to enhance physical, intellectual and behavior development of children. This center can help raise no less than 50 children each year. The Company will provide babysitters who are permanently hired and directly trained with child caring courses. This makes children ready for studying in the higher levels with the following services provides as follows. (1) Health Services such as health check, examination of health development and physical development and consultation of child caring (2) Nutrition Services for instance, providing proper nutrition foods to children and training good habits and manners on the table. (3) Other Development Services for example, muscle development, language and communication development, creativity development and mental, emotional and social development to get along well with others and act in good manner. 4. Food Quality Inspection Project This project is concerned about employees’ health at all levels with the policy encouraging food shops to develop taste of food along with careful selection of quality, hygiene and safe raw materials with no chemical contamination. Food cooking should be made pursuant to nutrition so that cooked foods still have valuable nutrients that give energy and good health to employees 5. Innovation Project The Company has supported and stimulated employees at all levels to have creativity when working. They may modify tools, equipment and some operational processes to be more efficient and effective, which will not only help reduce cost but create new production know-how for the corporate. In 2016, there are participants getting rewards from 13 projects, which is later applied to be used for product design and passed on to the subsidiary companies both domestically and internationally as well. 6. Debt Reduction and Legal Consultation This project has been continued up until now to help employees solve debt problem and give legal advices to tackle debt problem properly. The Company works in cooperation with financial institutes to give loan to employees if needed. In 2016 there are more than 40 employees needing legal advices on debt problem and 30 employees requesting for debt refinance, which amounts 3,297,600 Baht in total. On top of that, there is legal information concerning debt issues to be posted on the board as one of the channels for employees to gain basic knowledge and advices, apart from the other activity which is called the Morning Talk. 7. Cooperative Project This project is established to motivate saving habit and give knowledge of personal financial management to employees. Also, the Cooperative gives employees who are in need for money with lower rate of interest than any other general banks. There are 2,213 employees who are members of the Cooperative at present and more than 140 million Baht of operating capital. Employees are now having 1,204 saving accounts amounting total 18 million Baht. Since year 2008 till now 2,213 employees have been investing in stock saving in the amount of over 112 million Baht while there are 2,492 loan supports in 2016 totaling 85 million Baht. There have been total amount of 23,500 transactions of loan provided to the employees since start till now, valued 515 million Baht in total. In addition, the Cooperative has recently involved in giving financial supports to the employees in other ways. Educational Scholarship The PRANDA Group Cooperative presents 78 educational scholarships, valued 101,500 Baht to children of the employees at Primary, Secondary and Vocational school levels including Bachelor’s degree in 2016. The total of 440 scholarships amounting 587,500 Baht have been offered since 2010 up to present. Additionally, 8 rewards for good scores given to dual vocational students in 2016 in the amount of 8,000 Baht. From year 2012 till present, 31 scholarships of this kind, in value of 31,000 Baht have been presented. 8. Dual Vocational Education Since year 2000 the Company has worked in collaboration with the Kanchanapisek College Royal Goldsmith, the Bangkok Arts and Crafts College and Suranari Technical College under Department of Vocational Education, Ministry of Education by giving chances to students who finish Grade 9 from the Public Secondary Schools, Ratprachanukhro Schools and other schools in rural areas all over the country to further Vocational Education in Gems and Jewelry Business. There have been 16 classes of 1,294 students participating in this program and 995 students of 13 classes have already been graduated. The expansion of educational opportunity is also made to factories in Nakhonratchasima and provinces nearby. In 2015, 106 students from factories in Bangkok and Nakhonratchasima were graduated while 316 students from Bangkok and Nakhonratchasima factories are in progress of studying in the first, second and third level. 9. Occupational Support for the Disabled Since starting the business, PRANDA Group has always have the policies to support the disabled starting from accepting the disabled to work in the organization, developing the disabled to have the same competences as general employees and giving an opportunity for career advancement. Furthermore, there is a training conducted for regular employees to have body language skills, so no communication problem between the normal and disabled exists and they both can finally work along well together. In year 2016, there are policies set up specifically for the Disabled as follows. (1) Increase in number of the Disabled in the organization for 10 percent Increase in efficiency in work performance by the Disabled to be similar or equivalent to one produced by normal employees (3) Increase in workforce diversity (4) Participation in both internal and external activities At present, the Company is having the ratio 60:1 of the disabled working at the management level or in the supporting function and production line, which is considered higher than ratio of 100:1 stipulated by law. They also get the same remuneration and benefits as the normal employees. Most of them are hearing impaired. 10. Activity “7 Sor” Activity “7 Sor” is being used as a basic tool to enhance effectiveness and efficiency in work performance, which leads to the standard of quality management to be relevant to the current situation conditions. This activity brings about good awareness, change of way of thinking and working to get involved more in quality of work development and decrease in any wastes and unnecessary costs, which stimulates employees to have involvement in inspection, analyst and improvement of every area to be in good order and also prevent and reduce any losses that may incur. 11. Environment Conservation and Energy Saving The Company has encouraged the employees to protect environment and save energy. They throw an attempt to maintain the environment to be in the same original conditions for benefits of living. Cooperation with other corporates is made to create knowledge, understanding and awareness of conservation, protection and restoration of natural resources for maximum benefits to the employees. Though the business operation of the Company has no impacts on the environment, the Company has still considered this issue socially sensitive and constantly given much importance to environment protection and energy saving. The Company realizes energy is necessary for living especially the more development of industrial technology, the more demand of power use nowadays. Most of sources of power are derived from fossils, crude oil and gas and etc., which is considered nature destruction that causes the environment problems in the end such as, unseasonably warm weather, heavy rain and floods and so on. Considering the aforementioned impacts, the Pranda Public Co., Ltd. as one small company would like to help use energy efficiently. Thus, Energy Saving Project is set up to create awareness and help lessen use of power by using or saving power with efficiency. The Employees are instructed to properly turn on and off lights and airconditioners including timely inspection and changes of tools or equipment. All these practices can help save power for 2 % costing 460,000 Baht/year and more importantly, create awareness of energy efficiency and environmental concern to the employees. 12. Waste Bank The Bank of recycled wastes has been founded to manage wastes in the workplace and educate employees to give full participation in this project. Reduction of unnecessary wastes, material reuse and recycling is promoted apart from deposit-sales of recycled materials for 50,000 kilograms on average a year valued more than 500,000 Baht/year. From year 2009 to present, the waste management of the Company has handled 219,579 kilograms of total wastes with value of 1,593,459 Baht. 13. Sharing and Giving to Society The Company has always motivated employees to take part in volunteer jobs and sacrifice body and soul as well as their times to activities benefiting society and community. Also, the Company is supporting the programs that give good contribution to the society and lending financial supports for those activities with no cease up until now. In year 2016, the Company extends support to the following CSR activities; (1) Participation in the National Children’s Day – working with the government agencies, schools and communities around the plants to build good relationships between schools and communities nearby and support children to be quality people in the future. (2) Participation in traditional religious activities – taking part with the surrounding communities in offering robes to Buddhist monks at monastery and cleaning temple areas, donating candles and offerings dedicated to monks on the religious days or festivals. ( 3) Engagement in other CSR activities 3.1 Anti-corruption Activity The Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. is running business in line with basic principles of good corporate governance and business ethics, fair policy and treats for every party of the stakeholders. The Company has built ethical consciousness of work with fairness concerns for the shareholders and stakeholders. In year 2010 the Company joined in the “Collective Action Coalition Program” to tackle any forms of corruption and make sure that the Company is having proper risk control, guidelines and regulations to prevent any forms of corruptions. This is to help decision making and business transactions that may be at risk of corruption practices to be considered with care. The Pranda Jewelry Public Co., Ltd. is therefore having the Anti-Corruption policy in writing as well as Anticorruption manual to be strictly follow and developed for business sustainability. Furthermore, the Company has officially announced to partake in the anti-corruption activities and has committed to suppress corruption and joined forces to retain public interest. In 2016 the Board of Directors has considered and reviewed the anti-corruption policy, guidelines and principles. The seminar concerning anti-corruption is also conducted for the management and agreement is signed to counter corruption according to anti-corruption manual. The management is responsible for communicating and stimulating the employees to adhere to this policy. Moreover, the selfevaluation for countering bribery is completed in order to participate in the program “Private Sector Collective Action Coalition against Corruption” of the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD). 3.2 Participation in an establishment of the UN Global Compact Local Network In 2015, there was an establishment of the UN Global Compact in Thailand which includes more than 15 members, and it was supported by National Human Rights Commission, Subcommittee of execution of strategic in economic, social and cultural rights. The National Human Rights Commission participate in an establishment of UN Global Compact Local Network in order to consider structure of management and role of the relevant party, to join an operation target for the operation period of the first quarter in 2016 , in order to drive the success of the business by 10 principles of the United Nations. This covers the 4 principle issues, including Human Rights, Labor Standard, Environment Protection, and Anti-Corruption for the sustainability development. 3.3 Blood Donation for saving people’s life The company strongly encourages the staff to participate in any projects related to lifesaving, by joining the Thai Red Cross for donating blood in every 3 months. Blood donation is used to save people’s life and reserved for emergency cases. Nowadays, only a small number of Thai people are donating their blood. The blood reservation is inadequate and becomes a very big issue while there is a high demand of blood in saving people’s life. 3.4 Providing an opportunity for others Providing an opportunity for others to have a study visit at the company, The company allows any education institutes, and other authorities make a study visit at the company throughout the business operation period, in order to provide knowledge to the society and the stakeholders. 3.5 Supporting the business network Supporting the business network for social and environmental benefits PRANDA Group, is founder and a cooperate member of the business network for social and environmental benefits. The business network for social and environmental is a combination of business professionals to exchange experiences and a coordination of business people with a similar paradigm regarding an operation of the business with responsibility on social and environment. This mission is social and environmental, the rights of community and society, as well as operates fair business with all parties. 3.6 Support for production in jewelry design contest GIT PRANDA Group is supporting a production in jewelry design contest which was run by The Gem and Jewelry Institute of Thailand (Public Company) or GIT. The contest aims to support a development and support a professional jewelry designer. Based on PRANDA Group’s operation in the past, the company has been caring for its personnel, the community and society. More importantly, business operation cannot be separated from the society. Business cannot only operate for business profit, without ignoring society any longer. If the society faces any problems, this will result in a recession of the business. PRANDA Group In accordance with principles of Sustainable Development Goals 1: NO POVERTY DEBT REDUCTION PROJECT COOPERATIVE PROJECT 2: NO HUNGER FOOD QUALITY INSPECTION PROJECT 3: GOOD HEALTH QUALITY OF LIFE PROJECT 4: QUALITY EDUCATION PRANDA GROUP ACADEMY DUAL VOCATIONAL PROJECT OCCUPATIONAL SUPPORT FOR THE DISABLED 5: GENDER EQUALITY SHAREING AND GIVING TO SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY 6: CLEAN WATER AND WASTE BANK SANITATION 7 SOR. ACTIVITY 7: CLEAN ENERGY INNOVATION PROJECT 9: INNOVATION AND ENEGY SAVING PROJECT INFARSTRUCTURE 8: GOOD JOBS AND DUAL VOCATIONAL PROJECT ECONOMIC GROWTH OCCUPATIONAL SUPPORT FOR THE DISABLED QUALITY OF LIFE PROJECT 10: REDUCE INEQUALITIES DUAL VOCATIONAL PROJECT OCCUPATIONAL SUPPORT FOR THE DISABLED 11: SUSTAINABLE CITIES AND COMMUNITIES FOOD QUALITY INSPECTION 12: RESPONSIBLE PROJECT CONSUMTION PRE-SCHOOL CHILD DEVELOPMENT CENTER QUALITY OF LIFE PROJECT 13: PROTECT THE PLANET ENEGY SAVING PROJECT 14: LIFE BELOW WATER SHAREING AND GIVING TO 15: LIFE ON LAND SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY 16: PEACE AND JUSTICE QUALITY OF LIFE PROJECT 17: FOR THE GOALS SHAREING AND GIVING TO SOCIETY AND COMMUNITY Honorary Reward of PRANDA Group Mr. Prida Tiasuwan, Board Chairman of Pranda Jewelry PLC was presented “the Commerce Diamond Awards 2016 , by Minister of Commerce to Entrepreneur of the industrial goods sectors, who made valuable contributions to the nation's economy, trade and commerce Prima Gold, 24K gold jewelry brand operated under Pranda Group, was chosen as an Honouree of “JNA Awards 2016” for the category of Brand of the Year – Retail. JNA Awards is described as ‘the Oscar’ of the jewelry and gemstone industry honouring companies for innovation, excellency and advancement of trade and achievements made in Asia. Pranda Jewelry Public Limited Company was certified “ISO 9001:2015” the latest quality standard of Jewelry Industry granted to PRANDA as the first company in Thailand. Pranda Jewelry PLC received a certificate showing a role model enterprise which has good management to prevent drug problem from the department of Labor Protection and Welfare. Pranda Jewelry PLC, Nakhonratchasima received a certificate of the “Standards in Prevention and Resolution to Drug Problems in an Establishment.” Pranda Jewelry PLC, Nakhonratchasima was awarded “Establishment with Outstanding Workplace Relations and Labour Welfare of the 2. Year 2016” by the Department of Labour Protection and Welfare. Pranda Jewelry PLC received a trophy from the Department of Labor Protection and Welfare as the good enterprise having a standardized child care centre in a workplace. “PRIMA ART” of Prima Gold International Co., Ltd. manufactured by Pranda Jewelry PLC was awarded for arts and culture “Premium Products of Thailand 2016 ” by Ministry of Industry. • • The Company was evaluated “Excellent and being a good model” for the quality assessment of the 2016 Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the shareholders from the Office of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), in cooperation with the Thai Listed Companies Association and the Thai Investors Association. • The Company received “Very Good” recognition (four stars) for the Corporate Governance Report of Thai Listed Companies 2016 from the Thai Institute of Directors (IOD).
