ANNUAL REPORT 2016 2, Telegade, 2630 Taastrup, CVR no. 25050053 Contents  Notes and accounting policies Preface .........................................................3 applied ....................................................31 The management’s review ..........................8 Operating activities................................... 67  Report Financial Activities ...................... 9  Transport contract 2015-2024 ................67  Outlook for 2017 .................................... 11  Productivity .............................................67  A look into the future: 10 years with  Punctuality ..............................................68 complexity .............................................. 11  Customers ...............................................69  Safety ..................................................... 12  Rolling stock situation .............................73  Risk management ................................... 13  Reputation ..............................................77  Corporate governance ............................ 15  Supplemental key figures ........................78  Statements to the Danish Business  Income statement by quarter ..................84 Authority ................................................ 19  Key figure definitions ..............................85 Management statement and auditors’ Line Accounts ............................................ 86 reports ....................................................... 20 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) .... 109  Management Statement ......................... 20  Independent auditors’ report .................. 21 About DSB ............................................... 121 Consolidated annual accounts and  Board of Directors ................................ 121 annual accounts .........................................25  Executive Board ................................... 124  Management ........................................ 125  Profit and loss statement ....................... 25  Organisation......................................... 126  Balance sheet – assets ............................ 26  Financial calendar 2017 ........................ 127  Balance sheet – liabilities and equity ...... 27  Publications .......................................... 127  Statement of changes in equity .............. 28  Company details .................................. 127  Equity statement (continued).................. 29  Cash flow statement............................... 30 2 Contents Preface DSB’s result before tax in 2016 were a loss of DKK 2,193 million as a consequence of write-downs of IC4 and IC2 train sets. Adjusted for write-downs and other non-recurring items, DSB delivered a profit before tax of DKK 381 million.  Punctuality was a challenge for Long-distance and Regional train traffic, the S-train fulfilled contractual requirements  The procurement process for new and modern electric rolling stock got off to a good start. New electric locomotives are expected to be put into operation from the beginning of 2020  A comprehensive fare reform for Zealand was launched in January 2017  In 2016, an increased number of low fare tickets were sold and the customers’ self-service possibilities were improved. Despite a loss before tax of DKK 2,193 million, DSB can present a fundamentally sound financial situation in its annual accounts. Profit before tax amounted to DKK 381 million when adjusted for non-recurring items. The interest-bearing debt was reduced by about DKK 1.1 billion. Overall, DSB’s finances create the conditions for DSB ability to finance the planned purchase of 26 electric locomotives to replace the aging and polluting diesel locomotives and, in the longer term, also purchase new electric trains in the period towards 2024. Profit/loss before tax adjusted for non-recurring items1) DKK million 2016 Loss before tax -2,193 Write-down of 77 IC4 train sets (2nd half-year 2016) 2,058 Write-downs of 23 IC2 and 5 IC4 train sets (1st half-year 2016) 673 Write-down other tangible assets, Single-person operation Kystbanen (Coastal line) 36 Net gains on real estate, etc. -193 Adjusted profit before tax 381 1) A minus indicates that the correction has had a positive effect on profit/loss before tax. The above shows the four items that constitute the difference between Loss before tax and Adjusted profit before tax . The 23 IC2 train sets and 5 unfinished IC4 train sets were already fully written down by DKK 673 million in connection with the interim accounts. IC2 train sets were only in very limited use in operations and did not meet the stability requirements that are essential for use in daily train services. At the same time, it was estimated that there will be no need for completing the development of the 5 unfinished IC4 train sets where development work had already been suspended. In December 2016, DSB presented its analysis of the future of the IC4 train sets to the Parliament’s Transport, Construction and Housing Committee. The conclusion was that operating experience has shown that improvement initiatives have not been reflected in an increased operating stability, and the remaining 77 IC4 train sets will primarily run as regional trains and this only during a period until DSB begins phasing in new electric trains in 2024. Subsequently, the IC4-train sets will be phased out in pace with the introduction of the new trains. The value of the 77 IC4 Preface 3 train sets will, as a consequence of the decision be written-down by DKK 2,058 million, corresponding to half the book value. The punctuality of Long-distance & Regional train traffic was challenged in 2016, which was an inconvenience for our 200,000 daily customers 3 out of 4 Long-distance & Regional train traffic customers arrived within 3 minutes of the scheduled time. This is not a satisfactory result and does not live up to DSB’s and Banedanmark’s common goal for customer punctuality of 81.8 percent. Customer satisfaction declined marginally from 8.0 to 7.9 primarily due to the unsatisfactory punctuality. The customer punctuality has been challenged by issues relating to infrastructure, including track maintenance and signal faults, by the introduction of ID-verifications at the borders to Sweden and from Germany and an increasing number of technical faults on DSB's trains. More than half of the year’s delays are due to circumstances which DSB does not have direct control. DSB has an ongoing dialogue with Banedanmark (the Danish national railway network agency) on aspects relating to the infrastructure, so that there is greater assurance that more track work will be carried out on schedule. Operator Punctuality the part of punctuality that DSB is accountable for in the Long-distance & Regional train was, at 92.0 percent, 1.8 percentage points from the year target. DSB has launched a number of initiatives to help bring punctuality back up to the level demanded by the traffic contract. The initiatives include among other recruitment of up to an additional 200 employees at DSB's workshops, so that there will be more resources to reduce the number of delaying faults on trains. It is not satisfactory that so many DSB customers experienced delays in 2016. We have launched a number of initiatives to ensure more trains on time. Due to the new initiatives, DSB's operator punctuality has, in December 2016 and January 2017, been above the target in the contract with the state. While it is too early to draw a conclusion, it suggests that we are on the right track, Flemming Jensen, CEO S-train on time almost all the time The 300,000 daily customers in the Copenhagen S-trains could again in 2016 be happy with a punctuality on the right side of the goal. 92.6 percent of customers arrived on time. This result is on the right side of DSB’s and Banedanmark’s common goal of 92.3 percent. However, there are also customers in the S-trains that have experienced challenges in 2016. This applies especially on the line between Køge and Hillerød, where Banedanmark has worked intensively with the renewal of tracks and signals. Operator punctuality for S-trains was 98.4 percent almost a percentage point above the target of 97.5 percent. The challenges to punctuality in connection with track and signal work is the main reason for customer satisfaction in S-trains falling 0.2 points to 8.0 for the year. 4 Preface New modern trains will simplify and streamline train services It is DSB's goal to replace the aging train fleet with a modern and uniform train fleet with the benefits this provides the customers. In the coming year, a political decision must be taken regarding a tenders of new electric trains for Denmark for both Long-distance and Regional train traffic. DSB will present a draft for the purchase of new electric trains to be put into operation in the middle of the next decade as the electrification of the train network to Aarhus and Aalborg. DSB has already decided initially to buy 26 new electric locomotives, scheduled to be put into operation from the start of 2020 as Banedanmark’s electrification of the Zealand track network. New electric locomotives and electric trains means a farewell to the majority of DSB's diesel driven train fleet and replacing this with a simple, modern and environmentally friendly train fleet to the benefit of DSB's customers and DSB's efficiency. Easier to be a customer simpler prices on Zealand and Lolland-Falster In 2016, it was decided to implement a comprehensive reform of tariff systems in public transport on Zealand and Lolland-Falster. In close cooperation with Movia and Metro, DSB has worked intensively to prepare the new fare system, which were launched in January 2017. It is very satisfying that train, bus and metro customers on Zealand, Lolland-Falster and Møn now have one combined tariff system where the Rejsekort (travel card) always provides the cheapest possible standard single ticket. With the tariff reform, the majority of customers have lower or unchanged prices, but with such a large restructuring, it is unfortunately inevitable that there are customers who have experienced rising prices. More customers in S-trains, cheaper tickets and more self-service options The Copenhagen S-train could this year note a 2 percent increase in passengers. In total, 116.3 million journeys were sold on the S-train in the 2016. The number of journeys sold in Long-distance & Regional train traffic fell by 2.2 million journeys. Adjusted for extraordinary factors such as ID-verifications and the transfer of Grenaa line to Midttrafik, Long-distance & Regional train traffic are estimated to have a 0.4 percent increase in the number of journeys. DSB's Orange tickets concept on trains outside of peak hours, with available seat capacity has caught on in the past year. Just over 1 million Orange tickets have been sold, which is twice as many as in 2015. DSB has, among other, introduced a new pricing structure, where tickets from Copenhagen to Aarhus start at 99 kroner. In addition, DSB introduced Orange tickets on travels in the regional trains. The tickets are available on lines covering more than 7 zones and have a starting price of DKK 39. Finally, you can buy Orange tickets simply and easily in the DSB App. DSB's focus on the development of digital sales channels continued in 2016, and the customer self-service rate at the end of the year was just under 85 percent. In the DSB App, in addition to regular tickets, it is now possible to also buy, for example, an electronic 10-trip card. During the period, a new online store selling international tickets has been opened, and finally the spreading of the Rejsekort (travel card) is continuing. By the end of December, there were 2 million active Rejsekort (travel cards). Preface 5 Better and more stable internet in trains is high on the customer’s wish list for the train ride. The Danish government has set aside DKK 100 million for Banedanmark to build additional cell towers as a precondition for better coverage along the train lines. Combined with the cooperation between DSB and the telecommunications companies to install signal amplifiers on trains and DSB’s installation of Wi-Fi, the way is paved for better internet on the trains, which will make the train a functional workplace. 2016 has also offered improved services to DSB's customers at the closest level. It is now possible for train passengers between Aarhus and Copenhagen to buy a snack bag with water, potato chips, and chocolate, and, at the same time, it has been decided to install vendor machines in the trains where customers can buy cold drinks. DSB's desire is to ensure our customers as easy and convenient travel as possible. I want to thank DSB's employees for their outstanding and dedicated performance in a year where the company and its customers have been challenged by an unsatisfactory punctuality Flemming Jensen, CEO Taastrup, 9 February 2017 _________________________ _______________________ Peter Schütze Flemming Jensen Chairman of the Board CEO The annual report is published in both a Danish and an English language version. In the event of any discrepancies the Danish language version shall prevail. 6 Preface Preface 7 The management’s review Financial highlights DSB Group (DKK million) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Pct. change Net revenue1) 11,101 11,359 11,388 11,153 11,039 -1 Total income 2) 12,120 12,340 12,772 12,258 12,248 0 Of these, non-recurring items 135 34 282 85 193 Total expenses 9,764 9,558 9,323 9,332 9,503 2 Profit/loss before amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 2,356 2,782 3,449 2,926 2,745 -6 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 1,701 1,892 2,247 2,023 4,634 Of these, non-recurring items 33 24 323 127 2,767 Operating profit/loss 655 890 1,202 903 -1,889 Profit/loss before tax 115 386 670 580 -2,193 Profi before tax adjusted for non-recurring items 219 466 624 622 381 Profit/loss for the year 3) 50 483 482 446 -1,704 Balance sheet total 24,486 23,465 21,947 20,369 16,534 -19 Total equity 5,050 5,917 6,301 6,931 5,338 -23 Interest-bearing liabilities, net 11,652 11,075 9,314 7,162 6,034 -16 Profit ratio (EBIT margin)* 5.9 7.8 10.6 8.1 -17.1 Return on equity (ROE)* 1.0 8.8 7.9 6.7 -27.8 Return on invested capital after tax (ROIC after tax)* 2.6 5.0 5.4 4.7 -11.5 Gearing* 4.9 4.0 2.7 2.4 2.2 -8 Equity ratio* 20.6 25.2 28.7 34.0 32.3 -5 Interest coverage* 1.5 2.0 3.1 2.7 -5.9 Average number of full-time employees 8,818 7,977 7,564 7,438 7,285 -2 Number of full-time employees at year-end 8,379 7,807 7,351 7,302 7,239 -1 Productivity – (Danish activities) 4) Passenger and transport contract revenues per seat kilometre 56 55 -2 (øre/kilometre) Passenger Revenue per seat kilometre (øre/kilometre) 29 31 7 Costs per seat kilometre, excluding non-recurring items 58 56 -3 (øre/kilometre) Customer punctuality 5) Long Distance & Regional Trains (percent) 80.2 78.6 82.6 78.5 74.0 S-train (percent) 91.7 92.9 93.6 95.0 92.6 Operator punctuality 6) Long Distance & Regional Trains (percent) 94.7 94.6 95.5 94.4 92.0 S-train (percent) 98.2 98.5 98.9 99.0 98.4 Customers Customers in Denmark (million customers) 7) 181.7 186.0 189.1 192.7 192.6 0 ”Customer satisfaction for this journey” – (Danish activities) 7.8 7.9 8.0 8.0 7.9 -1 Reputation Users of Long-distance & Regional Trains 52.1 49.1 51.1 51.5 49.7 -3 Users of S-trains 58.2 55.3 56.1 59.1 55.6 -6 Non-users of Long-distance & Regional trains 43.5 39.2 46.0 43.6 41.5 -5 1) Revenue includes revenue relating to the railway business. 2) Total income includes income from activities not related to the railway business. 3) Tax on profit/loss for the year 2013 was affected by a revenue of DKK 138 million (reduced tax liability) as a consequence of the gradual reduction of the corporation tax rate from 25 percent in 2013 to 22 percent in 2016. 4) Seat kilometres are calculated as the number of seats contained in a litra unit multiplied by the number of litra-kilometres travelled. 5) Customer punctuality for Long-distance and Regional train traffic is defined as the number of passengers using punctual trains in relation to the total number of passengers. In 2016, Øresund is included in Long-distance & Regional trains. Customer punctuality for the S-train network is defined as the proportion of passengers who may arrive punctually on the basis of the passengers' expected travel pattern and the operated train traffic. Arrivals are considered punctual if they are delayed less than 3 minutes. Cancellations that are not notified 72 hours in advance are calculated as a delay. In 2015, with the signing of a new traffic contract, the calculation method has changed. 6) Operator punctuality is the total punctuality less any delays due to circumstances for which DSB is not responsible. In 2016, Øresund is included in Long-distance & Regional trains. Arrivals are considered punctual if they are delayed less than 3 minutes. Cancellations due to circumstances at DSB that are not notified 72 hours in advance are calculated as a delay. In 2015, with the signing of a new traffic contract, the calculation method has changed. 7) Customers in Denmark in 2012, 2013, 2014, and 2015 adjusted compared to previously published figures due to the final journey inventories, etc. calculated as the number of journeys. * Calculated pursuant to the definitions laid down in Definitions of Financial Ratios. 8 The management’s review Report Financial Activities In December 2016, DSB presented a recommendation concerning the future completion DSB's result before tax for 2016 was a loss of and commissioning of IC4 train sets. DKK 2,193 million. Adjusted for write-downs of IC4 and IC2 train sets and other non-recurBased on the accumulated operational experiring items, profit before tax was DKK 381 milence, the conclusion was that IC4 will not be lion. the core of Danish train transport, as the improvement initiatives have not been reflected Result before tax was DKK 2,773 million less in an increased operating stability. IC4 train than in 2015. sets are planned to be used exclusively for regional trains in contrast to the original plan, in Net interest-bearing liabilities were markedly which the IC4 was to be used for long-disreduced compared with year-end 2015. This tance traffic. development means that the gearing has improved in 2016, while the equity ratio is reThe conclusion was also that IC4 train sets duced as a result of write-downs on IC4 and will be used in operation until the new electric IC2 train sets. trains are put into operation equivalent to an average expected phasing out of all IC4 train Result before tax was, in 2016, affected by a sets by the end of 2024. number of non-recurring items. As a result of the reassessment of the exTable 1: Profit/loss before tax adjusted for non-repected future use of the IC4 and IC2 train sets curring items1) including an assessment of developments in DKK million 2016 2015 the operation, functionality, and capacity needs and following the deployment plan asProfit/loss before tax -2,193 580 sociated with electrification the management Write-down of 77 IC4 train sets (2nd half year 2016) 2,058 has, in 2016, completed a review of the book Write-down of 23 IC2and 5 IC4 train sets values resulting in the writing-down of all IC2 673 127 (1st half year 2016) train sets by DKK 588 million full write-down Write-down other tangible assets, Single36 of 5 IC4 train sets (NT) by DKK 85 million, a person operation Kystbanen (Coastal line) total of DKK 673 million, and partial writeNet gains on real estate, etc. -193 -85 down of the remaining 77 IC4 train sets by Adjusted profit before tax 381 622 DKK 2,058 million. 1) A minus indicates that the correction has had a positive effect on profit/loss before tax. The conclusion of ”supplementary contract 1” to the traffic contract with the Danish state As mentioned, profit before tax adjusted for has affected the result before tax negatively non-recurring items amount to DKK 381 milby DKK 219 million. Furthermore, the result lion. The adjusted profit before tax in 2015 before tax are negatively affected by both lost was DKK 622 million. passenger revenues and costs in connection with the introduction of ID-verification to enLoss before tax is affected by the write-down ter Sweden and the border control from Geron IC4 and IC2 train sets. The write-down many. should be seen in the context with the procurement of new rolling stock both electric Net interest-bearing liabilities have been relocomotives and electric train sets is exduced by DKK 1,128 million and constituted pected to reduce the dependence on both IC4 DKK 6,034 million as at 31 December 2016. It and IC2 train sets allowing for a controlled is mainly cash flows from operating activities phasing out. that have made it possible to repay loans. The The management’s review 9 positive cash flows from operations can espeFinally, the passenger revenue is negatively cially be contributed to amortisation, depreciaffected by increased payments for the travel ation and write-downs of the existing rolling time guarantee scheme and provisions for loss stock substantially exceeding investments in on control charges. new rolling stock. Revenue from traffic contracts fell by DKK 489 By the end of 2016, Gearing amounted to 2.2 million and amounted to DKK 4,394 million. (2.4), Return on invested capital after tax This decrease was partly due to the transition -11.5 (4.7) and solvency ratio 32.3 (34.0). to a new contract for the Øresund line and the DSB’s balance sheet totalled DKK 16,534 mileffect of supplementary contract 1 on a relion as of 31 December, 2016 compared to duction of contract payment. Moreover, traffic DKK 20,369 million at the end of 2015. The contract revenues are negatively affected by decrease in assets is primarily affected by the discontinuation of German activities. at amortisation, depreciation and write-downs the end of 2015. of tangible assets. The liabilities are mainly reduced by the repayment of debt and equity Sales from shops, etc. increased by DKK 34 reduction. million and amounted to DKK 856 million. The development is primarily attributable to taken In 2016, DSB has invested DKK 1,147 million over eight kiosks on Kystbanen in 2016. (DKK 803 million). Investments mainly included major overhauls of long-distance and Sales of repairs and maintenance of rolling regional trains, S-trains as well as acquisition stock, etc. amounted to DKK 282 million and of the Shopping centre at the Central station have increased by DKK 25 million (Hovedbanegårdens Forretningscenter, the shops located at the centre of the train station Leasing of rolling stock fell by DKK 209 milhall). lion, representing DKK 13 million. The development is affected by discontinuation of the Income activity relating to the leasing of Øresund The net revenue in the DSB Group was DKK multiple train sets to the Ministry of Trans11,039 million in 2016 (DKK 11,153 million). port, Building and Housing that, in 2015, as traffic provider made these available to DSB The passenger revenue was DKK 5,494 milØresund for the operation of the Coastaland lion, equivalent to an increase of DKK 525 milKastrupline. lion. The reason for the increase is mainly that passenger revenues from the Øresund activity Work performed by the enterprise and capiin 2016 accrued to DSB as opposed to 2015 talised amounted to DKK 674 million and inwhere DSB Øresund was fully financed by creased by DKK 137 million. The reason for contract payment while passenger revenues this is that several major overhauls of S-trains accrued to the Danish state. and Øresund train sets were carried out as well as increased activation of IT development In addition, the passenger revenue is posiprojects. tively affected by an increased number of Strain journeys. Conversely, there were fewer Other operating income amounted to DKK journeys in the long-distance traffic as a result 535 million in 2016, representing a decrease of the major track maintenance on Funen. The of DKK 33 million. This is primarily due to lines that are not affected by significant and lower sales of electricity and services, parexceptional circumstances, have created travel tially offset by increased gains on property growth. sales. 10 The management’s review Expenses bearing liabilities but set off by costs in conExpenses totalled DKK 9,503 million in 2016 nection with repayment of loans with related (DKK 9,332 million). interest and currency swaps. Costs of raw materials and consumables inDividend for the Ministry of Transport, creased by DKK 52 million and totalled DKK Building and Housing 1,903 million in 2016. This development is afThe Board of Directors recommends that the fected by increased cost of sales of kiosk Annual Meeting adopts a resolution that no products as a consequence of taken over of dividend will be paid for 2016. eight kiosks on the Kystbane (Coastal line). In addition, costs of Spare parts, etc. have also Claw Back increased. Conversely, costs of Energy for The final calculations regarding the excess train operation have decreased. payments for 2016 pursuant to the contract between the Ministry of Transport and DSB Other external expenses increased by DKK 91 regarding train services provided as a public million to DKK 3,864 million. This developservice in the period 2015-2024 (clawback) ment was partly attributable to higher consuldid not cause an adjustment of the revenue tancy costs as a result of increased costs for IT from the transport contract. development and preparation for future train the transport contract. acquisitions. In addition, there are increased marketing costs and external costs for repair Outlook for 2017 and maintenance of buildings, which were previously handled by DSB's own employees. In 2017, DSB will intensify its activities for improvement of operations in order to improve Staff costs amounted to DKK 3,736 million in punctuality. For this purpose, up to 200 em2016 (3,708 million). The cost is negatively afployees will be recruited at the workshops in fected by the contractual salary adjustment order to reduce the number of defects in rolland ongoing severance costs. Conversely, the ing stock which cause delays. development is positively affected by the transfer of the Odenwald line in Germany in On August 2017, regional train traffic in North 2015 to a new operator, a reduction in the Jutland will be transferred from DSB to number of employees partially due to the conNordjyske Jernbaner. tract concluded on Facility Management services, and fewer employees in customeroriDSB's economy is still affected by the introented functions. duced ID-verifications at the Swedish border and the border control from Germany, which Amortisation, depreciation and writeleads to increased costs and, not least, pasdowns senger turnover losses. The check is, in both Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs cases, expected to be extended to May 2017. have increased by DKK 2,611 million to DKK 4,634 million in 2016. The increase is primarily DSB expects result before tax and non-recurwrite-downs of the IC4 and IC2 fleet. After ring items in the order of DKK 500 million for adjustment for non-recurring items, amortisa2017. tion, depreciation and write-downs were at the same level as 2015. A look into the future: 10 years with complexity Financial items In 2016, net financials represented a cost of Not only in 2017 but also in following years, DKK 304 million (DKK 323 million). Net finanthe Danish railway sector will experience mascials are positively affected by lower interestsive changes as a result of the infrastructure The management’s review 11 investments made in the signal program, elec2016 was to ensure maintenance and imtrification and the purchase of new electric provement of the existing safety level, imtrains. prove the safety management system and support implementation of the system. Work on the new safety management system is also supported by the establishment of an operational risk profile and improvement of the implemented risk assessments. Table 2: Incidents1) Number Increase 2016 2015 Abs. % Important accidents 17 13 4 31 Injuries Deaths 5 8 -3 -38 Serious 10 5 5 100 injuries Minor injuries 71 37 34 92 Signal overruns Secured area (A-B-C) 167 158 9 6 Unsecured area Overall, the projects have the potential to 102 122 -20 -16 (D-E) cause a significant structural improvement in Hereof signal overruns train operation to benefit the customers with involving a high danger 24 26 -2 -8 potential shorter travel times, increased punctuality and Defective wheels or axmore reliable train operation and a significant les 8 12 -4 -33 improvement in DSB's operating economy. Timely delivery of the projects is therefore 1) The table includes the most important safety indicators for Long-distance & Regional trains and S-trains in 2016. crucial for DSB's ability to meet customers' legitimate demands for efficient and punctual Due to an increase in the number of signal trains. overrun episodes in 2015 and continued negative development in 2016 in the secured area, Safety DSB has initiated additional measures to reduce the number of signal overrun episodes in In 2016, DSB intensified its work with impleorder to restore a positive development in mentation and further development of DSB’s this area. The analysis work and the implesafety management system, which was commentation of the measures will continue in missioned as of November 2015. 2017. With the new process-based safety manageIn 2016, DSB has seen a negative development system, DSB can maintain and develop ment in relation to person collision incidents operational safety and strengthen managerial and thus also personal injuries. This tendency control of the company’s safety activities and can be explained by inappropriate and carecompetences. less passenger behaviour. In order to counter this tendency, DSB has made an effort to inBased on the work with implementing and fluence passenger behaviour through the camfurther developing DSB’s safety management paign ”Hovedet under armen” (thoughtlesssystem, the focus of inspections conducted in ness), which focuses on passenger behaviour and safety. 12 The management’s review volve everything from safety, punctuality, cusFurthermore, DSB increased the focus on tomer satisfaction, reputation and financial safety in connection with departure proceposition. dures and has implemented the first part of a multi stage attention and behaviour campaign The transport contract, which lays down the targeting especially the passengers. The initiageneral guidelines for DSB as a train operator tive also supports the observance of DSB’s for a 10-year period, includes objectives for safety policy. punctuality and finances which must be met. The fulfilment of the objectives of the contract Train operations is a very safe mode of will be assessed at the middle of the contract transport, DSB remains among the safest opperiod. DSB will continuously focus and folerators in Europe, according to an analysis low up on the fulfilment of these contract performed by the Boston Consulting Group. conditions. However, there is an inherent risk in the current rolling stock problems with an DSB manages the risk of accidents through ageing train fleet and the many structural operational focus on railway safety and DSB’s changes which have to be made in the coming new safety management system. Neverthedecade, including new Signal Programme, less, DSB is exposed to circumstances beyond electrification and track work. its control, such as storms or terror. DSB manages this risk by having emergency preparedA new sector analysis carried out by the Minness procedures and plans and through emeristry of Transport, Building and Housing may gency drills in close cooperation with other be important for the allocation of work within players including the national emergency rethe sector in the long term. This will be imsponse. portant when determining whether DSB’s role and responsibility for the train operation in In December 2016, DSB received renewed seDenmark under the current Transport Contract curity certificate for operation of the railway will change. However, any such change is not company. The certification is for one year, as expected to take effect until after the expiry in 2017 DSB shall show that the new safety of the current contract period in 2024. management system is in use and is effective. DSB is subject to constant public exposure and Risk management as a provider of a Public Service it is directly or indirectly impacted by the population’s or DSB has developed a uniform risk managethe politicians’ requirements and wishes for ment concept, based on the risks involved in public transport in Denmark. Changing condithe realisation of DSB’s strategic targets. The tions may affect the general customer experirisk management concept is implemented ence and have a negative financial effect. An throughout DSB and the practical handling is attempt is being made to handle this risk by rooted in the business through a clear allocabeing competitive and having a punctual core tion of ownership and responsibility for risk product and continous streamlining. handling. Commercial risks In addition, risk handling is integrated in vital In recent years, increased sales of cheap mibusiness processes, including approval of incro-cars, the emergence of car-pooling forms vestments and major programmes. and additional inexpensive buses has increased the competition. This applies to naRisks are defined as uncertainty associated tional traffic as well as on other lines that with DSB’s future objectives, which may inhave been affected by major track works and/or ID or border controls. The management’s review 13 Increased digitisation of salesand customer DSB to organise train traffic best as possible systems is an important focus area for DSB. with the least possible inconvenience for the The aim is to be able to offer a better cuscustomers. tomer experience and more competitive products. In the short term, however, there is a Rolling stock risk of loss of customer satisfaction and inRolling stock deliveries are essential for DSB's creased costs of maintenance of several paralability to provide a satisfactory product for lel product systems. DSB’s customers. Workshop management, follow-up on changed transport patterns, priThe harmonisation of fare systems across oritisation of resources and spare part planDenmark should make it easier to be a cusning and improvement of the operational statomer. Tariff Zealand was launched in January bility of the IC4 train sets are some of the 2017. Tariff West has not yet launched. DSB identified measures to be handled. An attempt does not yet know how customers will react will be made to minimise this risk with initiato the new fare systems and thereby how this tives within the individual measures to be will affect DSB’s ticket revenue. DSB has and handled. will seek to minimise the risk through ongoing dialogue between DSB, the ministry and the Financial risks other parties on products, customer experiIn connection with ongoing operations and fiences and common solutions. nancing, DSB is impacted by the development and pricing on the financial markets. The most The harmonisation of fares also involves maimportant risks are associated with uncertain jor changes to the underlying IT-systems and interest rates and energy prices. All financial an extraordinary effort is being made to minirisks and how they are accounted for are demise the inconvenience associated with the scribed detailed in the notes. changes. IT security DSB continuously analyses the trends and the DSB is aware of the risk of loss of data overall competitive situation and prepares or breakdown of systems due to cyber crime marketingand product initiatives including attacks. DSB is striving to minimise the threat Orange tickets. and the consequences of cyber crime attacks. In addition to a strong focus on IT technology, Infrastructure DSB is also committed to developing an emDSB is dependent on Banedanmark’s planned ployee culture in which IT security is always at infrastructure expansion following the planned the back of the minds of the employees. timetable. The roll-out of the new signal system and electrification of the main lines are Business critical projects essential in order for DSB to be able to deliver On the basis of qualitative criteria, a number stable train operations during the contract peof business-critical projects are identified. riod and for the rolling stock in which DSB inThese are continuously reported to DSB’s vests to be used on the infrastructure. Board of Directors: Work on upgrading the signal system will in Train of the Future volve several and major track closures for  The signal program many years to come with inconvenience for  Future Accounting and Finance DSB’s customers. DSB cooperates with  The new personal data protection regBanedanmark to ensure that disruption for ulation  Internet in the trains DSB’s customers is minimised. Continuous co Improved liquidity ordination has been established with  Traffic information Banedanmark on planned track work to allow 14 The management’s review Compliance top priority. DSB handles this risk by surveilDSB may risk negative impact on its reputalance, cooperation with public authorities and tion or finances, in the event that the general training of staff in conflict management. legislation and ethical standards are not respected or in consequence of flawed proEnvironment cesses. Restrictions of authority, policies, There is growing focus on the environmental guidelines and DSB’s contract management impact from trains operations in relation to system as well as follow-up in this regard are neighbours, customers and employees. This intended to minimise the risk of fraud and erapplies to air pollution as well as noise. There rors. are risks that the growing focus may give rise to internal and external requirements for inThere is a risk of bribery and corruption in vestments which may reduce the environmenconnection with procurement and cooperation tal impact. Furthermore, the requirements with suppliers. DSB handles this risk by having may involve operational changes at workclear guidelines and policies in this area. In adshops and preparation centres, which may redition, DSB has a whistleblower scheme. sult in increased operating expenses. No breach of human rights has been detected DSB monitors the development and expects a in connection with purchasing. marked improvement concurrently with the updating of the rolling stock by a general tranDSB is focused on ensuring compliance with sition to electrical trains which comply with the new EU personal data protection regulathe latest standards. tion, which launches in May 2018. DSB has increased its efforts to ensure compliance with Corporate governance the legislation in this area. The increased digitisation of sales channels with customer-reRecommendations for corporate lated sensitive personal data also means that governance IT security and compliance with the legislation As an independent public corporation, DSB on protection of personal data are high priorifollows the state’s recommendations for corties at DSB porate governance as they appear in “The State as Shareholder, April 2015”. The rules of Social and employee risks procedure of the Board of Directors as well as For DSB, a failure to prevent work-related disDSB’s Articles of Association have been reorders would mean a loss of confidence in vised accordingly. The policy contains guideDSB as a company and workplace. DSB’s staff lines for the management of state corporaare especially exposed to violence and tions, including requirements, expectations threats. In addition, there is a risk of falling and recommendations for corporate governand stumbling accidents as well as being hit ance. by a train. DSB has managerial focus on a good working environment. Among other, loIn addition, DSB follows the recommendations cal campaigns have been launched to prevent of the Committee for Corporate Governance. falls and trips, and DSB monitors and follows DSB endeavours to comply with the recomup on nearby incidents . Initiatives to prevent mendations to the extent they are relevant to violence and threats have also been impleDSB and in a way that ensures that DSB is mented. also in compliance with the state recommendations and the Danish DSB Act. The recomFurthermore, the safety of customers and emmendations of the Committee for Corporate ployees at train stations and in the trains is a Governance are available on the website www.corporategovernance.dk. The management’s review 15 Based on the recommendations of the Comaudited by a state-authorised public accountmittee for Corporate Governance, a status on ant and by the Auditor General. DSB’s compliance with the recommendations for good corporate governance was prepared DSB’s Board of Directors is required to publish in 2016. This status was published on quarterly and interim reports pursuant to the www.dsb.dk under ”Good Corporate Governrequirements of the Danish Financial Stateance”. ments Act. The quarterly and interim reports must be submitted to the Minister for TransOpenness and transparency port, Building and Housing and to the Danish Business Authority. Communication DSB aims to make the dialogue between the DSB holds quarterly meetings with the Miniscorporation and its stakeholders (owner, custer for Transport, Building and Housing at tomers, partners and employees) as open and which the corporation’s financial situation is broad as possible, and to ensure that commudiscussed, among other things. nication is simple, factual and professionally correct. DSB has a stakeholder management The Ministry of Transport, Building and Houspolicy developed in collaboration with the ing lays down DSB’s accounting regulations in owner. pursuance of the Danish Railway Act. The customer ambassador Reporting on corporate social responsibility DSB’s customer ambassador processes cusPursuant to the Danish Financial Statements tomer complaints and considers cases at their Act, DSB is required, as an independent public own initiative. One of the responsibilities of corporation, to publish a report on the corpothe customer ambassador is to contribute to ration’s approach to corporate social responsiensuring that DSB’s customers receive the serbility. Among other things, the report must invice to which they are entitled. The customer clude information about DSB’s corporate soambassador considers enquiries from customcial responsibility policies and how DSB puts ers who have previously had their case conits corporate social responsibility policies into sidered by DSB, but who do not feel that they practice. For 2016 the report is incorporated have received a satisfactory reply to their in the Annual Report under Corporate Social complaint. The customer ambassador submits Responsibility. DSB also prepares a separate half-yearly status reports, which are published annual environmental report which is pubon DSB’s website. lished on www.dsb.dk Publication of important matters Ethics DSB is under an obligation to notify the DanDSB’s management has, in cooperation with ish Business Authority as soon as possible of the unions and a number of business areas, all important matters relating to the corporaprepared an ethics policy which applies to all tion which may be presumed to be of imDSB’s employees. The rules describe how DSB portance to DSB’s future, owner, creditors or cooperates with external partners, how DSB employees. deals with attempts at bribery, DSB’s views on gifts and events, the rules governing supAll such notices are submitted electronically port to charity as well as DSB’s expectations via www.virk.dk. with regard to the integrity and impartiality of all its employees. Annual and interim reports As an independent public corporation DSB’s fiIn 2013, DSB established a whistleblower nancial reporting complies with the Danish Fischeme managed by the head of the internal nancial Statements Act. DSB’s annual report is audit function, who reports to the Auditing 16 The management’s review Committee. Through the whistleblower DSB regulation scheme, DSB’s employees can anonymously DSB is governed by Consolidated Act No. report suspicions of irregular conduct such as 1184 of 12 October 2010 on DSB with later violation of DSB’s Code of Conduct or financial amendments (the DSB Act). DSB’s Articles of fraud. In 2016, 9 reports were submitted via Association dated 17 December 2015 were isthe scheme. None of these are assessed to sued in pursuance of the DSB Act. have material consequences for DSB. Management committees Diversity DSB has established three management comIn 2016 DSB’s Board of Directors discussed mittees – Audit -, Remuneration and Rolling target figures for the underrepresented gender stock committees. on the Board of Directors. As an independent public corporation, DSB is covered by the DanAudit Committee ish Gender Equality Act from which it is apparThe Audit Committee assists the Board of Dient that the Board of Directors of the corporarectors with an independent assessment of tion should have a gender balance, i.e. miniwhether the company's financial reporting, inmum 1/3 of the underrepresented gender. This ternal control, risk management and statutory corresponds to the current composition of the audit are organised appropriately in the light of the company's and the group's size and Board of Directors (employee representatives complexity. The framework for the work of not included). DSB’s activities aimed at ensurthe Committee is defined in a terms of refering diversity at all management levels are deence. scribed in the Diversity section under Corporate Social Responsibility. By the end of 2016, the Audit Committee comprised the following members: Public access Carsten Gerner, chairman DSB’s Annual Meeting, which corresponds to Lars Andersen the annual general meeting in a limited liability company, is open to the press. Both members are deemed independent, however, Lars Andersen has been a member of The Minister for Transport, Building and HousDSB's Board of Directors since 1999. ing, the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and DSB’s auditors participate in DSB’s The Committee has held 5 meetings in 2016, Annual Meeting. A chairman appointed by the at which, among others, the following topics Minister for Transport, Building and Housing were dealt with: presides over the Annual Meeting.  Annual report and interim reports The ordinary Annual Meeting is held every  Audit reports and reporting year before the end of April. Furthermore,  Reporting from the whistleblower DSB’s Articles of Association and Annual Rescheme ports are published on www.dsb.dk  External auditor's independence and delivery of non-audit services According to the Danish DSB Act, the Danish  The audit committee’s tasks in relation Act on Public Access to Documents on Public to new accountancy legislation File, the Danish Public Administration Act and  Risk management the Danish Act on the Parliamentary Ombuds The valuation of the IC4 and IC2 train man apply to cases concerning DSB’s employsets ees and to the railway activities carried out by DSB as part of its provision of negotiated traffic. The management’s review 17 Remuneration Committee The Committee held 6 meetings in 2016, at The remuneration committee assists the which, among others, the following topics Board of Directors with the preparation of recwere dealt with: ommendations to the Board regarding remuneration policy and remuneration. The frame MDBF analysis work for the work of the Committee is de IC4 recommendation fined in a terms of reference.  Train of the Future By the end of 2016, the Remuneration comDSB’s management mittee comprised the following members, which all are independent: The Board of Directors, election and Annette Sadolin, chairman eligibility Peter Schütze DSB’s Board of Directors comprises directors Hans Christian Kirketerp-Møller elected by the Minister for Transport, Building and Housing at the ordinary Annual Meeting The Committee has held 4 meetings in 2016, as well as directors elected by the employees at which, among others, the following topics of DSB. were dealt with: The directors elected by the Minister shall be  DSB's Remuneration policy elected based on social, managerial and busi Remuneration of the Board of Direcness considerations so that the Board of Ditors rectors as a whole represents insight into  Pay conditions for management, directransport issues. Furthermore, the compositors, direct references to the CEO and tion of the Board of Directors ensures insight highly paid employees into financial issues.  Analysis of salary trends, assessment of salary development and tendencies The directors elected by the employees are of the entire DSB payroll elected in accordance with the provisions re Performance related pay, goal setting garding election of employee representatives and calculation and their alternates, including the rules gov Gender balance in the management erning group representation and eligibility Rolling stock Committee Every year, the Chairman of the Board of DiThe Rolling stock committee assists the Board rectors carries out a self-evaluation of the of Directors with the preparation of options work of the Board of Directors, the individual for the Board relating to acquisitions, reindirectors and the overall competencies of the vestment and divestment of the rolling stock Board of Directors. In addition to complying where the size of the investment requires with the corporate governance recommendaBoard approval. The framework for the work tions the purpose is to identify any possibiliof the Committee is defined in a terms of refties for improvement of the work of the Board erence. of Directors and consequently its value creation. The special competencies of the Board of At the end of 2016, the Rolling stock commitDirectors are described on www.dsb.dk tee comprised the following members, which all are independent: Members of the Board of Directors are elected Christina Grumstrup Sørensen, chairman for a period of 2 years. Reelection may take Peter Schütze place for a period of 1 year or more. The MinPreben Steenholdt Pedersen ister of Transport, Building and Housing may at any time remove the directors elected by him at an Annual Meeting. 18 The management’s review Composition of the Board of Directors 2016 Statements to the Danish Business In 2016, DSB’s Board of Directors comprised Authority nine members, six members are elected by the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing 25 February 2016 and three by the employees. A list of DSB’s DSB’s Annual Report 2015 Board of Directors is available in the section “About DSB” in the Annual Report. 1 March 2016 Notice convening the ordinary Annual Meeting The members of the Board elected at the Anof DSB nual Meeting are regarded as independent, however, Lars Andersen has been a director 29 March 2016 since 1999. Minutes of ordinary Annual Meeting of DSB The management’s tasks and 12 May 2016 responsibilities DSB’s interim report for the first quarter 2016 The Board of Directors is in charge of the general and strategic management of DSB’s af23 August 2016 fairs. The Board of Directors employs and disInterim report 2016 misses the Executive Board and specifies its terms of employment. DSB’s Articles of Asso10 November 2016 ciation include a detailed description of the DSB’s interim report for 1st 3rd quarter 2016 tasks of the Board of Directors. The Executive Board comprises one to four members who are notified to the Danish Business Authority. The Executive Board is in charge of the dayto-day management of DSB. Remuneration in DSB The remuneration policy shall support DSB's strategy and values and its objective is to secure the basis for remuneration and employment terms in DSB. As an independent public corporation, DSB has a special obligation to ensure that the wage determination at DSB is based on integrity and openness. The remuneration policy is based on the relevant market for the position, taking into account the special circumstances involved in operating an independent public corporation. DSB does not wish to be a market leader but wishes to be able to attract and retain qualified employees at all levels. DSB no longer offers contracts with severance payment. The management’s review 19 Management statement and auditors’ reports Management Statement The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have today discussed and approved the annual report for DSB for 2016. The Annual Report is presented in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act and the Danish DSB Act. We consider the accounting policies applied to be appropriate. Accordingly, the Annual Report gives a true and fair view of the group's and the parent corporation’s assets, liabilities and financial position at 31 December 2016 and of the results of the group's and the parent corporation’s operations and the group’s cash flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 December 2016. In our view the management’s review contains a well-founded assessment of the development in the group’s and the parent corporation’s activities and financial conditions, the profit for the year and the group’s and the parent corporation’s financial position in general and a description of the most important risks and uncertainty factors to which the group and the parent corporation are subject. The Annual Report is recommended for approval by the Annual Meeting. Taastrup, 9 February 2017 Executive Board Flemming Jensen Thomas Thellersen Børner CEO CFO Anders Egehus Jürgen Müller Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Operations Strategy & Rolling stock The Board of Directors Peter Schütze Annette Sadolin Lars Andersen Chairman Vice-Chairman Carsten Gerner Helge Israelsen Christina Grumstrup Sørensen Hans Christian Kirketerp-Møller Preben Steenholdt Pedersen Birte Østergaard Petersen 20 Management statement and auditors’ reports Independent auditors’ report To the Minister of Transport, Building and Housing Conclusion We have audited the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts of the independent public corporation DSB for the financial year from 1 January to 31 december 2016, comprising income statement, balance sheet, equity statement and notes, including accounting policies, for the group as well as for the parent corporation and the consolidated cash flow statement. The consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts are presented in accordance with the provisions applying to reporting class D enterprises under the Danish Financial Statements Act and with the Danish DSB Act. In our view the consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts give a true and fair view of the group’s and the independent public corporation DSB’s assets, liabilities and financial position at 31. december 2016 and of the result of the group’s and the independent public corporation DSB’s activities and the group’s cash flows for the financial year from 1 January to 31 december 2016 in accordance with the provisions applying to reporting class D enterprises under the Danish Financial Statements Act and with the Danish DSB Act. Basis of opinion We have conducted our audit in accordance with international standards on auditing and the additional requirements applicable in Denmark as well as to good public auditing practice as the audit is carried out on the basis of the provisions in the Danish DSB Act. Our responsibility according to these standards and requirements is described in detail in the section Auditor’s responsibility for the annual accounts . The Auditor General is independent of the independent public corporation DSB pursuant to section 1 (6) of the Danish Auditor General’s Act and the approved auditor is independent of the corporation pursuant to international ethical rules for auditors (IESBA’s ethical rules) and the additional requirements applicable in Denmark. We have both fulfilled our other ethical obligations under these rules and requirements. We believe that the audit evidence obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Management’s responsibility for the annual accounts The management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts that give a true and fair view in accordance with the provisions applying to reporting class D enterprises under the Danish Financial Statements Act and with the Danish DSB Act. The management is also responsible for such internal controls as management determines are necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In the preparation of the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, the management is responsible for assessing the corporation’s ability to continue operations, providing information on conditions regarding continued operation, if relevant, and preparing the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts based on the going concern accounting principle unless the management intends to liquidate the corporation, suspend operations or has not other realistic alternative than to do so. Management statement and auditors’ reports 21 Auditors’ responsibility for the audit of the annual accounts Our aim is to obtain a high degree of assurance that the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts as a whole are free from material misstatement regardless of whether this is due to fraud or errors and to issue and auditor’s report and express an opinion. A high degree of assurance is a high level of assurance but it is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with international standards on audit and the additional requirements applicable in Denmark as well as good public auditing practice will always disclose material misstatement. Misstatements may occur as a result of fraud or error and may be regarded as material if it can reasonably be expected that the misstatement, or parts thereof, affects the financial decisions made by the users of the accounts based on the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts. As part of an audit conducted in accordance with international auditing standards and the additional requirements applicable in Denmark as well as good public auditor practice, we perform professional assessments and maintain professional scepticism during the audit. In addition:  We identify and assess the risk of material misstatement in the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts regardless of whether this is due to fraud or error, prepare and carry out audit procedures in response to these risks and obtain audit evidence that is adequate and suitable for forming a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting material misstatement due to fraud is higher than for material misstatement due to error since fraud may include conspiracies, forgery, intentional omission, misrepresentation or disregarding for internal control.  We obtain understanding of the internal control with relevance for the audit in order to be able to prepare audit procedures that are suitable under the circumstances but not in order to be able to express an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal controls.  We determine whether the accounting policies applied by the management are suitable and whether the accounting estimates made by management and related information are reasonable.  We express an opinion as to whether the management’s preparation of the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts based on the going concern accounting principle is suitable and whether, based on the audit evidence obtained, there is material uncertainty associated with events or conditions, which may give rise to significant doubt as to the corporation’s ability to continue operations. If we find that there is material uncertainty, we must state in our auditor’s report that the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts contain information on this or, if such information is not adequate, modify our opinion. Our opinion is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may result in the corporation being unable to continue operations.  We evaluate the overall presentation, structure and contents of the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, including the information in the notes, and whether the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts reflect the underlying transactions and events and thus present a true and fair view of these. We communicate with the executive management on the planned scope and timing of the audit as well as significant audit observations, including any significant defects in internal control which we identify during our audit. Statement on the management’s review The management is responsible for the management’s review. 22 Management statement and auditors’ reports Our opinion on the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts does not include the management’s review and we do not express any opinion with certainty on the management’s review. In connection with our audit of the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, it is our responsibility to read the management’s review and consider whether the management’s review is significantly inconsistent with the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts or our knowledge obtained during our audit or in any other way seems to contain material misstatement. Our responsibility is also to consider whether the management’s review contains the required information pursuant to the Danish Financial Statements Act. Based on the work performed, we find that the management’s review is in accordance with the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts and has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. We have not identified any material misstatement in the management’s review. Declaration pursuant to other legislation and other regulation Statement on legal-critical audit and performance audit The management is responsible for ensuring that the transactions comprised by the financial reporting are in accordance with grants, legislation and other rules and regulations and with agreements concluded and the usual practice and that appropriate financial considerations have been applied to the administration of the funds and the operation of the corporations comprised by the accounts. In connection with our audit of the consolidated annual accounts and the annual accounts, it is our responsibility, in accordance with good public auditing practice, to select relevant subjects for legal-critical audit as well as performance audit. During our legal-critical audit we verify with a high degree of certainty for the selected subjects whether the transactions comprised by the financial reporting are in accordance with grants, legislation and other rules and regulations and with agreements concluded and the usual practice. During our performance audit we assess with a high degree of certainty whether the systems, processes or transactions examined support the appropriate financial considerations applied to the administration of the funds and the operation of the corporations comprised by the accounts. If we conclude that our work has given rise to significant critical comments we must report on this. We have no significant critical comments to report in this connection. Copenhagen, 9 February 2017 Ernst & Young The National Audit Office of Denmark Authorised Limited Company of Accountants CVR No. 77806113 CVR No. 30700228 Jesper Koefoed Peter Gath State-authorised public State-authorised public Lone L. Strøm Malene Sau Lan Leung accountant accountant Auditor General Head of Office Management statement and auditors’ reports 23 24 Management statement and auditors’ reports Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Profit and loss statement Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Note Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Income 9,390 9,716 2,1 Net revenue 11,039 11,153 69 100 2.2 Work performed by the enterprise and capitalised 674 537 645 627 2.3 Other operating income 535 568 Of these, non-recurring items, net property gains, etc., -193 in 2016 10,104 10,443 Total income 12,248 12,258 Expenses 668 630 2.4 Expenses for raw materials and consumables 1,903 1,851 2.5,2.6, 4,271 4,780 2.7 Other external expenses 3,864 3,773 2,436 2,630 2.8, 2.9 Staff costs 3,736 3,708 7,375 8,040 Total expenses 9,503 9,332 2,729 2,403 Profit before amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 2,745 2,926 1,999 4,643 3.1, 3.2 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 4,634 2,023 Of these non-recurring items, write-down of IC2 and IC4 train sets and one-man operation Coastal Line -2,767 in 2016 730 -2,240 Operating profit/loss -1,889 903 Financials 104 268 4.2 Profit/loss after tax in group companies 0 0 23 16 4.1 Financial income 13 22 336 310 4.1 Financial expenses 317 345 -209 -26 Net financials -304 -323 521 -2,266 Profit/loss before tax -2,193 580 -75 562 5.1 Tax on profit/loss for the year 489 -134 446 -1,704 Profit/loss for the year -1,704 446 The profit/loss for the period are distributed as follows: Company participant in DSB -1,704 446 Minority interests 0 0 Profit/loss for the year -1,704 446 The parent corporation’s profit/loss is proposed to be allocated as follows: 173 0 Dividend for the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing 75 Reserve for development costs 273 -1,779 Retained profit/loss 446 -1,704 Total Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 25 Balance sheet – assets Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Note Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 3.1 Intangible assets 252 168 Other development projects 172 253 36 79 Intangible assets in progress and prepayments 79 40 288 247 Total intangible assets 251 293 3.2 Tangible assets 4,081 4,226 Land and buildings 4,607 4,548 12,204 8,778 Rolling stock 8,589 12,023 823 706 Operating equipment, fixtures and fittings and other equipment 856 985 155 114 Tangible assets in progress and advance payments 145 174 17,263 13,824 Total tangible assets 14,197 17,730 4.2 Investments 1,401 1,303 Equity investments in subsidiary and associated companies 0 0 22 28 Subordinated loan capital in group companies 256 250 Subordinated loan capital in associated companies 250 256 135 37 Other receivables 38 135 1,814 1,618 Total investments 288 391 19,365 15,689 Total non-current assets 14,736 18,414 14 11 6.1 Inventories 485 425 91 3.2 Properties held for sale 183 106 6.2 Receivables 678 488 Trade receivables 621 793 47 502 Receivables from group companies 0 44 Receivable joint taxation contribution 237 204 Other receivables 283 387 180 138 6.3 Prepayments 155 202 1,142 1,376 Total receivables 1,059 1,382 13 18 Cash at bank and in hand 71 42 1,169 1,496 Total current assets 1,798 1,955 20,534 17,185 Total assets 16,534 20,369 26 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Balance sheet – liabilities and equity Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Note Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Equity 4,760 4,760 Contributed capital 4,760 4,760 75 2.2 Reserve for development costs 1,998 503 Retained earnings 578 1,998 173 0 Proposed dividends 0 173 6,931 5,338 Company participant in DSB's share of equity 5,338 6,931 4.6 Minority interests 0 0 6,931 5,338 Total equity 5,338 6,931 Provisions 109 29 8.1 Other provisions 64 101 1,505 1,010 5.2 Deferred tax liabilities 918 1,390 1,614 1,039 Total provisions 982 1,491 Non-current liabilities 5,482 4,609 4.3 Long-term loans 4,609 5,482 4.3 Subordinated loan capital 2 2 769 591 Other non-current liabilities 591 769 335 302 Other liabilities 302 335 6,586 5,502 Total non-current liabilities 5,504 6,588 Current liabilities 1,156 229 4.3 Current portion of non-current liabilities 229 1,156 250 1,000 Short-term loans 1,000 250 269 199 Credit institutions 199 269 1,202 1,274 Trade accounts payables 1,639 1,521 648 1,221 Debt to group companies 81 61 Corporation tax 63 92 862 562 Other liabilities 793 1,070 935 760 6.4 Prepayments 787 1,001 5,403 5,306 Total current liabilities 4,710 5,359 11,989 10,808 Total liabilities 10,214 11,947 20,534 17,185 Total equity and liabilities 16,534 20,369 1.1 General accounting policies applied 1.2 Significant accounting estimates 1.3 Materiality in financial reporting Contingent assets and liabilities as well as Other financial obli8.2 gations 8.3 Related parties Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 27 Statement of changes in equity Amounts in DKK million Reserve for Contributed developRetained Proposed Total Parent corporation capital ment costs earnings dividends equity Equity at 1 January 2015 4,760 1,541 0 6,301 Profit for the year 273 173 446 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustments concerning affiliated companies 4 4 Value adjustment of hedging instruments, beginning of period 525 525 Value adjustment of hedging instruments, at end of period -342 -342 Equity movements in affiliated companies -3 -3 Equity at 31 December 2015 4,760 1,998 173 6,931 Paid dividends -173 -173 Contribution from the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing 42 42 Loss for the year 75 -1,779 0 -1,704 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustments concerning affiliated companies -2 -2 Value adjustment of hedging instruments, beginning of period 342 342 Value adjustment of hedging instruments, at end of period -107 -107 Equity movements in affiliated companies 2 2 Other changes in equity, tax 7 7 Equity at 31 December 2016 4,760 75 503 0 5,338 28 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Equity statement (continued) Amounts in DKK million Company participant in DSB's Contributed Retained Proposed share of Minority Total Group capital Profit dividends equity interests equity Equity at 1 January 2015 4,760 1,541 0 6,301 0 6,301 Profit for the year 273 173 446 0 446 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustments associated companies 4 4 4 Value adjustment of hedging instruments,beginning of period 525 525 525 Value adjustment of hedging instruments, at end of period -345 -345 -345 Equity at 31 December 2015 4,760 1,998 173 6,931 0 6,931 Dividend paid -173 -173 -173 Contribution from the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing 42 42 42 Loss for the year -1,704 0 -1,704 0 -1,704 Foreign currency exchange rate adjustments concerning affiliated companies -2 -2 -2 Value adjustment of hedging instruments,beginning of period 345 345 345 Value adjustment of hedging instruments, at end of period -108 -108 -108 Other changes in equity, tax 7 7 7 Equity at 31 December 2016 4,760 578 0 5,338 0 5,338 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 29 Cash flow statement Group Amounts in DKK million Note 2016 2015 Operating profit/loss -1,889 903 Adjustment for non-cash operating items Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs of intangible and tangible assets 4,634 2,023 Change in other provisions, net 8.1 -37 -46 Other adjustments Gain and loss on sale and scrapping of intangible and tangible assets 8.4 -189 -110 Net financial items, paid 4.5 -366 -331 Corporation tax, paid 5.1 -98 -37 Change in working capital 95 364 Total cash flow from operating activities 2,150 2,766 Cash flows from investment activities Acquisition of intangible and tangible assets, excluding capitalised interest 3.1, 3.2 -1,147 -803 Sale of intangible and tangible assets 3.1, 3.2 253 192 Subordinated debt repayments 4.2 9 0 Total cash flows from investment activities -885 -611 Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from raising of short-term loans 1,000 250 Repayment of and payment of instalments on long-term loans -1,743 -1,960 Repayment of and payment of instalments on short-term loans -250 -450 Change in credit institutions -70 20 Paid dividends -173 0 Total cash flow from financing activities -1,236 -2,140 Total change in cash and cash equivalents 29 15 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 42 27 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 71 42 30 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Notes and accounting policies applied Section 1 Interpretation In the financial year 2016 DSB has divided the notes This section contains the following notes: according to theme and based on materiality. The 1.1 General accounting policies applied purpose is to ensure that the financial reporting 1.2 Significant accounting estimates reflects and is adapted to DSB’s specific conditions 1.3 Materiality in financial reporting based on materiality. The notes are divided into eight groups according to theme: Section 1 Interpretation Section 2 Operation Section 3 Operating equipment Section 4 Financing and capital structure Section 5 Taxation Section 6 Working capital Section 7 Financial conditions Section 8 Other notes 1.1 General accounting policies applied Re. 2: In connection with business combinations with participation of companies under the control of the parent The interim financial report for the independent public corporation, the book value method will be used in the company DSB has been prepared in accordance with the future. When this method is applied the business combiprovisions of the Danish Financial Statements Act for nation is regarded as completed at the time of acquisition Class D Companies and the Act on DSB. with any adjustment of comparative figures. Previously, the business combination was regarded as completed at With effect from 1 January 2016, the corporation has imthe start of the financial year with adjustment of comparplemented Act no. 738 of 1 June 2015. Amendments to ative figures. the Act will primarily affect DSB’s recognition and measurement in the following areas: Re. 3: An amount corresponding to the recognised development costs will in the future be tied to a special reserve 1. Annual reassessment of residual values (scrap values) in the parent corporation under the equity called Reserve of tangible assets no effect in 2016 for development costs. The amount will be tied to a spe2. Method for intra-group business combinations no cial reserve, which cannot be used for distribution of divieffect in 2016 dend or covering of loss. If the recognised development 3. Reserve for development costs effect in 2016 costs are sold or otherwise eliminated from the operation of the corporation the reserve is reduced or dissolved. Re. 1: An annual reassessment of the residual values of This takes place by transfer directly to the distributable tangible assets must be carried out in the future. DSB has reserves of the equity. If the recognised development no material residual values of tangible assets except for costs are written down part of the reserve for developvalues attributed to the corporation’s land. The change is ment costs must be reversed. The part that is reversed therefore made pursuant to section 4 of the Danish Execcorresponds to the write-down of the development costs. utive Order on Transition with future effect alone as a If a write-down of development costs is subsequently rechange of accounting estimate and it has no effect on the versed the Reserve for development costs is restored. Reequity. serve for development costs is also reduced by the depreciation made. In this way, the Reserve for development Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 31 costs will not exceed the amount recognised in the balbalances and dividends as well as intragroup realised and ance sheet as development costs. unrealised profits on transactions. Compared to the annual accounts for 2015 DSB has Business combinations changed the classification of non-deductible VAT atNewly acquired or newly founded companies are recogtributed to the related cost type. Changes in classification nised in the consolidated annual accounts at the time of have not impacted the profit/loss or equity. Comparative acquisition. Companies sold or liquidated are recognised figures have been adjusted. In addition, a few minor rein the consolidated income statement until the time of diclassifications have been made. vestment. Comparative figures are not restated for newly acquired, sold or liquidated companies. Except for the above as well as new and changed presentation and disclosure requirements pursuant to act no. Gains or losses related to the sale or liquidation of Group 738 of 1 June 2015, the annual accounts have been preand associated companies are stated as the difference bepared in accordance with the same accounting policies as tween the sales price and the carrying amount of the net last year. assets at the time of sale, including non-amortised goodwill and expected costs of sale or liquidation. Changes in accounting estimates Compared with 31 December 2015, DSB has revised the Acquisitions of new companies are accounted for using economic service life of the Group’s IC4 and IC2 train sets the purchase method, according to which the identifiable based on updated expectations for the future use. The assets and liabilities of the newly acquired companies are management has decided to phase out all IC2 train sets measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition. and 5 IC4 train sets (NT). A reassessment of the carrying Costs of restructuring which are recognised in the acamount of the remaining 77 IC4 train sets has also been quired company before the date of takeover and which made. have not been agreed as part of the acquisition are included in the pre-acquisition balance sheet and thus the The accounting consequences are described under Signifidetermination of goodwill. Restructuring decided by the cant accounting estimates. acquirer is recognised in the income statement. The tax effect of the revaluation is taken into account. Consolidated annual accounts The consolidated annual accounts comprise the parent Any excess of the cost of the acquisition over the fair corporation and Group companies in which the parent value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired corporation directly or indirectly holds more than 50 per (goodwill) is recognised as intangible assets and amorcent of the voting rights and exercises a controlling influtised systematically in the income statement based on an ence. Companies in which the Group holds between 20 individual assessment of the economic service life of the and 50 per cent of the voting rights and exercises signifiasset. Any excess of the fair value of the identifiable ascant, but not controlling, influence are regarded as associsets and liabilities acquired over the cost of the acquisiated companies. tion (negative goodwill) is recognised in the income statement as income at the time of takeover when the general Companies owned and operated jointly with others and conditions for recognition of income are fulfilled. where the parties together exercise a controlling influence (joint ventures) are consolidated on a pro rata basis. Intragroup business combinations In connection with business combinations such as purThe note Investment includes Group companies (subsidichase and sale of equity investments, mergers, demergaries and joint ventures) and associated companies. ers, addition of assets and share exchanges etc. with participation of companies under the control of the parent The consolidated annual accounts are prepared as a sumcorporation, the book value method will be used in the mary of the accounts of the parent corporation and the infuture. When this method is applied the business combidividual Group companies prepared in accordance with nation is regarded as completed at the time of acquisition the Group’s accounting policies and with elimination of inwithout any adjustment of comparative figures. The diftragroup income and expenses, shareholdings, intragroup 32 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts ference between the agreed consideration and the carrydissolved if the recognised development costs are amoring amount of the acquired company is recognised in eqtised, written-down or eliminated from the operation of uity. the corporation. This takes place by transfer directly to the distributable reserves of the equity. Foreign currency translation Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are transDividends lated on initial recognition using the exchange rate on the Dividend is recognised as a liability at the time of adoptransaction date. Differences between the exchange rate tion at the ordinary Annual Meeting (the time of declaraon the transaction date and the exchange rate on the paytion). The proposed dividend for the financial year is disment day are recognised in the income statement under closed as a separate item under Equity. financial income and expenses, net. Cash flow statement Receivables, liabilities and other monetary items denomiThe cash flow statement shows the cash flow divided into nated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange operating, investing and financing activity for the year, rate at the balance sheet date. The difference between changes in the Group’s cash at bank and in hand and the the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and the exGroup’s cash at bank and in hand at the beginning and end change rate at the time when the account receivable or liof the year. ability arose or was recognised in the latest annual accounts is recognised in the income statement under finanThe cash flow statement includes the share in cash flows cial income and expenses, net. of pro rata consolidated companies (joint ventures). Foreign Group companies are considered to be independA separate cash flow statement has not been prepared for ent units. The income statement is translated using the the parent corporation as this is contained in the consoliaverage exchange rate and the balance sheet items are dated cash flow statement. translated using the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences arising from the translaTotal cash flow from operating activities tion of foreign Group companies’ equity at the beginning Cash flows from operating activities are stated as the Opof the year at the exchange rates at the balance sheet erating profit/loss adjusted for non-cash operating items, date and from the translation of income statements from financial income and expenses paid, corporation tax paid average exchange rates at the exchange rates at the baland changes in working capital. The working capital comance sheet date are taken directly to equity. prises the change in Current assets less the change in Current liabilities exclusive of items included in cash at bank Non-deductible VAT and in hand. Changes in working capital are adjusted for DSB has partial right of deduction of incoming VAT, since changes that have no effect on liquidity. the group has both VAT-liable and VAT-free activities. The non-deductible proportion of the incoming VAT is inCash flows from investment activities cluded in the individual items in the income statement and Cash flows from investment activities include purchases the balance sheet. As part of the joint VAT registration, and sales etc. of non-current assets. the parent corporation pays compensation to Group companies in cases where there had been full right of deducCash flows from financing activities tion if the associated company had an independent VAT Cash flows from financing activities comprise proceeds registration. from raising loans, repayment and instalments on liabilities and dividend received and paid. Equity Cash at bank and in hand Reserve for development costs Cash at bank and in hand includes cash and short-term seReserve for development costs comprises recognised decurities with insignificant currency risk. velopment costs. The reserve cannot be used for payment of dividend or covering of loss. The reserve is reduced or Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 33 Other accounting policies applied 1.2 Significant accounting estimates Other accounting policies applies are listed under the respective relevant notes among the notes below: Compared with 31 December 2015, DSB has revised the economic service life of the Group’s IC4 and IC2 train sets Section 2 – Operation based on updated expectations for the future use. The 2.1 Net turnover management has decided to phase out all IC2 train sets 2.2 Work performed by the enterprise and and 5 IC4 train sets (NT). Furthermore, a reassessment of capitalised the carrying amount of the remaining 77 IC4 train sets has 2.3 Other operating income been made, which has resulted in a write-down of DKK 2.4 Expenses for raw materials and consumables 2,058 million. The reassessment resulted in a total write2.5 Other external expenses down of DKK 2,731 million. 2.6 Consultancy fees 2.7 Audit fees The write-down is based on significant estimates in rela2.8 Staff expenses tion to the future economic lifetime. The write-down is 2.9 Remuneration for the Executive Board and the further described under the note on Tangible assets. directors Section 3 – Operating equipment 1.3 Materiality in financial reporting 3.1 Intangible assets 3.2 Tangible assets When preparing the annual accounts it is assessed Section 4 – Financing and capital structure whether the information is material to the reader. In the 4.1 Financial income and expenses income statement and the balance sheet, items are shown 4.2 Investments separately if the items are concluded to be individually 4.3 Borrowing and liquidity material. 4.4 Interest-bearing liabilities, net 4.5 Financial income and expenses net, paid Whether an item is individually material is assessed based 4.6 Minority interests on qualitative as well as quantitative factors. If individual Section 5 – Taxation presentation in the income statement, balance sheet and 5.1 Tax on profit for the year notes is not concluded to be relevant for the reader’s de5.2 Deferred tax liabilities cisions the information is considered to be immaterial. Section 6 – Working capital 6.1 Inventories 6.2 Receivables 6.3 Prepayments 6.4 Prepayments (liabilities) Section 7 – Financial conditions 7.1 Interest risk 7.2 Currency exchange rate risk 7.3 Raw materials price risk 7.4 Liquidity risk 7.5 Counterparty risk Section 8 – Other notes 8.1 Other provisions 8.2 Contingent assets and liabilities, and economic investment obligations 8.3 Related parties 8.4 Gain and loss on sale and scrapping of intangible and tangible assets 8.5 Events after the balance sheet date 34 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Section 2 Operation In this section, Operating profit/loss is described in This section contains the following notes: more detail. 2.1 Net turnover 2.2 Work performed by the enterprise and The section includes information on earnings and capitalised costs in connection with the operation itself. 2.3 Other operating income 2.4 Expenses for raw materials and The main events in 2016 are further detailed in consumables Report Financial Activities. 2.5 Other external expenses 2.6 Consultancy fees 2.7 Audit fees 2.8 Staff expenses 2.9 Remuneration for the Executive Board and the directors Note 2.1: Net turnover Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Passenger revenues distributed on business areas: 3,524 4,011 Long-distance & Regional Trains 3,989 3,524 1,445 1,505 S-trains 1,505 1,445 4,969 5,516 Total passenger revenue 5,494 4,969 4,138 4,178 Revenue from transport contracts 4,394 4,883 0 0 Sales from shops etc. 856 822 61 9 Repair and maintenance of rolling stock etc. 282 257 222 13 Leasing of rolling stock 13 222 9,390 9,716 Total 11,039 11,153 Passenger revenues in the Parent corporation and the Group include penalty fares of DKK 27 million (2015: DKK 60 million). Accounting practices Passenger revenues are recognised at the time of transport. Provision is made in respect of the value of tickets sold that have not been used at the balance sheet date. Discounts in connection with the sale and payments relating to the Travel Time Guarantee Scheme are deducted from the net turnover. Revenues from transport contracts are recognised over the periods to which they relate. Revenues from Sales from shops etc. are recognised when delivery and transfer of risk have taken place at the fair value of the agreed consideration exclusive of VAT and taxes collected on behalf of a third party. All types of discounts granted are recognised under revenues. Revenues from Repair and maintenance of rolling stock etc. are recognised concurrently with production, which means that revenues correspond to the selling price of work performed for the year (production method). Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 35 Note 2.2: Work performed by the enterprise and capitalised In 2016, the value of the capitalised development projects in the parent company totals DKK 108 million, of which DKK 75 million is covered by the rules of the Danish Financial Statements Act for binding of separate equity reserve. The reserve is calculated with a reduction for deferred tax. Accounting practices This item includes work performed by the enterprise in connection with the carrying out of i.a. major maintenance inspections of train set, which are capitalised. The value is measured based on registered expenses for performance of the work performed based on registrations of the expenses incurred in the form of own work etc. The item also includes directly attributable expenses and a proportionate share of indirect production costs. Note 2.3: Other operating income Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 287 283 Renting and leasing 162 147 6 19 Gain on sale of intangible and tangible assets 212 120 188 166 Intragroup revenues 164 159 Others 161 301 645 627 Total 535 568 Accounting practices Other operating income includes income of a secondary nature in relation to the railway business, including income from the Group’s properties either through rental activities or profit on sale of land and building. Intragroup income in the parent corporation includes trading with Group companies except for income from renting of buildings etc. Note 2.4: Expenses for raw materials and consumables Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 561 535 Energy for train operation 546 575 22 23 Sales from shops etc. 608 579 85 72 Spare parts etc. 749 697 668 630 Total 1,903 1,851 Expenses for raw materials and consumables in the parent company includes Non-deductible VAT of DKK 128 million (2015: DKK 132 million). In the Group, the amount totals DKK 167 million (2015: DKK 135 million). Accounting practices Expenses for raw materials and consumables include the year’s purchases and the year’s change in the valuation of inventory of energy for train operation, Goods for sale in shops etc. and Spare parts etc 36 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 2.5: Other external expenses Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 514 645 Infrastructure charges 689 733 1,326 1,549 Repair, maintenance and cleaning etc. 701 656 388 388 Administrative expenses 422 431 151 167 Operations of buildings and premises etc. 214 234 293 402 Consultancy fees etc., including audit fees 397 305 237 203 Leasing of rolling stock 203 228 159 147 Replacement transport etc. 161 174 -20 Provision for onerous contracts etc., net -15 -68 279 313 Commissions etc. 203 213 113 156 Sale and marketing 156 116 115 116 Staff-related costs 130 143 136 115 Payroll charge 120 137 9 15 Gain and loss on sale and scrapping of intangible and tangible assets 23 10 551 584 Other external expenses 460 461 4,271 4,780 Total 3,864 3,773 Other external expenses in the parent company includes Non-deductible VAT of DKK 451 million (2015: DKK 368 million). In the Group, the amount totals DKK 477 million (2015: DKK 427 million). Accounting practices Other external expenses include expenses in relation to the railway business and other operating activities. From 2016, non-deductible VAT is presented as part of the related cost type. Comparative figures have been adjusted. Note 2.6: Consultancy fees Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 17 23 Lawyers 24 17 125 211 IT consultants 215 125 14 35 Management consultants 40 14 3 0 Tax, VAT and accounting assistance 1 8 54 51 Technical consultancy 36 58 75 74 Programme management 72 76 288 394 Total 388 298 The note Consultancy fees and the note Audit fees make up Consultancy fees etc. including audit fee in the note Other external expenses. In relation to 2015, a few minor reclassifications have been made. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 37 Note 2.7: Audit fees Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Statutory audit: 2.5 4.4 Ernst & Young Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab 5.3 3.3 1.0 0.9 The National Audit Office of Denmark 0.9 1.0 Other assurance statements: 1.1 0.8 Ernst & Young Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab 0.8 1.5 Tax and VAT consultancy: 0.2 0.6 Ernst & Young Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab 0.7 0.4 Other services: 0.7 0.8 Ernst & Young Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab 0.8 0.8 5.5 7.5 Total 8.5 7.0 Auditing fees for external auditor appointed at the Annual Meeting and the National Audit Office of Denmark. Compared to 2015 fees for external auditor appointed at the Annual Meeting have increased as the external auditor and the National Audit Office of Denmark conducts the complete financial and administrative audit as from 2016. Note 2.8: Staff expenses Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 2,069 2,240 Wages and salaries 3,206 3,186 341 364 Pensions 486 478 26 26 Other social security costs 44 44 2,436 2,630 Total 3,736 3,708 4,558 4,758 Average number of full-time employees 7,285 7,438 The average number of employees includes employees in pro rata consolidated companies with 90 (2015: 195). Severance pay for the Executive Board and senior executives in connection with dismissal by DSB not owing to breach or the like on the part of the employee does not exceed 12 months’ salary. The general provisions of the Danish Civil Servants Act apply to the public servants. Pension contributions paid to the state are recognised as an expense for civil servants. The pension contribution is currently 26 per cent of the pensionable salary. For other employees, pension contributions are expensed in accordance with collective and individual agreements. Reference is made to the note Contingent assets and liabilities, and economic investment obligations. DSB has an obligation to pay redundancy payment for three years to civil servants who are dismissed for a cause that is not the fault of the civil service, see section 32 of the Danish Civil Servant Act. DSB also has a commitment to the Agency for the Modernisation of Public Administration to pay pension costs for civil servants until the expected retirement age of 62 years. The corporation has only recognised a liability for dismissed civil servants. 38 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts The company has concluded agreements regarding performance-related salary with a number of executive employees (primarily managers). As a basis, agreements regarding performance-related salary accounts for 10-20 percent for managers who are not part of the Corporate Management and for 20-25 percent for members of the Corporate Management. At year-end 2016 the number of agreements regarding performance-related salary was 302, compared to 304 at year-end 2015. From 2016, health insurance costs are included in Staff expenses. Costs regarding seconded public servants are distributed on cost type in the note Staff expenses from 2016. Comparative figures have been adjusted. Accounting practices Staff expenses include wages and salaries, remuneration, pension contributions and other staff expenses relating to the corporation’s employees, including the Executive Board and the Board of Directors. Note 2.9: Remuneration for the Executive Board and the directors Remuneration for the Executive Board (in DKK 1,000) 2016 2015 Flemming Jensen (joined 1 May 2015) 5,675.2 3,122.9 Thomas Thellersen Børner (joined 1 January 2016) 3,367.8 Susanne Mørch Koch (joined 1 January 2016) 4,079.4 Anders Egehus (joined 1 January 2016) 3,520.9 Total 16,643.3 3,122.9 The above represents remuneration paid to the Executive Board. The members of the Executive Board have agreements regarding performance-related salary according to which they may receive up to 25 percent of the fixed salary. The notice period for the CEO is 12 months. However, an 18-month notice period applies if termination takes place within the first 24 months of employment. Remuneration paid to the former acting CEO and the former CFO totalled DKK 2,158.9 thousand in 2015. Audit RemunerRolling Commitation Stock Fees for the members of the Board of Directors (DKK Board of tee CommitCommit1,000) Directors tee tee Total 2016 Total 2015 Peter Schütze 545.0 55.0 55.0 655.0 628.1 Annette Sadolin 325.0 110.0 435.0 419.1 Lars Andersen 165.0 80.0 245.0 230.0 Carsten Gerner 165.0 160.0 325.0 310.0 Helge Israelsen 165.0 73.3 238.3 260.0 Lilian Merete Mogensen (Resigned 17 March 2015) 51.3 Christina Grumstrup Sørensen (Joined 17 March 2015) 165.0 73.3 238.3 161.8 Andreas Hasle (Resigned 1 October 2016) 123.8 60.0 183.8 230.0 Hans Christian Kirketerp-Møller 165.0 55.0 220.0 200.3 Preben Steenholdt Pedersen 165.0 55.0 220.0 205.0 Birte Østergaard Petersen (Joined 1 October 2016) 41.2 41.2 Total 2,025.0 300.0 220.0 256.6 2,801.6 2,695.6 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 39 Section 3 Operating equipment This section on operating equipment contains This section contains the following notes: information regarding the corporation’s intangible 3.1 Intangible assets and tangible fixed assets. 3.2 Tangible assets The main events in 2016 are further detailed in Report Financial Activities. Note 3.1: Intangible assets Amounts in DKK million Intangible assets Development in progress and Intangible Parent corporation projects prepayments assets total Cost price at 1 January 2016 1,299 42 1,341 Additions 1 107 108 Transferred 64 -64 0 Disposals -3 -3 Cost price at 31 December 2016 1,361 85 1,446 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at 1 January 2016 -1,047 -6 -1,053 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs for the year -140 -140 Write-downs for the year -9 -9 Disposals 3 3 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at 31 December 2016 -1,193 -6 -1,199 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 168 79 247 Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 252 36 288 Additions in Development projects and Intangible assets in progress and prepayments primarily includes the addition of mobile sales channels, traffic information systems and development of a new accounting and financial system for the entire Group. Additions are predominantly comprised of internal costs in the form of direct wages and purchased materials that are registered through the Group’s financial system. 40 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 3.1: Total intangible assets Amounts in DKK million Intangible assets in Development proprogress and preIntangible assets Group jects payments total Cost price at 1 January 2016 1,366 46 1,412 Additions 1 107 108 Transferred 68 -68 0 Disposals -2 -2 Cost price at 31 December 2016 1,433 85 1,518 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at 1 January 2016 -1,113 -6 -1,119 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs for the year -141 -141 Write-downs for the year -9 -9 Disposals 2 2 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at 31 December 2016 -1,261 -6 -1,267 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 172 79 251 Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 253 40 293 Additions in Development projects and Intangible assets in progress and prepayments primarily includes the addition of mobile sales channels, traffic information systems and development of a new accounting and financial system for the entire Group. Additions are predominantly comprised of internal costs in the form of direct wages and purchased materials that are registered through the Group’s financial system. Accounting practices Intangible assets comprise primarily development projects, including rights of use and software. Development projects which are clearly defined and identifiable, where the technical feasibility, sufficient resources and a potential future market or development potential in the corporation can be proven and where it is expedient to produce, market or use the project, are recognised as intangible assets if the cost can be reliably determined and there is sufficient security that future earnings can cover sales and administrative expenses plus the actual development costs. Other development costs are recognised as expenses in the income statement as they are incurred. Development costs included in the balance sheet are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation, depreciation and write-downs. The cost of development projects comprises costs, including wages, salaries and amortisation, which directly and indirectly can be attributed to the corporation’s development activities. Interest and borrowing expenses on loans for financing of development projects are recognised in cost provided they relate to the development period. All other financing expenses are recognised in the income statement. After completion of the development work, development projects are amortised on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives. The amortisation period is usually 3 10 years. Profits and losses on disposal are calculated as the difference between the sales price less sales costs and the carrying amount at the time of sale. Profits and losses are recognised in the income statement under Other operating income or Other external expenses. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 41 Note 3.2: Tangible assets Amounts in DKK million Operating equipment, Tangible fixtures and assets in fittings and progress and Land and other advance Total tangible Parent corporation buildings Rolling stock equipment payments assets Cost price at 1 January 2016 7,063 25,601 2,633 157 35,454 Reclassification -143 -143 Additions 352 493 1 327 1,173 Transferred 69 227 72 -368 0 Disposals -34 -1,315 -34 -1,383 Cost price at 31 December 2016 7,307 25,006 2,672 116 35,101 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at 1 January 2016 -2,982 -13,397 -1,810 -2 -18,191 Reclassification 52 52 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs for the year -159 -1,349 -143 -1,651 Write-downs for the year -16 -2,785 -42 -2,843 Disposals 24 1,303 29 1,356 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at 31 December 2016 -3,081 -16,228 -1,966 -2 -21,277 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 4,226 8,778 706 114 13,824 Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 4,081 12,204 823 155 17,263 Capitalised interest is included in cost 4 291 11 0 306 Based on the decision regarding future expected use of the IC4 train sets – including an assessment of development in operations, functionality and capacity needs, and in extension of the commissioning plan in connection with electrification – in 2016 the management conducted a thorough review and assessment of the need for the IC4 and IC2 train sets. It is concluded that 23 IC2 train sets do not meet the requirements for stability, which is required for their use in railway transport. Therefore, all of the train sets were completely phased out during 2016. The train sets’ sales value and scrap value with the deduction of disposal costs is assessed at DKK 0 million, which has resulted in a full write-down of the train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections, inventory and parts, etc. of DKK 588 million. A reassessment was also conducted of the carrying amount of 82 IC4 train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections and parts, based in part on the following assumptions:  5 IC4 train sets (NT) that have not been commissioned in operations are phased out and fully written-down in 2016.  Use of the remaining 77 IC4 train sets is planned for regional train traffic up to and including 2024, after which time they will be phased out. The IC4 train sets were formerly used in long distance traffic. The sales value and scrap value with a deduction of disposal costs for the IC4 train sets at the time of their phasing out in 2024 is also assessed to be DKK 0.  Lastly, it is assumed that DSB, through a future traffic contract after the expiry of the existing traffic contract (after 2024), will not be compensated for the fact that the IC4 train sets did not run until 2037 as originally assumed. 42 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts The reassessment of the IC4 train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections and parts is based on an impairment test, which shows a write-down totalling DKK 2,143 million. This figure includes DKK 124 million relating to the reassessment of capitalised costs of major inspections of the IC4 train sets. This write-down stems from a reassessment of the depreciation of the capitalised costs of major inspections. In the event of changes in significant assumptions for the write-down in the coming years (e.g. the time of phasing out of the IC4 train sets), DSB will conduct a new assessment of the valuation of the IC4 train sets. The total write-down in 2016 on IC4 and IC2 train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections, inventory and parts, etc totals DKK 2,731. The carrying amount at 31 December 2016 is impacted by the reclassification to Properties held for sale. In 2012 a grant was received from the City of Copenhagen for establishing a footbridge in Hellerup. The grant will be recognised over the life of the asset through a reduction of the monthly depreciation of the asset. In 2016, DSB received a contribution of tangible assets, in the form of Carlsberg Station, from the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, totalling DKK 53 million. In pursuance of an agreement concluded between the Ministry of Transport and the Danish Transport Agency, DSB has, upon request from the Danish Ministry of Transport, acquired 10 train sets for leasing to the Danish Transport and Building Agency for the operation of the Coastal Line/the Øresund traffic. In connection with the financing of the train sets of EUR 55 million, DSB has provided the 10 train sets with a carrying amount of DKK 425 million as security. Note 3.2: Tangible assets (continued) Amounts in DKK million Operating equipment, Tangible fixtures and assets in fittings and progress and Land and other advance Total tangible Group buildings Rolling stock equipment payments assets Cost price at 1 January 2016 7,893 25,312 3,200 175 36,580 Reclassification -110 -110 Additions 313 418 3 358 1,092 Transferred 69 227 91 -387 0 Disposals -108 -1,305 -34 -1,447 Cost price at 31 December 2016 8,057 24,652 3,260 146 36,115 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at -3,345 -13,289 -2,215 -1 -18,850 1 January 2016 Reclassification 33 33 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs for the -174 -1,292 -174 -1,640 year Write-downs for the year -16 -2,785 -43 -2,844 Disposals 52 1,303 28 1,383 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs at -3,450 -16,063 -2,404 -1 -21,918 31 December 2016 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 4,607 8,589 856 145 14,197 Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 4,548 12,023 985 174 17,730 Capitalised interest is included in cost 4 291 11 0 306 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 43 Based on the decision regarding future expected use of the IC4 train sets – including an assessment of development in operations, functionality and capacity needs, and in extension of the commissioning plan in connection with electrification – in 2016 the management conducted a thorough review and assessment of the need for the IC4 and IC2 train sets. It is assessed that 23 IC2 train sets do not meet the requirements for stability, which is required for their use in railway transport. Therefore, all of the train sets were completely phased out during 2016. The train sets’ sales value and scrap value with the deduction of disposal costs is assessed at DKK 0 million, which has resulted in a full write-down of the train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections, inventory and parts, etc. of DKK 588 million. A reassessment was also conducted of the carrying amount of 82 IC4 train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections and parts, based in part on the following assumptions:  5 IC4 train sets (NT) that have not been commissioned in operations are phased out and fully written-down in 2016.  Use of the remaining 77 IC4 train sets is planned for regional train traffic up to and including 2024, after which time they will be phased out. The IC4 train sets were formerly used in long distance traffic. The sales value and scrap value with a deduction of disposal costs for the IC4 train sets at the time of their phasing out in 2024 is also assessed to be DKK 0.  Lastly, it is assumed that DSB, through a future traffic contract after the expiry of the existing traffic contract (after 2024), will not be compensated for the fact that the IC4 train sets did not run until 2037 as originally assumed. The reassessment of the IC4 train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections and parts is based on an impairment test, which shows a write-down totalling DKK 2,143 million. This figure includes DKK 124 million relating to the reassessment of capitalised costs of major inspections of the IC4 train sets. This write-down stems from a reassessment of the depreciation of the capitalised costs of major inspections. In the event of changes in significant assumptions for the write-down in the coming years (e.g. the time of phasing out of the IC4 train sets), DSB will conduct a new assessment of the valuation of the IC4 train sets. The total write-down in 2016 on IC4 and IC2 train sets and related capitalised costs of major inspections, inventory and parts, etc totals DKK 2,731. The carrying amount at 31 December 2016 is impacted by the reclassification to Properties held for sale. In 2012 a grant was received from the City of Copenhagen for establishing a footbridge in Hellerup. The grant will be recognised over the life of the asset through a reduction of the monthly depreciation of the asset. In 2016, DSB received a contribution of tangible assets, in the form of Carlsberg Station, from the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, totalling DKK 53 million. In pursuance of an agreement concluded between the Ministry of Transport and the Danish Transport Agency, DSB has, upon request from the Danish Ministry of Transport, acquired 10 train sets for leasing to the Danish Transport and Building Agency for the operation of the Coastal Line/the Øresund traffic. In connection with the financing of the train sets of EUR 55 million, DSB has provided the 10 train sets with a carrying amount of DKK 425 million as security. 44 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 3.2: Tangible assets (continued) Specification of rolling stock Amounts in DKK million Depreciation and write-downs at Carrying amount Carrying amount Cost price at 31 31 December at 31 December at 31 December Group December 2016 2016 2016 2015 Train IC2 train sets 0 0 0 535 IC3 train sets 2,428 -2,022 406 486 IC4 train sets 4,292 -3,067 1,225 3,380 IR4 train sets 2,178 -1,879 299 379 ET train sets 1,861 -1,238 623 719 Double-decker coaches 649 -97 552 584 MQ Desiro train sets 146 -54 92 97 MR train sets 119 -119 0 0 ICE train sets 93 -86 7 39 ME diesel locomotives 326 -326 0 0 EA diesel locomotives 67 -41 26 0 Total Long-distance & Regional Trains 12,159 -8,929 3,230 6,219 S-trains 10,180 -6,218 3,962 4,396 Other trains 88 -83 5 6 Guarantees etc. set off -31 0 -31 -30 Total trains 22,396 -15,230 7,166 10,591 Total LCC assets (major maintenance inspection of train sets) 1,675 -651 1,024 998 Total rotable parts 581 -182 399 434 Carrying amount 24,652 -16,063 8,589 12,023 Accounting practices Land and buildings, Rolling stock, Operating equipment, fixtures and fittings and other equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and write-downs. Land is not depreciated. Cost includes the purchase price and costs directly related to the purchase up to the time where the asset is ready for use. With regard to own produced assets (primarily major maintenance inspections (Life Cycle Cost (LCC) of capitalised train sets), the cost covers direct and indirect costs for materials, components, subcontractors and wages/salaries as well as borrowing cost from specific and general borrowing in direct connection with the construction of the individual asset. Costs for major maintenance inspections (LCC) of train sets are recognised separately and depreciated over the useful life, which corresponds to the period until the next major maintenance inspection. Assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their expected useful lives based on the following assessment of their expected useful lives: Buildings 30 60 years Installations 10 15 years Rolling stock 2 25 years Operating equipment, fixtures and fittings and other equipment 3 25 years Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 45 In connection with capitalisation, cost is distributed on the most important individual components (decomposition) and depreciated over the useful life. The basis of depreciation is calculated taking into account the scrap value of the asset after the end of its useful life and reduced by any write-downs. The depreciation period and the scrap value are fixed at the time of acquisition and reassessed annually. If the scrap value exceeds the carrying amount of the asset depreciation stops. If the depreciation period or the scrap value changes, the impact on depreciation in the future is recognised as a change of accounting estimates. Profits and losses on disposal or scrapping of tangible assets are calculated as the difference between the sales price less sales costs and the carrying amount at the time of sale or scrapping. Profits and losses are recognised in the income statement under Other operating income or Other external expenses. Leasing In terms of accounting, leasing obligations are divided into finance and operating leases. Expenses regarding operational leases are recognised in the income statement over the term of the lease. Total commitments regarding operational leasing and rent agreement are disclosed under note Contingent assets and liabilities, and economic investment obligations. Impairment of non-current assets The carrying amount of non-current assets is reviewed on the balance sheet date to decide whether there are any indications of impairment other than what is expressed through depreciation. If there are signs of such impairment an impairment test is carried out for the relevant asset or group of assets to determine whether the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If so, a write-down is made to that lower recoverable amount. Any write-downs are recognised in the income statement. In case of subsequence reversals of write-downs as a consequence of changes in the preconditions for the calculated recoverable value, the value of the asset is increased to the adjusted recoverable value, but not to more than the carrying amount the asset would have had if it had not been written down for impairment. 46 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Section 4 Financing and capital structure This section describes the financing of DSB’s assets. This section contains the following notes: 4.1 Financial income and expenses As a result of the positive generation of liquidity 4.2 Investments loans due in the course of the year have been repaid 4.3 Borrowing and liquidity without any need to contract new long-term loans. 4.4 Interest-bearing liabilities, net In the course of the year, interest-bearing liabilities, 4.5 Financial income and expenses net, paid net, have been reduced by DKK 1.1 billion. 4.6 Minority interests Note 4.1 Financial income and expenses Parent corporation Financial income Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 4 3 Interest on balances with Group companies 4 3 Interest on balances with associated companies 3 4 15 10 Others 10 18 23 16 Total 13 22 Parent corporation Financial expenses Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 336 307 Interest on loans, debt to credit institutions etc. 315 345 3 Foreign exchange losses etc. 2 336 310 Total 317 345 Accounting practices Financial income and expenses, net, comprises interest income and costs, capital and exchange rate gains and losses relating to liabilities and transactions in foreign currencies and amortisation of financial assets and liabilities. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 47 Note 4.2: Investments Amounts in DKK million Equity Equity Subordnated Subordinated investments investments loan capital loan capital in Group in associated in associated in associated Other Investments Parent corporation companies companies companies companies receivables total Cost price at 1 January 2016 1,880 413 154 256 135 2,838 Foreign currency translation adjustments -7 -7 Additions 14 3 47 64 Disposals -9 -145 -154 Cost price at 31 December 2016 1,887 413 154 250 37 2,741 Value adjustments at 1 January 2016 -479 -413 -132 0 -1,024 Foreign currency translation adjustments 5 -1 4 Profit/loss for the year 268 0 268 Dividend paid -344 -344 Other adjustments -34 7 -27 Value adjustments at 31 December 2016 -584 -413 -126 0 -1,123 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 1,303 0 28 250 37 1,618 Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 1,401 0 22 256 135 1,814 48 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 4.2: Investments (continued) Amounts in DKK million Share of Equity investments in Group companies book value Parent Registered Equity Share company Name office interest capital 2016 DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S Denmark 100% 100 million DKK 667 Kort & Godt A/S Denmark 100% 5.5 million DKK 69 DSB Vedligehold A/S Denmark 100% 28.5 million DKK 508 DSB Øresund A/S 1) Denmark 75% 0.7 million DKK 0 DSB Øresund Holding ApS Denmark 70% 29 million DKK 0 DSB Øresund A/S 1) Denmark 25% 0.7 million DKK DSB Sverige AB Sweden 100% 5.1 million SEK 40 DSB Uppland AB Sweden 100% 1.1 million SEK DSB Småland AB 2) Sweden 100% 1.1 million SEK DSB Deutschland GmbH Germany 100% 25,000 EUR 18 VIAS GmbH 3) Germany 50% 25,000 EUR VIAS Logistik GmbH 3) Germany 50% 25,000 EUR Selskabet af 23.12.2014 A/S Denmark 100% 0.5 million DKK 1 BSD ApS Denmark 100% 125,000 DKK 0 Total 1,303 1) DSB directly owns 75% and indirectly owns 17.5%, corresponding to a total equity interest of 92.5%. The direct equity interest of 75% is not entitled to dividends or liquidation proceeds; thus, for accounting purposes, DSB is estimated to have an equity interest of 70%. DSB Øresund A/S and DSB Øresund Holding ApS are in liquidation. 2) The company ceased operating activity as from 1 March 2014. 3) Recognised according to the principles of proportional consolidation. Accounting practices Equity investments in Group companies are measured according to the book value method. This means that equity investments are measured at the proportionate share of the companies’ book value, calculated according to the accounting policies of the Group less or plus unrealised intragroup profits and losses. Equity investments in Group companies with a negative book value are measured at DKK 0 and any receivables from these companies are written-down to the extent that the receivable is irrecoverable. To the extent that the parent company has a legal or actual obligation to cover a deficit exceeding the receivable, the remaining amount is recognised in Provisions. The net value adjustment of equity investments in Group companies is shown as Reserve for net value adjustment according to the book value method in equity, to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the cost price. Profit/loss after tax in Group companies In the parent company’s income statement, the proportionate share of Group companies profit/loss after tax, less the proportionate share of internal profit/loss, is recognised. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 49 Note 4.2: Investments (continued) Amounts in DKK million Equity Subordinated investments in loan capital in associated associated Other Total Group companies companies receivbles investments Cost price at 1 January 2016 413 256 135 804 Additions 3 48 51 Disposals -9 -145 -154 Cost price at 31 December 2016 413 250 38 701 Value adjustments at 1 January 2016 -413 0 -413 Profit/loss for the year 0 0 Value adjustments at 31 December 2016 -413 0 -413 Carrying amount at 31 December 2016 0 250 38 288 Carrying amount at 31 December 2015 0 256 135 391 Equity investments in associated companies Amounts in DKK million Parent Registered Equity Share company Group Name office interest capital 2016 2016 Rejsekort A/S Denmark 46.5% 114 0 0 Rejseplanen A/S Denmark 48.4% 1 0 0 Total 0 0 Accounting practices Equity investments in associated companies are measured according to the book value method. This means that equity investments are measured at the proportionate share of the companies’ book value, calculated according to the accounting policies of the Group less or plus unrealised intragroup profits and losses. Equity investments in associated companies with a negative book value are measured at DKK 0 and any receivables from these companies are written-down to the extent that the receivable is irrecoverable. To the extent that the parent company has a legal or actual obligation to cover a deficit exceeding the receivable, the remaining amount is recognised in Provisions. Subordinated loan capital in associated companies is measured at amortised cost. Other receivables are measured at amortised cost. Profit/loss after tax in associated companies In both the Group’s and parent company’s income statement, the proportionate share of the associated companies’ Profit/loss after tax, less the proportionate share of internal profit/loss, is recognised. 50 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 4.3: Borrowing and liquidity Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 6,638 4,838 Bonds issued 4,838 6,638 269 199 Credit institutions 199 269 250 1,000 Short-term loans 1,000 250 357 404 Others 404 357 7,514 6,441 Total 6,441 7,514 All foreign currency loans have been converted into DKK via currency swaps. In the parent corporation and the Group DKK 3,082 million of the debt portfolio was raised without state guarantee (2015: DKK 2,936 million). The remaining loans are all guaranteed by the Danish state, to which a guarantee commission is payable. The fair value of derivative financial instruments used for hedging of foreign exchange and interest rate risks associated with the above Borrowing and liquidity is DKK -573 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: DKK -830 million). Consequently, DKK -169 million is recognised in equity (2015: DKK -338 million). At 31 December 2016 derivative financial instruments with a positive and a negative fair value were DKK 69 million and DKK 615 million, respectively. Accounting practices Liabilities are recognised at the date of borrowing at the net proceeds received after deduction of transaction costs incurred. In subsequent periods, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, corresponding to the capitalised value using the effective interest rate. Accordingly, the difference between the proceeds and the nominal value is recognised in the income statement over the term of the loan. Other financial liabilities are measured at the net realisable value. Note 4.4: Interest-bearing liabilities, net Group Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Long-term loans 4,609 5,482 Current portion of non-current liabilities 229 1,156 Short-term loans 1,000 250 Credit institutions 199 269 Conversion of loan to DKK through currency swaps 404 349 Subordinated loan capital 2 2 Interest-bearing liabilities 6,443 7,508 Cash and cash equivalents and securities -71 -42 Deposits -88 -48 Subordinated loan capital, receivable -250 -256 Interest-bearing assets -409 -346 Total 6,034 7,162 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 51 Note 4.5: Financial income and expenses net, paid Group Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Financial income 13 22 Financial expenses -317 -345 Other, including financial instruments -62 -8 Total -366 -331 Note 4.6: Minority interests The Company’s subsidiary with minority interests comprises DSB Øresund Holding ApS in liquidation. The profit/loss for the year totals DKK 0 million. During 2016, a debt conversion was performed in the subsidiary, which is expected to be liquidated in 2017. The liquidation proceeds to DSB and the minority shareholder is expected to total DKK 0 million. Accounting practices In the consolidated annual accounts, the Group companies’ items are recognised at 100 percent. The minority shareholders’ share of the profit/loss for the year and of the equity in the Group companies which are not owned 100 percent is included as part of the Group’s profit/loss and equity, respectively, but is presented separately. 52 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Section 5 Taxation Tax on the profit/loss for the year in 2016 totals This section contains the following notes: DKK 562 million for the parent company and DKK 5.1 Tax on profit/loss for the year 489 million for the Group, which primarily can be 5.2 Deferred tax liabilities attributed to the change in deferred tax as a result of the write-down of the IC4 and IC2 train sets. Note 5.1: Tax on profit/loss for the year Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 13 70 Tax on profit/loss for the year 26 -29 -111 492 Change in deferred tax regarding the profit/loss for the year 461 -124 Tax regarding internal profit 1 8 13 Adjustment of deferred tax from 23.5 % to 22.0 % 13 -85 562 Tax on profit for the year 488 -132 10 0 Adjustment of tax relating to previous years 1 -2 -75 562 Total tax 489 -134 Reconciliation of tax rate: 23.5% 22.0% Tax on profit/loss for the year 22.0% 23.5% -5.0% 29.2% Tax effect of non-taxable income and non-deductible expenses 4.3% 1.2 0.2% 0.0% Special tax rules 0.0% 0.2% -2.4% 0.0% Adjustment of deferred tax from 23.5 % to 22.0 % 0.0% -2.2% -1.9% 0.2% Adjustment of tax relating to previous years 0.9% 0.4% 14.4 % 51.4% Effective tax rate for the year 27.2% 23.1% 37 98 Tax paid for the year 98 37 Accounting practices The Group is covered by the Danish rules on compulsory joint taxation of the Group’s Danish Group companies. The Group companies are included in the joint taxation from the time at which they are included in the consolidation and until they are excluded from the consolidation. The parent corporation is the administration unit for the joint taxation and consequently settles all payments of corporation tax with the tax authorities. The current Danish corporation tax is distributed by settlement of the joint taxation contributions between the jointly taxed companies relative to their taxable income. In this connection, any companies with a tax loss receive joint taxation contributions from companies that were able to use this loss to reduce their own tax profit. The tax for the year, which comprises current corporation tax, the year’s joint taxation contribution and changes in deferred tax, including differences as a consequence of changed tax rates, is recognised in the income statement with the share attributable to the profit/loss for the year and directly in equity by the share which may be attributed to items entered directly on equity. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 53 Current tax liabilities and receivables are included in the balance sheet as calculated tax on the taxable income for the year adjusted for tax on the taxable income for previous years and tax paid on account. Joint taxation contributions payable and receivable are included in the balance sheet as balances with Group companies. Note 5.2: Deferred tax liabilities Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 1,446 1,505 Deferred tax liabilities at 1 January 1,390 1,287 1 -3 Adjustment at 1 January -9 -2 -10 0 Adjustment regarding previous years -1 2 Change in deferred tax regarding internal profit -1 -8 -30 0 Change in deferred tax regarding joint taxation 111 -492 Change in deferred tax regarding the profit/loss for the year -461 124 -13 Adjustment of deferred tax from 23.5 % to 22.0 % -13 1,505 1,010 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 918 1,390 Deferred tax concerns: 41 3 Intangible assets -6 30 1,550 1,070 Tangible assets 1,028 1,503 19 24 Current assets -4 -10 -99 -87 Other provisions -99 -108 0 0 Current liabilities 0 0 Tax regarding internal profit -1 -7 -6 0 Tax loss 0 -18 0 0 Net financing expenses to be carried forward 0 0 1,505 1,010 Deferred tax liabilities at 31 December 918 1,390 The Group's Danish companies are jointly and severally liable for tax on the consolidated taxable income etc. The total corporation tax liability is DKK 63 million at 31 December 2016 (2015: DKK 92 million). The Group’s Danish companies are jointly and severally liable for Danish withholding tax in the form of tax on dividend, royalty and interest. Any subsequent corrections of corporation and withholding taxes may increase the corporation’s liability. DSB, Kort & Godt A/S, DSB Ejendomsudvikling A/S, DSB Vedligehold A/S and Selskabet af 23.12.2014 are jointly registered for VAT and payroll tax purposes and are jointly and severally liable for payment of the companies’ aggregate VAT and payroll tax liabilities. Accounting practices Deferred tax is measured using the balance sheet liability method on all temporary differences between the carrying amount and the tax base of assets and liabilities. However, deferred tax is not recognised on timing differences relating to goodwill which is not deductible for tax purposes and on office premises and other items, where timing differences, apart from business acquisitions, arise at the date of acquisition without affecting the profit/loss for the year or the taxable income. In cases where the calculation of the tax value may be made according to different taxation rules, deferred tax is measured on the basis of the management’s planned use of the asset or settlement of the liability. Deferred tax assets, including the value of a tax loss allowed for carryforward and net financing expenses, are recognised as an asset at the expected value of utilisation, either through elimination of tax on future earnings or by set-off against deferred tax liabilities in the same legal tax entity and jurisdiction. 54 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Deferred tax is adjusted for eliminations of unrealised intragroup profits and losses. Deferred tax is measured based on the tax rules and tax rates in the individual countries applicable according to the legislation in force at the balance sheet date when the deferred tax is expected to crystallise as current tax. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 55 Section 6 Working capital Most important items regarding working capital This section contains the following notes: include inventories, receivables, prepayments and 6.1 Inventories other debt. 6.2 Receivables 6.3 Prepayments (assets) DSB has continued its efforts in 2016 to improve 6.4 Prepayments (liabilities) the Group’s working capital. The total change in working capital is positive and totals DKK 95 million in the Group for 2016, which can primarily be attributed to a reduction in the Group’s receivables. Note 6.1: Inventories Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 12 10 Fuel for train operation 10 12 0 0 Spare parts etc. 436 375 2 1 Goods for sales in shops etc. 39 38 14 11 Total 485 425 Accounting practices Fuel for trains and Spare parts are measured at cost according to the average cost method. Cost comprises the purchase price plus delivery costs and any processing and other costs directly or indirectly attributable to inventories. Goods for sale in shops etc. are measured at cost, calculated in accordance with the FIFO method. Cost comprises the purchase price plus delivery costs. Inventories are written down to the lower of net realisable value and cost. The net realisable value for inventories is calculated as the sales amount less completion costs and costs incurred to effect the sale. Inventories are measured with due regard for marketability, obsolescence and developments in the expected sales price. Note 6.2: Receivables Accounting practices Receivables are measured at amortised cost, which usually corresponds to the nominal value. Provision for bad debt is made when it is assessed that there is an objective indication of impairment of a receivable or a portfolio of receivables. If there is an objective indication that an individual receivable is impaired, the individual asset is written down for impairment Receivables (such as penalty fares) for which there is no objective indication of impairment at an individual level are assessed at portfolio level for objective indication of impairment. The objective indicators used for the portfolios are based on primarily historical loss experience. Write-downs are stated as the difference between the carrying amount of receivables and the expected cash flow, including the realisable value of any security received. 56 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 6.3: Prepayments (assets) Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 79 80 Prepaid expenses etc. 87 97 7 8 Financial instruments 8 11 94 50 Prepaid wages and salaries and pension contributions (civil servants) 60 94 180 138 Total 155 202 Accounting practices Prepayments (assets) comprise expenses incurred relating to subsequent financial years. Note 6.4: Prepayments (liabilities) Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 306 318 Tickets sold but not used 318 306 86 24 Financial instruments 24 86 543 418 Others 445 609 935 760 Total 787 1,001 Prepayments (liabilities) fall due in the following periods: 674 535 Within 1 year 562 740 261 225 After 1 year 225 261 935 760 Carrying amount at 31 December 787 1,001 Accounting practices Prepayments (liabilities) comprise payments received regarding income in the subsequent financial years. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 57 Section 7 Financial matters The Company defines risk as an uncertainty Counterparty risk arises when counterparties fail to associated with future targets that can have wide fulfil their obligations. ranging impacts on security, punctuality, reputation and finances. Financial risks relate to currency, raw This section contains the following notes: materials and counterparties. 7.1 Interest risk 7.2 Currency exchange rate risk The primary currency risk relates to oil consumption 7.3 Raw materials price risk and trade with international counterparties in EUR 7.4 Liquidity risk and SEK, respectively. 7.5 Counterparty risk Raw material price risks relate to the risk associated with the purchase of electricity and oil. As a result of its operations, investments and financing, the Company is exposed to changes in risk relating to interest, raw materials and currency exchange rates. The financial management aims to address the associated financial risks. The overall framework is set out in the financial policy, which is approved by the Board of Directors. In accordance with this policy, the Company must monitor, calculate, administer and manage risks, in addition to continuously monitoring risk exposure and cash resources. The purpose of the financial hedging is to limit and control the impact on profit caused by fluctuations in the financial markets. There are no significant changes in risk exposure or risk management compared with 2015. Accounting practices Initial recognition of derivative financial instruments is made in the balance sheet at cost and they are subsequently measured at fair value. Positive and negative changes in fair values of derivative financial instruments are recognised in Other receivables and Other liabilities, respectively. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are classified as and meet the criteria for hedging of the fair value of a recognised asset or recognised liability are recognised in the income statement together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or the hedged liability. Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments which are classified as and meet the criteria for hedging of future assets or liabilities are recognised in Other receivables or Other liabilities and in Equity. If the future transaction results in the recognition of assets or liabilities, amounts previously recognised in equity will be transferred at the cost price of the respective asset or liability. If the future transaction results in income or expenses, amounts previous recognised as equity will be transferred to the income statement in the period in which the hedged item impacts the income statement. In respect of derivative financial instruments which do not meet the conditions for treatment as hedging instruments, changes in the fair value are recognised in the income statement on an ongoing basis. 58 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 7.1: Interest risk Principal, local Currency Average currency swap, DKK Maturity effective (million) (million) Floating Fixed term interest rate Duration At 31 December 2016 DKK 1,399 1,399 100% 0.2 0.2% 0.1 NOK 800 781 100% 1.5 1.1% 1.5 SEK 2,800 2,335 42% 58% 2.6 0.4% 1.6 JPY 20,000 1,314 100% 23.5 3.2% 16.1 EUR 82 612 100% 4.8 3.0% 4.5 Portfolio 6,441 33% 67% 6.9 1.3% 6.0 At 31 December 2015 DKK 720 720 100% 0.8 3.9% 0.1 USD 105 634 100% 2.3 4.2% 2.2 NOK 1,776 1,668 100% 1.4 3.7% 1.4 SEK 2,800 2,336 18% 82% 3.6 1.6% 2.4 JPY 23,000 1,517 100% 21.4 4.5% 14.9 EUR 86 641 100% 5.6 3.9% 5.0 Portfolio 7,515 30% 70% 6.6 3.3% 5.5 As a result of financing activities, the Company is exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, both in Denmark and abroad. The primary interest rate exposure in this regard relates to fluctuations in CIBOR, NIBOR and EURIBOR. The policy is to raise all loans so that interest rate risks are only in CIBOR and EURIBOR. Interest rate risks are normally hedged using interest rate swaps in which variable rate loans are covered to a fixed rate. Within a 12-month period, interest rate sensitivity must not exceed DKK 50 million (with a percentage point change in interest rates), the debt portfolio must have a duration of 3 to 8 years, and at least 50 percent of the liability portfolio must be at a fixed rate. Accordingly, the weighted average duration of gross debt is 6.0 years (2015: 5.5 years). Of the financial liabilities, 67 percent were converted to fixed rate with maturity of longer than one year (2015: 70 percent). Variable rate debt is adjusted regularly during the year. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 59 Note 7.2: Currency exchange rate risk Exchange rate uncertainty associated with financial activity Currency risks in recognised financial assets and liabilities are hedged so that at least 75 percent of the risk is in DKK. In addition to this, risks in EUR or other currencies are only permitted if they are included in the Group companies’ financing or hedging of exposure from Group companies. The most significant currency exposure relates to loans in EUR, NOK, JPY and SEK, which are hedged using derivative financial instruments, currency swaps. After hedging, DSB is not exposed to significant currency risks from financing activities. Other registered positions represent an insignificant share of the currency exposure; the future cash flow in currency is hedged 30-70 percent on average, as calculated for a rolling 12-month period. Currency risks associated with operations are primarily related to oil consumption. Other currency risks in relation to trade with international counterparts are limited, apart from SEK and EUR as detailed below. The Company has currency risks relating to SEK as a result of its Swedish Group company, which operates under a transport contract in Sweden and a contract on maintenance of the Swedish Øresund train sets; the risk relating to EUR stems from the purchase of rolling stock. The Company has equity investments in foreign Group companies whose net assets are impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations in the translation to DKK in the consolidated financial statements. This translation risk is not hedged. The hypothetical impact on profit for the year and equity due to sensitivity to changes in exchange rates is as follows: Nominal position in local currency (million) Sensitivity in DKK million Cash and Derivative cash financial equivalents, Financial instruments Hypothetical Hypothetical and liabilities for securing impact impact receivables, (non-derivafuture Change in on Profit on equity total tive) cash flows Total exchange rate before tax before tax At 31 December 2016 NOK -1 -800 800 -1 10.0% 0 0 USD -2 -29 32 2 10.0% 1 119 SEK 19 -2,823 2,927 123 10.0% 10 21 JPY 0 -20,000 20,000 0 10.0% 0 0 EUR 2 -91 82 -7 0.5% 0 0 At 31 December 2015 NOK -1 -1,850 1,850 -1 10.0% 0 2 USD 0 -152 152 0 10.0% 0 137 SEK -13 -2,792 2,620 -185 10.0% -15 1 JPY 0 -23,000 23,000 0 10.0% 0 0 EUR 0 -83 90 7 0.5% 0 0 Conditions for sensitivity analysis: · Unchanged price and interest rate level. · Financial instruments recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 (2015). 60 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Note 7.3: Raw materials price risk Nominal Sensitivity Amount in DKK million Next year’s Hypothetical Hypothetical expected Raw impact impact raw materials materials Change in on Profit on equity consumption agreements energy price before tax before tax At 31 December 2016 Raw materials – oil 59,566 tons 55,200 tons 10.0% 0 20 Raw material – electricity 343,445 mWh 236,460 mWh 10.0% 0 5 At 31 December 2015 Raw materials – oil 60,766 tons 66,000 tons 10.0% 0 18 Raw material – electricity 353,321 mWh 239,352 mWh 10.0% 0 2 Conditions for sensitivity analysis: · Financial instruments which are recognised in the balance sheet at 31 December 2016 (2015). The Company uses oil and electricity in its operations and is therefore exposed to price risks. At the beginning of a budget year, the exposure must be hedged. The hedging is ongoing throughout the year before the budget year and is carried out through the conclusion of raw materials price swap agreements. Hedging of electricity consumption is used to hedge 75 percent of the expected consumption in 2017 and the remainder in the subsequent years. Similarly, oil hedging is used for 93 percent of the expected consumption in 2017. This hedging reflects the actual risk exposure. Note 7.4: Liquidity risk Amounts in DKK million Contractual Carrying cash flows, Group amount total Within 1 year Years 1 – 5 After 5 years Long-term loans and Subordinated loan capital principal 4,840 5,242 229 3,483 1,530 Long-term loans and Subordinated loan capital interest 573 1,540 96 283 1,161 Other financial instruments -31 -35 -27 -6 -2 Short-term loans and Credit institutions 1,199 1,199 1,199 Trade accounts payables 1,639 1,639 1,639 Financial instruments, total at 31 December 2016 8,220 9,585 3,136 3,760 2,689 The positive liquidity means that all due loans during 2016 were repaid without raising new long-term loans. The Company’s policy is to always maintain sufficient cash resources. The target is to have a cash reserve corresponding to the development in the approved budget year’s expected net debt plus DKK 200 million, though at least DKK 1.0 billion. The cash reserve is calculated as cash at bank and in hand plus access to drawing on bank facilities. At 31 December 2016, agreements were concluded on revocable bank facilities of DKK 1,500 million and irrevocable bank facilities of DKK 2,500 million, with expiry during the period 2017-2021 (2015: revocable of DKK 1,750 million and irrevocable of DKK 2,500 million, with expiry during the period 2015-2018). Of these cash resources, DKK 2,447 million is not utilised. (2015: DKK 3,188 million). Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 61 Note 7.5: Counterparty risk Counterparty risk Risk arises when financial derivative instruments are concluded to hedge the Group’s financial risks or when liquidity is placed with financial counterparties. The risk is that the counterparties will fail to fulfil their obligations. Receivables from derivative financial instruments, cash surplus and deposits total DKK 228 million at 31 December 2016. (2015: DKK 301 million). If the access to offsetting exposure in financial contracts with financial counterparties is recognised, the receivables from these three items total DKK 171 million at 31 December 2016 instead (2015: 90 million DKK). Customers and partners are subject to ongoing credit ratings and monitoring of the credit relationship. Historically, DSB has had relatively small losses as a consequence of non-payment by customers and counterparties. 62 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Section 8 Other notes This section includes notes that are significant but This section contains the following notes: not related to the other sections. 8.1 Other provisions 8.2 Contingent assets and liabilities, and In 2016, DSB received a contribution in the form of economic investment obligations Carlsberg station from the Ministry of Transport, 8.3 Related parties Building and Housing. In addition, the Group has 8.4 Gain and loss on sale and scrapping of carried out a number of property sales. intangible and tangible assets 8.5 Events after the balance sheet date Note 8.1: Other provisions Amounts in DKK million Capital losses Other in Group Restructuring Onerous Other provisions Parent corporation companies Staff contracts liabilities total Other provisions at 1 January 2016 37 16 56 109 Provisions 6 4 10 Used -19 -22 -30 -71 Reversed -18 -1 -19 Other provisions at 31 December 2016 0 0 29 29 Amounts in DKK million Other Restructuring Onerous Other provisions Group Staff contracts liabilities total Other provisions at 1 January 2016 16 23 62 101 Provisions 6 10 16 Used -22 -30 -52 Reversed -1 -1 Other provisions at 31 December 2016 0 23 41 64 Capital losses in Group companies include the Parent company’s obligation to cover negative balances in Group companies as a result of guarantees. Restructuring – Staff primarily involves obligations regarding former civil servants. Onerous contracts involve provisions for expected losses in the remaining contract period in VIAS GmbH. Other provisions include obligations regarding civil servants on loan and compensation obligations, etc. Accounting practices Provisions are recognised when the Group, as a consequence of an event that occurred at the balance sheet date at the latest, has a legal obligation or an actual obligation, and it is likely that financial advantages must be given up to meet that obligation. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 63 Provisions are recognised and measured as the best estimate of the costs necessary to liquidate the obligations. If fulfilment of the obligation is expected to be far in the future, the obligation is measured at fair value. Note 8.2: Contingent assets and liabilities, and economic investment obligations Parent corporation Group 2015 2016 Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 4 4 Contingent assets 4 4 510 179 Contingent liabilities 305 545 2,739 2,915 Economic investment obligations 2,998 2,790 Contingent liabilities include guarantees of a total of DKK 161 million. (2015: DKK 243 million) for DSB’s Group companies. These consist of operating guarantees to the contracting authorities, as well as guarantees to the lessor in connection with the lease of trains. In 2009, via a supplementary agreement with the Danish Ministry of Transport, DSB committed to invest up to DKK 1,000 million in parking facilities, etc. in order to ensure effective access to and from rail traffic to increase the number of passengers over the period of 2009 to 2020. Investments and the related operation are financed through the sale of vacant land and commercial properties and through any applicable public or private co-financing. DSB has pledged funding of DKK 720 million. As of 31 December 2016, DSB has sold vacant land at a total profit of DKK 783 million (2015: DKK 599 million) and has invested and incurred operating costs totalling DKK 304 million. (2015: DKK 286 million). DSB pays an ongoing pension contribution to the state for civil servants and employees on similar terms as those of a civil servant, calculated as a percentage of the pensionable salary, to cover the state’s pension obligation to civil servants. Upon retirement, the state assumes the full pension obligation. The contribution rate for the ongoing pension contributions is based on assumptions about interest rates, expected pension age, wage development and mortality, etc. Deviations from these assumptions, under certain conditions, can result in an adjustment of the contributions in the form of additional payment to or from the state at the time of retirement. The contribution rate is current 26 percent. DSB has an obligation to pay redundancy payment for three years to civil servants who are dismissed for a cause that is not the fault of the civil servant, see section 32 of the Danish Civil Servant Act. DSB also has a commitment to the Agency for the Modernisation of Public Administration to pay pension costs for civil servants until the expected retirement age of 62 years. DSB is a part in a small number of pending cases. The outcome of these cases, individually or jointly, is not expected to have a significant impact on the financial position of the Company. Economic investment obligations includes leasing of rolling stock of a total of DKK 184 million (2015: DKK 369 million), of which DKK 80 million falls due for payment in 2017 and DKK 104 million in the period 2018-2020. As part of DSB’s agreement with Rejsekort A/S concerning the use of the Rejsekort system, DSB is obliged to pay an annual subscription fee of approx. DKK 131 million for the period 2016-2028. The total obligation for the period 2017-2028 has been stated at DKK 1,590 million, of which DKK 524 million falls due in the period 2018-2021. In 2012 DSB outsourced the majority of its IT operations covering IT services and support to end-users as well as operation of networks, telephony, data centres and DSB’s systems. The total liability in this regard is DKK 247 million (2015: DKK 236 million), of which DKK 112 million falls due in 2017 and DKK 135 million falls due in 2018-2019. 64 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts In 2012 DSB concluded a lease for Telegade 2 in Taastrup. The lease is non-terminable by DSB for the period until 2021 for parts of the premises and 2026 for other parts of the premises. The maximum commitment in this regard is DKK 240 million (2015: DKK 271 million), of which DKK 32 million falls due in 2017 and DKK 117 million falls due in 2018-2021. As part of its normal business operations, DSB has service and maintenance obligations as well as purchase and selling obligations. In addition, economic investment obligations include contracts regarding investment in tangible assets. The remaining purchase obligation regarding IC2 and IC4 train sets at 31 December 2016 totals DKK 6 million (2015: DKK 153 million) before discounts. The remaining purchase obligation regarding 67 double-decker coaches at 31 December 2016 totals DKK 585 million. (2015: DKK 0 million). Accounting practices Contingent assets and liabilities, as well as other economic investment obligations, include conditions or situations existing at the balance sheet date, but whose accounting effects cannot be finally determined until the outcome of one or more uncertain future events becomes known. Note 8.3: Related parties Related parties Basis The Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing 100% owner Board of Directors and Executive Board Management control DSB’s transactions with the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing and related agencies and institutions (primarily the Danish Transport, Construction and Housing Authority and Rail Net Denmark) comprise: Group Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Income Income from transport contracts, net 4,162 4,539 Bonus relating to transport contracts 6 9 Transport income 0 6 Other rental and sale of repairs, goods and services 16 186 Expenses, etc. Infrastructure and capacity charges 587 558 Guarantee commission to the Danish state 16 19 Prepayment Prepaid contract payment 261 315 Transactions with related parties are conducted on market terms, including on the basis of cost allocation. The transactions are disclosed due to their special nature. In 2016, DSB received a contribution of tangible assets, in the form of Carlsberg Station, from the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, totalling DKK 53 million. Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts 65 Note 8.4: Gain and loss on sale and scrapping of intangible and tangible assets Group Amounts in DKK million 2016 2015 Gain on sale of intangible and tangible assets 212 120 Loss on sale and scrapping of intangible and tangible assets -23 -10 Total 189 110 Note 8.5: Events after the balance sheet date No events have occurred after 31 December 2016, which in the opinion of the management have a significant impact on the assessment of the annual report for 2016. Other matters The Executive Board is per 1 February 2017 expanded with Jürgen Müller, Director of Strategy & Rolling stock. Jürgen Müller joined DSB in 2015. Meanwhile, Susanne Mørch Koch is per 1 January resigned from the Executive Board in connection with the resignation. 66 Consolidated annual accounts and annual accounts Operating activities Transport contract 2015-2024 Productivity The Ministry of Transport and DSB concluded At year-end 2016, the number of full-time a new transport contract in 2015, which speciemployees was 7,239, which is a decrease of fies the services DSB will deliver during the 63 employees compared to year-end 2015. contract period. Table 1: Number of full-time employees The contract concluded with the Ministry of Increase Transport is a 10-year contract on the condi2016 2015 Abs. % tion that DSB meets the operator punctuality Danish activities 1) 7,056 7,004 52 1 and efficiency requirements. Swedish activities 96 94 2 2 Operator punctuality is the total punctuality, German activities 2) 87 204 -117 -57 with deductions for delays due to circumNumber of full-time 7,239 7,302 -63 -1 employees – year-end stances for which DSB is not responsible. The requirement of operator punctuality is considAverage number of full-time employees in 7,285 7,438 -153 -2 ered met if the requirements for long-distance total 3) and regional rail traffic, as well as S-train traf1) Including Øresund. fic, are all fulfilled within a calendar year. 2) Costs related to these full-time employees are recognised in Staff costs at a proportional rate of 50%. 3) The deviation in Average number of full-time employees is primarily Efficiency is measured according to revenue due to the transfer of staff as a result of the contract concluded on Facility Management services, and the transfer of the Odenwald line coverage, which is passenger revenue per DKK to a new operator. one of expenses. The Danish activities at year-end 2016 have DSB receives one point for each year the increased by 52 full-time employees. This is operator punctuality requirement is met, and due in part to the acquisition of 8 shops on one point for each year that the efficiency reKystbanen (Coastal line) in 2016. In addition, quirement is met. If DSB earns fewer than five additional employees have been hired to perpoints in total during the period 2015-2019, form maintenance on DSB’s rolling stock. the transport contract can be terminated Lastly, there are fewer employees in cuswholly or partially with effect at 31 December tomer-oriented functions – partially due to the 2021. increasing rate of passenger self-service. DSB earned points for both operator punctualThe reduction of 117 employees in the Gerity and efficiency requirements in 2015, while man activities is due to the transfer of the DSB only expects to earn a point for the effiOdenwald line to a new operator at the end ciency requirement in 2016. Thus, DSB expects of 2015. to have earned a total of 3 points at the end of 2016. Operating activities 67 Table 2: Productivity in the Danish train activities This has led to situations with late cancellations, which has been unsatisfactory for cusIncrease tomers. Customer punctuality was also nega2016 2015 Abs. % tively impacted by the declining reliability of Costs per seat kilome56 58 -2 -3 DSB’s rolling stock, with delays and cancellatre1) (øre/km) tions as a result. Other factors in the declining Number of train kilo12,006 11,865 141 1 customer punctuality include the introduction metres per employee Number of train jourof ID checks at Copenhagen Airport in January 40,952 39,954 998 2 neys per employee 2016 and border controls at Padborg. Further1) Costs per seat kilometre are calculated as the number of seats conmore, the implementation of K16 (the 2016 tained in a litra unit multiplied by the number of litra-kilometres timetable) had a negative impact on customer travelled. The calculation includes depreciation, but is adjusted for non-recurring items. punctuality. Costs per seat kilometre are 3 percent lower For S-trains, the declining customer punctualin 2016 than in 2015, when adjusted for nonity is predominantly due to the commissioning recurring items. Furthermore, the Number of of the new signal system between Hillerød train kilometres per employee and Number of and Jægersborg, which has resulted in delays train journeys per employee have had a posiand cancellations from the implementation tive growth of 1 percent and 2 percent, restart-up in February and throughout 2016. In spectively, compared with 2015. addition, external events such as collisions with people, vandalism and infrastructure Punctuality problems necessitating the use of busses/rail replacement busses also impacted customer Table 3: Customer punctuality 1) punctuality negatively. Percent Increase 1) Table 4: Operator punctuality 2016 2015 Abs. Percentage Percent Increase points 2016 2015 Abs. PerLong-distance & Recentage 74.0 78.5 -4.5 -6 gional Trains points S-trains 92.6 95.0 -2.4 -3 Long-distance & Re92.0 94.4 -2.4 -3 gional Trains 1) Customer punctuality for long-distance and regional train traffic is defined as the number of passengers using punctual trains in relation S-trains 98.4 99.0 -0.6 -1 to the total number of passengers. In 2016, Øresund is included in Long Distance & Regional Trains. Customer punctuality for the S1) Operator punctuality is the total punctuality, less any delays due to train network is defined as the proportion of passengers which may circumstances for which DSB is not responsible. In 2016, Øresund is arrive punctually on the basis of passengers' expected travel pattern included in Long Distance & Regional Trains. Arrivals are considered and the operated train traffic. Arrivals are considered punctual if they punctual if they are delayed less than three minutes. Cancellations are delayed less than three minutes. Cancellations which are not nodue to circumstances at DSB that are not notified 72 in advance are tified 72 hours in advance are recognised as a delay. recognised as a delay. Customer punctuality in Long-distance & ReOperator punctuality in Long-distance & Regional Trains fell from 78.5 percent to 74.0 gional Trains declined from 94.4 percent in percent in 2016. In S-trains, customer punctu2015 to 92.0 percent in 2016. In S-trains, opality fell by 2.4 percentage points to 92.6 pererator punctuality declined from 99.0 to 98.4 cent. percent. The decline in customer punctuality for LongThe developments in operator punctuality for distance & Regional Trains is the result of sevLong-distance & Regional Trains are particueral factors, including delays in track maintelarly impacted by the reliability of DSB’s rollnance during the spring and summer of 2016. ing stock; in addition to these issues on the 68 Operating activities part of DSB, operator punctuality is also imLong-distance & Regional Trains had 76.4 milpacted by the derived consequences of track lion journeys in 2016, which is 2.2 million maintenance. journeys fewer than in 2015. Apart from impacts from extraordinary circumstances, inFor S-trains, the decline in operator punctualcluding ID verification, border control and ity is mainly due to the implementation of the track maintenance works, there was a growth new signal system, where signal errors in the in journeys by long distance and regional train. train sets have resulted in delays and cancellaThis can be attributed to factors including the tions. improved Youth Card, commuter card and the improved access to ticket purchases through Customers electronic media, including apps. In 2016, 192.6 million journeys were carried The Zealand traffic has been impacted by the out by DSB in Denmark, compared to 192.7 continued ID verification and the number of million journeys in 2015. An average journey journeys declined by 2 percent. with DSB in 2016 was 31 kilometres long, which is at the same level as 2015. The number of journeys for Jutland and Funen decreased by 3 percent. Traffic on In 2016, the number of journeys across Grenaabanen was transferred from DSB to the Great Belt (train, plane, car and bus) inMidttrafik in August. creased by approx. 1.1 million journeys compared to 2015. The growth can be seen in car, Journeys across the Great Belt decreased by 4 bus and plane traffic, while train traffic depercent compared with 2015. The developcreased. DSB’s market share across the Great ment in the number of journeys across the Belt was 22.0 percent in 2016, which is a deGreat Belt was significantly impacted negacrease of 1.6 percentage points compared tively due to track maintenance works on Fuwith 2015. nen in 2015 and 2016. The decrease has been greater than expected due to the considerable Table 5: Number of journeys non-planned blocking of tracks around Ascension Day and Whitsun. Furthermore, DSB has 1,000 journeys Increase not fully managed to make up for the reduc2016 2015 2) Abs. % tion in number of journeys between regions Long-distance & 76,365 78,578 -2,213 -3 due to track maintenance work in 2015. Regional Trains East (Zealand)1) 52,500 53,586 -1,086 -2 The S-trains had 116.3 million journeys in West (Jutland 2016, which was 2.2 million more than in and Funen) 15,154 15,604 -450 -3 2015 corresponding to growth of 2 percent. East/West In addition to the general traffic development, 7,982 8,297 -315 -4 (across the Great Belt) the positive growth can also be attributed to Others 729 1,091 -362 -33 continued robust production, with generally S-trains 116,271 114,121 2,150 2 high customer punctuality and a number of iniDenmark, total 192,636 192,699 -63 0 tiatives linked to the combined use of bicycles Sweden, total 3,900 4,896 -996 -20 and S-trains. The development is also supGermany, total 2,165 4,289 -2,124 -50 ported by the conversion of more train cars Total number with space for customers’ bicycles. DSB has 198,701 201,884 -3,183 -2 of customers calculated that 10.4 million journeys were 1) Operation of DSB Øresund has been transferred to DSB as at 13 Deconducted with a bicycle in the S-trains, correcember 2015. The journeys are included in East (Zealand). sponding to growth of 1 percent compared to 2) Compared to previously released figures, 2015 increased by 0.8 million journeys in Long-distance & Regional Trains. Operating activities 69 2015. Track maintenance and the establishTable 6: Customer satisfaction ment of new signals have negatively impacted travel figures by about 1.5 million journeys. Score (1-10) Increase 2016 2015 Abs. % The development in Others is primarily due to Satisfaction with the a reduction in the number of international journey 7.8 7.9 -0.1 -1 (Long-distance & Rejourneys and journeys with IC Bornholm due gional Trains) to continued ID verification and border conSatisfaction with Longtrol. distance & Regional 7.0 7.3 -0.3 -4 Trains in general Satisfaction with the Customer satisfaction journey (S-trains) 8.0 8.2 -0.2 -2 Customer satisfaction is measured every quarSatisfaction with S7.7 7.9 -0.2 -3 ter by DSB in Kundekompasset. DSB focuses trains in general on the customers’ experience of the current Satisfaction with the journey (Øresund 7.6 7.8 -0.2 -3 journey as well as their more general perceptrains) tion of a journey with DSB. The questionnaires Satisfaction with Øre6.8 7.2 -0.4 -6 are distributed on a basis that reflects the acsund trains in general tual distribution of journeys. This means that Satisfaction with the 7.9 8.0 -0.1 -1 more questionnaires are distributed on lines journey (all of DSB) with many journeys than on lines with fewer Satisfaction with all of 7.4 7.6 -0.2 -3 DSB in general journeys. The responses are also representative of the actual distribution by travel time of day and weekday/weekend. Based on these For Long-distance & Regional Trains, satisfacsurveys, DSB has identified the five most imtion declined in 2016 compared with 2015. portant areas for achieving high customer satThe following factors in particular were the isfaction: cause of declining satisfaction:  Punctuality  The trains’ general compliance with the  Traffic information schedule, and on the current journey (punc Personal comfort tuality)  Cleaning and safety  Traffic information in connection with de Products and service lays – information on alternatives and explanations for the change DSB has established action plans for each of  Traffic information at dsb.dk and by mobile these areas, to ensure targeted efforts to imphone (sms and apps) prove in each individual area and increase  Exterior cleaning of the train sets. overall customer satisfaction. The declining satisfaction with long-distance and regional trains’ compliance with the schedule in general and the current journey had a knock-on effect on customer satisfaction with the traffic information. With regard to exterior cleaning, DSB has faced major challenges with exterior graffiti. For S-trains, satisfaction with the current journey and S-trains in general declined in 2016. The following underlying parameters had a particular impact on the decline in satisfaction: 70 Operating activities  The trains’ general compliance with the Food and refreshments schedule, as well as on the current journey DSB launched two initiatives in 2016 aiming (punctuality) to offer DSB’s customers the opportunity to  Traffic information in connection with depurchase food and refreshments onboard lays – information on alternatives and extrains travelling across regions. In September, planations for the change DSB launched a snack bag product as a trial  Traffic information about changes in traffic programme. DSB has also installed two new on S-TV screens and in S-trains. automatic beverage machines in IC3 trains to test them before full deployment. The declining satisfaction with S-trains’ compliance with the schedule in general and the DSB cardboard Multiride tickets phased out current journey in particular had a knock-on The sale of all types of DSB cardboard Muleffect on customer satisfaction with traffic intiride tickets ceased in August throughout the formation. There were also challenges with country. The Multiride tickets could be used the S-TV screens, which did not work during up to and including mid-January 2017, after stretches of 2016. which they can be refunded until August 2019. DSB 10-journey Multiride tickets for standard For Øresund trains, satisfaction declined in and DSB 1’ were launched in a digital version 2016 compared with 2015. The following facin the DSB App in February 2016. tors in particular were the cause of declining satisfaction: Digitisation and self-service 2016 saw continued focus on the develop The trains’ general compliance with the ment of digital sales channels in order to supschedule, as well as on the current journey port to objective of increasing customers’ uti(punctuality) lisation of self-service options. Self-service  Traffic information in connection with deutilisation measured among customers in Delays – information on alternatives and excember was at 85 percent, while it was at 82 planations for the change percent in January 2016.  The number of train departures. Figure 1: Self-service Service the DSB Way Share in % Service the DSB Way continued in 2016. A range of targeted activities and an e-learning 90% course across the company highlighted the im80% portance of delivering good, consistent service 70% by all employees – both those with direct cus60% 50% tomer contact and those in more administra40% tive roles. A result of these efforts was stable 30% satisfaction with DSB’s staff, despite the oper20% 10% ational challenges in 2016. 0% 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Park & Ride Kunder Passageromsætning In collaboration with the Confederation of Danish Industry, DSB conducted an analysis to Several measures in recent years have inidentify the potential for travellers by combincreased customer self-service – including the ing car and train, as well as using the “Park & continued increase in the use of the rejsekorRide” facilities in Denmark. The analysis comtet travel card. At the end of December, there pared the travel times for car vs. public were 2.0 million active Rejsekort, of which transport from door to door and will influence 530,000 were issued in 2016. the location of DSB’s future investments. Operating activities 71 In addition to the aforementioned launch of impacted both the price perception and expethe 10-journey Multiride ticket in DSB’s App, rience of travelling by train. The vast majority a new online store for the sale of international of train journeys during the day were easttickets was launched in June, giving customers west. the opportunity to purchase tickets to many destinations online, thus increasing the degree Social media of self-service for tickets that have traditionDuring 2016, DSB undertook more targeted ally be marked by long servicing times at DSB and structured efforts relating to its social meCustomer Centre. Agreements are being condia presence. These efforts resulted in included on a rolling basis with a range of Eurocreased relevance of content. DSB’s two Facepean operators for the sale of “print at home” book pages are now followed by 91,000 ustickets, which can be sold online. ers. In September, a new Business Portal was imCustomer Centre plemented, increasing the opportunities for DSB Customer Centre answers calls and writself-service purchases and follow-up for comten enquires from customers, including on Fapanies with a Commercial Agreement. cebook. Furthermore, the Customer Centre sells tickets and issues Business Cards, Youth Revenue Management Cards and rejsekort travel cards. In 2016, the Revenue Management aims to optimise reveCustomer Centre answered 1.2 million telenues from commercial products and ensure inphone calls and 0.5 million written enquiries, creased capacity utilisation. During 2016, this which combined is about 2 percent fewer than resulted in a new pricing structure for the Orin 2015. There was also an approximate 5 ange product, implementation of the Orange percent decline in the number of telephone concept in regional traffic, price differentiation enquiries, particularly in relation to rejsekort in interregional traffic to better take adand the wide-ranging types of calls regarding vantage of willingness to pay, tightening of domestic journeys. The written enquiries incontrol and pricing close to departure to recreased by about 6.5 percent, with much of duce inexpedient migration, and optimisation this growth attributable to Facebook and the of the method for determining the number OrTravel Time Guarantee. ange tickets offered for a given departure. DSB Sales & Service Increased marketing Throughout 2016, DSB worked to create 2016 saw a focus on marketing of DSB’s prodmodern and effective customer touchpoints at ucts and services. Working with a new adverthe largest stations. In connection with these tising agency, a new concept for sales marketefforts, DSB’s staffed points of sale in Odense, ing was selected. The first campaign in the Aarhus, Copenhagen Central Station and new concept was the launch of DSB Døgnet. Kastrup Airport were remodelled and renamed DSB Salg & Service (DSB Sales & SerThe good experiences with the Orange Januvice). The remodelling and new design support ary sale and late summer sale from 2015 were the increasing use of digital channels for ticket continued in 2016 with major campaigns. DSB purchases. As a result of the remodelling, the Døgnet and Christmas traffic were also signifirate of self-service at the four stations (meascantly marketed. The marketing of DSB Orured as a share of sales in the automated ange resulted once again in increased sales of vending machines compared to the sales Orange tickets in 2016 compared to the year counter) increased by 8 percentage points before. DSB Døgnet resulted in 96 percent from 2015 to 2016. more journeys on that day than on a comparable Saturday, and a 124 percent increase in the sale of reserved seats. Thus, DSB Døgnet 72 Operating activities ID-verification is the largest reorganisation of the tariff sysDSB established ID-verifications for train travtems in Denmark in 40 years, and the work inellers to Sweden at Copenhagen Airport in volved significant restructuring of DSB’s IT January 2016, in accordance with the Swedish systems. government’s demands for carrier liability. The ID-verifications have been conducted at A reform of the tariff systems in western Denall five access points to Track 1 at the airport. mark (Takst Vest) has run parallel with the effort in Zealand. The main elements of the reform were determined in 2016, and IT develIn mid-April, the procedure of taking pictures opment, etc. is planned in 2017, with a view of customers’ photo ID when they passed the tobe launched in 2018. Efforts are being taken inspection was phased out. The basis for stopto ensure that DSB can also restructure and ping this procedure was that, at that time, simplify the tariffs in east/west traffic. there had been approximately 1 million people through the check at the airport, with only a few enquiries by the Swedish authorities reRolling stock situation garding alleged breaches of carrier responsibilChallenging rolling stock situation ity. Most these cases were subsequently DSB’s rolling stock situation in the past year dropped. On this basis, DSB wanted to miniwas challenging. The declining reliability of mise the inconvenience for customers by the rolling stock has contributed to the negaspeeding up the ID-verification process. tive development in customer punctuality and was the primary factor in the negative develFrom the start of the ID-verifications at the opment in operator punctuality. airport, a revised schedule has applied for trips to Copenhagen Airport and across the On this basis, DSB launched a project in colØresund. The ID-verifications have generally laboration with an external consultancy combeen performed without significant chalpany to identify the causes of the negative delenges, but the revised schedule has caused velopment in the MDBF – Mean Distance Beboth traffic-related and capacity-related chaltween Failures. lenges. Therefore, together with the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing, Rail Net The analysis was completed in October and Denmark and Skånetrafiken, DSB has carried showed that the causes of the declining reliaout efforts to identify the possibilities for an bility were primarily related to the physical improved traffic solution and – as a result – a condition of the rolling stock and the prodifferent setup for the ID-verifications. In Nocesses for coordination between operations vember, various scenarios were tested to arand the workshop. The analysis indicated that rive at a proposed future setup for the ID-verithe focus in recent years has been on quickly fications. getting rolling stock out and running again – even if this has meant that the trains are to During the first year, DSB has had significant some extent put into operation with technical costs associated with the ID-verifications. An and non-critical defects. This has contributed agreement has been reached with Skånetrafito the rolling stock causing more delaying ken to share these costs equally between DSB events than previously. and Skånetrafiken. To ensure greater managerial focus, DSB deTariff reforms cided in 2015 to consolidate operating activiDSB prioritised efforts in 2016 to realise a tarties in DSB with maintenance activities in DSB iff reform in Zealand (Takst Sjælland), which Vedligehold under joint management. was launched in January 2017. The reform establishes a unified tariff zone in Zealand. This Operating activities 73 DSB has launched a number of initiatives to availability of the IC4 train sets. Therefore, the help bring punctuality back up to the level deefforts will cease to introduce four coupled manded by the traffic contract. The initiatives train sets, operational switching and improved include recruitment of up to an additional 200 comfort in the passenger areas. employees at the workshops, so that there will be more resources to reduce the number Until DSB begins the phasing in of new electriof delaying errors in the train sets. cal train sets in 2024, the future use of the IC4 train sets will be primarily as regional trains. Furthermore, the current workshop capacity The IC4 train sets will be phased out as the will be expanded so that maintenance and renew electrical train sets are commissioned. pairs can be performed 24 hours a day to a greater extent than previously. Other initiaExisting rolling stock tives focus on the processes between operations and maintenance, on optimisation of deTable 7: Litra-kilometres 1) fect reporting for the rolling stock, and Kilometres (1,000) Increase measures to improve the cross-organisational 2016 2015 Abs. % management. IC4 train sets 6,538 5,507 1,031 19 IC4 and IC2 train sets IC3 train sets 30,736 30,865 -129 0 In June, DSB decided to phase out all 23 IC2 IR4 train sets 9,301 7,368 1,933 26 train sets. This decision was made because the Øresund train sets 8,892 7,557 1,335 18 IC2 train sets do not meet the requirements Double-decker coaches 16,174 16,231 -57 0 for stability, which is required for their use in MR train sets 1,904 2,449 -545 -22 railway transport. In addition to the 23 IC2 Desiro train sets 2,287 3,027 -740 -24 train sets, a decision was also made to phase Diesel locomotives – 3,636 3,782 -146 -4 ME out 5 IC4 train sets. The total pool subseS-train sets 17,310 17,306 4 0 quently amounts to 77 IC4 train sets. 1) Litra-kilometres is the aggregated number of kilometres travelled by DSB’s locomotives, train sets and double-decker coaches. IC4 report 2) Operation of DSB Øresund was transferred to DSB as of 13 DecemIn December, DSB released the final report on ber 2015. Litra-kilometres for 2015 are included for comparison. the future utilisation of the IC4 train sets. The IC4 train sets continue to operate for shorter Table 8: Number of kilometres travelled between incidents 1) period between delaying events than other rolling stock. The measures taken have not Kilometres (1,000) Increase had the expected effect and it is not possible 2016 2015 Abs. % to systematically account for how planned IC4 train sets 3.6 5.4 -1.8 -33 measures will impact operating stability. IC3 train sets 33.3 41.3 -8.0 -19 IR4 train sets 10.9 16.1 -5.2 -32 DSB’s recommendation in relation to the fuØresund train sets 21.3 22.7 -1.4 -6 ture utilisation of IC4 is as follows: MR train sets 9.7 10.8 -1.1 -10 Desiro train sets 17.6 32.9 -15.3 -47 The IC4 train sets are part of the solution until Diesel locomotives ME 16.4 22.8 -6.3 -28 the phasing in of electric trains. This means a S-train sets 13.9 21.1 -7.2 -34 minimalistic commissioning of IC4 train sets, 1) A technical incident on the rolling stock which causes a delay. with the use of 77 IC4 train sets will be used until they are phased out – approx. 40 IC4 train sets operating with passengers and approx. 37 IC4 train sets in the operating and workshop pool. The focus from now on will only be improving the operating stability and 74 Operating activities Table 9: Number of kilometres travelled between travelled 30.7 million kilometres in 2016, breakdowns 1) which is slightly fewer than in 2015. Thus, the Kilometres (1,000) Increase IC3 train sets represented 69 percent of total 2016 2015 Abs. % travel with diesel trains. IC4 train sets 27.9 67.2 -39.3 -58 IC3 train sets 409.7 643.0 -233.3 -36 Like DSB’s other rolling stock, the IC3 train IR4 train sets 290.4 273.6 16.8 6 sets have experienced a decline in the Number Øresund train sets 160.6 292.8 -132.2 -45 of kilometres travelled between events, from MR train sets 35.2 58.3 -23.1 -40 41,319 kilometres in 2015 to 33,252 Desiro train sets 44.0 137.6 -93.6 -68 kilometres in 2016, but the IC3 train sets Diesel locomotives ME 72.7 78.8 -6.1 -8 remain DSB’s most reliable rolling stock. S-train sets 42.5 64.1 -21.6 -34 IR4 train sets 1) A train/train set which, due to a technical error, is cancelled and canIn connection with DSB’s takeover of not complete its planned run while it is in operation. DSB Øresund’s operation of Kystbanen and Developments in the reliability of DSB’s rolling Kastrupbanen in December 2015, the operation of 20 IR4 train sets was transferred from stock is seen in the above two tables. DSB Øresund to DSB. DSB thereby has 44 IR4 IC4 train sets train sets, which have been utilised on Kystbanen and for long-distance and regional rail In 2016, the IC4 train sets travelled 6.5 million kilometres, representing a 19 percent increase traffic together with IC3 train sets. The merger compared to 2015. The IC4 train sets were of IR4 train sets has resulted in significantly improved rolling stock utilisation, with a 26 primarily utilised in regional rail traffic in Jutland and on Zealand, as well as selected depercent increase in distance travelled, from partures in long-distance rail traffic. 7.4 million to 9.3 million kilometres. The daily operational utilisation at year-end To improve customer comfort in the IR4 train had increased to 49 out of the 77 available sets, DSB has launched the replacement of all toilet bowls and associated equipment in all train sets in the rolling stock. The remaining train sets were used for conversions, the 44 train sets. This will result in fewer defecworkshop pool and testing. tive and therefore non-operational toilets and reduce the costs of repair. The replacements The operational stability of the IC4 train sets are expected to be completed in 2018. developed negatively over the first nine months of the year, and improved over the Øresund train sets last three months of the year. Overall, the In connection with DSB’s takeover of Number of kilometres travelled between DSB Øresund’s operation of Kystbanen and Kastrupbanen in December 2015, the operaevents ended at 3,606 kilometres, which is 33 percent lower than in 2015. There have been tion of 34 Øresund train sets was transferred a particularly high frequency of issues with defrom DSB Øresund to DSB. In 2016, operations faced challenges due to the ID-verificafects in the IC4 train sets’ PowerPack; therefore, DSB launched an upgrade of the IC4 train tions; the introduction of these ID-verificasets’ PowerPack, which is expected to be tions required production of up to 4.5 percent more than originally planned to carry out the completed at the end of 2018. planned traffic. The Øresund train sets travIC3 train sets elled 8.9 million kilometres in 2016 compared to 7.6 million kilometres in 2015. The IC3 train sets turned 25 years old last year, and they continue to have a very central role in DSB’s train fleet. The IC3 train sets In 2016, DSB have, together with the Swedish rolling stock owner, planned a renovation Operating activities 75 project for the Øresund train sets. The project ME diesel locomotives is expected to commence in the second quarExhaust gas catalytic converters were tested ter of 2017 and run over the next five years. on the ME diesel locomotives in 2016. TechThe renovation project establishes brand new nical challenges have prevented further impletoilets, removes old vending machines, estabmentation, however. Despite the challenges lishes new and improved space for disabled with new exhaust gas catalytic converters in persons and gives the Øresund train sets a the ME diesel locomotives, other solutions fresh and modern design, inside and out. have been tested and are expected to have a positive impact on particle emissions from the MR train sets ME diesel locomotives. These solutions are In 2016, the MR fleet was reduced by one expected to commence in 2017. train set, which was handed over to Rail Net Denmark. The plan remains to phase out the S-train sets MR fleet over the coming years, but due to the The S-train sets experienced a significant deearly phasing out of the IC2 train sets in 2016, cline in reliability during the year, in terms of there is a need for 21 MR train sets for operaNumber of kilometres travelled between tions in 2017 and slightly fewer in 2018. The events. This is due in part to events related to total MR fleet is expected to be reduced by the implementation of the new signal system, eight train sets during the first quarter of where signal errors result in errors in the 2017. trains. The Number of kilometres travelled between events in 2016, adjusted to remove In the spring, 10 MR train sets more were events relating to the signal system, was equipped with exhaust gas catalytic convert19,672; this figure is 13,915 kilometres if ers, bringing the total number of MR train sets events relating to the signal system are inwith this equipment to 14. DSB will install cluded. In comparison, the Number of kilomecatalytic converters in two more MR train sets tres travelled between events was 21,068 during the first half of 2017. kilometres in 2015. Desiro train sets Banedanmark’s Signal Programme DSB stopped operations on Grenaabanen in August, where 12 of the Desiro train sets had In 2016, Banedanmark issued a new project been used. In connection with this, the proviplan for the implementation of the new signal sion of four Desiro train sets also came to an system. This means that the deployment of end; DSB has instead concluded a lease with the new signal system for Long-distance & Rethe Ministry of Transport, Building and Housgional trains is delayed by about two years ing until December 2020. After the schedule and for S-trains by one year in relation to the change to K17 (Schedule 2017) in December, political agreement from 2009. the Desiro train sets now operate on Svendborgbanen and Lille Syd, between Roskilde Long-distance & Regional Trains and Næstved. The adjusted schedule for the Signal Programme is tight. The first serial introductions The Desiro train sets experienced a significant will begin in 2017 with Desiro and IC3 train decline in reliability during the year, in terms sets. The training of locomotive instructors of Number of kilometres travelled between began as planned in November and the trainevents, going from 32,903 kilometres in 2015 ing of locomotive operators began in January to 17,589 kilometres in 2016. 2017. At the end of 2016, all trains have been equipped with the new, built-in digital GSM-R radio; however the Øresund train sets and 76 Operating activities some IC3 train sets still need to be converted. Reputation The delay with these train sets is due to stillpending regulatory approvals. DSB’s reputation was under pressure in 2016, and declined from 50.4 in the first quarter to S-trains 46.2 in the third quarter. The decline is priIn February 2016, the new signal system marily due to punctuality challenges during (CBTC) was put into service on the Jægersthe year. During the fourth quarter, the negaborg-Hillerød line. The system was impletive development in reputation was brought mented with a number of known errors, and a to a halt. The pulse score for the year was number of newly discovered errors were also 47.8, which is 0.9 points lower than last year. corrected during the year. Some of the errors will not be corrected until sometime during The trend has been the same among both us2017. The next deployment is planned for ers and “non-users” of long-distance and re2018. gional trains. It remains such that users (48.4) have a significantly better view of DSB than “non-users” (39.3). DSB’s S-train reputation declined from 58.8 to 55.0 in 2016. For DSB S-trains, high-frequency users still rate DSB S-trains higher than lowfrequency users. Generally speaking, DSB’s reputation at the end of 2016 is highest in Greater Copenhagen and lowest in Region Zealand. Figure 2: Reputation Index 0-100 60 55 50 45 40 35 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 DSB in generel DSB (users) DSB (non-users) Operating activities 77 Supplemental key figures Total journeys (thousand) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 East 1) 24,220 23,773 23,870 24,752 52,500 West 15,774 16,612 16,172 15,604 15,154 East – West 8,788 8,763 8,629 8,297 7,982 Other 2) 1,003 988 982 1,091 728 Long-distance & Regional Traffic 49,785 50,136 49,653 49,744 76,365 S-trains 106,133 109,242 111,967 114,121 116,721 DSB Øresund 25,799 26,606 27,497 28,834 Danish activities, total 181,717 185,984 189,117 192,699 192,636 Roslagsbanan 3) 11,000 Krösatåg 4) 1,094 1,194 207 Västtrafik 5) 4,199 Upptåget 6) 4,800 4,800 4,848 4,896 3,900 VIAS 4,120 4,204 4,246 4,289 2,165 Total foreign activities 25,213 10,198 9,301 9,185 6,065 Total journeys 206,930 196,182 198,418 201,884 198,701 Passenger kilometres (million) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 East 1) 1,143 1,120 1,122 1,153 1,729 West 963 985 968 943 932 East – West 2,003 1,965 1,928 1,821 1,745 Other 2) 137 141 136 158 116 Long-distance & Regional Traffic 4,246 4,211 4,154 4,075 4,522 S-trains 1,265 1,285 1,319 1,344 1,362 DSB Øresund 516 533 534 577 Danish activities, total 6,027 6,029 6,007 5,995 5,884 Roslagsbanan 3) 129 Krösatåg 4) 94 94 16 Västtrafik 5) 794 Upptåget 312 201 203 205 163 VIAS 124 124 125 127 64 Total foreign activities 1,453 419 344 332 227 Total passenger kilometres 7,480 6,448 6,351 6,327 6,111 1) Operation of DSB Øresund was transferred to DSB as of 13 December 2015. 2) Other includes IC Bornholm and International. 3) Arriva is the new operator as of 7 January 2013. 4 Operations were transferred to Veolia on 1 March 2014. 5 SJ is the new operator of Västtrafik as of 1 May 2012. 78 Operating activities Supplemental key figures (continued) Total train kilometres (1,000 km) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 East1) 7,889 7,752 8,128 8,816 13,365 West 9,222 8,947 8,318 8,396 8,001 Long-distance traffic 2) 19,102 19,910 20,338 18,585 18,867 International trains 3) 1,369 1,373 1,240 1,048 826 Long-distance & Regional Traffic 37,582 37,982 38,024 36,845 40,879 S-trains 15,521 15,833 15,936 15,840 15,595 DSB Øresund 4,334 4,772 4,658 4,540 Danish activities, total 57,437 58,587 58,617 57,225 56,474 Roslagsbanan 4) 3,100 Krösatåg 5) 2,460 2,364 394 Västtrafik 6) 3,667 Upptåget 2,866 2,990 2,990 2,991 2,992 VIAS 4,400 4,400 4,400 4,292 2,100 Total foreign activities 16,493 9,754 7,784 7,283 5,092 Total train kilometres 73,930 68,341 66,401 64,508 61,566 1) Operation of DSB Øresund was transferred to DSB as of 13 December 2015. 2) Long-distance traffic in Denmark includes IC Bornholm in Denmark. 3) International trains in Denmark, IC Bornholm in Sweden and charter trains abroad. 4 Arriva is the new operator as of 7 January 2013. 5 Operations were transferred to Veolia on 1 March 2014. 6) SJ is the new operator of Västtrafik as of 1 May 2012. Operating activities 79 Supplemental key figures (continued) Rolling stock in operation 1) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 IC4 train sets 2) 70 82 82 82 77 IC3 train sets 96 96 96 96 96 IC2 train sets 2) 9 23 23 23 IR4 train sets 24 24 24 44 44 MR train sets 65 53 53 35 30 Leased Desiro train sets 12 12 12 12 12 Desiro train sets 8 4 4 4 4 Desiro train sets on loan/lease from the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing 3) 4 4 4 4 Leased ICE-TD 13 13 13 13 4 Øresund train sets 4) 111 111 111 111 111 DSB Øresund, IR4 train sets 20 20 20 Diesel locomotives – ME 36 33 33 33 33 Electric locomotives (EA) 6 6 6 6 5 S-trains (eight coach train sets) 104 104 104 104 104 S-trains (four coach train sets) 31 31 31 31 31 Roslagståg Electric train sets 30 Krösatåg – Diesel train sets 13 13 Krösatåg – Electric train sets 4 4 Upptåget – Electric train sets 11 11 12 12 12 VIAS – Electric train sets 5) 45 45 45 19 19 Ranger locomotives/tractors 16 14 14 15 14 Leased double-decker coaches 112 67 67 67 67 Double-decker coaches -46 -46 -46 -46 1) Rolling stock included in DSB Group’s operations at year-end. 2) Number of train sets in 2012 delivered from AnsaldoBreda. 3) DSB has in 2016 signed a lease with Transport, Construction and Housing Ministry until December 2020. 4) The 111 train sets consist of 34 train sets used in Denmark and 77 train sets in a joint pool shared by Transdev and DSB. Operations are divided by the national border. 5) Operation of the Odenwald line ceased at the end of December 2015. 80 Operating activities Supplemental key figures (continued) Number of kilometres travelled between incidents 1) (1,000 km) 2012 2013 2014 20152) 2016 IC4 train sets 3.6 4.5 6.5 5.4 3.6 IC3 train sets 57.4 52.9 54.3 41.3 33.3 IR4 train sets (ER DSB) 21.8 22.8 25.4 16.1 10.9 Øresund train sets 34.0 32.0 36.6 22.7 21.3 MR train sets 20.1 20.3 21.2 10.8 9.7 Desiro train sets 12.4 15.3 26.6 32.9 17.6 Diesel locomotives – ME 26.2 32.7 32.2 22.8 16.4 Electric locomotives (EA) 15.3 21.6 S-train sets 16.0 20.5 19.9 21.1 13.9 1) A technical incident on the rolling stock which causes a delay. 2) From 2015, the Mean Distance Between Failures (MDBF) was calculated with a dealy criterion of 2:59 min. Number of kilometres travelled between breakdowns1) (1,000 km) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 IC4 train sets 53.2 57.1 60.8 67.2 27.9 IC3 train sets 804.6 663.9 489.1 643.0 409.7 IR4 train sets (ER DSB) 129.0 140.8 172.0 273.6 290.4 Øresund train sets 162.1 169.3 208.8 292.8 160.6 MR train sets 232.8 185.2 139.5 58.3 35.2 Desiro train sets 96.3 92.0 174.3 137.6 44.0 Diesel locomotives – ME -95.5 116.9 121.6 78.8 72.7 Electric locomotives (EA) 114.5 79.3 S-train sets 2) 64.1 42.5 1) A train/train set which, due to a technical error, is cancelled while it is in operation and cannot complete its planned run. 2) No data for 2012-2014. Operating activities 81 Supplemental key figures (continued) Average number of full-time employees 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 DSB, including Property Development 4,314 4,085 3,943 3,840 4,060 of which social chapter 1) 151 173 161 144 128 S-trains 872 731 711 -722 697 of which social chapter 1) 13 10 17 15 12 Kort & Godt A/S 736 698 649 614 636 of which social chapter 1) 10 12 14 15 12 DSB Vedligehold A/S 1,709 1,683 1,647 1,665 1,706 of which social chapter 1) 34 38 44 52 55 DSB Øresund A/S 2) 355 368 319 307 Danish activities, total 7,985 7,565 7,269 7,148 7,099 DSB Sverige AB 15 7 Roslagståg AB 3) 288 5 of which social chapter 1) 1 1 Krösatåg 4) 101 100 17 Västtrafik 5) 174 26 Upptåget 76 85 92 95 96 VIAS 179 189 186 195 90 Others Total foreign activities 833 412 295 290 186 DSB Group, total 8,818 7,977 7,564 7,438 7,285 1) The social chapter includes programmes such as flex jobs, light jobs, rehabilitation, partial pension and early retirement benefit, which was introduced in 1996 with the aim of promoting employment in the government labour market for people with reduced working capacity in Denmark. 2) Operation of DSB Øresund was transferred to DSB as of 13 December 2015. 3) Arriva is the new operator as of 7 January 2013. 4 Operations were transferred to Veolia on 1 March 2014. 5 SJ is the new operator of Västtrafikk as of 1 May 2012. Until 1 September 2013, DSB was responsible for operation of DSB försäljningsservice Väst. Organisation entitled to negotiation (total employees – year-end) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 AC 421 442 427 462 509 Individual 206 196 210 213 212 DJ 4,032 3,904 3,776 3,659 3,545 FO DSB 1,130 1,095 1,055 1,069 1,118 HK 2,294 2,252 2,087 2,041 2,124 Others 97 55 58 45 49 Total 8,180 7,944 7,613 7,489 7,557 Employee group – form of employment (total employees – year-end) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Contract staff 206 196 210 213 212 Collective agreement employees 4,912 4,775 5,004 5,079 5,295 Hourly-paid employees 431 498 35 33 44 Civil servants 2,631 2,475 2,364 2,164 2,006 Total 8,180 7,944 7,613 7,489 7,557 82 Operating activities Supplemental key figures (continued) Total operated railway stations (year-end) 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Long-distance train stations, including joint stations 155 158 158 159 159 S-train, including joint stations 85 85 85 85 85 S-train joint stations with Long-distance & Regional trains -9 -9 -9 -9 -9 S-train, excluding joint stations 76 76 76 76 76 Stations in Sweden operated by Roslagsbanan 1) 38 Stations in Sweden operated by Krösatåg 2) 50 50 Stations in Sweden operated by Upptåget 19 19 17 17 17 Stations in Germany operated by VIAS 1) 63 63 63 28 28 Total operated railway stations 401 366 314 280 280 Km track operated by DSB in Denmark 1,668 1,668 1,668 1,668 1,573 Km track operated by DSB in Sweden 750 685 180 180 180 Km track operated by DSB in Germany 3) 964 964 964 504 504 1) Arriva is the new operator as of 7 January 2013. 1) Operations were transferred to Veolia on 1 March 2014. 1) Operation of the Odenwald line ceased at the end of December 2015. Operating activities 83 Income statement by quarter 2016 2015 Amounts in DKK million 1st quar2nd quar3rd quar4th quar1st quar2nd quar3rd quar4th quarter ter ter ter ter ter ter ter Passenger revenue 1,327 1,406 1,337 1,424 1,200 1,245 1,152 1,372 Revenue from transport contracts 1,093 1,113 1,089 1,099 1,235 1,235 1,265 1,148 Sale from kiosks, etc. 197 229 219 211 185 218 208 211 Sale of repair and maintenance services of rolling stock, etc. 73 54 70 85 57 70 75 55 Leasing of rolling stock 3 2 8 0 60 58 59 45 Net turnover 2,693 2,804 2,723 2,819 2,737 2,826 2,759 2,831 Work performed by the enterprise and capitalised 179 155 141 199 143 129 123 142 Other operating income 144 90 140 161 94 161 129 184 Total income 3,016 3,049 3,004 3,179 2,974 3,116 3,011 3,157 Expenses for raw materials and consumables 455 450 478 520 426 454 466 505 Other external expenses 988 942 907 1,027 908 906 912 1,047 Staff costs 927 987 917 905 917 968 922 901 Total expenses 2,370 2,379 2,302 2,452 2,251 2,328 2,300 2,453 Profit before depreciation, amortisa646 670 702 727 723 788 711 704 tion and write-downs Depreciation, amortisation and write459 1,173 442 2,560 465 462 638 458 downs Operating profit 187 -503 260 -1,833 258 326 73 246 Net financials -71 -60 -56 -117 -127 -71 -62 -63 Profit before tax 116 -563 204 -1,950 131 255 11 183 Profit for the period 88 -438 160 -1,514 91 184 14 157 Total equity 6,806 6,459 6,559 5,338 6,241 6,744 6,724 6,931 EBITDA-margin 24.0 23.9 25.8 25.8 26.4 27.9 25.8 24.9 Return on equity (ROE) p.a. 5.1 -26.4 9.8 -101.8 5.8 11.3 0.8 9.2 Return on capital employed after tax (ROIC after tax) p.a. 4.2 -11.8 6.3 -46.8 4.9 6.4 1.7 5.8 84 Operating activities Key figure definitions Key figure definitions Key figures and terminology are prepared in accordance with “Recommendations & Key Figures 2010” from The Danish Society of Financial Analysts. Profit/loss before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation margin (EBITDA margin) = profit before depreciation and amortisation x 100 / net revenue Profit/loss before interest and taxes margin (EBIT margin) = operating profit x 100 / net revenue Return on equity (ROE) = profit for the year x 100 / average equity Return on invested capital after tax (ROIC after tax) = operating profit after tax (NOPLAT) x 100 / (average equity + average net interest-bearing debt) Gearing = net interest-bearing debt / profit before depreciation and amortisation Solvency ratio = equity x 100 / balance sheet total Interest coverage = (operating profit + financial income) / financial expenses Operating activities 85 Line Accounts DSB works with a focus on optimising and improving the efficiency of railway services through ongoing improvements, and thereby ensures that DSB remains competitive, transparent, responsible and solid. To ensure transparency, DSB has in recent years developed a system for reporting the finances of DSB’s railway services by activity area. Combined with further division of the operator tasks by rail line, this contributes transparency to the public debate on the future of railway services in Denmark. The line accounts are a breakdown of DSB’s accounts based on a number of assumptions and allocations, which can of course be discussed. DSB is willing to enter into dialogue on these assumptions and, in any case, recommends that the results are used with a degree of caution. Activity Area Accounts Public services1 that DSB delivers according to the transport contract are divided into Train Service, Train System and General Obligations; see Table 1. Train Service relates to the operator task of operating trains. Train System is a collective designation for the activities that support the task of operating trains, from operation of stations, provision of rolling stock, timetable planning and monitoring, to traffic information and sale of tickets. General Obligations are activities that are independent of the railway services, such as operation of the Railway Museum and extra costs regarding civil servants. Train Service is furthermore divided into Long-Distance and Regional train traffic, S-train traffic and Øresund traffic. Train System is divided into Stations, Rolling Stock and Systems & Channels. Systems & Channels include Sales Channels and Customer Service, as well as Traffic operation and shared functions, see Figure 9. DSB’s income before leasing of rolling stock for 2016 amounts to DKK 10,198 million for financing the public service traffic delivered. 73 percentage of the income finances the Train Service, 25 percentage finances Train System tasks, while the rest finances General Obligations. Revenue from the transport contract (hereafter contract payment) is allocated to the activity areas based on the principles laid down in connection with DSB’s transport contract with the state, see Figure 12. Passenger revenues are primarily allocated to Train Service. This is an analytical decision, as the passenger revenues should in fact also be used for co-financing stations, sales channels, timetable planning, traffic information, etc. If the passenger revenues were also allocated to Train system, the size of the contract payment to be allocated to these areas of activities would be reduced. 1 Public services are calculated and published in the Presentation of Main Bussines Areas 2016 on www.dsb.dk. 86 Line Accounts Table 1: Profit/loss divided into areas of activity 2016 Train Services Train System General Obligations LongDistance and Systems Regional & ChanHistoriNonPublic train S-train Øresund Rolling nels cal recurring Amounts in DKK million services traffic traffic traffic Stations Stock 1) 2) items 3) Passenger revenues 5,516 3,260 1,506 648 0 0 102 0 0 Revenue from transport contract 4,163 1,687 0 130 575 102 1,573 96 0 Other operating income 4) 519 118 35 20 72 23 123 109 19 Income before leasing of rolling stock 10,198 5,065 1,541 798 647 125 1,798 205 19 Leasing out of rolling stock 1,833 0 0 0 0 1,833 0 0 0 Total income 12,031 5,065 1,541 798 647 1,958 1,798 205 19 Expenses for raw materials and consumables 619 484 108 58 1 0 11 -43 0 Other external expenses 4,736 2,195 476 363 300 328 1,002 66 6 Staff costs 2,611 1,218 363 211 91 22 542 164 0 Costs before leasing of rolling stock 7,966 3,897 947 632 392 350 1,555 187 6 Leasing of rolling stock 1,833 1,156 514 163 0 0 0 0 0 Total expenses 9,799 5,053 1,461 795 392 350 1,555 187 6 Profit/loss before amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 2,232 12 80 3 255 1,608 243 18 13 Amortisation, depreciation and write-downs 4,589 55 18 9 161 1,413 153 11 2,769 Operating profit/loss -2,357 -43 62 -6 94 195 90 7 -2.756 Net financials 288 5 8 1 46 195 26 7 0 Profit/loss before tax -2,645 -48 54 -7 48 0 64 0 -2.756 Tax -581 Profit/loss for the year -2,064 Allocation in percentage Revenue from transport contract 41% 0% 3% 14% 2% 38% 2% 0% Income before leasing of rolling stock 50% 15% 8% 6% 1% 18% 2% 0% Cost before leasing of rolling stock 49% 12% 8% 5% 4% 20% 2% 0% Expenses, amortisation, depreciation, writedowns and net financials 14,676 5,113 1,487 805 599 1,958 1,734 205 2,775 1) Passenger revenues under Systems & Channels reflect commission income from sale of tickets from other operators. 2) General obligations (historical) regarding Railway Museum, civil servants on loan, special buildings leased out on non-commercial terms, non-financed costs of joint stations, the profit/loss from Rejsekort A/S, and elimination items. 3) General obligations (Non-recurring items) regarding net profit from sale of property in the parent company and write-downs of IC4 and IC2 train sets, as well as write-down of equipment for one-man operation at Kystbanen (Costal line). 4) Other operating income includes fees, compensation, rent and income from Traffic-independent activities etc. Line Accounts 87 Costs of Public services before leasing of rolling stock amounts to DKK 7,966 million in 2016. 69 percentage hereof is used for Train Service, 29 percentage for Train System tasks and the remainder is allocated to General Obligations. Costs regarding leasing of rolling stock have been disregarded with respect to both income and expenses, as the rolling stock in these annual account is regarded as neutral intercompany transfers in terms of profit/loss. It is assumed that the rolling stock is leased for Train Service without any proceeds. The breakdown of Train Services on activity areas is based on Public Services2, which is a revised statement of the activities carried out by DSB under the transport contract. The Public Services statement is prepared in the format prescribed by the Accounting Regulations for DSB as stated in the Presentation of Main Bussines Areas 2016. The basis for breaking down the economy this way is DSB’s Line Economy Model. This model divides profit and loss account into activities and calculates the economy of the individual line based on the activities required. Revenue from transport contracts Together with passenger revenue, the contract payment of DKK 4,163 must finance the Public Services provided by DSB under the transport contract. In connection with the passenger revenue distribution in the Greater Copenhagen Area, there is a so-called Metro factor of 1.49, which means that a passenger travelling with Metroselskabet weighs more than a passenger travelling with DSB when the revenue in the Greater Copenhagen Area is distributed. It is estimated that DSB looses passenger revenue of DKK 171 million in 2016, which means that DSB must use the contract payment to cover this. In Denmark public passenger transport is exempt from VAT. This means that DSB is not able to deduct the input VAT in connection with purchase of goods and services in the same way as other sectors. Furthermore, companies which produce services which are exempt from VAT must pay payroll charges to the Danish state. In 2016, non-deductible VAT amounts to DKK 579 million and the payroll charges amount to DKK 115 million, totalling DKK 694 million. A corresponding part of the contract payment can thus be said to be retransferred to the state as a result of DSB’s special VAT situation. The overall result is that of the contract payment of DKK 4,163 million in 2016 DKK 3,298 million, or 79 percentage, remain for co-financing of DSB’s train operation, see Figure 1. 2) Compared to the Presentation of Main Business Areas, however, a settlement of leasing of rolling stock is included in connection with the activity areas Rolling Stock and Train Services, based on DSB’s cost of capital. 88 Line Accounts Figure 1: Contract payment for Train Services Amounts in DKK million -865 4,163 -171 -579 -115 3,298 Revenue from Revenue from Metro passenger VAT Payroll charges transport contract transport contract revenue substitution for Train Services In addition, in 2016 DSB paid DKK 551 million (exclusive of VAT of DKK 89 million) in infrastructure charges for passing the Great Belt Link and the Øresund Link and in kilometre charges for using the tracks. These charges are thus retransferred to the state. After deduction of this, the remaining contract payment for financing DSB’s internal train operation activities amount to DKK 2,747 million, or 66 percentage, in 2016. In years of dividend distribution, the contract payment for train operation will be lower. For example, DSB distributed DKK 173 million in dividend for the fiscal year 2015. Line Accounts 89 Train Services expenses Most of DSBs’ expenses including amortisation, depreciation and write-downs and financial income and expenses cover Train Services (DKK 7,405 million), distributed on Long-Distance and Regional train traffic (DKK 5,113 million), S-train traffic (DKK 1,487 million) and Øresund traffic (DKK 805 million) in 2016, see Table 1. Maintenance of rolling stock and Leasing of rolling stock total DKK 3,535 million of 48 percentage of the total expenses for Train Services while expenses for Train staff amount to DKK 1,702 million or 23 percentage, see Figure 2. The remaining expenses relate to Energy, Infrastructure charges and Replacement transport and Supporting functions. Figure 2: Train Services expenses 2016 Amounts in DKK million Replacement transport Energy 106 512 Leasing of rolling stock Infrastructure Staff and 1,833 charges shared functions 630 HR functions 299 63 Supporting Finance functions functions Working enviroment Maintenance of 920 and railway safty 154 rolling stock 72 1,702 IT functions Train staff 332 1,702 In accordance with the Accounting Regulations, DSB must allocate the complete costs to the activities and thereby also a part of the Supporting functions, which constitute DKK 920 million or 12 percentage of the Train Service costs. The Supporting functions include multidisciplinary IT functions, Staff and Shared functions, Finance and HR functions as well as Working environment and railway safety. Half of the supporting function costs comprise payroll and consultancy expenses while the remaining part includes expenses for software development, licences, outsourced data operation centre, insurance, rent and consumption expenses, branding of DSB and amortisation etc. Expenses regarding Supporting functions are allocated to the activity areas based on the number of employees converted into full-time employees involved in carrying out the individual activities. 90 Line Accounts This means that employee-intensive activities account for a substantial part of the expenses. As a consequence Train Services, to which the largest share of DSB’s employees contributes directly as part of the Train staff and indirectly in the workshops, carry a relatively large share of the expenses for Supporting functions. Train System expenses Expenses for the Train System, excluding Rolling Stock, which ensures coherence in Train Services in Denmark amounts to DKK 2,333 million including amortisation, depreciation and write-downs and financial income and expenses, see Table 1. Systems & Channels, which consists of Traffic operation and shared functions and Sales Channels and Customer Service, accounts for DKK 1,734 million or 74 percentage of this while Stations accounts for DKK 599 million or 26 percentage. Sales Channels and Customer Service comprises customer-oriented activities such as Ticket sales channels (personal service, digital sale and ticket vending machines), Customer service, Rejsekort (DSB’s co-financing of the travel card system) and Marketing. Traffic operation and shared functions includes traffic-oriented activities such as staff and traffic planning, traffic information, monitoring and control of train traffic at the operations centres run by DSB together with Banedanmark etc., see Figure 3. In line with train traffic, the Train System must be stated at the fully allocated expenses and thus carry a share of DSB’s total supporting functions. Figure 3: Train system expenses 2016 Amounts in DKK million Line Accounts 91 Integrated traffic with economies of scale The line accounts are primarily an internal analytical tool used by DSB to understand the correlations in the company’s operations and analyse and optimise the financial structure of the individual lines, see Table 2 and Table 3. The information about the financial structure of train traffic on the individual lines also provides a useful impression of the social priorities in Danish train operation, for example that DSB is able to offer train service by Long-Distance train traffic and S-train traffic without state subsidies whereas Regional train traffic, with less capacity utilisation, needs substantial subsidies. In a broader perspective, the line accounts are suitable for demonstrating the significant extent of activities outside the Train Service activities, which range from planning and monitoring of traffic, customer service and distribution systems to station operation and tasks carried out by DSB on behalf of and in cooperation with the rest of the public transportation system. However, the line accounts are not suitable for direct financial comparison between operators even if such comparison is only focused on the train operation activities. Furthermore, the line accounts cannot be used as reference with respect to adjustment of DSB’s expenses in connection with giving up lines to other operators. The reason for this is partly that the line accounts reflect activity based costing and partly that DSB’s expenses, like all other companies’ expenses, are variable to different degrees depending on the production volume. This means that parts of DSB’s expenses are only vaguely or not at all correlated with the number of train or seat kilometres driven. Today, DSB operates the train traffic in an integrated form. This makes it possible to exploit network advantages and ensure coherent optimization of the use of rolling stock and staff. To illustrate this, the IC3 train set Henrik Gerner’s journey can be followed on a given day. On 28 October 2016 at 04.17 a.m. in Struer the train set started a journey through Denmark which ended in Copenhagen on the following day at 01.01 a.m. During the journey, the train set fully or partially serviced 10 departures distributed on 6 different lines, including InterCity and Regional Rail Traffic, see Figure 4. The train set was connected to and disconnected from other train sets to create a coherent journey without any change of trains for passengers across Denmark and it was operated by different staff along the way. 92 Line Accounts Figure 4: The IC3 train set Henrik Gerner’s journey through Denmark on 28 October 2016. On this day, Henrik Gerner ran without interruptions of traffic but if such interruptions had occurred, for example due to signal or track malfunctions, DSB would have been able to make other arrangements with the rolling stock or staff and adjust the other traffic to minimise the consequences for the customers. Such rearrangements are made in cooperation with Banedanmark and they are a significant part of DSB’s traffic monitoring and control. A division of the network will limit the possibilities for optimum use of rolling stock and staff and, all other things being equal, will increase the costs of Train Operation while at the same time challenging the possibilities for coherent journeys without any change of trains and with flexible handling of interruptions. In an economic sense, a division will only be advantageous if a new train operator is able to carry on Train Operation at costs that are so low that they make up for the loss of network advantages and economics of scale as well as the increased costs of having more interfaces and more complexity. Line accounts The line accounts are based on the activity area Train Services reflecting the costs of operating train traffic. The costs are allocated to the lines in relation to their use of activities and Supporting functions are allocated to the lines based on the number of full-time employees involved in the individual activities, see Table 2 and Table 3. Positive results reflect that the line operated at a profit and can therefore be operated without any state subsidies. On the other hand, negative results reflect that the line operates at a loss and Line Accounts 93 consequently financing has to be added from profit-making lines and/or government contract payments. According to the Accounting Regulations, DSB is required to also specify the individual lines, including all expenses, regardless of whether the individual expense concerns the extent of production. Therefore, the Train System expenses for Stations and Systems & Channels are broken down on lines in Table 4 and Table 5. In practice, this means that e.g. expenses for stations, operation of the Rejsekort system, ticket vending machines, operations centres controlling traffic to limit delays etc. and traffic information have been broken down on lines, even though these activities do not have any direct connection with the actual financial setup of the train traffic on the individual line. The key figures for passenger revenues per seat kilometre and expenses per seat kilometre provide the best indication of how the seat capacity is utilised on the individual lines, see Table 4 and Table 5. Seat kilometres take into account the number of seats available in the individual train types and the number of train sets/coaches coupled on a line. Train kilometres which are often used as a key figure do not take these differences into account. The statement of passenger kilometres is subject to a not insignificant uncertainty when regarded in terms of lines. The reason is that the statement of journeys and thus how far the individual passenger travels to a great extent is based on random passenger surveys that are subject to substantial uncertainty. For instance, DSB has no precise information as to how often or how long a commuter with a season ticket travels, nor do we know which line the commuter uses on the journey (see page 105 Distribution of passenger revenues for the lines). 94 Line Accounts Table 2: Line accounts for Train Services 2016 (Long-Distance and Regional West) Leasing Mainof tenanInfrarolling SupPassence of Replacestrucstock porting ger Total Train rolling ment ture Direct (avg. function Profit/ Amounts in DKK million revenues revenues staff stock Energy transport charges costs costs) costs loss Copenhagen – Aalborg 954 969 -150 -168 -58 -6 -103 -485 -183 -84 217 Copenhagen – Esbjerg 457 469 -111 -98 -33 -7 -100 -349 -102 -60 -42 Copenhagen – Aarhus 688 706 -168 -180 -57 -10 -161 -576 -165 -92 -127 Long-Distance 2,099 2,144 -429 -446 -148 -23 -364 -1,410 -450 -236 48 Odense Svendborg 37 39 -22 -30 -5 -3 -5 -65 -16 -12 -54 Odense Nyborg 4 4 -3 -5 -1 0 -1 -10 -3 -2 -11 Odense Ringe 2 2 -3 -4 -1 0 -1 -9 -2 -2 -11 Nyborg Ringe 5 5 -8 -9 -2 0 -1 -20 -4 -4 -23 Aarhus Grenaa 11 12 -12 -15 -2 -8 -2 -39 -9 -8 -44 Aarhus Hornslet 3 3 -4 -4 -1 0 -1 -10 -3 -1 -11 Aarhus Langå Aalborg 83 89 -63 -44 -13 0 -11 -131 -36 -35 -113 Skørping Lindholm 3 4 -7 -10 -1 0 -1 -19 -4 -5 -24 Aalborg Frederikshavn 60 63 -29 -34 -8 -1 -7 -79 -22 -16 -54 Aalborg Hamborg 17 18 -6 -4 -2 0 -2 -14 -4 -4 -4 Aarhus Fredericia Esbjerg 89 94 -51 -111 -24 0 -14 -200 -42 -28 -176 Aarhus Fredericia 22 23 -8 -19 -4 0 -3 -34 -8 -4 -23 Odense Fredericia 17 19 -17 -31 -7 0 -5 -60 -14 -9 -64 Fredericia Flensborg 21 23 -18 -11 -3 0 -5 -37 -11 -10 -35 Fredericia Sønderborg 38 41 -26 -13 -5 0 -5 -49 -16 -15 -39 Aarhus Langå Struer 0 1 -7 -4 -1 0 -1 -13 -4 -4 -20 Fredericia Vejle Struer 70 75 -56 -41 -12 -2 -12 -123 -36 -29 -113 Herning Struer 1 2 -3 -5 -1 0 -1 -10 -2 -2 -12 Struer Thisted 0 0 -5 -4 -1 0 -1 -11 -2 -1 -14 Regional West 483 517 -348 -398 -94 -14 -79 -933 -238 -191 -845 Line Accounts 95 Table 3: Financial statements of Train Services (Regional East, Øresund and S-trains) Leasing Mainof tenanInfrarolling SupPassence of Replacestrucstock porting ger Total Train rolling ment ture Direct (avg. function Profit/ Amounts in DKK million revenues revenues staff stock Energy transport charges costs costs) costs loss Copenhagen Kalundborg 102 109 -64 -94 -28 -1 -9 -196 -78 -36 -201 Copenhagen Holbæk 122 128 -54 -70 -29 -1 -7 -161 -98 -31 -162 Copenhagen Roskilde 9 10 -13 -7 -2 0 -2 -24 -8 -6 -28 Copenhagen Ringsted 46 49 -29 -23 -6 -1 -4 -63 -25 -16 -55 Copenhagen Slagelse 56 59 -27 -27 -9 -1 -5 -69 -31 -14 -55 Copenhagen Nykøbing F Rødby 231 242 -104 -121 -50 -2 -17 -294 -186 -60 -298 Copenhagen Hamborg 72 75 -30 -8 -2 -3 -4 -47 -17 -15 -4 Roskilde Køge Næstved 33 38 -51 -46 -5 -1 -6 -109 -20 -29 -120 København Ystad 7 7 -4 -3 -1 -2 -6 -16 -5 -1 -15 Regional East 678 717 -376 -399 -132 -12 -60 -979 -468 -208 -938 København Helsingør 434 451 -170 -108 -34 -7 -21 -340 -119 -88 -96 København Malmø 214 217 -35 -39 -14 -3 -106 -197 -44 -17 -41 Øresund 648 668 -205 -147 -48 -10 -127 -537 -163 -105 -137 Central (Hellerup-Valby) 580 587 -72 -52 -15 -3 0 -142 -86 -36 323 Køge (Sydhavn Køge) 181 186 -56 -67 -19 -38 0 -180 -111 -30 -135 Høje Taastrup (Danshøj Høje Taastrup) 138 141 -26 -22 -6 -1 0 -55 -35 -14 37 Frederikssund (Langgade Frederikssund) 172 178 -60 -60 -17 -1 0 -138 -98 -32 -90 Farum (Ryparken Farum) 99 103 -35 -33 -10 0 0 -78 -55 -18 -48 Hillerød (Bernstorffsvej Hillerød) 179 185 -51 -52 -15 -3 0 -121 -86 -28 -50 Klampenborg (CharlottenlundKlampenborg) 32 33 -10 -7 -3 0 0 -20 -12 -5 -4 Ringbanen (Ny Ellebjerg Hellerup) 125 128 -34 -19 -5 -1 0 -59 -31 -17 21 S-trains 1,506 1,541 -344 -312 -90 -47 0 -793 -514 -180 54 Train Services before Income from transport contract 5,414 5,587 -1,702 -1,702 -512 -106 -630 -4,652 -1,833 -920 -1,818 Calculated payment under transport contract 0 1,817 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1,817 Train Services after Income from transport contract 5,414 7,404 -1,702 -1,702 -512 -106 -630 -4,652 -1,833 -920 -1 96 Line Accounts Table 4: Line accounts for Train Services and Train System (Long-Distance and Regional West) Profit/ loss from PassenPassenProfit/ Train ger Services ger Train Train loss Services revenue Cost per kilokiloServices Train from Train per pasper seat seat PassenServices Train Train Services senger metres metres ger Other Services SerOther Other Profit/ kilokilokilomemillion million Amounts in DKK million revenues revenues Costs vices revenue expenses loss metres 1) metres 1) tres 1) units units Copenhagen – Aalborg 954 15 -752 217 21 -151 87 0.55 -0.43 0.08 1,083 4.69 Copenhagen – Esbjerg 457 12 -511 -42 17 -116 -141 0.44 -0.49 -0.28 511 3.32 Copenhagen – Aarhus 688 18 -833 -127 26 -172 -273 0.42 -0.51 -0.35 773 5.20 Long-Distance 2,099 45 -2,096 48 64 -439 -327 0.47 -0.47 -0.14 2,367 13.21 Odense Svendborg 37 2 -93 -54 3 -26 -77 0.33 -0.82 -2.01 38 0.91 Odense Nyborg 4 0 -15 -11 1 -4 -14 0.15 -0.64 -3.23 5 0.12 Odense Ringe 2 0 -13 -11 1 -4 -14 0.12 -0.85 -9.73 1 0.12 Nyborg Ringe 5 0 -28 -23 0 -4 -27 0.11 -0.64 -5.20 5 0.27 Aarhus Grenaa 11 1 -56 -44 2 -12 -54 0.20 -1.06 -3.99 14 0.42 Aarhus Hornslet 3 0 -14 -11 1 -6 -16 0.22 -1.06 -4.04 4 0.11 Aarhus Langå Aalborg 83 6 -202 -113 6 -46 -153 0.25 -0.60 -1.31 116 1.91 Skørping Lindholm 3 1 -28 -24 1 -8 -31 0.09 -0.78 -7.06 4 0.26 Aalborg Frederikshavn 60 3 -117 -54 5 -41 -90 0.29 -0.56 -1.19 76 1.27 Aalborg Hamborg 17 1 -22 -4 1 -6 -9 0.46 -0.59 -0.45 20 0.23 Aarhus Fredericia Esbjerg 89 5 -270 -176 7 -57 -226 0.18 -0.56 -2.00 113 2.48 Aarhus Fredericia 22 1 -46 -23 2 -14 -35 0.25 -0.52 -1.20 29 0.46 Odense Fredericia 17 2 -83 -64 2 -19 -81 0.11 -0.55 -4.50 18 0.79 Fredericia Flensborg 21 2 -58 -35 1 -12 -46 0.22 -0.60 -1.86 24 0.63 Fredericia Sønderborg 38 3 -80 -39 2 -22 -59 0.18 -0.38 -1.24 47 0.97 Aarhus Langå Struer 0 1 -21 -20 1 -3 -22 -0.62 -6.84 3 0.21 Fredericia Vejle Struer 70 5 -188 -113 5 -39 -147 0.22 -0.58 -1.75 85 2.07 Herning Struer 1 1 -14 -12 0 -2 -14 0.08 -0.74 -6.48 2 0.13 Struer Thisted 0 0 -14 -14 0 -1 -15 -0.73 -5.59 3 0.14 Regional West 483 34 -1,362 -845 41 -326 -1,130 0.21 -0.59 -1.86 607 13.49 1) Calculated financial ratios are not rounded off. Line Accounts 97 Table 5: Line accounts for Train Services (Regional East, Øresund and S-trains) Profit/ loss from Profit/ PassenTrain Train loss ger Services Services PassenTrain Services Train from Train revenue Cost per per pasger kiloKiloPassenServices Train Train Services per seat seat kilsenger metres metres ger Other Services SerOther Other Profit/ kilomeomekilomemillion million Amounts in DKK million revenues revenues Costs vices revenue expenses loss tres1) tres1) tres1) units units Copenhagen Kalundborg 102 7 -310 -201 8 -60 -253 0.19 -0.57 -1.93 131 1.67 Copenhagen Holbæk 122 6 -290 -162 15 -97 -244 -0.23 -0.54 -1.50 163 1.32 Copenhagen Roskilde 9 1 -38 -28 2 -12 -38 -0.12 -0.50 -4.14 9 -0.27 Copenhagen Ringsted 46 3 -104 -55 6 -41 -90 -0.18 -0.40 -1.45 62 0.76 Copenhagen Slagelse 56 3 -114 -55 6 -40 -89 0.16 -0.33 -1.12 80 0.75 Copenhagen Nykøbing F Rødby 231 11 -540 -298 16 -114 -396 -0.21 -0.49 -1.19 333 3.04 Copenhagen Hamborg 72 3 -79 -4 3 -18 -19 0.40 -0.44 -0.22 92 0.68 Roskilde Køge Næstved 33 5 -158 -120 5 -40 -155 -0.21 -1.04 -3.52 44 1.10 Copenhagen Ystad 7 0 -22 -15 1 -5 -19 0.14 -0.48 -3.24 6 -0.20 Regional East 678 39 -1,655 -938 62 -427 -1,303 -0.21 -0.51 -1.42 920 9.79 Copenhagen Elsinore 434 17 -547 -96 62 -346 -380 -0.27 -0.34 -0.87 439 3.63 Copenhagen Malmø 214 3 -258 -41 10 -160 -191 -0.33 -0.40 -1.28 149 1.55 Øresund 648 20 -805 -137 72 -506 -571 -0.29 -0.36 -0.97 588 5.18 Central (Hellerup-Valby) 580 7 -264 323 11 -168 166 0.61 -0.28 2.56 Køge (Sydhavn Køge) 181 5 -321 -135 10 -89 -214 0.15 -0.26 3.08 Høje Taastrup (Danshøj Høje Taastrup) 138 3 -104 37 3 -52 -12 0.35 -0.26 1.11 Frederikssund (Langgade Frederikssund) 172 6 68 -90 4 -87 -173 0.16 -0.25 3.00 Farum (Ryparken Farum) 99 4 -151 -48 2 -49 -95 0.16 -0.25 1.68 Hillerød (Bernstorffsvej Hillerød) 179 6 -235 -50 3 -72 -119 0.19 -0.25 2.33 Klampenborg (CharlottenlundKlampenborg) 32 1 -37 -4 1 -15 -18 0.24 -0.28 0.39 Ringbanen (Ny Ellebjerg Hellerup) 125 3 -107 21 2 -48 -25 0.37 -0.31 1.41 S-trains 1,506 35 -1,487 54 36 -580 -490 -0.26 -0.26 15.57 Total lines 5,414 173 -7,405 -1,818 275 -2,278 -3,821 0.30 -0.41 57.24 Public services 5,414 173 -7,405 -1,818 425 -5,415 -6,808 1) Calculated financial ratios are not rounded off. 98 Line Accounts Essential adjustments to the Line Economy Model in 2016 In 2016, the following significant adjustments were incorporated into the Line Economy Model:  New line definitions  Internal contracts between DSB and the S-train service The schedule change 2016 resulted in significant production changes, which have made it necessary to revise the old line definitions. DSB has agreed new line definitions with the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing from 2016 that primarily ensure uniform handling of the lines over time and thus reflect the actual underlying planned production (see Figure 8). A review of DSB’s internal contracts between DSB and S-train for 2015 has revealed a need for adjustment of the contracts. As S-train is no longer a separate company but is operated together with the other Train Services, DSB has decided to simplify the internal processes by not trading services internally in the future, but instead allocating them by means of the Line Economy Model. This ensures uniform handling of supporting function costs for Train Service across the Long-Distance and Regional traffic, S-train traffic and Øresund traffic activity areas. In practical terms, this means that S-train will be charged an additional DKK 37 million compared with continuing the existing internal commercial contracts. The main reason is that the internal contracts do not adequately include S-train’s share of VAT and tax on labour costs nor IT costs. Method used for preparation of line accounts As a public undertaking, DSB must fulfil a number of reporting requirements, see Figure 5. The reporting requirements each have their own background and purpose and all aim at creating transparency and a check of DSB’s conditions. However, the requirements address the company from different perspectives. This makes it difficult to understand the link between the individual reports, which can, at the same time, impede transparency in DSB's economy. Figure 5: Reporting requirements in DSB Line Accounts 99 The Danish Financial Statements Act stipulates requirements for the drawing up of accounts, which cover the whole group and provide insight into the financial position of the whole company. DSB’s Accounting Regulations are designed to separate Public Services from Competitive Activities in order to provide an insight into the activities that are subject to contract payment and ensure that there is no illegal state support. The Presentation of Main Business Areas, which are reviewed by External Auditor, divides the parent undertaking DSB's result into Public Services under a negotiated contract and Competitive Activities. The traffic contract covers only Public Services that DSB performs under the contract. These services constitute a subset of the parent company's activities. That means that DSB Vedligehold A/S is not covered directly by the Public Service obligation, but indirectly in the form of the preparation and maintenance services that are delivered and invoiced for Train Services. Neither is Kort & Godt A/S covered by the Public Service obligation. The line accounts are based on DSB's 2016 Presentation of main Business Areas where Public Services are separated. The activity area accounts are an attempt to segment DSB's activities with reference to the split in the traffic contract. The line accounts are a breakdown of the Train Services on the lines in accordance with DSB’s Accounting Regulations. Figure 6: Elements of Train Services DSB operates Train Services in Denmark as a total activity, but shall, in connection with the traffic contract, prepare and implement a separation of the railway operations into activities related to the actual train movements (Train Services), and activities related to the maintenance of the production apparatus (Train System), see Figure 6. Line Economy Model The Line Economy Model provides a basis for DSB's Presentation of Main Business Areas and Line accounts. This creates a unique correlation and a complete transaction track between the individual accounts. The model creates the Presentation of Main Business Areas setup by dividing DSB's activities into Public Services under a negotiated contract and Competitive Activities, such as, for example, the sale by DSB of energy in the form of diesel oil and electric traction power to other operators. Public Services are further split into activity areas and the activities that DSB implements to operate the individual lines. The lines contain all accounting entries relating to Train operations, see an earlier definition. 100 Line Accounts Figure 7: Design of the Line Economy Model Figure 7 describes the principle method used in the Line Economy Model where the accounting entries are grouped and distributed via activities for lines. At the resources level, the accounts are grouped and classified according to production proximity, so that the supporting functions are distributed according to the capacity unit’s relative use of resources. The model makes use primarily of objective and systematic basis of allocation based on production information. The Line Economy Model is based on a combination of full cost allocation and activity-based cost allocation . The full cost allocation results from the Accounting Regulations requirement that all costs are allocated to the lines. Definition of lines In 2016, definitions of the individual lines have been reviewed and adapted to the production and timetable that DSB has used in 2016. Figure 8 shows how all lines are defined according to the current timetable for 2016. Line Accounts 101 Figure 8: Line definitions 2016 Long-Distance & Regional Trains  Long-Distance trains are defined as trains crossing the Great Belt (the red lines). (Copenhagen – Aalborg, Copenhagen – Aarhus, Copenhagen – Esbjerg)  The remaining InterCityLyn and InterCity lines and ”the tails” of InterCityLyn from Aalborg to Frederikshavn and InterCity from Aarhus to Aalborg are defined as regional trains as this is, in fact, regional train traffic as the trains stop at every station. (Aarhus – Langå – Struer, Fredericia – Vejle – Struer, Struer – Thisted (tail of InterCityLyn), Fredericia – Sønderborg, København – Ystad, Aalborg – Frederikshavn (tail of InterCityLyn), Aarhus – Langå – Aalborg (tail of InterCity)).  Struer – Thisted is viewed as a separate line, as DSB has an obligation according to the transport contract to operate the line 6 times a day, but does not receive the associated passenger revenues.  The train categories Regional East and Regional West follow the underlying train production.  International train systems, used to a great extent by local travellers on Zealand and in Jutland are defined as regional rail traffic. 102 Line Accounts Definition of activities and breakdown into the activity areas Trains Services and Train System The central element in the Line Economy Model is the definition of the activities carried out by DSB in Train Services. The activity definitions and groupings used support the distinction between train services and train system activities on which the Activity area accounts are based. Figure 9: Activities in Train Services and Train System DSB's basic accounting registrations do not directly support a division of the Train Services in accordance with the activity area perception in the traffic contract. The basic registrations are aimed at supporting the company's current organisation and thus the most effective total train business. That is why the reports on activity areas are based on the basis of allocation of the Line Economy Model. Basis of allocation Development of the Line Economy Model is based on the objective that the model should reflect DSB's revenue, cost and production structure. Since it is an allocation model, the size of revenue and costs per line will depend on the choice of activity groupings and basis of allocation. The train service activities for lines is in general distributed according to the following principles: Line Accounts 103  If the activity is performed only for operation of a single line, there will be a direct allocation to the line.  If the activity is carried out in order to be able to run multiple or all lines, the costs will be distributed to lines in accordance with an appropriate production parameter. Figure 10: The main basis of allocation for Train Services in the Line Economy Model Figure 10 shows the main production-based basis of allocation used in the allocation of the train service activities to the individual lines. One example is the full costs of the train transport activity under on-board staff, which is distributed to the line based on the locomotive driver’s time registration that is connected to the individual line via the rolling stock. A second example is the full maintenance costs of IC3 train sets rolling stock, distributed relatively to the lines where IC3 train sets are used based on the kilometres that the IC3 train set has travelled. A third example is the infrastructure costs for crossing the Great Belt, which are allocated in proportion with the number of bridge passengers carried on the individual line. 104 Line Accounts Distribution of passenger revenues for the lines It is not possible to directly quantify the number of journeys in DSB due to the fact that, in public transport, it is possible to ride on buses, the metro and the train without necessarily having to have a travel warrant for a specific departure. This applies to both period tickets and single journeys, since it is possible to buy an open ticket for e.g. Copenhagen Aarhus. Thus, it is not possible to determine whether the journey is travelled on an InterCity or InterCityLyn. In addition, a journey can be made across multiple operators and lines. For example, a journey from Tisvildeleje to Bornholm involving the local train from Tisvildeleje to Hillerød, S-train from Hillerød to Copenhagen H and regional train from Copenhagen to Ystad can be made on the same ticket. The accounts statement is not made any less complicated by the fact that there are now many ticketing systems and tariff areas that must be coordinated across different operators. Figure 11: Principles for the allocation of passenger revenues to lines DSB has thus a number of travel sources, see Figure 11, of which the largest is DSB's own ticket sales and capital city journeys as well as the Rejsekort (travel card). The journeys are assessed by means of passenger counts in trains, that are converted to the number of passengers. The methods may vary from travel source to travel source and are agreed with the other operators in a given tariff area. The trips must then be divided into travel relationships that show from where and to where the journey is made. This is based on passenger studies3 of travel patterns that provide a statistical weighting that can be used for travel sources. 3) The BRIK counts in the Greater Copenhagen Area and the Country count, as carried out by COWI in Long-Distance & Regional trains. Line Accounts 105 When travel relationships are established, the journey’s routing shall be determined, i.e. which of several possible lines have been used for the journey between two destinations. Since a journey can be made over several lines, it must be shared relatively between the lines. Thus, a trip can be divided into one or more partial journeys. Occupancy counts and timetables are used for splitting across travel lines. Partial journeys are used to allocate passenger revenues to lines in the overall Travel Revenue Model. In the Line Economy Model, this input is used as a basis for distributing the registered passenger revenue. So there is a degree of discretion in the passenger revenue linked to single lines. Distribution of income from the traffic contract to areas of activity The Line Economy Model will not be broken down into the contract payment on lines, since there is no unique activity-based method on which to allocate the contract payment. For use for the Activity area accounts, DSB has chosen to allocate contract payment according to the following method. Figure 12: Principles for allocating revenues from the traffic contract to activity areas The contract payment to Stations is allocated so as to ensure an annual return on the invested capital (ROIC) of 3 percent. The contract payment for General Obligations (historical) is based on cost recovery. The contract payment for Systems & Channels is based on a profit rate of 5 percent, the contract payment for Equipment covers all the project costs for preparation of the purchase of new electric trains for Denmark alone, since rolling stock rental is charged to the train service activity. The remaining contract payment accrues to Train Services where it is distributed such that the profit ratio is identical for Long-Distance and Regional train traffic, Øresund traffic and S-train traffic. If the generate a profit individually without contract payment this payment is distributed only to the loss-making traffic areas. For S-trains this means that in 2016 no contract payment is added (see Table 1) since S-trains may be operated at a profit. In addition, it is assumed that the passenger revenues accrue to Train Services and thus, according to the model, do not contribute directly to the Train System. 106 Line Accounts Distribution of rolling stock rental to Train Service All income and expenses as well as amortisation, depreciation, write-downs and financial income and expenses for rolling stock are collected in two pools, one for Long-Distance and Regional train traffic (including Øresund) and one for S-train traffic. However, both pools are exclusive of Train of the Future, which is not included. On the Long-Distance and Regional train traffic lines where dedicated rolling stock is used (Odense Svendborg, Aarhus Grenaa, Copenhagen Malmø and Copenhagen Ystad), the line costs are accounted directly with the specific rolling stock costs. The remaining rolling stock pool is regarded as a common pool that can be inserted on all lines and therefore calculated as an average rolling stock by using the driven train kilometres on the individual lines. Rolling stock rental for S-trains is based solely on the actual rolling stock costs of the S-train rolling stock. Internal commercial contracts between DSB and the S-train service S-train is closed down as an independent company, new internal commercial contracts will not be drawn up between DSB and S-train. The existing commercial contracts will not be updated and are, therefore, no longer accurate. From 2016 onward, the consolidated overhead costs are distributed to S-train lines in accordance with the same principles as apply to the Long-Distance and Regional train traffic. Distribution of VAT and tax DSB has partial right of deduction of incoming VAT, since the group has both VAT-liable and VATfree activities. The non-deductible proportion of incoming VAT is included in the profit and loss account and in the balance sheet's entries. For the purposes of VAT, DSB's companies are jointly registered and VAT in DSB is bookkept in central profit centres. VAT is allocated the activity areas according to the relative VAT of the relevant activities. VAT costs then follow the actual costs through the allocation model. Corporation tax will not be allocated to activity areas and lines. In the Presentation of Main Business Areas, corporation tax is divided between Public Services according to the negotiated contract and Competitive Activities. Line Accounts 107 Management Statement DSB’s management has considered and approved DSB's Line accounts for 2016. The accounts are drawn up in accordance with the principles and methods specified in the DSB Accounting Regulations, taking into account the interpretations agreed with the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing. It is our view that  The Accounting Regulations are respected in 2016, including making the necessary accounting breakdown, see the Section 2 of the Accounting Regulation, such that DSB can account for the need for grants for the passenger traffic.  The model instrument and the basis of allocation used are documented in accordance with the Section 3 of the Accounting Regulations so that DSB can account for financial allocation to lines. Taastrup, 9 February 2017 Flemming Jensen Thomas Thellersen Børner CEO CFO 108 Line Accounts Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) DSB’s focus on corporate social responsibility contributes to the creation of a framework within which:  the company’s customers can travel easily, safely and securely with DSB – including elderly and disabled customers  company offers environmental and climate-friendly public transport for the benefit of society, customers, employees and the company  employees have a good working environment in which diversity contributes to the development of the company  DSB’s contributions to society contribute to the creation of pride and job satisfaction within the DSB organisation. DSB’s social responsibility is incorporated into the company’s policies, processes and practices. It is stated in DSB’s ethical policy that the company will comply with the 10 universal principles of the UN Global Compact, with focus on human rights and employee rights. DSB's ethical rules require that our suppliers comply with national and international rules regarding child labour, health and safety at work, discrimination, use of forced or involuntary labour, corruption, bribery and the environment. DSB’s ethical policy also includes a whistleblower scheme providing good opportunities for handling any irregularities as quickly as possible. DSB has an environmental policy describing the efforts to actively minimise the company’s climate impact. DSB has a policy for working environment, communication and staff which creates the framework for proper and safe working conditions and open and honest communication. DSB is a company with room for diversity and no tolerance of violence, threats, bullying and harassment at the workplace. DSB has a procurement policy to ensure that the company handles purchases professionally and in a manner that prevents corruption. Social responsibility is also expressed in the demands the company makes on its suppliers. In connection with the conclusion of contracts with external suppliers, DSB ensures that they are made aware of the code of ethics. Collaboration and support Since 2009, DSB has been a member of the UN Global Compact, contributing to these efforts economically and by annually reporting on progress in DSB’s social responsibility work. Since 2008, DSB has collaborated with the Danish organisation Natteravnene (Night Ravens), which consists of approximately 4,000 adult volunteers. The volunteers walk around at night in the towns and cities, including at stations and in trains. Their purpose is to be good role models, contribute to the sense of safety and security and help children and young people, spreading joy and promoting integration. In addition to the financial support DSB provides to Natteravnene, they can ride all DSB trains free of charge while doing this volunteer work. DSB collaborates with a number of aid organisations in Denmark by giving them permission to collect donations for their charitable causes and hand out materials to DSB customers at the stations. These organisations include Danmarks Indsamlingen (DR and 12 of Denmark’s largest humanitarian organisations), DanChurchAid, the Danish Cancer Society, ActionAidDenmark, Save the Children Denmark, Danish Red Cross, the Danish Refugee Council and the World’s Best News. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 109 At election time in Denmark, DSB also supports the democratic process by permitting the political parties and their candidates to distribute material at the stations in the period leading up to the election. In 2016, DSB supported Danish People’s Aid’s Christmas collection by donating a family ticket to the Christmas baskets handed out to 11,000 vulnerable families in Denmark. DSB also gave Danish People’s Aid the opportunity to promote their campaign to Ud&Se’s 500,000 readers and on TV monitors in the S-trains. Safety and security It must be safe to be a customer and employee of DSB. According to ERAIL (European Railway Accident Information Links), the Danish rail net is among Europe’s safest, as measured by significant personal injuries per train kilometre. This is largely due to the strong focus on safety at DSB, and that it is deeply integrated into the way we work. DSB’s safety policy states: “Our customers must be able to take safety for granted – but we must never take it for granted!” In 2016, the safety work was further strengthened with the implementation of a new safety management system. DSB also launched the customer campaign “Head under your arm”, drawing attention to customer conduct and safety. Surveillance in trains and at stations contributes to safety and security. At the end of 2016, 2,063 cameras at 143 stations and 3,824 cameras in S-trains were installed. In addition, DSB has two mobile video surveillance systems that can be moved to stations where passengers feel insecure or which are particularly exposed to vandalism. The cameras are used to summon the police and extra staff if necessary and to help the police solve cases concerning vandalism, violence, pickpocketing, etc. DSB has also entered into a nationwide cooperation agreement with the Danish National Police regarding the use of videos etc. in connection with police investigations of incidents involving train collisions with people. In 2016, DSB’s surveillance centre contributed to police investigations in 888 cases. Suicide and suicide attempts are unfortunately a recurring event for DSB. In addition to being a tragic event for the individuals hit by trains and their families, it also impacts DSB’s customers and employees in the form of, inter alia, train cancellations and delays. In 2016, DSB recorded 22 suicides and 7 suicide attempts (23 and 8, respectively, in 2015). Figure 1: Suicide and suicide attempts Number 40 30 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Suicide Suicide attempts 110 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) In customer surveys, DSB tracks customers’ perception of security in trains and at stations. Customers’ perception of security has slightly increased every year since 2013. A number of initiatives and efforts are contributing to ensuring the positive development of customers’ perception of security. Figure 2: Customer satisfaction with security Scale 0-10 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Station Train In 2016, DSB completed the installation of defibrillators at 65 selected train stations nationwide and in all of DSB’s nearly 500 trains. The installation of defibrillators is the result of a collaboration project between DSB and TrygFonden, which also includes the training of 750 DSB employees in life-saving first aid and the use of defibrillators. DSB spends large amounts of money every year to combat graffiti and create attractive and safe environments for the customers. Overall, DSB spent more than DKK 15 million in 2016 to remove graffiti on the trains. A total of 2,996 train sets – 1,982 S-trains and 1,014 long-distance and regional trains – underwent graffiti removal. Including the value of the time in which the trains are out of operation for graffiti removal purposes, the costs of graffiti prevention for DSB’s trains totalled DKK 44 million in 2016. S-trains have experienced a significant increase in graffiti. The total area, in square metres, of graffiti removed from S-trains increased by 40 percent compared with 2015. Therefore, DSB has had guards on duty at the S-train depots for selected periods of 2016, in addition to other ongoing preventive measures. DSB, in cooperation with Rail Net Denmark, has introduced so-called zero-tolerance for graffiti at all stations in Greater Copenhagen and at certain stations on Zealand. This means that the stations most at risk in terms of graffiti are checked for graffiti every day, while the other stations are checked once a week. This has resulted in a virtual eradication of organised graffiti at the stations. In 2016, 40,000 square metres of graffiti was removed at the stations. This is a slight increase over 2015, but far from the total graffiti in 2014. The majority of graffiti at the stations now stems from supporters of Greater Copenhagen’s two leading football clubs. In 2016, DSB saw an increase in enquiries by customers and staff regarding beggars and the homeless, who frequent stations in Greater Copenhagen From customer surveys and other sources, DSB knows that beggars and the homeless at stations and in trains can negatively impact Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 111 the sense of security. During a trial period, DSB assigned guards to handle the challenges with beggars and homeless people. DSB has an ongoing dialogue with the guards to ensure that this work is done in a dignified and proper manner when dealing with these already vulnerable people. DSB has also established a collaboration with the City of Copenhagen’s Homeless Unit to help the homeless at stations along their way. Through this collaboration, DSB contacts Hjemløseenheden (Homeless Unit) when our staff encounter homeless people in need of help. With the assistance of the Homeless Unit, DSB has also produced a card with a list of overnight shelters that can be handed out by guards and staff. Working environment As part of the company’s strategy, DSB strives to be an attractive workplace. This requires a systematic approach to the working environment. Therefore, a goal once again in 2016 was to reduce the number of accidents and absences in general. Accidents with absences declined from 290 to 251 cases. One-third of the decline is due to fewer employees falling at the workplace when climbing or descending, or twisting injuries. At the workshops, DSB has been conducting a long-term campaign called “Don’t walk by” to strengthen the culture of preventing accidents. This has contributed to reducing accidents with absence at the workshops from 41 accidents in 2015 to 22 accidents in 2016. Accidents without absence increased by 87 to 813. One of the reasons for the increase is more thorough registration of violence and threat incidents. A share of the increase is also due to a changed procedure in train operations, compared to 2015, where some of the events were registered as “near accidents”. Figure 3: Industrial injuries Number 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Industrial injuries with absence Industrial injuries without absence DSB increased its focus in 2016 on reducing general sickness absence in the company. The effort focused on rapid follow-up with employees with long-term or recurring illnesses. The aim has been to maintain the sick employees’ contact with, and return to, the workplace. The effort contributed to a reduction in sickness absences – from 9.9 days per employee in 2015 to 9.3 days in 2016. 112 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Given that DSB’s working environment certificate was going to expire in November 2016, a decision was made to maintain the certification. FORCE Certification conducted a certification process across all of DSB’s organisation. The certification identified 20 deviations, all of which were resolved before year-end. DSB’s working environment was thereby recertified for an additional three years. In autumn 2016, DSB drew attention to the issue of bullying and harassment. The reason was the annual workplace assessment. In September, 7% of respondents indicated that they had experienced bullying internally at the workplace within the past year. Spearheaded by DSB’s CEO, the campaign established a clear framework for the company’s view: DSB does not accept bullying or harassment in the workplace. When many people are gathered at stations, in trains and in connection with ticket inspections, disagreements may arise, which may escalate to threats and violence against fellow passengers and DSB staff. In 2016, DSB recorded a small decline in instances of violence, but an increase in the number of threats against DSB staff. Figure 4: Violence and threats against DSB staff Number 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Violence Threats DSB makes every effort to continue improving our prevention and handling of these situations. This includes conflict management training of DSB staff, collaboration with the police, and dialogue with customers. In connection with major events such as festivals and football matches, many customers are travelling to the same destination, often in a festive mood and rather noisy. In connection with a number of these events, DSB enters into a dialogue with organisers and customers with a view to arranging for a special train for the individual event. The aim of this is to ensure the best possible journey for the participants, as well as DSB’s other customers and personnel, and with as few conflicts as possible. DSB has 40 train conductors who are specially trained in handling customers on so-called “football trains”. In 2016, DSB provided special coaches for 16,130 football fans on 26 football journeys. When the football match is a “Copenhagen derby” between FCK and Brøndby, where up to 4,600 fans are departing at once, special trains are deployed in the S-train network. In 2016, there were no industrial injuries in connection with these journeys. Similarly, there was very little damage to DSB's rolling stock in connection with transporting these football fans. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 113 Accessibility In 2016, DSB improved its service for elderly and disabled customers. From September, disabled customers requiring assistance with train travel only needed to contact DSB 12 hours before a planned departure. This is just half of the advance notice required in 2015. DSB also maintained the extended hours for telephone orders, enabling customers to obtain assistance during all hours of train operation. From the beginning of 2016, DSB also increased its service level by offering disabled assistance at all of DSB’s long-distance and regional train stations and Kystbanen – with the exception of the Grenaa-Aarhus-Odder line after August where service on this line was handed over to Midttrafik. In 2016, DSB provided disabled assistance 17,164 times and sold 44,496 disabled assistant tickets. In addition to this, assistance was provided approximately 60,000 times in connection with journeys on the S-train and Kystbanen lines, as well as from stations with the option of spontaneous journeys. DSB wishes to provide easy access for the customers to buying a ticket. DSB therefore develops information and ticket services and app’s. To ensure awareness of the new ways of purchasing tickets, DSB offers courses and Open House events where DSB employees come out and instruct the user in the new services. DSB’s customer service team conducted 33 events in 2016 in collaboration with DaneAge and 48 Open House events with data rooms, libraries and local citizen services offices in Danish municipalities. DSB also makes a special effort for children who are part of a family living in separate parts of the country. DSN has trained 70 children’s guides who care for the children during the journey in a separate coach to which only the children have seat reservations. DSB’s children’s guides meet the children at the station, are there for the children if they need help during the journey and make sure that the children get off at the right stations. The special trains with children’s guides are available Fridays and Sundays and in connection with national holidays. In 2016, 18,282 journeys with children’s guides were sold. Diversity DSB strives to be an attractive workplace characterised by diversity, where differences can thrive and contribute to creating better quality in our work and results. DSB believes that a focused and prioritised effort for diversity makes the company stronger and improves our competitiveness. In 2016, DSB established a new policy on diversity and plans to conduct a series of new initiatives between now and 2020 to create even greater diversity. At year-end 2016, 28 percent of DSB's employees were seniors (55 years). 170 employees (2.2 percent) were employed on special conditions (such as flex job, trial job, section 56 jobs). DSB also wants to help young people into employment. In 2016, DSB had 46 internship positions. During autumn 2016, DSB had refugees in internships at selected workplaces. Equal representation at management levels is part of staff policy. 33 percent of the members of DSB’s board are women (not counting employee representatives) and the board’s gender distribution thereby meets the goal that at least one-third of the members should be from the underrepresented gender. The gender distribution was 29 percent women in the group of directors in 2016. Of all managers at DSB, 25 percent are women – almost the same percentage as for all employees where 26 percent are women. DSB’s objective in terms of gender distribution at the various management levels is that the distribution must reflect the gender distribution in the com114 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) pany as a whole. DSB will ensure that this objective is obtained by requiring recruitment consultants to present candidates of both genders and by including the underrepresented gender when planning for successors. Bribery Two former DSB employees were convicted in 2016 for having received bribes in the form of gifts and IT equipment at very favourable prices from a supplier. DSB has an ethics policy with rules for the receipt of gifts, etc. To minimise the risk of bribery, the importance of these rules has been stressed to the DSB staff. Suppliers have also been notified that DSB does not tolerate bribery according to the Code of Conduct that all suppliers must follow. Environment and climate In 2016, DSB set a strategic measuring point for sustainability, defined as the emission of CO2 in grams from train operations per passenger kilometre. The diagram below shows the results from recent years. With emissions of approx. 40 grams per passenger kilometre, trains are a very competitive means of transport compared to other forms of transport as cars and planes both emit approx. 100 grams CO2 per passenger kilometre, while busses emit approx. 60 grams. Figure 5: CO2 emission per passenger kilometre Gram 50 40 30 20 10 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Through its environmental policy, DSB focuses on reducing the company’s impact on the surrounding environment and contributing to the transport sector’s overall restructuring and reduction of climate impact. The continued electrification of the main network in Denmark means a decline in energy consumption and CO2 emissions due to the conversion from diesel to electricity. In addition, a decline in CO2 emissions is expected due to the higher share of renewable energy in the Danish energy mix. DSB’s total energy consumption for trains increased by 4 percent compared to 2015. The increase has been in both diesel consumption and electricity consumption. This is due to additional production as a result of ID-verifications in Kastrup, increased numbers of seat in the Long-distance traffic and a change in train type used. Approx. 90 percent of DSB’s total energy consumption is used for train operation. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 115 Energy consumption for other than train operation is unchanged since 2015. Figure 6: Energy consumption GJ (million) 4,0 3,5 3,0 2,5 2,0 1,5 1,0 0,5 0,0 2013 2014 2015 2016 Heat Electricity in buildings Cars and vans Electricity for trains Diesel for trains Electricity consumption for cars and vans is less than 1 percent of DSB's total energy consumption and is therefore not included in the figure. DSB’s total CO2 emission has declined by 5 percent compared to 2015. This is due to a decrease for the train product and the company resulting from the improved energy mix for electricity and district heating. DSB conducted an energy review in 2016 and is listed on the Danish Energy Agency’s positive list of companies who have conducted an energy review. The energy review is required for all large companies throughout the EU and must cover at least 90 percent of the company’s total energy consumption. At DSB, the energy review covered energy consumption for train operation and energy consumption at the Preparation Centre Kastrup. The energy review takes stock of energy consumption in the selected areas and identifies potential measures to reduce consumption. Preparation Centre Kastrup is continuing its work to connect to the district heating system, closing a local combined heat and power station and reinvesting in ventilation. Diesel trains make a local impact on air quality in the form of particles, NOx, etc. DSB’s main focus is on a reduction of particles, including ultrafine particles. 116 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Figure 7: Particle emissions Index 100 80 60 40 20 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 The total emissions of particles, calculated by mass, from diesel trains was unchanged compared to 2015, but has declined by 30 percent since 2013. The reason is the reduced use of MR train sets and ME locomotives, as well as the installation of catalytic converters in the MR train sets. DSB is continuing its work to implement various prototypes for reducing customers’ and employees’ exposure to ultrafine particles. CO2 emissions per passenger kilometre for DSB’s electric trains have declined significantly due to the energy mix in Denmark contains a higher proportion of renewable energy. The increase for diesel traffic is due to the declining occupancy rate and more frequent use of types of rolling stock with a higher energy consumption per seat kilometre. Table 1: Development in energy consumption and CO2 emissions Change from 2015 to 2016 Energy consumption per Energy consumption per CO2 emission per passenger seat kilometre passenger kilometre kilometre Long-distance & Regional Trains Diesel trains 6% 12% 12% Electrical trains -6% -3% -31% S-trains 6% 0% -29% Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 117 Figure 8: Development in electricity and diesel consumption per passenger kilometre Index 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Electrical Long‐distance & Regional Diesel Long‐distance & Regional trains S‐trains trains 2013 2014 2015 2016 DSB is continuing efforts to reduce energy consumption in buildings and fixed installations. This included the following measures in 2016:  The majority of lighting at the S-train platforms was replaced with LED lighting during autumn 2015, with a full impact of approximately 1 GWh in 2016.  Optimisation of ventilation system at Klargøringscenter København. Full impact in 2017  New gas boiler at Klargøringscenter Kastrup. Full impact in 2017 During 2016, there were three spill accidents from trains in operation. Dialogue was conducted with the municipalities in connection with all three events, in addition to remedial actions. In the cases where soil samples have been taken, testing determined that the oil does not pose any risk. An excavation permit is still pending in connection with the last case. The number of noise and smoke complaints submitted by neighbours and customers fell from 147 in 2015 to 93 in 2016. Complaints and enquiries, by category: Noise outside of train: 34 Noise inside train: 17 Smoke: 2 Noise and smoke: 15 Air quality outside of train: 11 Air quality inside train: 14 Noise outside train typically involves noise from ME-diesellocomotives idling on turning tracks / in preparation areas. Noise inside trains typically involve S-trains with surfaces on one or more wheels. In two cases, a municipality was involved, though without enforcement (Aarhus and Copenhagen). Both cases concern noise. 118 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Due to the establishment of the Light Rail in Århus, DSB has stopped traffic between Grenaa and Odder. In the autumn of 2016, this enabled a replacement of rolling stock on the Roskilde-KøgeNæstved line, from MR train sets to Desiro train sets. This has reduced both the noise impact and particle impact. Ultrafine particles and air pollution generally also give rise to a number of enquiries regarding air quality at Nørreport Station and the risk of travelling by diesel train (ME and MR train sets). The measurements carried out by Rail Net Denmark of the air quality at Nørreport station show a continued substantial improvement, compared with the situation before the rebuilding. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 119 120 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) About DSB Board of Directors The Board of Directors’ directorships in Danish and foreign commercial enterprises. The special competencies of the Board of Directors are described on www.dsb.dk Peter Schütze, Chairman Joined DSB's Board of Directors on 1 June 2011 (extraordinary Annual Meeting). Re-elected Chairman on 17 April 2015 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Term of office ends: 2017 Chairman of: Ł the Board of Directors of Falck A/S Ł Investeringskomiteen The Danish Climate Investment Fund and The Danish Agribusiness Fund Ł Dronning Margrethe II’s Arkæologiske Fond Vice-Chairman of: Ł the Board of Directors of SimCorp A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Nordea-fonden and Nordea Bankfonden Member of: Ł Industrial Board Axcel and Axcel Future Ł the Board of Directors of LundbeckFonden Ł the Board of Directors Association, Gösta Enboms Fund Ł the Systemic Risk Council Annette Sadolin, Vice Chairman Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 28 April 2009 (ordinary Annual Meeting). Re-elected – elected Vice Chairman – on 17 April 2015 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Term of office ends: 2017 Chairman of: Ł the Board of Directors of Østre Gasværk Teater Member of: Ł the Board of Directors of DSV A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Topdanmark Forsikring A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Skodsborg Kurhotel og Spa A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Ratos AB, Sweden Ł the Board of Directors of Blue Square Re. N.V. Ł the Board of Directors of Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek Ł the Board of Directors of KNI A/S, Greenland About DSB 121 Lars Andersen Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 25 June 1999 Re-elected on 17 April 2015 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Term of office ends: 2017 Director at Arbejderbevægelsens Erhvervsråd Member of: Ł the Board of Directors of IndustriPension Holding A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Industriens Pensionsforsikring A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Arbejdernes Landsbank A/S Carsten Gerner Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 24 April 2012 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Re-elected on 15 March 2016 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Term of office ends: 2018 Member of: Ł the Board of Directors of Hempel Fonden Ł the Board of Directors of Hempel Holding A/S Ł the audit committee of Hempel A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Ib Andresen Industri A/S Ł the Board of Directors of IAI Holding A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Boligfonden DTU Ł the Board of Directors of H-Kollegie Fonden Helge Israelsen Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 24 April 2012 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Re-elected on 15 March 2016 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Term of office ends: 2018 Christina Grumstrup Sørensen Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 17 March 2015 (ordinary Annual Meeting) Term of office ends: 2017 Senior Partner in Copenhagen Infrastructure Partners Board member of Terma A/S 122 About DSB Hans Christian Kirketerp-Møller Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 27 April 2011 (elected by employees) Re-elected on 2 march 2015 (elected by employees) Senior Consultant Chairman of: Ł Board of Directors of AOF Gentofte, Gladsaxe and LyngbyTaarbæk Ł Board of Directors of Design for Alle President UIC – PASSAGE Member of: Ł the Board of Directors of BAR-FOKA Preben Steenholdt Pedersen Joined DSB’s Board of Directors on 27 April 2011 (elected by employees) Re-elected on 2 march 2015 (elected by employees) Locomotive operation instructor Deputy Chairman of Danish Railway Workers' Union Chairman of Ł Vejlekassen c/o Tjenestemændenes Forsikring Member of: Ł the Board of Directors of Dan Ejendomsservice A/S Ł the Board of Directors of Tjenestemændenes Forsikring Ł the Board of Directors of Interesseforeningen Ł the Board of Directors of Forsikringsagenturforeningen afd. 1 Ł the Board of Directors of Transporterhvervets Uddannelser (TUR) Birthe Østergaard Petersen Joined DSB's Board of Directors on 1 October 2016 (elected by employees) Working environment specialist About DSB 123 Executive Board The Executive Board’s directorships in Danish and foreign commercial enterprises Flemming Jensen, CEO Employed with DSB since 2015 Thomas Thellersen Børner, CFO Employed with DSB since 2013 Anders Egehus, Executive Vice President, Operations Employed with DSB since 2012 Jürgen Müller, Executive Vice President, Strategy & Rolling Stock Employed with DSB since 2015 124 About DSB Management The Management’s directorships in Danish and foreign commercial enterprises Jan Sigurdur Christensen, Executive Vice President, Commercial Employed with DSB since 2014 Member of the Board of Directors of Rejsekort A/S Lars Kaspersen, Executive Vice President, Communications & Branding Employed with DSB since 2013 Mette Rosholm, Executive Vice President, HR & Legal Affairs Employed with DSB since 2014 Member of the Board of Directors of Rejsekort A/S About DSB 125 Organisation 126 About DSB Financial calendar 2017 Company details Expected publication of quarterly and interim Address reports: DSB Telegade 2 First quarter 2017 11 May 2017 DK-2630 Taastrup Interim report 2017 17 August 2017 Tel. +45 70 13 14 15 Third quarter 2017 8 November 2017 www.dsb.dk Publications CVR no. 25050053 Annual report for 2016 can be found at www.dsb.dk Municipality of domicile Høje-Taastrup Environmental report for 2016 can be found at www.dsb.dk Ownership DSB is an independent public corporation owned by the Ministry of Transport, Building and Housing Auditor Ernst & Young Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab CVR no. 30700228 The National Audit Office of Denmark Bank Nordea Bank Danmark A/S Published by DSB Telegade 2 DK-2630 Taastrup Editors Marianne Holmbjerg Martin Buchtrup Larsen Anders Reinholt Niels-Otto Fisker Graphic design Communication & Branding Photo DSB's Photo archive About DSB 127
