2016 corporate social responsibility report inspiring impact PHILIPPINES 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE MESSAGE FROM THE CEO 2 Dear Stakeholders, the Frost & Sullivan Global CSR award. By in-kind donations, volunteered over 342,000 the time this report is published, we will hours, and has helped save thousands of On behalf of our 217,000 Teleperformance also have successfully completed for the lives through actions such as emergency people around the world, it is my pleasure third consecutive year a rigorous third party relief and blood drives. to provide you with our 2016 Corporate Social independent CSR certification process. This Responsibility (CSR) and United Nations certification is calibrated with CSR global We also make a concerted effort to Global Compact (UNGC) report update. This best implementation practices and advanced act responsibility with our world and is the first time we are integrating our CSR reporting, tracking and transparency community. Although Teleperformance is not report with the UNGC Communication on standards. In conclusion, we are applying a manufacturer, we lead service operations Progress and we’re excited to present the the management discipline of our core in approximately 340 office facilities in new format. business to measure, control, communicate 74 countries. Citizen of the Planet is a and improve our CSR efforts. Teleperformance initiative started in 2008 to I am pleased to share that Teleperformance reduce our carbon-footprint-peremployee continues to be actively engaged and Clients and other stakeholders play an each year. It’s an important goal for us, committed to our UNGC initiatives, and we increasingly important part in our progress as we take pride in setting the industry are eager to make quantifiable progress for both UNGC and other CSR initiatives. This standard for our peers. This goal is also in aligning our overall business approach is our fifth annual UNGC report, and I am extremely challenging because we are one and our policies with the UNGC universal very happy to tell you that Teleperformance of the largest private sector employers in the principles. We are also committed to the clients, all over the world, are increasing world and we continue to grow significantly Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as their awareness of and support for UNGC in headcount annually. Reducing electricity part of our sponsorship with the Global principles and CSR commitments yearconsumption is by far our biggest Sourcing Council (GSC). We are also active after-year. The reason being, that like us, opportunity to achieve our carbon footprint members of CSR Europe and Global Impact these extremely successful companies have reduction goals. Sourcing Coalition and listed in the Euronext discovered that applying the UNGC principles Vigeo Eurozone 120 list for environmental, to corporate policies represent more than I am pleased to report that even with our social and governance performance. As potential ethical clarity enhancements; it healthy growth, we were still able to reduce a far-reaching global enterprise serving also makes great business sense from an our carbon footprint per employee by 1% in 160 markets worldwide, Teleperformance overall ROI standpoint. The fact is we are the past year (2016 vs. 2015). We have also believes we have a real responsibility to keep strategically collaborating on CSR related been honored with multiple environmentally in consideration the health of both human priorities with our clients, not just with related awards and have implemented seven society and our planet; we embrace the NGOs. LEED certified facilities; three ISO 14001 sites; UNGC principles because they are completely two BREEAM sites. In short, Teleperformance aligned with these fundamental obligations. Teleperformance is proud to differentiate being “green” is part of our people strategy Here is a very brief summary of our recent itself by our overall culture, which includes and our daily life. UNGC efforts: our “people strategy”. In our world, everything starts and ends with developing I am very proud of the great progress our From a policy development standpoint, our people, giving them a great place to Teleperformance family has accomplished our Global CSR Committee developed and work and helping them realize their full together on our UNGC and CSR initiatives over implemented eight policies to date, and potential. We believe happy and motivated the past decade. You will be happy to also throughout 2016, we put efforts to the people make the difference between average know we remain committed to taking these further implementation of the Group Health and exceptional results, for not just our efforts to a new level on a continuous basis. & Safety policy. This was accomplished, business but the business of our customers. Please visit us at www. teleperformance.com among others, with the creation of The UNGC principles reinforce our people for more information. trainings, awareness campaigns, dedicated strategy and our overall culture which is Yours Sincerely, subject matter experts and programs based on our five value pillars of integrity, such as Passion4U, Sport Club and For Fun respect, professionalism, innovation and Festival. We have successfully undergone commitment. In line with this, we give back Paulo César Salles Vasques several independent and extremely to the communities where we live and work Chief Executive Officer comprehensive CSR related audits and have and wherever people need help anywhere in received the Forbes Western Europe’s Most the world. I am proud to report Our Citizen Trustworthy Companies award, Verego Social of the World initiative, founded in 2006, has Responsibility Standard certification and now raised over $28 million (USD) in cash and 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 3 Teleperformance, in partnership with the Global Sourcing Council (GSC), supports the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), are part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2015 to end poverty; promote prosperity and well-being for all; and protect the environment and address climate change. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE TABLE OF CONTENTS 4 1 Teleperformance corporate social responsibility overview 5 6 7 9 GOVERNANCE GLOBAL WORKFORCE AWARDS & CERTIFICATIONS OUR VALUES 2 CSR 10 IMPACT SOURCING highlights 11 22 23 CITIZEN OF THE WORLD HEALTH & SAFETY STATEMENT PASSION 4U 3 Teleperformance 28 FOR FUN FESTIVAL United Nations 30 SPORT CLUB Global Compact 32 EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT update 34 CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 37 UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 5 2017 Teleperformance CSR governance Paulo César Salles Vasques Chief Executive Officer Mark Pfeiffer Executive Group Vice President Global Management Team President, CSR Committee Ad hoc Special Advisors Olivier Rigaudy Quy Nguyen Leigh Ryan Chief Financial Officer Investor Relations Director Chief Legal Officer and Compliance Officer Annette Gabriel Sonia Serena Carla Nolan Engelsgaard Toscana Pereira Agnoletto SVP Human Resources VP Employee Experience & Sustainability Senior CSR Manager International Project Engagement Global Advisor Brazil Manager, Employee Experience & Engagement 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE OUR GLOBAL WORKFORCE 6 We have the largest multicultural team in the market USA Countries where we operate Present in We serve Over Over 74 countries 160 217 163 markets thousand thousand employees workstations We provide services in Revenue of 340 265 facilities languages and $ 4.050 billion dialects 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE AWARDS & CERTIFICATIONS 7 COSTA RICA GREAT PLACE TO WORK® (GPTW) AON GLOBAL BEST EMPLOYERS PROGRAM 2016 LEADERSHIP IN GLOBAL CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The prestigious Great Place to Work® (GPTW) Teleperformance operations in Albania, Institute recognized Teleperformance Brazil, China, India, Portugal, and Ukraine were The leading analyst Frost and Sullivan Dominican Republican, El Salvador, India, named a 2016 Aon Global Best Employer. awarded Teleperformance with the 2016 and Mexico. The Aon Best Employers certification is a Global Corporate Social and Environmental way of evaluating companies’ performances Responsibility Leadership award. The first Teleperformance in India was ranked 4th in Engagement, Leadership, Performance of its kind to recognize Teleperformance’s out of the 100 companies that were selected Culture, and Employer brand. world-leading legacy of charitable giving, for inclusion on the ‘India’s Best Companies employee engagement, and volunteerism. to Work For in 2016’ list. Teleperformance’s operations in Brazil, El Salvador, and the Dominican Republic were included in the rankings with proven exceptional leadership and employee management standards, while also cultivating a culture of trust in the workplace. WESTERN EUROPE’S ENTERPRISE-WIDE CERTIFICATION FOR SOCIAL IAOP GLOBAL OUTSOURCING 100 MOST TRUSTWORTHY COMPANIES RESPONSIBILITY and FULL STAR Forbes Magazine named Teleperformance All of Teleperformance’s global sites met Teleperformance ranked among the best one of the most “Trustworthy Companies” in the requirements of the Verego Social outsourced services providers at the Western Europe. The award goes to companies Responsibility Standard (Verego SRS) for full International Association of Outsourcing who have shown transparent accounting certification in Leadership, Ethics, People, Professionals (IAOP) Global Outsourcing 100® practices and solid corporate governance. Community, and Environment. Created awards for the second year in a row. Full http://www.forbes.com/sites/kathryndill/2016/04/22/thein 2010, the Verego SRS rating systems star in Corporate Social Responsibility. 50-most-trustworthy-companies-in-western-europeestablish a set of core social responsibility 2/#411021356e5f requirements for organizations to adopt as a framework for establishing and managing their own social responsibility goals and programs. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE AWARDS & CERTIFICATIONS 8 NETHERLANDS U.S.A. Teleperformance in the Netherlands was named Best Performing Employer Teleperformance in the U.S.A. was recently in Contact Center Sector. The National recognized by the Utah State Governor Institute of Business Success Award honors with the Freedom Award for the hiring of Teleperformance Netherlands for its disabled veterans. It is also among the encouragement of employee success. Top 100 Most Military Friendly Employers according to G.I. Jobs. United Kingdom The Payroll Giving Quality Mark recognizes CHINA and rewards organizations of all sizes The Teleperformance call center in which fuel charities through Payroll Giving. Nanning, China was awarded the Payroll Giving is a unique and valued form 2016-2017 Best Office Interior, China by of fundraising because it provides charities the Asia-Pacific Property Awards. with regular income and helps them plan PORTUGAL ahead effectively. Teleperformance in the U.K. received a Silver Payroll Giving Quality Teleperformance in Portugal was recognized Mark certificate for supporting charitable by Customer Contact Association (CCA) as the causes through payroll giving. best Contact Centre to work in Europe. The Customer Contact Association is considered the best European association of contact centers and recognizes, every year, the best companies in categories such as Corporate Social Responsibility in Customer Service, Best Technology Partnership or the Most Effective Training Programs. 9 We are a values-driven organization. Our values serve as a compass for our actions and describe how we behave in the world. They represent the way we serve our clients on a daily basis. Cosmos, Earth, Metal, Integrity Respect Professionalism I treat others with kindness I do things right the very first time. I say what I do & I do what I say. and empathy. Air, Fire, Innovation Commitment I create and improve. I am passionate & engaged. CHINA CHINA 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE IMPACT SOURCING 10 GLOBAL IMPACT SOURCING COALITION Impact sourcing (IS) is a service delivery model within the business process outsourcing industry and is defined as employing disabled and socioeconomically disadvantaged youth under age 26 in developing countries as workers in BPO centers to provide high-quality, informationbased services to domestic and international clients. • IS provides quality and cost at parity with traditional BPO services, but with benefits such as lower attrition rates, access to untapped talent pool, opportunities to fulfill CSR and diversity goals, and provides a competitive advantage in domestic sourcing. • IS market is large (~240,000 workers) and accounts for ~12%of the BPO market globally. • IS workers are more stable and engaged with 15-40% lower attrition rates than traditional BPO workers. • IS workers have lower training and hiring costs than traditional BPO workers and are reliable in service delivery. (Source: GISC Operating Charter) Teleperformance has been recruiting disabled and socioeconomically disadvantaged youth under age 26 in developing countries for years, providing training to develop the skills necessary to match our clients’ needs and thrive in the company. In 2014 Teleperformance committed to creating 5,000 IS jobs over five years, set as an annual target of 1000 IS hires annually worldwide. By 2016, this goal was surpassed with over 25,000* IS hires in the following developing countries: Egypt 131 India 5,574 Mexico 4,868 Morocco 564 Philippines 11,921 Tunisia 2,311 Total 25,369 As active members of the Global Impact Sourcing Committee, Teleperformance is also committed to educating the industry and the analyst community of the many business benefits, including access to new sources of talent, higher levels of employee engagement, and lower attrition rates that IS has to offer. In addition to many business benefits, IS also offers employees a first step onto a career path that leads to economic self-sufficiency through income growth, skills development, and professional advancement. *Unaudited 11 Teleperformance supports the communities in which we are present and also provides disaster relief aid around the world in time of emergency with its “Citizen of the World” (COTW) charitable activities. In 2016, our 10th year anniversary, Teleperformance employees donated $4,845,256* in total donations to underprivileged children and families as well as natural disaster victims. 66,643 volunteer hours were provided by Teleperformance employees for charitable and environmental causes. Teams around the world contributed to Teleperformance’s COTW programs by donating clothing, hygiene items, school supplies and food to local communities, providing disaster relief efforts, and participating in health campaigns and drives by donating blood. *internally audited 12 2016 Citizen of the World Results 66,643 $998,050 total employee donated in cash donations by the volunteer hours. Teleperformance family. 876 computers $4,845,256 donated to total donations* that impoverished went towards feeding, schools. clothing, and bringing joy to the needy. 36,385 underprivileged infants and $2,846,650 children received toys during donated in in-kind items such the Holiday Season. $1,000,556 as clothing, school supplies, service value for volunteer hours and other needed items. donated during Teleperformance working hours. 13 435,574 COTW’s Ten-Year numbers: infants and children benefited from in-kind items such as Since 2006, a decade of giving, millions clothing, school supplies, and other needed items. of children and families have benefited from our worldwide Teleperformance 392,132 volunteers that came together for one purpose: to bring hope and comfort underprivileged infants and children received toys during the holiday season. to those in need as true Citizen of the World Ambassadors. US$ 28,873,320 in total donations* to help underprivileged people or victims of natural disasters. This is just a small sample of the constant efforts that we make to align our performance goals with causes that not only affect the world around us, but also bring our employees closer together. In our 10th anniversary of Citizen of the World, we know we 342,089 can do even more and better and we remain totally committed to continuing total employee-donated volunteer hours. to make a positive difference in people’s lives and making the world a better place. Watch here COTW 10th anniversary video: “One Life.” https://youtu.be/df-TE3blN0I 15,264 computers were donated to impoverished schools. 384,809 infants and children were fed through several monthly feeding programs. Includes total donations from November 1, 2006 – October 31, 2016. *Total donations includes cash + in-kind + services. Internally audited. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD: HEALTH CAMPAIGN 14 USA Blood Drives Teleperformance employees worldwide participate in local blood drives helping to increase the reserve blood supply in their respective countries. Since 2006, more than 42,000 lives have been saved through blood donations. #MissingType Campaign Teleperformance participated in B from their names creating a hugely the #MissingType Campaign to successful, award winning campaign raise awareness and encourage that went viral. Ten Teleperformance EL SALVADOR blood donations. Organizations and sites in seven countries took part in this individuals removed the letters A, O and exciting and worthwhile endeavor. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD: HEALTH CAMPAIGN 15 Here are some of the highlights of this year’s health campaigns, from around the globe: PORTUGAL Teleperformance in Portugal partnered in May 2016 with the Portuguese Society of Multiple Sclerosis. A financial donation was CANADA made to help buy needed material. ALBANIA Teleperformance in Canada volunteers walked through the streets of Montreal Teleperformance in Albania employees holding different colored lanterns signifying decided to spend Children’s Day on June support for the fight against blood cancer. 1st with 48 kids suffering from autism Gold lanterns signified those who have and other types of mental disorders. They passed away due to lymphoma or leukemia. collected toys, school materials and they Red signified supporters, while white even prepared lunch for them. lanterns signified survivors and those who are currently battling the disease. BRAZIL In April, Teleperformance in Brazil organized ITALY a treasure hunt where children supported by a local charity had to find hidden Easter Teleperformance in Italy observed a day eggs. 134 Easter eggs were prepared and 107 of thought and remembrance for violence employee hours were donated. towards women, who have suffered, and continue to suffer, as victims of violence. FRANCE At each site in Italy, staff members united in solidarity, by wearing red ribbons, to Teleperformance in France employees remember the importance of speaking out participated in the annual “Movember;” about violence against women. where men grew out beards and mustaches to bring awareness to men’s health issues. Along with the facial hair competition, educational brochures and other information materials were distributed among employees. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD: EDUCATION CAMPAIGN 16 Here are some of the highlights of this year’s education campaigns, from around the globe: TUNISIA Teleperformance in Tunisia donated school supplies and books to the SOS Children’s Village Akouda to enrich their libraries, which was particularly appreciated by the DOMINICAN REPUBLIC little children. GREECE Teleperformance in the Dominican Republic Teleperformance in Greece hosted supported the children from Aldeas the StarDay Initiative for Make a Wish Infantiles by launching the campaign Foundation. More than 35 employees “Supplies for Success” which gathered over volunteered to help package rulers and 900 items including books, pens, pencils, stars, which were then sent to local schools. erasers, notebooks, and much more. COSTA RICA Teleperformance in Costa Rica hosted a “Back to School Drive” for children in a INDIA local town severely affected by a recent Teleperformance in India donated 38 earthquake. Employees donated supplies Soccer shoes to the Soccer team of Literacy such as notebooks, pencils, pens, erasers, India School at Gurgaon, along with 260 books, and more. hygiene kits and 160 sets of Notebooks and BRAZIL stationary to junior classes. Teleperformance in Brazil hosted an education campaign called “My child’s library”. Employees registered their child´s public school and a raffle was held to find the winner. Out of 150 schools, Presidente Juscelino School in São Paulo was awarded 700 books to improve the school’s library. OUR SYSTEM 17 INDIA Microsoft Community Technology Centers Teleperformance collaborates with Microsoft and resources in partnership with local NGOs to offer computer literacy skills in local to offer these classes and give students a communities in India and South Africa. fundamental education on Microsoft Office. Teleperformance provides the infrastructure SOUTH AFRICA 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD: FOOD & CLOTHING CAMPAIGN 18 Here are some of the highlights of this year’s food & clothing campaigns, from around PORTUGAL the globe: Teleperformance in Portugal collected food to distribute in the community via several institutions. Around 100 employees participated in the campaign for donations to food banks during the campaigns in May and December. ALBANIA U.S.A. Teleperformance in Albania takes the opportunity Teleperformance in the USA hosted various food to visit families in need every week to deliver to and hygiene drives throughout the year to collect them food, toys and clothes. items for local food banks, homeless or domestic abuse shelters and children’s clubs. These contributions have been used to sponsor food drops in our communities to help provide good nutrition to families in need. In Utah, Teleperformance partnered with a local radio station to help collect more than 14,000 pounds of food during the holidays! INDONESIA BRAZIL During Ramadan, Teleperformance employees in Teleperformance in Brazil collected clothes to Indonesia collected, and donated food to needy benefit those in need while company teams orphanages in their local cities. challenged each other in a friendly competition to achieve the highest number of donations. More than 155,000 articles of clothing were collected and donated. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE OUR SYSTEM 19 Teleperformance celebrates world peace day Throughout the world, Teleperformance employees celebrated annual World Peace Day by holding dancing flash mobs (USA) setting white balloons into the sky (Albania) and so much more. ALBANIA USA 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD: HOLIDAY DRIVE 20 Here are some of the highlights of this year’s holiday campaigns, from around the globe: GREECE Teleperformance in Greece volunteered at the Charity Bazaar of Aspropyrgos Municipality. Employees distributed presents to the children and helped organize the event. PORTUGAL Teleperformance in Portugal organized two actions during their Christmas Party 2016. One was the collection of surplus USA food (almost 150 meals.) The other was the Teleperformance in the USA organizes an collection of 200 toys to delivery to children annual Joy Drive to support the children of supported by UNICEF Portugal. our local communities, collecting donations through payroll, and partnering with Marine Toys for Tots, Boys & Girls Clubs or a local chapter of Big Brothers Big Sisters. These donations lead to a record-breaking 3,327 toys which benefited local children who would otherwise have had an empty stocking for the holidays. MEXICO During the month of December, Teleperformance in Mexico offered different INDIA desserts and baked goods for sale to raise As is their annual tradition, Teleperformance funds for “Operation Smile”, a non-forin India, celebrated the holidays with the profit organization to provide cleft lip BRAZIL COTW kids at Pan India school. The students and palate repair surgeries to children of the school, who come from nearby urban worldwide. Employees not only were they Teleperformance in Brazil held a Holiday Campaign that answered letters to Santa and rural slums, got the opportunity to able to satisfy their winter cravings, but also participate in games, win prizes and receive were encouraged to bring their own baked Claus and collected food and toys for needy families. Employees answered 902 letters gifts. Teleperformance donated 330 sippers goods, purchased or homemade, for sale. and school bags to the school kids along by helping Santa collected and deliver the gifts requested. 70 elderly people and 832 with 250 study desks for the young children children received toys, clothes and other at Pan India. gifts. More than 10 tons of food and 24,818 toys were collected. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE NATURAL DISASTER RELIEF 21 Disaster relief efforts throughout the world. PHILIPPINES The north coast of the Dominican Republic disaster relief for children and families. had massive rain for weeks, flooding 4,000 In October 20, 2016 Super Typhoon Haima homes–at least 50 totally destroyed–and devastated the Northern Luzon provinces blocked access to many bridges and roads. in the Philippines. The typhoon affected Over 20,000 people were forced to evacuate 26 provinces and 249 municipalities and their homes and the country was in a state more than 13,000 houses were destroyed. of emergency. Teleperformance in the Teleperformance’s global crisis fund Dominican Republic collaborated with a helped in a quick response to the victims local NGO to collect and deliver over 1,000 of the Typhoon providing rice, water and non-perishable items to the affected areas. necessary items. DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Italy suffered a 6.2 magnitude earthquake Teleperformance in the USA had the honor on 24 August 2016. Over 300 people died, of teaming up with Niagara Bottling, the around 400 were injured and several towns Children’s Dream Center and Reach Out in Central Italy were completely destroyed America to provide a total of 10.5 semiwith over 2,500 people left homeless. More trucks of water to help combat the water than 3,000 aftershocks and occasional crisis in Flint, MI. Two Disaster relief trucks heavy rains followed, making the rescue were sponsored for Texas Flooding; and efforts difficult. Teleperformance in Italy disaster relief supplies for 1,200 was sent to launched an immediate campaign to the victims of the Virginia and Louisiana help the earthquake victims by organizing Flooding and California Wildfires in blood donations and raising monetary partnership with Feed the Children. funds. Other Teleperformance countries Teleperformance and Feed the Children helped with cash donations as well to the joined together with local community Italian Red Cross and other recognized partners to provide disaster relief to organizations helping the victims. USA families affected by Hurricane Matthew. Teleperformance has partnered with Teleperformance sponsored four Feed the Feed the Children for 10 years to provide Children semi-truck loads of disaster-relief items and food for 1,600 families in need. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY STATEMENT 22 Teleperformance recognizes that it needs to manage Health and Safety with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities. With a Safety Management System, we aim to effectively control risks and prevent our people from being injured during the course of their work. Going beyond local regulatory requirements, from June 2015 among others. A Teleperformance H&S Toolkit was created to December 2016 more than 40 H&S Subject Matter Experts and made available on the Group intranet for all H&S (SMEs) were enrolled in the H&S SME Training path providing SMEs, as Teleperformance is committed to providing its an in-depth training around to the Group H&S Policy, employees and contractors with safe conditions of work on a H&S Site Inspections, Risk Assessments, Accident/Incident continuous basis by minimizing ill health and injury risks. Reporting, Evacuation Drills and New Hire Orientation, GREECE 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE PASSION 4U 23 Creating a healthier life Passion 4U is a wellness program that promotes well-being and a better quality of life for all our employees. ALBANIA Closely linked to the Group’s health habits and stress reduction, this and safety policy, Passion 4U is our global program encourages the global initiative promoting wellsharing of best practices across all being and better quality of life Teleperformance companies. All at work. By increasing awareness Passion 4U initiatives are rolled out around the benefits of healthy locally. GREECE 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE PASSION 4U 24 Here are some of the ARGENTINA Teleperformance in Argentina organized a highlights of this year’s “healthy day” where important notions on how to ensure a healthy diet were shared with activities, from around all employees and fresh fruits were distributed for free. The initiative took place in all of our the globe: offices in Buenos Aires and Tucumán during 2 consecutive days, involving over 3,500 employees. GERMANY Teleperformance in Germany gathered its advisors and supervisors for an inter-company Kart racing competition. After one hour of qualifying rounds, the ten fastest Teleperformance drivers were selected to constitute the Teleperformance official teams, racing against the very best competitors’ drivers. After three hours of intensive racing, the Teleperformance teams obtained the 4th and 10th place over 16. All teams were enthusiastically supported by family members ALBANIA and colleagues at the sidelines. Kart racing is one Throughout 2016, Teleperformance in Albania of the activities organized by Teleperformance in organized various initiatives focusing on Germany to promote team spirit, camaraderie and employee wellbeing. To provide the best possible pride, not only within Teleperformance, but also with experience and galvanize the spirits of our our competitors! people, each event preparation was based on three pillars: inclusion of all staff, relevance of the event for the community and choice of external partners based on their closeness to Teleperformance values. Among the initiatives, Bike to Work was organized in May 2016 to promote commuting to work by riding a bicycle instead of driving a car. 230 bikers participated, covering a total distance of more than 2300 km. The initiative was undertaken in collaboration with both the municipality of Tirana and a local NGO. For its anniversary in July, Teleperformance in Albania threw a company-wide party in one of the trendiest locations of the capital, with top DJ and performers, as a way to show gratitude to all employees for their infinite passion at work. The attendance to the annual party reached 80%. But Teleperformance in Albania is actually dedicated to promote its passionate people all year long! That is why, every month, the best performing employees are celebrated with an award and a small party dedicated to their personal and professional achievements. BRAZIL Teleperformance in Brazil organized two “TP Runners” races, totaling 105 participants. The Night Run, taking place every year, saw the participation of both men and women, while the Lotus race, which took place on the beach of Rio Grande do Norte, was dedicated to women employees. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE PASSION 4U 25 To tackle the issue of stress, the company initiated some of its employees to meditation techniques with 1 hour sessions during 8 weeks. On the same topic, Teleperformance in Greece organized Stress Management consulting sessions during 15 days within its premises. Teleperformance in Greece takes also pride in enabling its employees to enjoy the beauty of the country’s landscapes while at the same time reinforce team spirit and sense of belonging to the company. During February and March 2016, 6 GREECE winter daily trips were organized at the beautiful Vytina Arkadias Village, where participants could Throughout 2016, Teleperformance in Greece enjoy nature, taste the traditional cuisine, try worked on various anti-stress initiatives. horse riding in the forest or hike under the PORTUGAL Every month since the beginning of the year, supervision of an expert trekking team. In total, “Try Something New” is a program that runs Teleperformance in Greece offers one free healthy more than 500 employees participated in the annually at Teleperformance in Portugal, breakfast to all its employees to educate around winter trips. offering a variety of sports, leisure and wellbeing the importance of following a healthy and Summer Trips, Cruises and Camp: during the activities. All workshops are thought to enable balanced diet and to start the day with plenty month of July, Teleperformance in Greece employees to engage in different activities and of energy. Each breakfast bag has a tag with a organized special Beach Days. More than 230 discover new passions and hobbies. During 2016, message wishing a good morning and a happy employees had the opportunity to enjoy the sun, the workshops ranged from barista lessons to month. the sea, sunbeds, free coffee, perform water ski, bounce activities, Chi Kung, chocolate making, play volley, water war and do aqua aerobics. healthy cooking, Judo, Kangoo Jumps, power Between June and July, Teleperformance parents juice making, music production, rock climbing, could also enroll their kids to the yearly Summer sailing, scuba Diving, sewing and sushi making. Camp, while 450 employees had the chance Rock climbing was organized in June in the to visit 3 beautiful Greek islands, have fun and Parque Florestal de Monsanto. enjoy some summer relaxing moments. “My experience at the rock climbing workshop Teleperformance in Greece also celebrated the was really cool since it was something that I had richness and diversity of its own employee never done before. I 100% recommend all these population with an amazing and tasty activities that motivate us to do things that we experience: Cook Me Up, a food festival have never done before.” –Ruy Silva, CSR celebrating different cultures. Africa was on the agenda in May, Latin America in June, Europe in The Kangoo Jumps workshop provided constant July and Asia & Middle East in September. The fun one jump after the other with Kangoo power diversity campaign was closed in October with boots. This type of activity reduces the impact on the last Cook me Up event. the ground by 80% and helps to burn up to 20% more calories. “The Kangoo Jump workshop was one of the most inspiring and exciting activities that I could have done since I had a knee injury many years ago. The team gave me the strength to continue, because at first I was really afraid of falling!” – Rossana Miranda, CSR The master class on the benefits of juices and smoothies was organized with a health & nutrition coach and involved 30 participants. Among the themes discussed: why we are what we eat; wrong eating habits and solutions; small changes for big results; difference between smoothies and juices and their benefits; the importance of food planning. On the same line, the healthy food for the day to day life workshop, with recipes and suggestions, was organized in collaboration with a professional nutritionist. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE PASSION 4U 26 COLOMBIA In 2016, Teleperformance in Colombia carried out a comprehensive health program focusing CHINA on a special topic every month. For example, March 2016 was dedicated to sexual and To foster team spirit while promoting fitness, reproductive health, with activities ranging Teleperformance in China organized a Tag-offrom breast cancer screening to contraception War race. A total number of 28 teams participated and prevention of sexually transmitted to the event, which took place over 3 days in diseases. May. The 3 top performing teams were chosen as winners of the competition. With over 2,000 During April, the month dedicated to people attending, both as participants and as muscle and bone care, dancing classes were part of the cheering team, Tag-of-War was one organized for all employees and ergonomics of the most impressive large-scale activity for in the workplace was promoted through fun Teleperformance in China. activities. Teleperformance in China also thought about The months of May and June focused on visual its talented people! “The Dancer” was a talent and hearing health, with optometric and show contest where dancing and singing was audiometric tests organized for employees combined with gaming. All participants were and special training sessions on how to reduce brought together to show their artistic side, thus eye strain and improve hearing care. boosting their self-confidence and encouraging One of the most important asset for our new friendships. employees, the voice, was taken care of Besides special sporty events, every year during the month July, with workshops on Teleperformance in China provides a fitness card voice care, vocal warming and the importance to all its employees and works to raise awareness of voice breaks. CZECH REPUBLIC around the importance of exercise in people’s Among the many other topics, cardiovascular In August 2016, Teleperformance in the Czech spare time. care (with nutritional recommendations from Republic employees were invited to participate experts and advice on healthy lifestyle) and in the third annual Pétanque Tournament, psycho-social wellbeing (stress management organized during the company’s Summer Party. techniques, conflict management and As the theme of the party was “Hippie Night”, working in teams), campaigns to prevent every player was asked to respect the dress the consumption of psychoactive substances code. Despite the cold weather, 9 pétanque and alcohol, trips and fall prevention and teams wearing long braids, flowers in their hair emergency trainings were on the agenda. and flared colorful trousers challenged each Overall, between 4,000 and +10,000 other during the whole night, even after the employees participated every month to the tournament was over! Passion 4U activities. 27 GREECE The X-tra Mile Game: for fun, health, competition and friendship. The “X-tra mile Game” was the first Over 98 healthy lifestyle initiative organized at CEMEA region level (Continental Europe and the Middle East). Taking place in autumn 2016 over a five week period, this inter-country competition competitors was aimed at promoting an active way of life among Teleperformance employees. Each participant was Representing more than encouraged to download a smartphone app calculating the distance covered every day by walking, running or cycling. The initiative was a great success: 918 20 European competitors from 20 European countries participated, traveling a total distance of countries over 40,000 km. Competitors from the most active subsidiary were rewarded with gift vouchers for sports, health or fitness accessories. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE FOR FUN FESTIVAL 28 Time to Shine Teleperformance’s For Fun Festival is a global annual initiative that recognizes the most talented people in our company. The aim of this competition is to create a sense of fun and to entertain via an international art, dance and music competition that is intended to instill pride in belonging to the Group and promote its cultural diversity. EGYPT Over 47,000 video participants have on Facebook™ so that our employees’ been received since the program’s friends, families, and even the public inception in 2009. In 2016, we received could vote for the best videos. The video 2,499 local FFF entries with over 11,000 with the highest number of votes in each 2,499 video participants from more than 35 category was selected. 51,905 votes were countries. The global ‘‘People’s Choice’’ made on Facebook™ during this period. champion awards were determined # of video entries in 2016 (23% increase from last year) Music Category global winner 35 countries submitted local videos in 2016 Watch here: https://youtu.be/YHBmvXR9i7w + 11,000 video participants in 2016 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE FOR FUN FESTIVAL 29 Here are some of our FFF highlights from around the world: INDIA Teleperformance in India hosted For Fun FestivalMega Pan India Finals on September 30, 2016. Due to the overwhelming response, and to maximize participation, FFF was conducted in 6 stages (Nominations, Auditions, Quarter Finals, Semifinals, Site Finals, and finally, National Finals). It was astounding to see 1,368 nominations across all three sites with art leading the way with 642 nominations followed by dance (475) and music (251). The Local FFF Facebook Voting application was initiated this year again to drive engagement for internal and EGYPT external audiences, getting support from family On Saturday October 1st, Teleperformance in Egypt members and friends. celebrated its 6th annual For Fun Festival at the Cairo Opera House. More than 500 attendees, from Teleperformance employees, to friends and family, enjoyed the talent of our employees. The look of pride and happiness was reflected in everyone’s eyes. Celebrities such as the actress DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Safaa Galal and the TV Host Amr Ramsy served as Teleperformance in the Dominican Republic members of the judging committee. held its first For Fun Festival on September 23, 2016 in the theater of the XMT Academy. It was an amazing time. The audience sang along with the participants! When the dance competition took place, everybody got so enthusiastic that the DJ played merengue afterwards to continue the party. It was a perfect night to enjoy the talent of Teleperformance. PORTUGAL Teleperformance in Portugal held their local For Fun Festival in B-Leza (Famous local artists Club) in Lisbon on September 27th. Over 300 people attended the event to support their favorite artists. The participants showed their talent and passion during the night, embracing the competitive spirit of the annual festival. During the presentations, the jury classified the different performances and chose the best from each category to represent Portugal in the Global Contest. BRAZIL Teleperformance in Brazil celebrated the For Fun Festival finals on September 6, 2016 at the Gamaro Theatre. Around 750 employees attended the festival, and they all voted for their favorite candidates. All the employees GREECE who attended the festival in Brazil donated Teleperformance in Greece held the finals of their 7th non-perishable food. More than half a ton of annual local For Fun Festival on the 21st of October. donated food was sent to charities. In addition The event took place in one of Athens, well-known to the presentation of the finalists, an incredible clubs that is located at the center of the capital. performance of employees called Happiness Professional dancers, performers, and a famous Greek Promoters made the evening even more special. band performed along with the three finalists of the Dance and Music category in front of an audience of more than 1,000 people. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE SPORT CLUB 30 Better together The Teleperformance family brings passion to every aspect of their lives. We not only work hard, but we play hard as well. RUSSIA Teleperformance Sport Club is a worldwide In 2016, the Group boasted more than 950 program promoting sports as a tool for sports teams which consisted of 507 soccer physical well-being and higher quality of teams worldwide, 115 volleyball teams, 194 life, and motivating our people to play, basketball teams, 132 bowling teams and DOMINICAN REPUBLIC have fun, and share good moments with many other teams of employees playing their teammates. tennis, badminton and softball. About Sport Club 2016: USA Soccer Basketball Bowling Volleyball 507 194 132 115 teams teams teams teams 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE SPORT CLUB 31 Teleperformance Sport Club local highlights: RUSSIA Teleperformance in Russia has always actively supported and promoted Sport Club! More than MEXICO 200 employees from three sites Volgograd, Teleperformance in Mexico’ soccer tournament, LEBANON Moscow, and Vladimir gathered for the biggest TP Cup, is organized in each city with a local Teleperformance in Lebanon’s Sports Tournament sporting event, the annual Football and Basketball tournament where the winning team has a direct started May 23rd and ran until May 30th. Four Championships, which took place in June 2016 at pass to participate in the nationwide tournament, football teams and two basketball teams Holiday Inn Vinogradovo Hotel in Moscow. which took place in the city of Puebla. A total of participated in the tournament. Team TP Vladimir snatched the championship title eight female teams and eight male teams competed in both the basketball and football tournaments, for the trophy this year. with TP Volgograd 2nd, and TP Moscow 3rd. The winner was the city of Guadalajara for both the male and female tournaments. During this TP Cup weekend, there were up to 320 participants, including players, Puebla staff supporting the event’s logistics and local players’ family and friends. PHILIPPINES Teleperformance in the Philippines dominated the 2016 BPO Classic and Inter-Call Center and Commercial Employees (ICCE) basketball and volleyball tournaments, bringing home two basketball championships and the runner-up trophies in volleyball for both men and women. PORTUGAL Teleperformance in Portugal organized 12 mixed CHINA In China, Teleperformance’s 3rd Basketball teams and more than 100 players in a volleyball Tournament took place in 2016. During the tournament. The competition, held in Lisbon, tournament, 10 teams participated. More than included teams from our offices in Porto, Lisbon 150 people attended and had the chance to and Covilhã and was full of good surprises with a participate in the fun and enjoy the event. fantastic atmosphere among the players. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 32 Leading executives to lead us in the future Teleperformance University was created to nurture, develop, empower and spread globally the unique corporate culture of Teleperformance. Teleperformance University prepares the next generation of leaders to sustain Teleperformance’s leadership in the industry for years to come. Teleperformance University is an Executive program divided into six modules across six centers of excellence in the world: Module 1: Module 2: Module 3: Culture & People Marketing & Business Development Management Solutions & Client Relationships (Lisbon) (São Paulo) (Guadalajara) Module 4: Module 5: Module 6: Operations, IT Finance Excellence in Operations & Security (Athens) & Final Project (Salt Lake City) (Manila) 80% of the curriculum is delivered by Teleperformance all submissions and based on the competencies and leaders. Additionally, we partner with renowned potential of each candidate, plus the Corporation priorities, universities to bring more value to the project. Local CEOs approves a final list of participants. The current generation / Heads of Global Areas submit candidates they believe of Teleperformance University began classes in Lisbon on have the potential of becoming future senior leaders in September 25, 2016. The graduation is scheduled to take Teleperformance. A Selection Committee carefully evaluates place in Manila on July 28, 2017. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT 33 Teleperformance Onboarding The objectives of the Onboarding process for At the central level, the Teleperformance JUMP! is a development program new employees are: Institute provides all Group management created to identify and prepare staff (supervisors, platform managers, high-potential employees to • Know and understand the organization and the business. operational directors, etc.) with take on leadership positions in • Become operational and e-learning and “face-to-face” training. the company. The aim is to help feel confident. In view of its global presence and employees become leaders, by • Give the employee visibility to a desire to involve a maximum number progressing from Contact Center potential career path. of employees, the Group has focused Advisor, through supervisor and The benefits of the Onboarding process for particularly on developing e-learning. coordinator to manager. JUMP! is new employees are: build confidence and For the sake of greater independence, managed locally and is based on sense of belonging; improve performance the e-learning platform has been a program that offers technical and pride; create a feeling of security for developed in-house since late 2011, and behavior training, as well his/her future at Teleperformance. The and is available in the main Group as personal development plans. first onboarding package was created for languages. Teleperformance employees In 2016, 87% of our non-Agent our advisors, representing 80% of our were able to develop their leadership, vacancies were filled through workforce. The package, covering the first communication, time management and internal promotion. We are aware 90 days of an advisor’s employment, was project management skills thanks to the of over 5000 people across the launched in December 2013. Onboarding e-learning process. 307,505 training hours group who were promoted in 2016 effectiveness is measured via monthly were provided in 2016, accounting for having attended a JUMP! program. surveys and in 2016 we had nearly 30,000 1.0% of total 2016 training hours, with a respondents. There was an average score of 93% satisfaction rate from our network 94% of people finding the process useful to in 2016. them in their role. The second Onboarding package, for new hires in Business Development, is also fully implemented and covers the first 180 days of integration. PHILIPPINES 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 34 Protecting the environment Citizen of the Planet (COTP) is Teleperformance’s environmental responsibility initiative. PHILIPPINES Citizen of the Planet” (COTP) is a global transportation and employee education Teleperformance corporate initiative launched and involvement to extend green efforts in 2008, aimed at ensuring Teleperformance to their homes and neighborhoods. operates in an environmentally friendly Teleperformance is making great strides and responsible manner. Since that time, in its mission to protect nature and lessen Teleperformance has acted to improve facilities its impact on the environment. Our to create “sustainable sites,” striven for emissions goal is to reduce our average “paperless” environments, improved recycling, Carbon footprint per employee between and incentivized energy and atmosphere 0.5% and 2.5% annually. improvements. Teleperformance invests in indoor environmental quality refinements, alternative 2016 Carbon Footprint in Metric Tons 2016, the company’s total measure of CO2 emissions was 142,718* tons with a carbon footprint per employee (CFE) of 0.7655 tons, a fully audited % of Total Carbon Footprint per Source 1% decrease from the previous year. 0.7655 tons 91.31% Carbon Footprint 130,311 per Employee Electricity 0.35% 8.34% 502 11,905 *Externally Audited Paper Air Travel 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 35 Environmental Awards & Certifications Teleperformance continually grows its global portfolio of LEED, BREEAM and ISO 14001 certified sites, continuing its commitment to working environments that inspire a love of the natural world. CHINA Five centers in Teleperformance in ISO 14001: 2009 in Germany The Glasgow (Scotland) and Colombia, as well as the Beijing (Dortmund & Görlitz) and ISO Paris (France) centers have (China) and Cebu Park (Philippines) 14001: 2004 in UK (Ashby De La obtained BREEAM certification centers, have obtained LEED Zouch) (BRE Environmental certification (Leadership in Energy Assessment Method) and Environmental Design). 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE CITIZEN OF THE PLANET 36 Here are some of our highlights of COTP from around the world: POLAND Teleperformance in Poland celebrated Mother Earth DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Day by organizing a campaign promoting the use Teleperformance in the Dominican Republic held of reusable bottles. One of the biggest issues is their second reforestation campaign, once again in pollution of our planet with plastic waste, mostly conjunction with the Ministry of Environment and caused by consumption of water in plastic bottles. Natural Resources. 25 volunteers between agents, To fight against this, we have prepared a campaign supervisors and managers from all areas, traveled to showing people the environmental and economic a little town in the north of the country, a place called benefits of drinking tap water. To convince people José del Puerto in Villa Altagracia. They planted over even more we gave each employee reusable 1,100 seedlings of Cedro Criollo in three hours. aluminum bottles – a total of 500. MEXICO As part of COTP, a Renewable Energy Project was launched for Teleperformance in the Nearshore region during 2016. The purpose of this project is to switch over almost all electricity consumption in Mexico to renewable sources (100% solar). This will result in a huge positive impact in the carbon footprint both at the country level (a reduction of around 80%) and at the global level (estimation: 9% reduction). TURKEY In Turkey, Teleperformance’s Running Team ran 10 kilometers in the 38th Istanbul Marathon for GERMANY the TEMA foundation’s charity campaign. TEMA’s Teleperformance in Germany provided each campaign will provide nature preservation training employee a seedling to plant. One hundred to 5,000 school kids and will plant 10,000 trees. newly planted trees with the Teleperformance logo and the names of employees were planted on the day of the grand opening. EL SALVADOR In celebration of World Environment Day on June 5th, Teleperformance in El Salvador’s Runners participated in the “2nd San Salvador Run for the Environment Race.” Teleperformance has the firm vision that this type of event brings more awareness to the importance of the ­environment and the ways that we can help this cause. Almost 1,000 new trees were given to all the runners by the San Salvador Government so they could plant them and reforest the country. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 37 United Nations Global Compact Our Progress in 2016 THE NETHERLANDS 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 38 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i ma t-C or PEOPLE CARE n Lab m o Teleperformance respects and supports human rights throughout its operations and business activities and is committed to avoid complicity in human rights abuse. To reinforce its commitment, in June 2015 the Group launched a Human Rights Human Rights statement Statement addressing Principles 1 and 2 of the UN Global Compact. Teleperformance Human Rights Statement is publicly available on our corporate website; it has been translated into eight languages and distributed to all local companies. Since 2015, Teleperformance has been working to continuously improve its Group Grievance Mechanism. At first put in place as an email address published on the corporate website, the system was upgraded in 2016 and integrated into our internal Group Grievance Omnichannel Management Tool to optimize grievance resolution, track customer mechanism experience and draw statistics. Several trainings for local HR teams are regularly organized in the form of one to one trainings, tutorials, videos and webinars, focusing on how to handle requests and grievances according to the Group’s standards. Teleperformance supports the communities in which we are present and also provides disaster relief aid around the world in time of emergency with its “Citizen of the World” (COTW) charitable activities. In 2016, our 10th year anniversary, Community Involvement: Teleperformance employees donated $4,845,256 in cash and in-kind donations to Citizen of the World underprivileged children and families as well as natural disaster victims. 66,643 volunteer hours were provided by Teleperformance employees for charitable and environmental causes. For more information, please see page 11-21 of this report. Teleperformance New Hire orientation is designed to raise awareness around Corporate Social Responsibility throughout the Group and to involve all employees CSR New Hire training in CSR-related initiatives right from the outset of their employee experience. This training is mandatory for all new hires and is delivered face-to-face during the Onboarding phase. Teleperformance Code of Ethics reflects the Group’s core values and respect for diversity. All companies in the Group must apply CSR principles in the way we operate to ensure honesty, fairness, equality, sustainability, transparency and Code of Ethics basic human decency. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on Teleperformance corporate website. In 2016, 88.1% of our employees were trained on the Code of Ethics as part of their CSR New Hire Training, and 81% acknowledged the policy. In its 9th Global Edition, the 2016 E.Sat involved 44 countries and more than 102,000 respondents. Each year, all employees are invited to participate to this global initiative. The survey covers 12 topics, from employees’ training and work Employee Satisfaction environment to leadership and work-life balance. After the survey, each company Survey develops targeted action plans based on the results obtained. Actions are put in place during the following year. Compared to 2015, the overall satisfaction in 2016 increased by 12 percentage points, following a continuous improvement approach. Launched in June 2015, the Teleperformance Supplier Policy aims at setting out a range of rules we expect our suppliers and business partners to abide by in terms of ethics, anti-corruption and other social responsibility principles. Since its Supply Chain establishment, the policy has been extended to an increasing number of suppliers, aiming at covering all top suppliers by the end of 2017. Teleperformance Supplier Policy is available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 39 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i ma t-C or People Care n Lab m o Teleperformance launched operational security and privacy initiatives with its Global Essential Security Policies in February 2015. Those policies express Teleperformance’s strong commitment to respect and protect the privacy of every individual, its Data Privacy Policy employees, and clients. In 2016, Teleperformance revised those policies and renamed them to the Global Essential Compliance and Security Policies to adapt to global privacy changes. Teleperformance’s privacy policy is available on our corporate website. Teleperformance has zero tolerance towards any corrupt and fraudulent behavior. Our Anti-Corruption Policy incorporates the definitions of corrupt behavior and what actions to take to avoid or eliminate the risk of corruption in our business. In 2016, Anti-corruption policy 88.3% of our employees were trained in the policy with a 81.4% acknowledgement. Teleperformance’s Anti-Corruption policy is available to all stakeholders on our corporate website. Teleperformance has a strong security program to create a balance of both physical and digital security measures for employees and customers alike. Our security program consists of integrated solutions leveraged using in-depth industry knowledge tailored to suit our clients’ businesses. Teleperformance security program Anti-fraud program includes security risk assessments—developed in partnership with our clients—and a response process to address potential concerns globally. This strategy helps to protect our clients’ data and maintain our customers’ confidentiality while providing a safe and secure workplace for our employees. rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron Ani Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o Management Teleperformance complies with all national and international laws in terms of labor. To re-inforce our commitment, the Group issued a Human Rights Statement in 2015 stating that “Social dialog takes place at different levels within the organization, and may exist in different forms depending on culture, practices and applicable Labor Framework & regulations in the various countries. All our employees throughout our operations Social Dialog and where applicable have the right to collective bargaining. All employees may freely join or associate with organizations without interference, retaliation or discrimination. Where employees are represented by a legally recognized union, we are committed to establishing a constructive dialogue with their freely chosen representatives. In January 2015, Teleperformance launched its Group Equal Opportunity Policy, setting out concrete guidelines to promote equal employment opportunities, non-discrimination, diversity, inclusion and equality in the career path. It covers Equal Opportunity Policy workplace discrimination in terms of gaining access to employment and in treatment of employees once they are at work. The policy is based on Principle 6 of the UN Global Compact and is publicly available on our corporate website. In 2016, 77.2% of all employees were trained in the policy, with a 70.8% acknowledgement. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 40 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o Management Launched in 2013, BEST Recruitment & Selection is a set of processes and tools in Recruitment designed to ensure that all recruitment applications are reviewed BEST Recruitment & consistently across Teleperformance, following clear criteria to avoid biases, that Selection non-discriminatory rules are clearly followed and candidates are the right fit for the job. The level of implementation is today at 83% with 5 countries achieving group certification in 2016. Impact sourcing (IS) is a service delivery model within the business process outsourcing industry and is defined as employing disabled and socioeconomically disadvantaged youth under age 26 in developing countries as workers in BPO centers to provide high-quality, information-based services to domestic and international clients. IS provides quality and cost at parity with traditional BPO services, but with benefits such as lower attrition rates, access to untapped talent pool, opportunities to fulfill CSR and diversity goals, and provides a competitive advantage in domestic Impact Sourcing sourcing. Teleperformance has been recruiting disabled and socioeconomically disadvantaged youth under age 26 in developing countries for years, providing training to develop the skills necessary to match our clients’ needs and thrive in the company. In 2014, Teleperformance committed to creating 5,000 IS jobs over five years, set as an annual target of 1000 IS hires annually worldwide. By 2016 this goal was surpassed with over 25,000 IS hires in the following developing countries: Egypt, India, Mexico, Morocco, Philippines and Tunisia. For more information, see page 10 of this report. The objectives of the Onboarding process for new employees are: know and understand the organization and the business; become operational and feel confident; give the employee visibility to a potential career path. The benefits of the Onboarding process for new employees are: build confidence and sense of belonging; improve performance and pride; create a feeling of security for his/her future at Teleperformance. The first onboarding package was created for our advisors, Onboarding representing 80% of our workforce. The package, covering the first 90 days of an advisor’s employment, was launched in December 2013. Onboarding effectiveness is measured via monthly surveys and in 2016 we had nearly 30,000 respondents. There was an average score of 94% of people finding the process useful to them in their role. The second Onboarding package, for new hires in Business Development, is also fully implemented and covers the first 180 days of integration. Teleperformance focuses in ensuring consistency in the way in which we recruit and train people during their first 6 months in the role. In 2014, we launched Supervisor Foundations and in 2016 we announced the launch of Trainer Foundations and Recruiter Foundation to go live in Q1 2017. There are 4 key parts to this Program: 1. Job Descriptions – The Job Description is now consistent globally ensuring all these roles are recruited to the same specification (local requirements can be added); 2. Assessment Center – A new assessment center has been designed for each role Foundations Program which applicants must pass in order to start in their role; 3. Training A structured training curriculum has been developed and will be consistent for each of these roles. The training curriculum covers the first 6 months of their tenure and is split in to “Basics” (Week one), “Essentials” (Months One to Three) and “Development” (Months Three to Six). Training has been carefully selected for each section, starting initially with some of the core knowledge required for the role whilst ending in the “development” phase with skills based workshops allowing them to take in to the workshop real examples to discuss and practice. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 41 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i Diversity & Career ma n or Lab m t-C o Management JUMP! is a development program created to identify and prepare high-potential employees to take on leadership positions in the company. The aim is to help employees become leaders, by progressing from contact center advisor, through supervisor and coordinator to manager. JUMP! is managed locally and is based on a JUMP! program that offers technical and behavior training, as well as personal development plans. In 2016, 87% of our non-Agent vacancies were filled through internal promotion. We are aware of over 5,000 people across the group who were promoted in 2016 having attended a JUMP! program. For more information, see page 33 of this report. At the central level, the Teleperformance Institute provides all Group management staff (supervisors, platform managers, operational directors, etc.) with e-learning and “face-to-face” training. In view of its global presence and desire to involve a maximum number of employees, the Group has focused particularly on developing e-learning. For the sake of greater independence, the e-learning platform has been eInstitute developed in-house since late 2011, and is available in the main Group languages. Teleperformance employees were able to develop their leadership, communication, time management and project management skills thanks to the e-learning process. 307,505 training hours were provided in 2016, accounting for 1.0% of total 2016 training hours. Year on year we have seen progression with use and satisfaction with a 93% satisfaction rate from our network in 2016. Teleperformance University was created to nurture, develop, empower and spread globally the unique corporate culture of Teleperformance. The program prepares the next generation of leaders to sustain Teleperformance’s leadership in the industry for years to come. Teleperformance University is an Executive program divided into six modules across six centers of excellence in the world: Culture & People Management (Lisbon); Marketing & Solutions (São Paulo); Business Development & Client Relationships (Guadalajara); Operations, IT & Security (Salt Lake City); Finance (Athens); Excellence in Operations & Final Project (Manila). 80% of the TP University curriculum is delivered by Teleperformance leaders. Additionally, we partner with renowned universities to bring more value to the project. Local CEOs / Heads of Global Areas submit candidates they believe have the potential of becoming future senior leaders in Teleperformance. A Selection Committee carefully evaluates all submissions and based on the competencies and potential of each candidate, plus the Corporation priorities, approves a final list of participants. The current generation of Teleperformance University began classes in Lisbon on September 25, 2016. The graduation is scheduled to take place in Manila on July 28, 2017. For more information, see page 32 of this report. To ensure fair and consistent performance management, TOPS (Teleperformance Operational Processes & Standards) describes the Operation Standards and Procedures that must be followed by all Teleperformance companies. TOPS involves the activities Teleperformance needed to effectively manage operations during the shifts, improving results and Operational Processes & increasing employee satisfaction. For each advisor, it ensures consistent support Standards and feedback from first line managers (Supervisors) and it helps to highlight each advisor’s improvement points. Compliance to TOPS is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2016, 80% of Teleperformance companies had a process score higher than 80%. The Teleperformance Quality Assurance Process (BEST QA) provides a clear, structured approach to implement and manage quality in all our companies, with the objective to improve the satisfaction of our customers and our clients while at the same time BEST Quality Assurance developing our people fairly. Compliance to BEST QA is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2016, 84% of Teleperformance companies had a process score higher than 80%. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 42 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Hu iron An i ma t-C or Health & Safety n Lab m o Teleperformance recognizes that it needs to manage Health and Safety with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities. With a Safety Management System, the Group aims to effectively control risks and prevent people from being injured during the course of their work. Going beyond local regulatory requirements, from June 2015 to December 2016 more than 40 H&S Subject Matter Experts (SMEs) were enrolled in the H&S SME Training path providing an in-depth training around to the Group H&S Policy, H&S Site Health & Safety Policy Inspections, Risk Assessments, Accident/Incident Reporting, Evacuation Drills and New Hire Orientation, among others. A Teleperformance H&S Toolkit was created and made available on the group intranet for all H&S SMEs, as Teleperformance is committed to providing its employees and contractors with safe conditions of work on a continuous basis by minimizing ill health and injury risks. In 2016, 86.7% of all employees were trained in our Group Health & Safety Policy with a 78.8% acknowledgement. The policy is publicly available on our corporate website. For more information, see page 22 of this report. Closely linked to the Group’s health and safety policy, Passion 4U is our global Passion 4U Program initiative promoting well-being and better quality of life at work. By increasing awareness around the benefits of healthy habits and stress reduction, this global program encourages the sharing of best practices across all Teleperformance companies. All Passion 4U initiatives are rolled out locally. For more information, please refer to pages 23-27 of this report. Teleperformance's For Fun Festival is a global annual initiative that recognizes the For Fun Festival most talented people in our company. The aim of this competition is to create a sense of fun and to entertain via an international art, dance and music competition that is intended to instill pride in belonging to the Group and promote its cultural diversity. More than 11,000 employees with over 47,000 video participants have participated since the program started in 2009. In 2016, the 8th Annual For Fun Festival produced 2,499 videos with 9,063 video participants. For more information, please see pages 28-29 of this report. Teleperformance Sport Club is a worldwide program promoting sports as a tool for physical well-being and higher quality of life, and motivating our people to play, have fun, and share good moments with their teammates. In 2016, the Group Sport Club boasted more than 950 sports teams which consisted of 507 soccer teams worldwide, 115 volleyball teams, 194 basketball teams, 132 bowling teams and many other teams of sportsmen and women playing tennis, badminton and softball. For more information, please see pages 30-31 of this report. The work of employed staff is organized in strict compliance with work time BEST Workforce legislation, which varies from country to country. The weekly working hours range Management from 35 to a maximum of 48. Teleperformance has developed a BEST WFM User Guide describing the general Workforce Management standards and procedures that must be followed by all countries. Teleperformance BEST WFM involves all the activities needed to respect the labor law requirements, as well as accommodating individual needs for preferred working hours, days and shifts. BEST WFM has been designed to be aligned with the requirements from the COPC-2000 CSP Standard Release 5.0. Compliance to Best WFM is measured regularly at local level. By the end of 2016, 100% of Teleperformance companies had a process score higher than 85%. Teleperformance Premises Standard covers topics such as Lighting, Acoustics, Premises Standard Hands-on-Management, Sustainable Development and Wellbeing in all areas of our centers. The Standard provides blueprints and guidelines to be implemented in each new location or to inspire any new refurbishment. The Standard is reviewed by internal and external experts on a yearly basis to ensure that it is in line with market evolutions and business needs. It also includes a section dedicated to Health & Safety which has been a focus in 2016 in order to increase awareness among all our employees across the world about Health, Ergonomics, Safety and Emergency procedures. 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE UN GLOBAL COMPACT: OUR PROGRESS 43 rru Rig ent pti hts on Env Caring for the Hu iron An i ma t-C or n Lab m o Environment In December 2013, Teleperformance released its Environmental Policy, which defines the actions, behaviors and relationships that Teleperformance’s employees shall adopt to act in an environmentally responsible way, inside and outside the Environmental policy workplace. The policy is publicly available to all stakeholders on Teleperformance corporate website. Since last report, 83.4% of our employees were trained with a 73.2% acknowledgement. “Citizen of the Planet” (COTP) is a global Teleperformance corporate initiative Citizen of the Planet launched in 2008, aimed at ensuring Teleperformance operates in an environmentally friendly and responsible manner. Since that time, Teleperformance has acted to improve facilities to create sustainable sites, striven for paperless environments, improved recycling, and incentivized energy and atmosphere improvements. Teleperformance is making great strides in its mission to protect nature and lessen its impact on the environment. Our emissions goal is to reduce our average Carbon footprint per employee between 0.5% and 2.5% annually. In 2016, the company’s total measure of CO2 emissions was 142,718 tons with a carbon footprint per employee (CFE) of 0.7655 tons, a fully audited 1% decrease from the previous year. For more information, please see pages 34-36 of this report. Energy consumption in 2016 amounted to 291,943,798 kWh, up 6% from 274,578,269 kWh in 2015 at constant consolidation scope. This increase was mainly due to the launch of 12 new centers mostly in Brazil, the Philippines and Albania and the enlargement of some centers in China, Greece and India. Water consumption in Sustainable Use of 2016 amounted to 1,170,155 m3, down 0.5% from 1,175,798 m3 in 2015 at constant Resources consolidation scope. For more information, please see Teleperformance 2016 Registration Document, section 4.3.3 (pages118-119). Link: http://www.teleperformance.com/media/2776639/teleperformance-ddr-2016ven.pdf EL SALVADOR 2016 CSR REPORT TELEPERFORMANCE OUR SYSTEM 44 For more information: teleperformance.com Follow us: /teleperformanceglobal @teleperformance /teleperformance blog.teleperformance.com /company/teleperformance
