Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 About this report Carlson Wagonlit Travel (CWT) has produced an annual update of its Responsible Business (RB) program since the launch of the RB commitments in 2012. This is the fifth annual report, providing a detailed account of CWT’s Responsible Business strategy, initiatives and performance during the 2016 calendar year. The report has been written in accordance with the Global Standard Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines (core level) and covers all wholly-owned CWT premises and joint ventures where CWT has an active presence. we think... we said... Our view of the Responsible Our past statements Business topic and how it fits of commitment and with our strategy and objectives. our 2015 objectives. we did... we do... Our performance The activities and ongoing against our objectives. processes that ensure we strive to be a Responsible Business. we will... we live... Our commitments for How we demonstrate future performance and that Responsible accomplishments, driven Business is being by our 2020 Responsible “lived” by our people. Business objectives. Contents Introduction Responsible Business Ethics & Business Behavior Human Resources Strategy and Governance and Human Rights Message from the Chair Introduction  8 Introduction  16 Introduction  24 of Carlson’s Board  2 Focusing on the issues that matter the most 9 2016 performance 17 2016 performance 25 Message from the President Responsible Business governance 10 Our Ethics and Compliance program 18 Employee engagement 26 & CEO of CWT 3 Responsible Business Network 11 Data privacy and information security 20 Training and development 28 About CWT  4 2020 objectives  12 Responsible Purchasing 22 Diversity and inclusion 30 Awards and recognitions  6 2016 performance  14 We live... Samantha’s story 23 Recruitment experience 31 Global standards  7 We live... Kerstin’s story 15 A safe place to work for our people 32 We live... Pierre’s story 33 Environment Responsible Products Community Involvement Supplementary and Services Information Introduction  34 Introduction  42 Introduction  50 GRI table 58 2016 performance 35 2016 performance 43 2016 performance 51 The United Nations Global Compact Measuring our carbon emissions 36 Risk management 44 Our 3E Community Involvement strategy 52 Ten Principles in action at CWT 60 Environmentally responsible culture38 Our responsible portfolio 46 2016 Community Involvement initiatives 54 Thanks and photo credits 61 Carbon offsetting 40 We live... Brett’s story 49 We live... Abhi’s story 57 We live... Silke’s story 41 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 1 I am honored to introduce the 2017 The effort to end human slavery remains an area Diana L. Nelson CWT Responsible Business Report. In of deep focus for Carlson. This work began when Chair of Carlson’s Board every part of the Carlson enterprise, we co-founded the World Childhood Foundation in 1999 with Her Majesty Queen Silvia of Sweden. we strive to be leaders and deliver Carlson and the Carlson Family Foundation outstanding performance, setting the continue work to combat human trafficking, to hurdle high for excellence across our defend the rights of children, and to promote responsible business platform. better living conditions for vulnerable and exploited children at risk around the world. I am truly gratified that this year CWT was The tools that are integral to CWT’s Digital 3.0 awarded the Gold Corporate Social business strategy are also being effectively Responsibility rating by the independent and deployed in the work of the organizations we widely respected environmental and social MESSAGE FROM support through grants. Some examples include: performance assessment agency EcoVadis. • Data analytics: The data analysis initiative The Gold rating places Carlson Wagonlit Travel at the Polaris Project is using global data among the top 1% of all companies assessed THE CHAIR OF to identify and eradicate human trafficking by EcoVadis. This outcome reflects the networks. commitment of CWT CEO Kurt Ekert and the • Technological innovation: Thorn is working Executive Leadership team, the hard work and with leading technology companies to build CARLSON’S BOARD engagement of colleagues at every level of our business around the world, and the encouragement received from our clients. cutting-edge tools that locate child abuse victims, make online environments safer, and deter criminal behavior. • Employee Engagement: Businesses Ending “Believing that business can be a platform for positive Believing that business can be a platform for Slavery and Trafficking (BEST) is training positive impact is at the core of the Carlson frontline staff in the travel and hospitality impact is at the core of the Carlson ethic.” ethic. Our values dictate that we take care industry to interrupt exploitation. of our people, our communities, and the environment, all of which are integrated into The financial capital Carlson invests is matched Diana L. Nelson the way we do business at CWT each and by the human capital of our employees who are every day. offering their time and expertise to promote and develop responsible business objectives CWT’s efforts are strengthened by collaboration at all levels. Recently, CWT developed the with other companies and institutions that are innovative 3E tool to share responsible business united around a shared sustainability agenda. actions and community involvement at all levels We are one of more than 9,000 companies that of the organization – globally, at the country are signatories to the United Nations Global level, and locally. It is available to all employees Compact, which is regarded as the world’s and helps facilitate sharing of information and largest corporate sustainability effort. As a best practice worldwide. We are proud that CWT result, CWT has undertaken significant actions continues to be recognized as a leader in to translate the Ten Principles of the Global responsible business and we pledge to work Compact into a concrete strategy and even harder to sustain our leadership position supporting programs, and we welcome the going forward. Global Compact’s requirement to report annually on our progress. 2 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Introduction MESSAGE FROM This year, the strength of our commitment has been independently recognized, rating us among the top Caring describes how we make every decision with the customer in mind, bringing our diverse workforce together in an inclusive THE PRESIDENT and collaborative way, and giving back to 1% of all companies in the world for the communities where we live and work. our responsible business practices. The size and scale of CWT’s operations & CEO OF CWT This is a testament to the hard and value chain ensure the impact of our work, dedication and engagement Responsible Business program is far-reaching. of more than 18,000 employees Finally, CWT is fueled by the passion of across nearly 150 countries. It is a our people. By challenging them to be bold, “Being a responsible business is much more than words reflection of our strong culture and take risks, learn every day and dare to win, on paper. It is a fundamental element of our business the values we share and by which we effect change and deliver results in every we conduct ourselves: integrity, domain including Responsible Business. and something we live and breathe every day.” caring, leadership and passion. Our program has developed significantly since its foundation in 2012. CWT continues Integrity is about doing what is right for to embrace the Ten Principles of the United our company, customers, suppliers, local Nations Global Compact which have helped communities and the planet. It involves inspire our 2020 Responsible Business trusting one another and setting the example objectives. I am proud of what we have by acting with honesty, respecting each other, accomplished and I am excited about our and holding ourselves to uncompromising future journey. We will for sure remain Kurt Ekert ethical and legal standards at all times. strongly committed towards pursing excellence in Responsible Business. The value of leadership is closely linked to individual and collective responsibility. We encourage all employees to take the lead when it comes to responsible business, whether we are talking about every day decision making, adopting eco-attitudes, or taking action to make a difference at work and in the community. Kurt Ekert President & CEO, CWT Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 3 ABOUT CWT >700 MAKING THE WORLD WORK FOR YOU CWT Energy, Resource and Marine move over 700 workers each day Companies and governments We have three specialist divisions, two within our rely on us to keep their people overall business travel offering and one adjacent to it: 2.5m connected. We provide their travelers with a consumer-grade travel experience, combining Business Travel Meetings & Events innovative technology with our vast experience. CWT Meetings & Events looked after almost 2.5m attendees Every day we look after enough travelers at their events last year to fill almost 200 Boeing 747s and around CWT Energy, Resources & Marine – In CWT Meetings & Events – We are 100,000 hotel rooms, while handling specialized industries, getting people to a global leader in creative meetings 95 corporate events. We hold ourselves remote parts of the world can be complex. and events management, present in and everyone with whom we work to the We make things easier. We’ll deliver on your nearly 70 countries, offering events, highest standards of ethics and conduct. specific needs – from oil & gas to mining; venue sourcing, group travel and This commitment – to our employees, from marine to renewable energies. strategic meetings management. clients, suppliers, and other partners – guides everything we do. www.cwt-energy-resources-marine.com www.cwt-meetings-events.com US$13 Our CWT 3.0 strategy is about creating an unbeatable customer experience and offering increasing value to our clients and partners. This means delivering a consumer-grade, omniCWT Solutions Group – We are a team channel experience to the traveler, easy-to-use of consultants that helps deliver you solutions for our customers, and providing efficiencies in travel procurement best-in-market hotel and data offerings. through innovations in supplier sourcing, CWT Solutions Group saved data intelligence, traveler management clients an average of US$13 for Our vision is to be the global leader in digital and mobility. every US$1 spent business travel, hotel, meetings and events. www.cwt-solutions-group.com 4 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Introduction 2016 KEY FACTS AND FIGURES Against a backdrop of turbulent CWT Meetings & Events organized almost CWT Solutions Group, Global leader, 35,000 markets, unprecedented further strengthened present in nearly world events and economic its customer offer countries 150 unpredictability, we reported and achieved strong results for the year. These were highlighted by US$2 billion in sales attributable to new business, 59 million transactions1 across the business, US$23 billion2 in total transaction volume, and our award-winning app CWT To Go™ meetings and events 13% revenue growth saw an increase in users of almost 40%. Additionally, Hotel attachment also grew substantially, with the introduction of new content and capabilities. We are making changes to our business as the new dynamics of the marketplace and CWT To GoTM saw an Client retention Over the needs and expectations of our customers 18,000 evolve, and we are beginning to see the increase in users of almost rate of 40% 95% employees benefits of our new 3.0 strategy. 1 Excluding international contracted partner numbers. 2 Includes international contracted partner volumes for CWT customers only. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 5 AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS Top 1% of all companies worldwide for responsible business practices across all industries (EcoVadis rating) CWT is regularly recognized for “This is a tremendously exciting its outstanding products, high honor to receive in recognition of our commitment to CSR. Responsible quality service and Responsible Business is a fundamental element Business performance, both of our overall business practice and at a local and corporate level. something we live and breathe, every Over the past year, these day. In whatever decision we make, we awards and recognitions consider the impact on the environment have included: in which we operate.” Kurt Ekert, president “5 Years Plus Caring Award” by the and CEO, Carlson Wagonlit Travel. Hong Kong Council of Social Service. CWT’s EcoVadis Gold rating EcoVadis operates a collaborative In April 2017, CWT received the EcoVadis platform allowing companies to Gold Corporate Social Responsibility assess the environmental and social (CSR) rating, placing us among the performance of their global suppliers, top 1% of all companies for responsible combining technology and expertise business practices. The assessment uses to deliver sustainability scorecards a methodology that rates companies that cover 150 purchasing categories, according to 21 CSR criteria in the areas 21 CSR indicators and 120 countries. of environment, labor practices, fair business practices and sustainable procurement. Having previously been rated at the silver level, the gold award reflects our ongoing commitment to continually improving our Responsible Business performance. “Innovation in Business Utility Apps “Best Travel Management Company” – Silver Award 2016” at the Asia at the 2017 Business Travel Awards. Pacific Stevie Awards. 6 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Introduction In whatever decision we make, GLOBAL STANDARDS we consider the impact on the environment in which we operate. CWT adopts global standards that help to facilitate a robust and consistent approach to reporting on responsible business strategy and performance. Some of these include: WE SUPPORT “Best Corporate Travel Agency” “Employee Engagement & The United Nations Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) at the TTG Travel Awards 2016 Development Category winner” at Global Compact (UNGC) The CDP is the global disclosure system in the-Asia-Pacific travel trade. the ASEAN Corporate Sustainability CWT is a signatory to the UNGC – the world’s that enables companies, cities, states and Awards 2016. largest voluntary corporate responsibility regions to measure and manage their initiative. We continue to align our environmental impacts. CWT reports Responsible Business policies to its environmental performance to the CDP 10 Principles relating to human rights, Supply Chain program, helping to establish labor, environment and anti-corruption. a global consolidated view of environmental See our UNGC table on page 60. impacts and support engagement on environmental issues worldwide. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ISO 26000 GRI is an international independent ISO 26000 is the international standard organization that helps businesses, developed to help organizations governments and other organizations effectively assess and address their understand and communicate the impact of social responsibilities. CWT considers business on critical sustainability issues. CWT the ISO 26000 standard when developing “Europe’s Leading Travel Agency “Most Admired Travel Management prepares its RB report in accordance with the its Responsible Business strategy and 2016” at the World Travel Awards. Company 2016” at the Beat’s 9th GRI G4 Reporting Core Guidelines. Our GRI communicating performance. readers’ choice awards. reporting Index can be found on pages 58-59. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 7 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS STRATEGY AND GOVERNANCE we think... We believe in the significant role that Responsible Business is part of CWT’s Our efforts have enabled us to make businesses have in delivering social and culture and, through the strength substantial progress against our 2020 economic value in a responsible and of our RB Network, we ensure that objectives, evidenced by the external sustainable way. This necessity was best practices continue to be rolled recognition of EcoVadis, whose Gold reinforced following the launch of out across all regions and functions. rating ranks us as global leaders in the UN Sustainable Development In 2016, the new CWT 3.0 corporate corporate social responsibility. It is Goals (SDGs) and the Paris Climate strategy added increased momentum through the commitment and passion Agreement negotiated at COP 21 to our sustainability agenda. A new of all our people that we will realize at the end of 2015. global RB governance framework our ambitions, and I am confident was unveiled along with a simplified we will succeed. Our Responsible Business approach governance model, the appointment addresses the challenges most relevant of new RB Ambassadors representing “Our efforts have enabled to our organization, stakeholders, local regions and functions and the us to be recognized as communities and the environment. expansion of the RB country In recent years, we have seen a correspondent network. These changes global leaders in corporate growing interest from our clients and were overseen by CWT’s most senior social responsibility.” other stakeholders in sustainability, management, who remain fully Françoise Grumberg and their feedback on our approach committed to continually supporting Vice President, Global and performance has informed and developing the Responsible our strategy. Business roadmap. Responsible Business 8 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance we do... Focusing on the issues that matter the most Our Responsible Business strategy focuses on the areas of most importance to CWT and our stakeholders. To understand their views, we engage with our employees, customers and suppliers The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The 17 goals and 169 targets that lie behind the SDGs were agreed to by UN Member States in September 2015 on a regular basis and consider their feedback when deciding with the objective of ending poverty, on the issues and opportunities to address and report on. protecting the planet and ensuring prosperity for all. We have started internal discussions to determine the following areas in which our RB program can provide support in ensuring the delivery of the goals. Engaging with stakeholders Once issues are gathered, we engage with our Our Responsible Business domains to guide our approach people, customers and suppliers to prioritize form the basis of our program At present, out of the 17 goals, we We regularly assess the significance of those that are most important to them. have identified the following SDGs as sustainability issues to our stakeholders and The ways in which we gather feedback vary Responsible Business Strategy being most applicable to CWT and this business through a materiality assessment. depending on who and where they are. For and Governance report gives an account of the ways The process maps the topics our stakeholders example, feedback from customers provides How we implement the RB strategy we contribute. are most concerned about along with their insights into what they expect of travel day to day. relevance to CWT. services and products. Employee engagement helps us to understand the views of our Ethics & Business Behavior The first step in the process involves listing workforce. Supplier assessments and meetings How we conduct business ethically. the sustainability issues by analyzing: external keep us informed of important issues and sources across the wider travel industry; opportunities from our supply chain. Human Resources the views of sustainability experts; regulatory How we attract, develop, reward, guidelines and legislation; global sustainability By considering the overall importance retain and engage a diverse workforce. programs such as the SDGs; and external of sustainability topics to both internal assessors such as EcoVadis. We also follow and external stakeholders, and reviewing Human Rights global standards when developing policies them in the context of their importance How we uphold human rights across and strategy which include the United Nations to the business, we created a list of our all our operations. Global Compact (UNGC), the Global Reporting material issues. Our most recent materiality Initiative (GRI) and ISO standards such as ISO assessment identified 20 topics that were Environment 26000 – see page 7 for further information. grouped under distinct categories known How we minimize the environmental as CWT’s RB domains. impacts of the company. Responsible Products and Services How we integrate RB into the things we sell. Community Involvement How we support the local communities in which we live and work. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 9 we do... Responsible Business governance Our comprehensive Responsible Business governance framework ensures that we deploy RB activities across the entire business. This is fundamental in embedding our corporate values and achieving our 2020 RB objectives. Our multi-dimensional Executive Leadership Team Responsible Business structure Chaired by the President & CEO, the Executive Leadership Global RB Team ensures robust RB governance Team has oversight of CWT’s Sit at the heart of our RB framework. In 2016, changes were made to CWT’s RB Subject Matter Experts RB strategy, supports the The team develops the strategy and RB governance structure that resulted Own particular areas of RB domains overall delivery of the RB coordinates RB programs globally across in a more effective and simplified and provide specialist advice and program and sponsors key the RB Network. The team facilitates leadership model, helping to further recommendations on their areas of RB projects. the sharing of information, monitors and ingrain RB in the way we do business. expertise. Their role involves developing communicates performance, and liaises action plans to ensure CWT reaches its with internal and external stakeholders Global governance for Responsible 2020 RB objectives in their domain. Executive to ensure that we meet our commitments. Business is overseen by the Executive adership Team Leadership Team, which receives Le regular updates on RB performance l RB Team and strategy from the Vice President R B S ub j Matter E ect o ba of Global Responsible Business xp Gl and the RB Ambassadors. The RB RB Ambassadors RB Country Correspondents er Responsible Network is composed of the Global Contribute to the development of ts Develop, manage and implement programs RB Team, RB Subject Matter Experts, CWT’s RB strategy and initiatives across Business in their respective countries. RB Country RB Ambassadors and RB Country the organization; 13 RB Ambassadors can at CWT Correspondents foster an RB environment Correspondents (see diagram on be either regional or functional and their that embraces both CWT as well as local the right). missions are to advance and cascade cultures and expectations. Their main RB tr CWT’s Responsible Business ambition, en y contributions are implementing local RB A m un ts collaborate to define key programs and ba ssa B Co ond action plans, sharing best practices relevant do r s R e sp initiatives, and identify specific areas for Corr to their country as well as facilitating and progress within their region/function. communicating RB initiatives. 10 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance we do... Responsible Business Network Our RB Network is wide-reaching and diverse, spanning 32 countries and including members from nearly every function within CWT. Here are some statistics highlighting the scale and breadth of the Network, and showcasing how deeply embedded RB activities are in all that we do. The RB Network supports projects relating to: The strength of our Responsible Business Network • Ethics and Compliance 80 • Environmental Performance • Responsible Purchasing • Data Protection • Real Estate • Business Continuity • Talent Management • Diversity and Inclusion members Including: 13 54 13 • Carbon Offsetting Subject Matter experts in: • Community Involvement Legal, Compliance, Data Privacy, Risk Management, In 2016, approximately 20 global Ambassadors Correspondents Business Continuity, Sourcing, Human Resources, teleconferences were organized across Real Estate... the network to review and coordinate RB activities, with participation from people in 32 countries. They included three global meetings with the former 25% 12% VP & above Senior Director 32 RB Council composed of the President Countries in three regions: & CEO and the heads of Human Resources, Legal and Compliance, Finance, Corporate Audit, Traveler Services, Marketing, 20% 23% APAC, EMEA, Americas Responsible Business and the EMEA, Director Manager APAC and Americas regions. 20% Non-Manager 73% Female 27% Male Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 11 we do... 2020 objectives In 2016, we launched our new Responsible Business objectives to be achieved by 2020. Each objective is aligned to an RB domain The table below provides a summary of the 2020 objectives. Further information on our performance can be found in and underpins our long-term commitments the “We said and We did” sections of for continually developing and delivering each chapter of this report. our RB program. Domain Key priorities Long-term commitments 2020 objectives Responsible Business Global Ensure progress transparency 1 Assess our Living Responsible Business maturity and performance at global and local levels on an annual basis Governance Responsible Business Governance Integrate Responsible Business into our activities 2 Deploy the Living Responsible Business program in functions and locations globally Ethics & Business Ethics Strategically address compliance and ethics worldwide: conduct our business in line with 3 Further engage all employees and CWT partners through a global multi-year ethics training and communication program Business Behavior & Compliance our values, our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct, and the UN Global Compact principles Spread the word to our key stakeholders about our ethics and zero-tolerance approach 4 Deploy a robust external information campaign about our global policies and our best-practice approach to ethics and compliance, as well as our Responsible Purchasing Program Privacy & Maintain a secure business environment for a global data and privacy protection program 5 Continue protecting employee and client data through leading-edge data privacy and information security policies Data Protection and practices, while continually developing expertise throughout the organization 12 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance Domain Key priorities Long-term commitments 2020 objectives Human Resources Diversity Leverage diversity as one of CWT’s major assets 6 Deployment of our global Diversity and Inclusion strategy through regional Diversity and Inclusion committees and Human Rights and Inclusion 7 Non-discrimination training of all recruiters and managers Employee Cultivate a highly engaged workforce 8 Reach the level of best-performing companies while developing leaders to enhance employee engagement Engagement Human Capital Establish workforce readiness to deliver against future business needs 9 Ensure delivery against future business needs by developing and selecting the right talent for the future and driving a Development culture of innovation Environment Energy and Carbon Develop an environmentally responsible culture 10 Educate all our employees through eco-attitude campaigns and an environment training module translated into several languages Management 11 Empower the global environment network to drive local performance Measure our global carbon footprint 12 Reduce our global GHG emissions by 10% per employee vs 2015 Implement a global environmental strategy Responsible Products Responsible Contribute to our clients’ CSR/Responsible Business ambitions and promote sustainability 13 Further reinforce our Responsible Business products and services offering to our clients and Services Portfolio 14 Proactively propose carbon offsetting to clients Business Ensure a robust Global Business Continuity Management system 15 Expand the scope of an ISO 22301-aligned Business Continuity Management system to include Crisis Management, Business Continuity Continuity Planning and Disaster Recovery Establish a best-in-class crisis management approach 16 Become the reference in terms of crisis management in the travel industry Community Corporate Care for the communities where we live and work, and contribute to their development 17 Further deploy globally and measure CWT’s impact in the 3E* fields of action Involvement Community through our skills and expertise Involvement *Education, Emergencies, Essential needs Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 13 we said... we will... and we did... In 2017 we will: • Further reinforce Not initiated Initiated In progress governance by having one RB correspondent Status as of per country. 2020 objectives end of 2016 Performance summary • Define RB accountabilities Assess our Living Responsible Business maturity An initial pilot has been carried out and a deployment process has for all key functions. and performance at global and local levels on been defined. • Launch a self-assessment an annual basis. process to evaluate our Deploy the Living Responsible Business program Cross-departmental discussions were initiated to start defining global global and local maturity. in functions and locations globally. RB functional accountabilities. 65% of our 2020 objectives are in 80 RB Network members Top 1% of all companies worldwide for progress and 29% are initiated in 32 countries responsible business practices across all industries (EcoVadis rating) 14 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance we live... “Through our efforts in the Rainbow Team, every employee in the Kerstin describes her journey from new “When we first started, we were a small recruit to leading the APAC Rainbow group. It was all new to us. There were so region knows about Team’s Responsible Business activities across Asia-Pacific. many great ideas from across the region but we soon realized we needed more manpower Responsible Business to make it happen. Over recent years our at CWT and how they Starting a new job can be tough. When focus on creating a more structured approach Kerstin relocated from Germany to become a has helped us to not only expand the team can get involved.” Global Program Manager in CWT’s Singapore significantly but also to better track and office four years ago, she was looking to get report on the great work that’s being done.” settled quickly. “At the time, I was new to the company, new to the country and looking for The team have achieved a lot, and it doesn’t opportunities to meet people. I was grateful look like they’ll be slowing down anytime to be given the opportunity to work abroad soon. Responsible Business has become and wanted to give back to the community.” deeply embedded in what we do every day, not just for the Rainbow team but for our When the APAC Rainbow Team formed employees across the region. Our focus shortly after she joined, Kerstin jumped now is to build meaningful and long-term at the opportunity to take part. “The goal relationships with organizations that share was to create a cross-functional group of our values. We have such a great diversity of employees driving CWT’s Responsible Business projects across all seven domains, but want activities in the region. It’s something our to make an even greater difference moving stakeholders cared about deeply and our forward. For example, targeting our efforts people wanted to get involved in.” on a smaller number of initiatives where we can make the biggest impact.” Over the last three years Kerstin has moved from being RB Correspondent for Singapore Above all, it is Kerstin’s optimism that to being named CWT’s RB Ambassador for shines through: “It’s a great feeling to be Asia-Pacific in 2016. Her personal journey part of such a highly motivated team who of growth mirrors the growing maturity are passionate about what they do, and we of the Rainbow Team’s approach. have fantastic support from our leadership. I couldn’t be prouder of what the team has achieved.” Kerstin Sautter is a Global Program Director and CWT’s Responsible Business Ambassador for Asia-Pacific. She is based in Singapore. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 15 ETHICS & BUSINESS BEHAVIOR we think... At CWT, we pride ourselves on our would the laws and regulations that “Our clients have told us reputation as a world-class company apply everywhere we do business. over and over again that operating with the highest standards We promote our standards through of ethical conduct. Our clients have annual awareness training for our trust is the thing they told us over and over again that staff and dedicated sustainability value the most. This is why trust is the thing they value the assessments for our suppliers. integrity sits at the heart most. This is why integrity sits at of our corporate values.” the heart of our corporate values. In an age of transparency, being open about how we use customer We place significant emphasis on data is key to maintaining positive our Ethics and Compliance program, relationships and reducing reputational through which we develop bestrisk. Just as important is ensuring we practice standards and policies that have the right mechanisms in place to create a culture that earns the trust keep traveler data safe and secure. This of our clients every day. Our Code philosophy guides our industry-leading of Business Ethics and Conduct (The approach to maintaining data security Code) outlines the ethical standards we and upholding data privacy. Lauren Aste expect our teams to uphold, as they Chief Legal Officer & General Counsel 16 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Ethics & Business Behavior we said... 99.1% and we did... of employees completed the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct training Not initiated Initiated In progress 100% Status as of 2020 objectives end of 2016 Performance summary Further engage all employees and CWT partners We continued to promote awareness and training through our annual through a global multi-year ethics training and Ethics Day and awareness events across our global offices. In 2016, communication program. 99.1% of employees completed the Code of Business Ethics and of senior managers were invited Conduct training. to attend the Responsible Supplier Code training Deploy a robust external information campaign CWT’s Compliance team held webinars and spoke at conferences about our global policies and our best-practice around the world to share our best-practice approach to ethics and approach to ethics and compliance, as well as business behavior. We continued to promote our Supplier Code by our Responsible Purchasing Program. developing a new training module and rolled out supplier assessments identifying opportunities to improve supply chain sustainability. Continue protecting employee and client data In response to upcoming legislation, we updated our Data Privacy through leading-edge data privacy and information policy in 2016 and continued to update security policies annually. security policies and practices, while continually Our yearly security awareness training and Cyber Security Awareness 5 days developing expertise throughout the organization. week reached all employees and additional awareness training on information security was delivered for all new recruits. dedicated to raising awareness on Cyber Security Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 17 we do... OUR ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE PROGRAM One major objective of CWT’s We adopt a best-practice approach A global set of policies supports The Code, Ethics and Compliance program to compliance management and includes policies on Prevention of Our Compliance Committee is the highest Corruption and Anti-Competitive Practices, is to protect our relationships governance body, responsible for overseeing Conflicts of Interest, Gifts & Entertainment with our stakeholders, including and Trade Association Membership. We ethics and compliance at CWT. Its members our clients and suppliers, by include CWT’s President & CEO and other maintain a zero-tolerance stance on bribery acting in an open and honest Executive Leadership Team members. and corruption. Our policies are updated way at all times. This begins with regularly to align with industry best practices implementing high standards of Supporting the Compliance Committee is and legislative trends. They are also available a team of Global Compliance officers who in several languages to ensure a wider ethical business conduct delivered understanding among our people. oversee the implementation of relevant through a robust governance standards, policies and procedures around structure – supported by dedicated the world. The team reports directly to CWT’s policies and hands-on training. Vice President of Global Compliance and is also responsible for promoting the Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (The Code). The Code applies to every individual and contractor working for CWT and sets out our ambition to provide outstanding services while fulfilling our ethical obligations. We maintain a zero-tolerance stance on bribery and corruption. 18 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Ethics & Business Behavior We raise awareness of compliance The Ethics Helpline, available 24/7, connects Team talk with and ethics among employees callers to an experienced, independent Thomas Wise, operator who speaks their language. As through best-in-class training permitted by law, it is available to employees, Vice President of In 2016, our annual Ethics Day focused on getting employees up to speed with clients and other third parties. Concerns are Global Compliance logged by phone and/or through an online our Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. tool where they are addressed promptly. As part of the day, employees around the We make use of a third-party provider to world were provided with dedicated training. verify adherence to local privacy laws and This helped to further develop awareness reporting requirements. and understanding of The Code, with 99.1% of employees participating. In 2016, most calls to the Ethics Helpline were related to local Human Resource To enhance the training, we introduced matters or were requests for guidance or Why are ethics and compliance so strategic for CWT? gamification, which encouraged employees “With integrity at the heart of our corporate values, it’s imperative that we demonstrate advice on adhering to policies. Over half to compete with one another over their our approach to conducting business ethically every day. For us to achieve this, it’s vital of the cases opened were substantiated, knowledge of The Code. Live events were also our employees recognize the personal role they play in contributing to CWT’s Ethics demonstrating that employees are organized in Singapore, Minneapolis, London, and Compliance program. Doing so ensures we remain a company that believes the raising legitimate concerns and that São Paulo and Paris to promote awareness way we do business is a critical component of CWT’s success.” the Ethics Helpline is being used for its of The Code and further communicate CWT’s intended purpose. approach to ethics and compliance. What are the key successes of CWT’s Compliance program? CWT works closely with its Global Partner “We place significant emphasis on providing clear policies, training and guidance to align Our Ethics Helpline is a vital tool in Network to promote the Code of Business all our employees, partners, contractors and officers in the actions expected of them at tackling key compliance challenges Ethics and Conduct. In 2016, various training all times. CWT’s suite of compliance tools helps to and awareness initiatives were delivered ensure that non-compliance with policy is specifically for the Global Partner Network, As a business, we are proud of the strides we’ve made in building our Ethics and Compliance dealt with discreetly and fairly. This includes including a targeted awareness campaign program. This year we focused on sharing the insights we’ve gathered with partners and our confidential CWT Ethics Helpline. for promoting the CWT Ethics Helpline. our broader stakeholder base. We’ve had representatives from the business speak at conferences, webinars and events across the globe to share their unique perspective on important topics relating to ethics and compliance.” What were some of the key highlights from the program in 2016? “In addition to external recognition, such as CWT’s Legal & Compliance team being recognized at the 2016 Lawyer Awards as “In-House Commerce & Industry Team of the Year,” we also made internal enhancements to the compliance program. These began with advancements to our data privacy and information security program. For example, CWT was able to transfer EU-based traveler data to a newly established European facility, in response to customer requests. We anticipate further changes to the internal compliance program – in particular the data privacy program – as CWT moves in a new strategic business direction in 2017.” Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 19 we do... DATA PRIVACY AND INFORMATION SECURITY We know how important protecting We are committed to Strengthening the security and personal information is to our clients maintaining data privacy storage of personal information and travelers. Now, more than for our clients and travelers Prior to 2016, the master version of CWT ever before, new laws and greater CWT maintains an industry-leading approach global traveler data was stored in our Nevada to data privacy. Our Global Privacy Officer data center. In response to client requests transparency expectations have to store EU-based traveler profiles in Europe, is responsible for the program and is focused the attention of our clients supported by compliance and data privacy in 2016 we established new data center and travelers on data privacy. professionals located in every region of the capabilities in Madrid for hosting master We prioritize data privacy and world. Regular reports regarding CWT’s data traveler records. Madrid was determined information security as key elements privacy performance are made to CWT’s CEO, to be the most appropriate location due to executives and Board of Directors, to ensure Spain’s strict data privacy laws. By interacting of our Global Responsible Business compliance is maintained. with CWT’s existing facilities, an efficient program and took significant strides transition process was realized. to further strengthen our approach Our robust governance framework is in 2016. supported by CWT’s incident response With upcoming changes in the law, an system, which operates 24 hours a day, 7 days updated Data Privacy Policy was relaunched a week. Our business resiliency program also in 2016. CWT now utilizes an intra-group tests and monitors for rapid response in case agreement and the European Union approved of business disruption, ensuring traveler data Model Clauses to transfer data within our Our robust governance is protected and secured around the clock. global community. This mechanism allows CWT to maintain global continuity regarding framework is supported data transfer. by CWT’s incident response system, which operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. 20 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Ethics & Business Behavior We train our employees on We regularly update our policies to information security to protect align with relevant best practices traveler information Our significant investment across the In addition to supporting global data information security organization delivers privacy, CWT’s Information Security program best-in-class tools, processes and people. delivers administrative, technical and physical CWT’s Chief Risk & Information Security safeguards that prevent data from being Officer leads the Global Information Security accessed or exploited by unauthorized users. team and is supported by dedicated leaders across global functional domains and To raise awareness across the organization, regions worldwide. we held our annual Cyber Security Awareness Week in October 2016. The objective of In 2016, a comprehensive annual review of the event was to provide tips and tricks for CWT’s information security policies, standards protecting business and personal information and configuration requirements took place both at work and at home. The week proved to assess their alignment with regulations, to be a great success, with employees being industry requirements and best-practice reached through the various tasks that standards. The findings were used to update touched on a number of subjects. documentation that reflected enhancements in technologies, emerging threats and Awareness training on information security changes to Information Security programs. is also provided to our staff annually. In 2016, we enhanced new recruit training to ensure all employees are fully trained at the beginning of their CWT careers. Training is available in nine languages and has been added to the learning plans of all employees and contractors. Targeted security training was also provided in areas such as application development, helping to ensure that traveler applications are written securely. Employees from all across the world were reached during the Cyber Security Awareness Week Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 21 we do... RESPONSIBLE we will... PURCHASING In 2017 we will: We know how important it is to We encourage our suppliers Our non-trade supplier sustainability • Reinforce Ethics and our stakeholders that CWT work with to adhere to our Responsible assessments help to create a Compliance governance to suppliers who share our commitment Business Code responsible supply chain support the new strategic to Responsible Business. That’s Deployed in 2015 and available in six Regular evaluation of supplier performance business direction CWT why we launched our Responsible languages, CWT’s Responsible Supplier Code is a fundamental part of our Responsible is taking. clarifies the minimum requirements CWT Purchasing Program. In 2016, 48 key non-trade Purchasing Program in 2014. It has expects from non-trade suppliers in terms of suppliers were independently evaluated by the • Continue to work closely two main parts: the CWT Responsible ethics, compliance, human rights and social rating organization EcoVadis on 21 sustainability with all areas of the business Supplier Code, which defines the and environmental standards. It forms part of criteria relating to Labor practices, Human to protect employee and Responsible Business standards we CWT’s Global Non-Trade Procurement Policy, Rights, the Environment, Sustainable customer data, meeting all ask our non-trade suppliers to meet, which sets out the rules and procedures that Procurement and Fair Business practices. must be followed when making non-trade existing and new regulatory and an annual Supplier Sustainability purchases (those not directly related to CWT’s Launched in 2014 for the first time, this annual requirements in full. Assessment Campaign for key noncore business). supplier assessment campaign is organized by trade suppliers. • Regularly review and update our Global Responsible Business and Global To improve awareness and support for the Sourcing teams. They work closely with data privacy and information Supplier Code, a video training module on EcoVadis and suppliers to discuss the results security policies and practices. the CWT Responsible Supplier Code was and identify potential areas for improvement. • Continue to strengthen developed and rolled out in 2016 to all of In doing so, we want to help mitigate any our Responsible Purchasing CWT’s senior management, representing ethical, social or environmental risks identified, almost 100% of potential buyers of non-trade embedding our approach to Responsible program, by increasing the products and services. Business firmly within the supply chain. number of suppliers that it covers. More than 60% of the suppliers who have been evaluated more than once since we launched our annual assessment campaigns have shown improvement in their EcoVadis score between their first and their most recent evaluation. 22 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Ethics & Business Behavior we live... “As a customer, I always think about how I would like a company to use my information. This helps me to Samantha explains how CWT’s approach Samantha’s team has been active in to data privacy ensures we are upholding establishing a framework to ensure that evaluate the best way to proceed the rights of our customers in an age of information. CWT protects the rights of travelers.“Data privacy is more and more important in when it comes to protecting the today’s digitized travel industry where travel information of our own customers.” “I got into data privacy accidentally on companies know more than just the trip purpose,” jokes Samantha. “I was always itinerary. My role at CWT means I build interested in information law and have always data privacy into the DNA of CWT by been an early adopter of technology. When making it everyone’s responsibility.” the internet came along, so many fascinating questions came into the public eye relating Samantha and the wider Compliance and to the liberty of information, the sharing of Privacy team have put in place numerous information and the right to privacy.” measures over the last year to ensure the program adapts to changing regulatory In short, she was hooked. Her passion led her requirements and evolving business needs. to the role of Global Privacy Officer, where But what keeps her motivated to keep she has worked to help build CWT’s data implementing improvements? “Privacy privacy program into what it is today. rights were originally governments’ attempt to prevent discrimination and “Data privacy is about having the right to intrusion into individuals’ lives, particularly understand how your information is being after the 1940s. These rights have been used. It’s about making sure that companies extended to establish data privacy ethics are accountable for the information they use, in the digital age. We are making sure are transparent about how they use it, and that, as a responsible business, we have the right mechanisms in place to protect have the framework in place and the it. Above all, it’s about ensuring your personal resources required to protect our information is used in line with what you customers’ information. This makes have agreed to.” me incredibly proud.” Why is data privacy so important for CWT? “As a data controller, we are responsible for a lot of data. We owe it to our customers, employees and travelers to ensure we have the right mechanisms in place to use that data ethically and in line with legal requirements.” Samantha Simms is CWT’s Global Privacy officer based in London, UK. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 23 HUMAN RESOURCES AND HUMAN RIGHTS we think... In 2016, CWT has embarked on a contribute to our future success. Through these and many other journey to become the leading digital Key initiatives include strategy initiatives centered on performance, business travel management company roadshows and a new social intranet values and culture, we are increasing in the world. To achieve this, we are that encourages collaboration and the amount of value we deliver to redefining our people strategy to drive dialog across functional groups employees, customers, shareholders a high-performance digital culture and geographical borders. and our communities. while continuing to engage our workforce of more than 18,000 We are also focusing on feedback “We are redefining our employees spanning 150 countries. and development. We launched a people strategy to drive new Learning Management System The combination of people, and continued to implement a high-performance digital nationalities, experience and a company-wide approach to culture while continuing backgrounds at CWT is our strength performance management. We also to engage our workforce and we are continually cultivating developed a new Vision, Values and of more than 18,000 this diversity in many different ways. Purpose that we are currently in the employees spanning process of communicating to our First, we are reinforcing our employees. These were just a few of 150 countries.” David Moran communications with employees. several initiatives in this domain. The Executive Vice President Transparent communication is objective of all this work is to create & Chief Human foundational to ensuring that each an agile and responsive organization Resources Officer employee understands how to that rewards employees for delivering results and living our values. 24 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Human Resources and Human Rights we said... >138,000 and we did... training hours provided in 2016 Not initiated Initiated In progress >540 Status as of 2020 objectives end of 2016 Performance summary Deployment of our global Diversity Diversity is embedded in our refreshed CWT core values. and Inclusion strategy through regional Deployment to be accelerated in 2017. Diversity and Inclusion committees. online courses offered through the My Learning Non-discrimination training of all recruiters To be initiated in 2017. management system and managers. Reach the level of best-performing companies We implemented Employee Surveys (Pulse Surveys – see page 26) while developing leaders to enhance to get faster feedback and better understanding of employee level employee engagement. of engagement. Ensure delivery against future business needs We launched two new career websites (one for employees, one for by developing and selecting the right talent for external candidates) to complete our set of integrated recruitment the future and driving a culture of innovation. tools and simplify the user experience (see page 31). >18,000 We transitioned to a new learning management system called My Learning that will increase learning opportunities for all employees (see page 28). We widened the scope of our integrated performance management cycle to support professional development through an ongoing employees spanning process of feedback and continuous dialog (see page 28). over 100 nationalities Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 25 we do... EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT The commitment, enablement Our new approach to collecting and In addition to the Pulse Survey, we continued and trust of our people are what responding to employee feedback to gather daily feedback from our travel In 2016, we transitioned to Pulse Surveys – counselors from around the world in 2016. powers CWT. Following the launch a regular approach to gathering feedback by As the biggest population of employees of CWT’s 3.0 strategy in 2016, within CWT, travel counselors play a vital role targeting specific topics and employees more we updated our methodology frequently throughout the year. Built around in CWT’s success. Their engagement is vital for gathering employee feedback the principle of continuous listening, Pulse to our overall performance. By responding to become even more agile in Surveys provide leaders with quick and to a simple prompt that uses emoticons, our response to employee needs. valuable feedback to track progress against and employees have tracked their moods. our strategy. Their flexibility will enable us These responses are used as the basis for Our new approach to surveying manager meetings, where specific concerns to continue to make strong progress in our checks CWT’s vital signs on a are addressed. A total of 200,000 responses employee engagement commitments by regular basis to implement prioritizing action over measurement. were collected over the year, with approximately effective solutions. 75% being either “Happy” or “Very happy” faces. The first Pulse Survey went out in January 2017. Over 60% of employees participated. It showed that employees are committed to their daily work and have high expectations of the CWT 3.0 strategy. While they understand the strategy and their role in it, they are Pulse Surveys provide looking to leaders to do the right thing for the company’s long-term success. leaders with quick and valuable feedback to track progress against our strategy. 26 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Human Resources and Human Rights Encouraging employee Introducing a new way of dialog throughout the year collaborating and communicating Surveys are only one way of engaging with with employees employees. We actively promote two-way The CWT 3.0 strategy is entitled “The dialog with employees through a variety Digital Difference,” reflecting the strategy’s of methods on different important subjects, commitment to deliver an outstanding including the new CWT 3.0 strategy. digital experience to customers. To support the strategy, CWT launched the “digital In 2016, senior leadership, including the difference” for employees in the form of a CEO, held over 50 town hall meetings at new social intranet. The cloud-based platform different CWT locations, to share CWT’s will over time harmonize, align and replace new 3.0 strategy with employees and help current digital internal communications tools them understand the role they play in its at a local, regional, functional and global successful delivery. level with a “one-stop shop” for all employee communications around the world. It is a key Labor relations are a key component of enabler for empowerment and collaboration employee dialog. For example, the CWT as it incorporates social media into the European Work Council (EWC), the official communication strategy, giving all employees body for information and consultation a voice and a way of exchanging with one representing all CWT European employees another in a direct and authentic manner. in the European Union, represents the The project was fast-tracked to go live at the interests of employees at a European level beginning of 2017 and represents a giant leap in dialog with CWT’s European management forward in the way we communicate and team. The body is comprised of, at minimum, engage with our employees. one CWT member from each EU country and meets annually (in November). In 2016, CWT continued to hold frank and open discussions with the EWC regarding progress on the business and core execution of our new 3.0 strategy. >60% Over 50 town hall meetings at different CWT locations, to share CWT’s new 3.0 of employees participated strategy with employees. in the first Pulse Survey Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 27 we do... TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT Our continued success depends on Introducing a new global Learning The streamlining of the course catalog led the skills, expertise and satisfaction Management System: My Learning automatically to a reduction in the average CWT replaced CWT University at the end of number of hours spent per employee on of our people. To ensure we are 2016 with a new system called My Learning. training. Employees spent less time taking responding to the changing needs courses of better quality and relevance to The new system increases learning opportunities of customers and travelers, we place for global employees and is fully integrated their jobs. We are currently in the process significant investment in developing within the HR Connect platform – our of developing additional training, which the skills of our employees across online platform for global Human we hope will increase both the amount the board. As part of this commitment, Resources management. and the quality of training offered in 2017 and beyond. The new system is part of our we launched a new global learning global HR Connect ecosystem – a long-term The transition to My Learning was management system in 2016 to implementation set to dramatically improve accompanied by a major overhaul of the centralize development opportunities training modules to ensure they are fully the ways we attract, develop, reward, retain and training courses for our global aligned with the CWT 3.0 strategy. Today, and engage with our employees. workforce. My Learning offers over 540 online training courses for employees. Available in nine Rolling out a company-wide languages, the system provides training approach to performance across the four key areas of Leadership management Development, Self-Development, Job Skills My Learning provides and CWT Corporate training. It also facilitates Performance management is a key driver for employee engagement and a critical training across the employee enrollment for Instructor-Led component of people management. It helps Training (ILT) conducted through webinars four key areas of and face-to-face learning, with over 2,800 our employees become successful and supports their professional development Leadership Development, ILT sessions held in 2016. through an ongoing process of feedback, Self-Development, support and continuous dialog. Job Skills and CWT Corporate training. 28 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Human Resources and Human Rights Following the introduction of dedicated A focus on attracting and retaining with the goal of delighting our customers and Introducing solution-based performance management principles and the best travel counselors from the travelers. This approach will be critical in how selling training programs online module for 800 managers in 2015, we execute our 3.0 strategy and strengthen Having successful and responsive sales and industry and beyond it was extended to all people managers the CWT brand moving forward. program management teams is vital to our Travel counselors play a fundamental role in in Asia-Pacific and the Americas in 2016. overall success. We place significant emphasis our business and make up nearly two-thirds People managers in the Europe, Middle Our JOIN! program (which stands for Join on supporting employees within these teams of our workforce. Their role is an extremely East and Africa region have also started Our Industry Now!) seeks to complement through ongoing performance development important one. They interact directly with our following the new principles and will our Counselor of the Future Initiative (see initiatives, including the launch of a new customers to build relationships and provide adopt the online process in 2017. CWT Responsible Business Report 2016 for solution-based selling training program. an outstanding experience. To ensure our more information) by revolutionizing our counselors are of the highest caliber, we Performance management is structured workforce through the alignment of industry The training, set to launch in 2017, will help have two dedicated initiatives to attract around an annual cycle that starts with trends with our strategy. It seeks to identify further develop the skills and behaviors and integrate new employees into our goal-setting and includes mid-term and and recruit new sources of talent from needed to deliver value at every stage Traveler Services teams. annual reviews, providing managers with outside the industry to bring in new and of the customer relationship. the information they need to conduct unique expertise to CWT to drive success CWT’s Travel Counselor of the Future effective performance-based assessments and support our growth. initiative maps the skill sets and experience of team members. Further evolutions of needed to target and attract the best the performance management process possible travel counselors. In 2016, we are planned in 2017 to reduce paperwork, fully integrated the methodology into our increase employee engagement, reinforce interviewing, testing and hiring methods our continuous dialog approach and cross-functional collaboration, and cultivate leadership behaviors among all employees. 2,800 CWT’s Travel Counselor of the Future initiative maps the skill sets and experience needed to target and attract Instructor-Led Training (ILT) the best possible travel counselors. sessions held in 2016 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 29 we do... DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION The cultural, personal and Promoting diversity and equal In the US, for example, open jobs are emailed Promoting the rights of disabled geographical diversity of CWT’s opportunities across our business through our Community and Diversity employees through La Mission At the end of 2016, CWT employed Outreach program connecting the jobs workforce is one of our biggest Handicap & Diversité, CWT France about 18,000 employees representing with active and passive job seekers from strengths. In today’s global CWT France has supported La Mission 100 nationalities. As a global business, our community partners. In Singapore, environment, it is crucial to Handicap & Diversité (The Disability and we strive to foster a culture that embraces six months before an employee reaches Diversity Mission) since 2011. Its objective understand the diverse cultures, diversity, inclusion and equal opportunities the statutory retirement age, HR initiatives is to help people with disabilities find and customs and needs of employees, for all employees regardless of age, gender, have a discussion around the possibility retain employment in France. Efforts to customers and regional markets, sexual orientation or disability. of re-employment and whether this suits promote the program continued in 2016, the individual’s circumstances. hence we seek to ensure that our with emphasis on implementing measures In 2016 we continued to promote gender to improve the professional lives of disabled workforce reflects the diversity The Americas and Asia-Pacific regions have diversity. By year end, nearly 72% of our employees within CWT. Thanks to these of our business environment. employees were women, up slightly from long had Diversity and Inclusion Councils. efforts, the employment rate for disabled 71% in 2015. Women accounted for one-third Employee Partner Networks (EPNs) have been persons in CWT France increased to 5.8% of our Executive Leadership Team in 2016 established to connect people who have in 2016 (up 1% from 2015). and nearly half of all director level roles particular areas of focus, often from underand above, up from 43% in 2015. represented groups. Some of these include: the LGBTA Alliance, Latinos Unidos Network Our commitment to diversity is reflected Association (LUNA), Generation Excellence in our global recruitment process, which Team (GET) and African American Travel ensures that company policies regarding Professionals (AATP). In the EMEA region, non-discrimination, equal opportunity and countries and offices handle diversity and recruitment by competency are respected. inclusion locally, through initiatives such as We strive to always present a diverse panel of La Mission Handicap & Diversité program highly qualified candidates for every position. in France. 30 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Human Resources and Human Rights we do... RECRUITMENT EXPERIENCE Attracting and retaining Enhancing the recruitment the best talent from around experience through our the world is vital to meeting Recruitment Management the ever-changing needs of our System and career website customers and travelers, both We launched a series of new recruitment now and into the future. We tools in 2016 for all people managers to manage their job requisitions. continued to deploy new tools to attract talent and ensure that Following the launch of two new careers high-performing individuals are websites (one for employees, one for recognized for their efforts. external candidates) and the HR Connect TalentFinder tool on HR Connect, we now have an integrated set of recruitment tools aimed at creating a smooth experience for candidates, managers and recruitment consultants to source, select and onboard the best candidates. Our recruitment management system serves as a powerful screening tool to improve and simplify the 95% candidate user experience. Its benefits include an easier job search function, a refreshed look and feel and a simpler application process for prospective employees. Due to efforts in this area, 95% of candidates of candidates said they would said they would recommend CWT to others recommend CWT to others based based on post-interview feedback. on post-interview feedback Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 31 we do... A SAFE PLACE TO we will... WORK FOR OUR PEOPLE In 2017 we will: • Strengthen the diversity In line with our commitment Collaborating with International criteria in our recruiting to creating a safe working SOS to protect employees on systems and processes. environment, we continued their travels • Roll out a best-in-class to abide by our Global Health Our commitment to employee safety also onboarding experience to and Safety Charter in 2016. extends to when they are traveling. Thanks to a new contract signed with International ensure we select the right Locally, each country and office SOS, a leading provider of comprehensive talent for the future and drive is responsible for implementing emergency medical, travel and security a culture of innovation. and maintaining health and assistance worldwide, we now provide • Develop leaders by embedding safety policies and procedures extended medical protection to employees that ensure compliance with whenever and wherever they travel – whether performance management in local legislation. internationally for business or for personal daily activities. reasons. International SOS services also • Increase business skills through include a mobile application that provides country guides, as well as the latest medical continuous learning and a 180° advice before and during their journeys. feedback tool aligned with the strategy and, in particular, adapted to the needs of client-facing teams and the sales force. • Continue dialog with the EWC to accompany the CWT 3.0 strategy. 32 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Human Resources and Human Rights we live... Pierre explains how his passion for Looking back, he recalls how training gave “CWT ensures that coaching has helped him as both a trainer him the confidence to take on challenges. and a trainee during his time at CWT. “In 2012, I was asked to take on a Global employees receive “When I was younger I loved tennis. I enjoyed Performance Development role for the Meetings & Events division. When I started, the right training they traveling the world to play in tournaments I quickly realized how different the division need to set them up and seeing how I could help others improve was from Traveler Services. I remember being through coaching. These passions led me to in my first meeting – I couldn’t understand for success.” pursue a career as an instructor at CWT.” anything! It was like learning a new language.” Pierre remembers the training he received But his persistence paid off. “I was lucky when he first joined the business. “They say to work with a really supportive team you only get one chance to make a good who helped me along the way. From my impression – and like all new hires, training experience in past roles, I also remembered was my first interaction with CWT. It’s been to immerse myself in the experience and over 16 years but I still remember the name of to not be afraid of getting involved.” By the my first trainer, Gary. The training experience end of the year Pierre was awarded the CWT I received certainly had an impact on me and Meetings & Events Award of Excellence for his my career path.” achievements. “It taught me that experience is key to growth.” Over the years, Pierre has held seven roles at CWT. He explains that each has given him His message to prospective employees on the unique opportunity to grow and develop. how CWT helps its people grow? “At CWT, He’s now Training & Quality Manager for you don’t just have training when you start. Traveler Services, where he guides training, There are opportunities for development research and quality practices across throughout your career. Balancing it with the the Americas. day-to-day workload may be challenging, but it offers so many benefits – from improved job satisfaction, to increased productivity and better performance. It certainly helped me build the skills I needed to get to where I am today.” Pierre Gallant is a Training & Quality Manager Travel Services across the Americas and Global organization. He is based in Canada. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 33 ENVIRONMENT we think... Climate change is a critical global We continued to integrate solutions to “We continued to integrate challenge and collective action is reduce our carbon footprint in 2016 by solutions to reduce our required to tackle the threats it poses working on local projects, deploying to the planet. The launch of the UN behavioral change programs and carbon footprint in 2016 Sustainable Development Goals and embedding best practices across our by working on local the Paris Climate Agreement (COP21) operations. We also continued to bring projects, deploying in 2015 led to a renewed focus on the our stakeholders on this journey by behavioral change role of business in collaborating to ensuring our suppliers are aligned programs and embedding deliver positive environmental change. with CWT Environmental Standards and Policies and communicating our best practices across As a global company with 18,000 approach to clients and prospects. our operations.” employees, we take our environmental commitments seriously. We play our part by putting in place measures to raise awareness of the environment externally among our stakeholders while creating a culture that promotes Françoise Grumberg environmental responsibility internally. Vice President, Global Responsible Business 34 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Environment we said... 5 and we did... days dedicated to fostering eco-attitudes among our employees to tackle CWT’s most material environmental impacts Not initiated Initiated In progress 2020 objectives Educate all our employees through eco-attitude campaigns and an environment training module Status as of end of 2016 Performance summary We held our annual Environmental Awareness Week to encourage behavioral change around waste management, responsible commuting, energy saving and carbon offsetting. We also continued sharing best 22 countries where environmental data is collected, extended from translated into several languages. practices on environmental initiatives throughout the year via our 19 in 2015, representing 80% of internal social network. CWT’s total revenue Empower the global environment We audited our environmental data collection process, with the network to drive local performance. objective of taking stock of our current reporting mechanisms and identifying opportunities for the network to further improve. Local environmental initiatives also continued to take place across the business. Reduce our global GHG emissions We put in place various initiatives to help reduce our emissions in 2016, by 10% per employee vs 2015. from our environmental awareness campaign to offsetting activities and implementing best practices across our operations. We also looked 1,205 to strengthen our reporting processes to improve the accuracy of our environmental measurement. tons of CO2e were offset through corporate event offsetting projects Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 35 we do... MEASURING OUR CARBON EMISSIONS With the help of our Responsible We extended the scope of our 2016 Environmental reporting results (by Scope**) Business network, CWT has been environmental reporting tool measuring and reporting its in 2016 Our centralized online environmental data Scope 1 Direct emissions from our buildings carbon emissions since 2012. (heating oil and gas) and a proportion 2,777 tCO e Following the launch of our collection system was extended in 2016 to cover 22 countries* (up from 19 in 2015), of business travel (fuel for CWT’s global environmental reporting representing 80% of CWT’s total revenue. 2 vehicle fleet) and monitoring tool in 2015, These efforts will help to improve the quality we continued to strengthen and completeness of our environmental our approach towards mapping data moving forward. Scope 2 Indirect emissions from energy supplied to offices, such as electricity our carbon footprint. Our GHG emissions are reported according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol and our 4,772 tCO e 2 or urban heating Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions comply with the CDP Supply Chain Program. Our carbon footprint calculations are based on emission Scope 3 Indirect emissions from business factors provided by the UK Department for travel and commuting Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). 29,014 tCO e 2 * This includes the following locations. If no specific cities are mentioned, the whole country was included in the scope, excluding implants: Australia: CWT Sydney office only; Austria: CWT Vienna office only; Belgium; Brazil: CWT São Paulo office only; Canada; Chile: CWT Santiago office only; China: CWT Beijing office only; Costa Rica; Denmark: CWT Copenhagen office only; Finland: CWT Helsinki, Oulu, Tampere and Turku offices only; France; Germany; India: CWT Gurgaon office only; Ireland; Italy: CWT Rome office only; Luxembourg; Mexico: CWT Mexico City office only; Spain: CWT Barcelona, Bilbao, Madrid and Seville offices only; Sweden: CWT Stockholm office only; the Netherlands; the UK; the US. ** The methodology used to collect the business travel data was improved in 2016 to obtain more accurate data. This has led to the decrease in business-travel-related emissions. These figures exclude emissions from data centers and CWT’s client emissions. 36 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Environment Accurate data representation Conducting audits to strengthen enables us to further improve our environmental data the progress monitoring collection process We use our emissions data to better target In 2016 we mandated EY to assess our efforts to reduce emissions across our environmental data collection process operations. The results of our environmental against key indicators in a few prominent reporting and monitoring show that countries of operation. commuting accounts for more than 45% of our total emissions (excluding the use Voluntary audits were conducted at our of sold products), at 16,646 tCO2e. Brazil, Germany, Spain and US operations to review the scale, scope and mechanisms Business travel is our second largest source used to collate environmental data within of emissions, at 28% of total emissions or our teams. The findings from these audits 10,222 tCO2e, and energy used within the enabled us to validate our current approach business represented 6,825 tCO2e or 19% and identify opportunities to improve and of our total emissions. Due to the changes simplify it in the future. in geographical scope and environmental reporting methodology, 2016 figures are not comparable with last year’s levels. 45% of our total emissions We use our emissions data to better target efforts to reduce emissions across our operations. are from commuting Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 37 we do... ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE CULTURE In line with CWT’s 2020 Building a responsible culture The week helped to inspire several local Quotes shared on social environmental objectives, we aim through Environmental initiatives, including: media from Environmental • In Singapore, 17 dedicated volunteers to foster positive environmental Awareness Week Awareness Week weathered the rain at East Coast Park attitudes among our people. Following the eco-attitudes campaign run to clean a local beach. We encouraged behavioral in 2015, the 2016 Environmental Awareness “We created a platform • In the US, our Phoenix office organized Week, held in June, encouraged employees change in 2016 through dedicated to take actions to reduce our collective a no-printing day to remind employees on the local SharePoint awareness raising campaigns including home workers of the importance to offer carpooling.” environmental footprint. We focused on and global initiatives led by our of recycling. several environmental matters which included Sergio Estrada, • In Romania, initiatives were organized Environmental Correspondents waste management, responsible commuting, each day to highlight the environmental Business Analyst, Costa Rica Network. energy saving and carbon offsetting. topic of the day. CWT’s Global Responsible Business “Working as a home-based team developed a set of communication agent for CWT means I no materials to promote the week and the longer have to commute an adoption of eco-attitudes among employees. hour to work. Not only does Engagement with the campaign was strong across the business, with hundreds working from home help the of stories, responses and examples of environment, it has helped actions from our global offices posted me lower my stress levels on our corporate social network. during rush hour!” Kristin Bailey, International Travel Counselor, US “We have a contest on the most ingenious eco-products.” Florentina Malaeru, Junior Program Manager, Romania 38 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Environment Our network of RB correspondents measures performance across the globe To ensure emissions data are accurately Improving recycling around the office, CWT France Recycling and reusing waste is an integral part of CWT’s environmental efforts. On the waste management day of our BSAG Travel Balance Fund, CWT Finland In 2009, CWT Finland and the Baltic Sea Action Group (BSAG) established the BSAG Travel Balance Fund for producers and users of travel services concerned about the state 100% CWT Finland and Norway offices captured across our organization, we use 100% renewable energy Environmental Awareness Week, new labels of the Baltic Sea. CWT Finland and clients established an Environmental Correspondents and posters were displayed on all bins at donate a fixed sum to the fund for each ton Network in 2013 which pulls together key our Paris head office (500 employees) with of carbon emitted from their business travel. contacts responsible for environmental the objective of implementing a recycling The donations help finance projects that reporting across 22 countries. system in the building. Our recycling partner clean and restore the Baltic Sea – one of Greenwishes also hosted a Q&A session the most polluted seas in Europe. As well as The network is comprised of highly to raise awareness of the importance of donating more than €22,000 to the fund over motivated individuals who take the lead recycling among employees. the last eight years, we have also participated in environmental reporting for their location. in initiatives aimed at supporting BSAG. For In addition to environmental reporting, By reinforcing the importance of recycling example, CWT employees participated in correspondents coordinated local initiatives in communications throughout the year, BSAG’s Clean Beach campaign in 2016, with in 2016. Some examples include: the office recycled more than 11,000 kg the goal of cleaning up beaches through of waste in 2016. voluntary work and raising public awareness Enhancing the use of renewable of Baltic Sea marine preservation. energy at CWT Finland Our Finnish and Norwegian offices use 100% Becoming ISO 14001 certified, CWT UK renewable energy. In 2016, Germany made Some countries where CWT is located plans to follow in their footsteps and use have environmental management systems 100% renewable energy starting in 2017. in place to manage their environmental impact. Several sites in Germany, Spain A green office approach, CWT Germany and the UK have even had their systems With the aim of enhancing its green office ISO 14001 certified. In 2016, three UK sites program, our German team implemented had their certification renewed to the latest a wide array of environmental initiatives version of the standard: ISO 14001:2015. As in 2016. As well as purchasing renewable Tony Panter, Facilities and Environmental energy, search engines on all computers in Manager, explains: “This achievement provides the office defaulted to “Ecosia”, a site that assurances to our stakeholders that statutory donates 80% of its revenue to tree-planting 3 and regulatory requirements are fully met in projects. Additionally, employees were given the UK. It also strongly encourages greater a personal glass to avoid the use of recycled employee engagement to further progress water cups in our Eschborn office (see Silke’s on our environmental commitments and story on page 41 for more). provides a competitive advantage during bidding processes.” UK sites had their certification renewed to the standard ISO 14001:2015 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 39 we do... CARBON we will... OFFSETTING In 2017 we will: • Further improve the quality At CWT, we have put in place Our first steps towards Following the initial success of these and scope of our environmental measures to reduce carbon carbon neutral events projects, we offset emissions from two large reporting by integrating the To pilot carbon offsetting projects in 2016, client events in Singapore and Montreal. emissions across our operations recommendations from CWT offset emissions from two internal Gamification and communication were used over recent years in line with throughout the event to raise awareness of voluntary audits, simplifying events: our move to a new Paris head office our 2020 emissions reduction and our Global Leadership Conference (GLC). carbon-offsetting projects among clients. our data collection process. objective. In 2016 we took an As part of this process, we invited 120 • Dedicate our 2017 Environmental unprecedented step towards participants of the GLC and 700 Paris-based Our carbon offsetting efforts helped reduce 1,205 tons of CO2 equivalents (tCO2e) and Awareness Week to commuting further lessening our employees to vote for which offsetting project they wanted us to support. distribute 2,700 water filters to 25,680 – CWT’s largest source of environmental impact and beneficiaries in 2016. raising external awareness by internal emissions. The chosen winner was the Carbon for • Further develop an internal compensating the emissions WaterTM project – an initiative which of four large events, including reduces carbon and provides safe water by carbon offsetting program two major client events. distributing water filters to rural families in for CWT. Kenya. The project eliminates the need to • Reinforce our green products burn wood to boil water by using the filters, and services offer for clients. thereby reducing large amounts of carbon. 40 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Environment we live... “Whenever we see something small that can be improved, we act When it comes to the environment, Responsible Business Ambassador for EMEA Silke knows it’s the small things that where she focuses on mobilizing staff to get on it. If you get into the make the biggest impact. involved in responsible business activities, including environmental topics. habit of noticing things, Silke’s passion for the environment began you’ll be surprised by the long before joining CWT. “Traveling made me The move to a new German office prompted realize there’s a lot we take for granted. While Silke and her team to identify opportunities difference you can make.” working on micro-finance projects in Africa, to implement green office initiatives in 2016. I saw the real impact climate change can “We selected projects that were simple and have on communities. When I came home, cost-effective but that have the potential to I wanted to stay active by continuing to have a big impact when combined.” Efforts support those who are less fortunate.” included moving to a green energy supplier, purchasing green office supplies and After returning to Germany, Silke went on providing employees with reusable water to become CWT’s Senior Director of IT for bottles. Silke even used her IT background Central & Eastern Europe. “The environment to switch the default search engine on all is a big topic for people in Germany and our office computers to Ecosia, which donates clients were asking us what we were doing profits to tree-planting programs. in the area. When we decided to become certified to the ISO 14001 environmental The list of projects implemented over standard, as computer use is one of our most the last year is impressive and has had a energy-consuming activities, I was happy to noticeable impact on CWT Germany’s overall take on the role of environment manager! environmental performance, but Silke insists Developing our environmental management it wasn’t rocket science: “The big thing I’ve system and helping to reduce our carbon learned is to keep talking about it. Raising footprint is something I’m personally awareness and regular communication are passionate about.” an important part of making behavior stick. The things we’ve done so far aren’t huge, Fast forward six years and Silke’s commitment but our people are noticing them. And it’s to promoting environmental programs by becoming more aware that our people has grown even more. She is now CWT’s will make greener choices.” Silke Bellof is Senior Director IT for Central & Eastern Europe and the Responsible Business Ambassador for EMEA. She is based in Germany. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 41 RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES we think... We are committed to providing happens. For this reason we have “Delivering our new strategy our customers with the right tools, strengthened global risk accountability requires the highest level products and services to create across the organization to guarantee seamless and stress-free journeys for the right risk management and of business and service their travelers while managing risk. mitigation processes are in place. resiliency to manage and This desire sits at the very heart of mitigate risks.” our new CWT 3.0 corporate strategy In addition, we continued to strengthen launched in 2016. our portfolio of responsible products and services in 2016 by utilizing the Delivering our new strategy requires power of digital technology to ensure the highest level of business and safety, security and well-being of service resiliency to manage and travelers at all stages of their journey. mitigate risks and ensure we are there for travelers when the unexpected Kathleen Orner Chief Risk & Information Security Officer 42 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Products and Services we said... 157 and we did... Site Risk Assessment campaign took place across 157 CWT sites Not initiated Initiated In progress 2020 objectives Further reinforce our Responsible Business products and services offering to our clients. Status as of end of 2016 Performance summary The CWT 3.0 strategy seeks to reinforce risk management and enhance our products and services to help reduce risks associated with safety and security of travelers. 7,235 alerts sent through CWT Alerts powered by International SOS since the beginning Proactively propose carbon offsetting to clients. As a first step, we offset emissions from four major events of June. Of which, 7,023 were security alerts in 2016, including two client events (see page 40). and 212 medical alerts Expand the scope of an ISO 22301-aligned Business Chief Risk Officer appointed late 2016; global business resiliency Continuity Management system to include Crisis program created by aligning Crisis Management, Business Continuity Management, Business Continuity Planning and Planning and Disaster Recovery together under the new role. Disaster Recovery. Become the reference in terms of crisis management Ownership of Crisis Management established under EVP Chief in the travel industry. Technology Officer and Chief Risk Officer appointed to drive the program. 100% of new hires received training for Business Continuity Plan awareness in 2016 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 43 we do... RISK MANAGEMENT As a responsible business, it is vital Our approach to risk management As an example, a Site Risk Assessment that we protect our stakeholders At CWT, we view risk management as a campaign took place across 157 CWT sites, systematic process. As a first step, we first with the objective of identifying prominent at all times. This includes our look to identify, assess and prioritize potential risks and developing mitigation checklists to customers, whom we must areas of risk. Following this, we develop risk reduce them. Results from the survey were assist and protect under all mitigation plans to reduce the probability plotted onto a risk map which prioritized circumstances. We continued to of occurrence and to minimize their impact. issues by their likelihood of occurrence and implement measures to improve These plans are then formally integrated severity. For risks grouped in the top six our risk management system, raise into a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) fields, a mandatory requirement to create which embeds risk management in daily risk mitigation checklists was enforced. awareness of site-level risks and organizational practices. roll out dedicated training for Strengthening our business crisis management in 2016. This step-by-step, preventative approach to continuity planning risk management minimizes the impact of Once key risks have been identified and disruptions and crises whenever they occur mitigated, our BCP helps to ensure that these by ensuring a robust and proactive response. risks do not occur again in our day-to-day We continued to implement enhancements operations. The BCP is a methodology to our Risk Management system in 2016 followed by everyone in our organization across all stages of the system. to ensure efficient and effective response 847 to disruptions when and where they occur – covering everything from unexpected shortfalls in staff, to major events and technical errors. users participated in the Business Continuity Plan Owners and Managers training 44 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Products and Services In 2016, a new crisis management scenario Conducting drills to test the was added to our BCP to guide employees effectiveness of our Business on how to respond to major disruptions. Continuity program CWT offices are required to undertake As part of the BCP, business impact analysis two annual drills to test the effectiveness takes place to determine and prioritize our of our Business Continuity program. Carried most critical business functions and systems, out by regional BCP owners, the drills cover the staff and technology resources needed fire-based scenarios and another drill for operations to run optimally and the chosen by the BCP Steering Committee. timeframe within which the functions need to be recovered to restore operations to With the addition of the crisis management normal. Activities that cannot endure longer scenario to the BCP in 2016, the Steering disruption – referred to as critical activities Committee set out a drill to test local crisis – must be identified by all teams to ensure scenarios across our operations. Conducted CWT is meeting its client commitments. through “table top drills,” participants attended site-level meetings to discuss how In 2016, as happens every year, BCP owners, they would respond to various crises based operations managers and those identified on inputs provided by the drill organizer as backup BCP owners underwent training and their documented crisis procedure. in risk and business continuity management. 847 users participated in the BCP Owners and Managers training with a total passing score in the quiz of 96%. BCP awareness training was held for all new hires in 2016 after being rolled out for all employees in 2015. An updated BCP awareness training will be rolled out for all employees in 2017. Following the attacks of 2015 and 2016 in France, training was provided to employees on how to handle a gunfire situation at work. The BCP is a It included a 15-minute video made available methodology followed 100% in nine languages on how employees should protect themselves and resume operations by everyone in our following an incident. organization to ensure efficient and effective of CWT offices are required response to disruptions to undergo two annual drills when and where they occur. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 45 we do... OUR RESPONSIBLE PORTFOLIO With trends such as digitization, Our responsible product portfolio CWT Traveler Messaging connectivity and personalization Our range of traveler care and green travel Series of personalized and compliant services products and services utilizes the power of presented to the travelers at key stages set to impact our world on a digital technology and our people to address of their trip offering them a smooth and huge scale over the next decade, the needs of customers across all stages stress-free journey. (e.g. online check in the CWT 3.0 strategy offers an of their travel experience – from planning reminder, Visa Alert, compliant hotel offers innovative array of products and through to traveling and returning home. where no hotel has been booked…) services to meet the changing needs of our customers and Here are the responsible products and On the road again – Providing innovative services we are delivering under each products and services to support travel travelers. Our suite of responsible managers during their travelers’ journeys phase of the customer journey: products and services contribute to this. Planning made easy – Helping our customers and travelers plan their trips CWT To GoTM As well as helping book trips, the app provides regular updates for travelers on the go including automatic, real-time flight alerts, CWT To Go™ gate notifications and online check-in reminder. While on the road, Our innovative travel app, CWT To Go™, enables travelers to book their destination CWT AnalytIQs CWT makes it easy from the palm of their hand. The app is While on the road, CWT makes it easy to to locate impacted supported by CWT’s 14,000 travel counselors locate impacted travelers when disruptions who are on hand to help travelers plan and occur with our online traveler tracking travelers when book reservations by phone. embedded in our business intelligence tool, disruptions occur. CWT AnalytIQs. The tool enables travel managers to view travelers on a map from three perspectives: security risks, medical risks or map only. They can then click through to view the full itineraries of travelers impacted. 46 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Products and Services CWT Alerts, powered by International SOS Home sweet home – Listening to In partnership with International SOS, CWT feedback and driving improvements Alerts provides travel managers with updates once travelers return and notifications of disruptions and crises relating to the destinations and travel plans CWT Hotel Intel of travelers. Notifications include Travel CWT’s Hotel Intel product is an alternative Security Special Advisories notifying incidents to hotel reviews in online booking tools which pose a clear, immediate, or direct or through third-party sites once travelers threat to traveler safety or security. return home. CWT Hotel Intel encourages Dedicated medical alerts also notify of travelers to leave reviews after their trips, events that may impact them from a giving travelers a chance to learn from each medical standpoint, such as infectious disease other when booking their next trip. By using outbreaks or disasters causing increased risk the online hotel directory and review site for illness. Since the launch of CWT Alerts specific to your company, the tool gives powered by iSOS in June 2016, 7,235 alerts travelers a quick and easy way to find hotels have been sent, of which 7,023 were security using relevant and peer traveler reviews. alerts and 212 medical alerts. CWT AnalytIQs Through these alerts we help customers CWT is improving travel reporting with better anticipate, communicate and assist a new business intelligence platform, now with additional information to know whether in use by our clients worldwide. The tool an incident will impact travelers in a specific analyzes CO2 emissions after customers travel location and act quickly. The alerts also gives to provide managers with environmental access to advice about recommended actions data that can be shared to raise awareness our customers should take to protect their of their environmental footprint and drive travelers and reduce risk. future behaviors. CWT Trip disruption (only available in NORAM) CWT’s Trip disruption service helps travelers by intelligently monitoring itineraries for cancellations, missed connections, diversions and late departures or arrivals. As part of the service, travelers receive a call from a dedicated travel counselor who offers tailored CWT AnalytIQs analyzes 14,000 advice on alternative travel solutions. CO2 emissions after Crisis Communications customers travel and CWT’s 24-hour Service Center activates its provides managers with crisis communication protocol whenever CWT travel counselors a serious incident occurs involving known support the CWT To Go™ app environmental data or potential injuries or fatalities, updating subscribers via email and SMS. CWT reports on all major incidents potentially involving business travelers of our clients. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 47 we do... we will... In 2017 we will: • Perform an executive Business Maintaining traveler care through Promoting Zika alerts to Enhancing traveler safety in Impact analysis comprising all safety communications in 2016 keep customers informed France through regular updates functions. We will from there Ensuring the safety of travelers remains Following the outbreak of the Zika virus in A state of emergency was declared in France 2016, we monitored the situation in high-risk following the tragic terrorist attacks in be able to elaborate a global our priority. In line with our commitment to provide customers with the tools needed locations such as Central and Latin America, November 2015. With the UEFA European business resilience strategy to reduce the risk and the stress of travel, the Caribbean, the South Pacific and Thailand. Championship (Euro 2016) and Tour de France and program. Using our 24-hour safety and security taking place in 2016, heightened security we continued to promote traveler safety • Perform risk analysis for the communications in response to worldwide function supported by International SOS, was deployed throughout the country. we provided regular travel updates through To keep travel managers up-to-date with CWT Global Partners, taking crises and disruptions. CWT Alerts, powered by International SOS developments, regular updates were sent a risk-based approach for to keep customers informed. to clients to communicate to travelers responsible business. via CWT Alerts, powered by International CWT Meetings & Events also developed SOS delivered through CWT AnalytIQs. • Update Business Resiliency specific travel advice relating to the Zika virus and Information Security to keep travelers heading to the 2016 Rio awareness training rolled Olympics safe and healthy during their stay. out to all employees in 2017. • Add greater social interactivity to our mobile travel app. • Continue to offset emissions from internal events and reinforce our green products and services offer for clients. 48 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Responsible Products and Services we live... “We go beyond thinking about only our customers’ needs, to looking at our Regional Vice President for North America, “RB is helping us create a competitive Brett explains how CWT’s culture of advantage by building trust. For example, products and services Responsible Business helps customers address their sustainability challenges. the investment we make in developing our people or our focus on building and through the lens of being maintaining secure data storage systems, a responsible provider.” “Way back when I started at CWT, I worked these give our customers confidence that in a front-line operations role where we we’re the right partner. We have a lot were delivering travel services over the of passionate people behind RB, which phone. It was intended to be a short-term has enabled us to develop products role. However, I eventually found my way and services that meet our customers’ into an account management role and have evolving requirements.” been working directly with clients for over 20 years – it’s been an amazing run!” Brett reflects on digital platforms that have been recently invested in such as CWT To Now Responsible Business Ambassador Go™, which addresses clients’ RB expectations for the Americas, Brett’s initial passion for while also improving their customers’ travel RB was sparked when CWT decided to be experience. “The messaging capabilities one of the first organizations in the industry of CWT Program Messenger, along with to sign the United Nations Global Compact the features in CWT To Go™, enable us to (UNGC). “It really signified our commitment communicate with travelers at any stage to acting on responsible business challenges during their trip. A good example of this beyond just words. It also helped us to being the ability to notify them of human formalize our RB program that little bit rights challenges in the area they’re traveling further, turning it into a cultural norm for us.” in and offer advice.”* Brett reflects on what he’s learned through Recognizing the far-reaching impact on working with clients when it comes to responsible business that CWT’s products responsible business. “Responsible Business and services can have, Brett concludes requests come in every RFP we receive, by saying, “By helping our clients meet their and sustainability is something customers own responsible business needs, we are able care about deeply. They can sense when to live our values through our products.” it’s genuine, so for us it’s vital that we go beyond box-ticking by making RB part of how we operate.” Brett Elzinga is Regional Vice President for North America and CWT’s Responsible Business Ambassador for the Americas region. He is based in Grand Rapids, Michigan. *Availability may vary depending on version and geography. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 49 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT we think... As a global organization full of over the last three years, thanks We draw on the desire talented and passionate people, to the commitment and dedication and expertise of our we draw on the desire and expertise of our people. of our workforce to make a difference workforce to make in the communities where we live and In 2016 alone we collaborated a difference in the work. This approach forms the focus with 63 organizations on 75 communities where of our 3E Community Involvement initiatives worldwide. we live and work. strategy which targets initiatives relating to Education, Emergencies Our corporate giving program and Essential needs. includes a grant-making relationship with the Carlson Family Foundation, From financial and in-kind donations emphasized in 2016 by the significant to corporate volunteering, our 3E funding they provided in support strategy has grown significantly of numerous initiatives. 50 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Community Involvement we said... 75 and we did... initiatives organized in 2016 relating to Education, Emergencies and Essential needs Not initiated Initiated In progress 20 Status as of 2020 objectives end of 2016 Performance summary Further deploy globally and We reinforced our 3E strategy in 2016 by improving the means measure CWT’s impact in the available to our people to implement initiatives and have a greater 3E* fields of action. impact at a local level. Our work included a 3E awareness campaign countries where employees and the creation of dedicated tools to promote the strategy. Our are engaged in community * Education, Emergencies, 3E interactive map continued to serve as a reporting tool for our involvement activities Essential needs. worldwide initiatives and will enable us to further measure the impact of global initiatives moving forward. 63 partner organizations Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 51 we do... OUR 3E COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT STRATEGY Since the launch of CWT’s Targeting initiatives relating 3E Community Involvement to Education, Emergencies program in 2014, our people and Essential needs have continued to commit their Our 3E strategy assesses local needs to help identify ways that initiatives can have Education support to hundreds of projects Supporting the transfer of the most significant impact. It works by worldwide. In 2016, we ran empowering local teams to select projects knowledge and skills from an engagement campaign to reflecting their passions and the needs of one generation to the next further develop the awareness the communities around them. This ensures Education through teaching, Emergency training Essential and research provision. of 3E among our employees. we are adapting to the local needs of all countries in which we operate while remaining true to our corporate identity Emergencies and values. Providing support and resources to those in The strategy is underpinned by local urgent crises that cause volunteering policies – inEducation locations such human suffering or Emergency threatenEssential lives or needs livelihoods as Benelux, the UK, Canada and the AsiaPacific region – that support and encourage such as natural disasters employee participation in initiatives during and disease prevention. Our 3E strategy the year. In many countries where there are no related policies, we offer employees Essential needs assesses local needs volunteering time. Where appropriate, Supporting initiatives that to help identify we also collaborate with NGOs, academics, provide basic goods and services to those in need – charities and local organizations to further ways that initiatives Education Emergency enhance the impact of projects Essential needs from clothing, food and water, to the provision of can have the most on communities. health services and housing. significant impact. 52 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Community Involvement Spreading the word to As part of the UN’s Volunteers day, a “liking” Annual Food Drive, St. Louis – US (Americas) The Great Company Run – Poland (EMEA) encourage participation in 3E contest was launched where employees CWT’s St. Louis office held its annual food Our Warsaw-based CWT Team participated To assist in raising awareness of 3E among got the chance to vote for their favorite drive to support Operation Food Search – in the Great Company Run, an annual our employees and encourage involvement, 3E initiatives from the 75 that were shared. a local non-profit organization dedicated to event organized by Everest Organization, we launched an updated version of our Three winners were selected based upon ending hunger in St. Louis. The event helped encouraging companies to raise money 3E Guidebook in 2016. Available in seven the total number of votes (one per region), to collect 468 pounds of food for families for the local community. The goal was to languages, it gives all the information and the organizations associated with each in need at Thanksgiving. Over the past five generate funds to finance the rehabilitation required to make local 3E initiatives a received a US$3,000 corporate donation. years, the CWT team’s participation at these of Oleg, a two-year-old boy, who suffers from success and includes compliance guidelines Here are the winning initiatives: food drives has helped feed over 570 people a rare genetic disorder. for projects involving donations. for one day. Alongside the relaunch, an engagement campaign continued to reinforce community involvement across CWT through the use of social media. Employees were invited to organize local initiatives and plot their activities online via our 3E map. Play it Forward – Philippines (APAC) An update on last year’s winner: Our CWT Manila office put on a charity Casa do Zenzinho concert to raise funds in support of local The winner of last year’s 3E map contest was solar lighting charity One Million Lights. not-for-profit organization Casa do Zenzinho, The concert “Play it forward” was attended by based in Brazil, which received a US$10,000 120 guests where local celebrities performed corporate donation from CWT. The charity, along with CWT Manila’s very own band. provides a safe space for children, young The funds raised will provide solar-powered adults and the elderly living in situations of lighting to 80 families in Boac, Marinduque, high social vulnerability. Our donation was a local community in the Philippines that used to contribute to the many development has no access to electricity. programs run by the organization. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 53 we do... 2016 COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT INITIATIVES Building on the success of our Supporting the causes our people • Helping educate local students on • Supporting orphans and handicapped initiatives in previous years, and communities care about entrepreneurship, work readiness and financial children at the local Children’s Welfare With a broad spectrum of projects addressing literacy with Junior Achievement Singapore. Home in China. in 2016 we continued to support local communities in 20 countries everything from improving living conditions for families, through to donating food to the and 34 locations, through the hungry, supporting the homeless, providing strong commitment and generous education and financing health research, our contributions of our employees 3E efforts touched on a diverse range of social across the world. issues affecting the communities around us. Fifteen of our 75 3E initiatives supported cancer-related causes including cancer research, support for patients and cancer awareness campaigns. Employees banded together to take part in fundraising activities such as charity runs, bake sales, climbs and hikes to raise funds. Cancer awareness • Raising funds for the Sojourner • Volunteering for Second Harvest Heartland talks also took place in CWT offices in India, Center – one of the largest domestic food bank in Minnesota, US. Singapore, Indonesia and the US, helping violence shelters in the US. to raise the understanding of breast cancer among employees. In addition to the many new programs, we continued ongoing support for number of existing initiatives, with the aim of developing long-term partnerships that have a lasting impact now and into the future. Some of these included: • Supporting the education of a girl with HIV in the Children’s Village in Mbigili, Tanzania. 54 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Community Involvement Some of our 2016 global 3E initiatives from around the world Education Back 2 School campaign, Texas, US Emergencies Ecuador earthquake support, Spain (EMEA) When a large earthquake hit Ecuador in early 2016, a CWT Spain employee, originally Essential needs Make-A-Wish, Colorado, US (Americas) As part of our 2016 Global Business Travel Association (GBTA) event, CWT and the Carlson Family Foundation each made >300 initiatives in Education, Emergencies and Essential needs since 2014 (Americas) from Ecuador, put forward an initiative to sizeable charitable donations in support of Following the tragic shooting of an 11-yearcollect financial aid to support those affected. the Make-A-Wish Foundation in Colorado, US. old who attended Marshall Middle School Solidarity Breakfasts were held at CWT offices in in Houston, employees from CWT Texas Madrid, Barcelona, Seville, Bilbao and Tordera rallied to help affected students. Employees where employees brought in food to sell or gathered and purchased school supplies for buy in support of the relief effort. students to prepare them for a successful start in the new year. VIBE Arts support, Toronto, Canada (Americas) Our Canadian Program Management team set the ambitious goal of collecting 200 arts and crafts items for the local charity VIBE Arts – a charitable organization committed Bringing light to children during Diwali, to providing children and youth in underIndia (APAC) resourced communities with high quality In India, CWT leaders visited Samadhan, an community and school-based arts education. NGO that supports children with intellectual From pens and paintbrushes to crayons and Blood donation Group, Finland (EMEA) and physical disabilities living in poverty. canvasses, the team surpassed the target and CWT Finland has collaborated with the Finnish The program rehabilitates families through collected a total of 670 items for aspiring Red Cross to donate blood on a regular basis community outreach programs. They donated artists from under-resourced communities since 2014. In 2016, ten volunteers provided books, crayons and toys for the children, in the Toronto area. emergency transfusions to those in need as well as working alongside caretakers following worldwide catastrophes or accidents. to decorate the premises in preparation for Diwali, India’s national festival of lights. We continue to provide ongoing support to a number of existing initiatives as part of our long-term partnerships. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 55 we do... we will... In 2017 we will: • Further improve how we Education measure and track the impact of our community projects. • Continue to create awareness among employees and provide them with effective tools to implement initiatives and The Carlson Family Foundation continued United Way, France, is an organization whose to provide very strong support for CWT’s purpose is to ensure that youth develop the get involved. 3E projects in 2016, making contributions knowledge, skills and credentials necessary • Play our part in helping to the educational programs of the to gain employment and be successful in to fight human trafficking, following organizations: the workplace. Carlson Family Foundation funding will support the “Opportunities for in line with the ambition All” program which provides support to 350 of CWT’s parent company, middle-schoolers from unprivileged areas Carlson, Inc. in France. Global Travel & Tourism Partnership is a global program aimed to inspire and enable young people to build careers in Junior Achievement, Singapore, has a goal travel and tourism. In 2016 GTTP celebrated to inspire and prepare young people to its 20th anniversary. To date, more than two succeed in the global economy. The Carlson million students have participated in GTTP Family Foundation has provided financial programs around the world. CWT has been a support to two projects – “Ourselves” and strong supporter for the last four years with “Our Families.” The projects provide students additional support provided by the Carlson with an introduction to the economics of Family Foundation in 2015 and 2016. life including work readiness, entrepreneurship and financial literacy. 56 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Community Involvement we live... “Through Community Involvement at CWT, we are given the time to act Having been active in community Abhi remembers that employees around projects outside of work, Abhi was inspired the office were keen to get involved from out the noble deeds we to bring employees together to build long-term relationships with the local the beginning. “Our people are very engaged, and once we built a team the ideas really often forget to prioritize community around CWT’s Bangalore office. started to flow. Before we knew it we had in our busy lives.” six team members – each of whom now “For me Responsible Business is about plays an important role in coordinating doing as much as possible to maximize the and contributing to community projects.” positive influence we can make as a business. I’m proud to say that CWT commits to this In 2016 the team visited a local NGO by supporting community projects around supporting late-stage terminal cancer the world,” explains Abhimanyu. “With such patients. “We sent communications to all a talented team in our Bangalore office, of our Bangalore staff to contribute funds I wanted to understand how we could use and take part in a day trip to visit the charity. our expertise to make a difference on our Seeing people come together and use their own doorstep.” strengths to support the project was truly inspiring. It formed the foundations of our The idea prompted Abhi to bring together approach to community involvement, which his team to see how they could make a bigger we will be applying to future initiatives.” impact. “I’m passionate about leading people and bringing out the best in them. I felt Abhi is positive in his outlook and convinced that by building on employees’ strengths that his team’s pragmatic approach is a key we could achieve this, while also enhancing to their success. “We work really well together our relationship with the local community. – by defining clear roles and responsibilities It felt like a real win-win.” for each team member we are able to mobilize effectively and take real action. It’s heartening to see how much our people care.” Abhimanyu Rathod is Associate Director of Travel Services for CWT Bangalore. He is based in India. Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 57 GRI TABLE This is a self-declaration assessment in accordance with the “core” option of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as of June 2017. General Standard Disclosures Description Information General Standard Disclosures Description Information Strategy and Analysis Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-1 Sustainability strategy P8, 9 G4-17 Financial statements N/A – Private organization, statement coverage undisclosed G4-2 Description of key impacts, P9, 12-13 G4-18 Defining content Inside front cover, P9 risks and opportunities G4-19 Material aspects P9, 12-13 Organizational Profile G4-20 Aspect boundry within Inside front cover G4-3 Name Carlson Wagonlit Travel the organization G4-4 Primary brands, products, P4-5 G4-21 Aspect boundry outside Inside front cover and/or services the organization G4-5 Location of headquarters Global offices in Paris, G4-22 Re-statements None Minneapolis and Singapore G4-23 Changes Increased environmental G4-6 Countries of operation See website for full list: scope, P36 http://www.carlsonwagonlit. Stakeholder Engagement com/content/cwt/global/en/ G4-24 Stakeholder Groups P8-11 office-locations.html G4-25 Basis for selection P9 G4-7 Ownership Privately owned organization G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder P9-11 G4-8 Markets served P4 engagement G4-9 Scale and Size P5 G4-27 Key topics from stakeholders P9, 12-13 G4-10 Workforce P5 Report Profile G4-11 Collective bargaining P27 agreements G4-28 Reporting period Inside front cover G4-12 Supply chain P22 G4-29 Date of previous report June 2016 G4-13 Significant changes None G4-30 Reporting cycle Inside front cover G4-14 Precautionary approach P9, 44-45 G4-31 Contact responsiblebusiness@ carlsonwagonlit.com, P61 G4-15 External principles P6-7 G4-32 GRI Content Index P58-59 G4-16 Memberships in associations P6-7, 56 G4-33 Assurance None Governance G4-34 Governance structure P10 58 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Supplementary Information General Standard Disclosures Description Information Specific Standard Disclosures Description Information Ethics and Integrity Transport G4-56 Values P3 G4-EN30 Transporting products, other P36-37 G4-57 Seeking advice on ethical P18-19 goods or people and lawful behavior Supplier Environmental Assessment Specific Standard Disclosures Description Information G4-EN32 Suppliers screened using P22 environmental criteria ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL Energy Training and Education G4-EN3 Energy use within Energy not reported, GHG the organization figures given (see below) G4-LA10 Skills management and P28-29 lifelong learning G4-EN4 Energy use outside – of the organization Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-EN5 Energy intensity – G4-LA12 Composition of governance P10-11, 30 bodies and employee diversity G4-EN6 Reduction of energy – consumption Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Emissions G4-LA14 Screening new suppliers P22 G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse P36-37 HUMAN RIGHTS Gas emissions (Scope 1) Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-EN16 Indirect Greenhouse P36-37 G4-HR10 New suppliers screened using P22 Gas emissions (Scope 2) human rights criteria G4-EN17 Other indirect Greenhouse P36-37 Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Gas emissions (Scope 3) G4-HR12 Grievances about P18-19 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas P36-37 human rights emissions intensity SOCIETY G4-EN19 Reduction of Greenhouse P36-37 Gas emissions Baseline started in 2016 Anti-Corruption Compliance G4-SO3 Operations assessed for risks P18-19 related to corruption G4-EN29 Fines and environmental None non-compliances G4-SO4 Communication and training P18-19 on anti-corruption Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 59 THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT TEN PRINCIPLES IN ACTION AT CWT UN Global Compact Ten Principles CWT Responsible Business Report Chapters Sections Pages Human Rights 01 Introduction Message from the Chair of Carlson’s Board 2 Principles 1, 2 01 Introduction Awards and recognitions 7 02 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance We do... 9, 13 04 Human Resources and Human Rights We think… 24 04 Human Resources and Human Rights We do… 30 07 Community Involvement Various 50-56 Labor 01 Introduction Awards and recognitions 6 Principles 3, 4, 5, 6 02 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance We do… 9, 13 04 Human Resources and Human Rights Various 24-33 06 Responsible Products and Services Risk management 44-45 Environment 01 Introduction Awards and recognitions 6-7 Principles 7, 8, 9 02 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance We do... 9-11, 13 05 Environment Various 34-43 06 Responsible Products and Services Various 43, 46-47 Anti-Corruption 02 Responsible Business Strategy and Governance We do… 9, 12 Principle 10 03 Ethics & Business Behavior Various 16-23 60 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 Supplementary Information THANKS AND PHOTO CREDITS We would like to thank the numerous people who have helped to create this report. Thanks to the content owners, RB Ambassadors, Correspondents and all CWT employees for bringing Responsible Business to life in our organization. All photos you see in this report are from real CWT employees – they are listed on the following pages. Thanks to photographers: Andy Terzes, K Ponappa Subbaiah, Michel Koczy, Ron Lee, Simon Jarratt, Wilson Q. Tan. Thanks to Emperor Design, UK. Project team Françoise Grumberg, Selene Osorio, Richard Thompson. Photo credits P. 2 P. 16 P. 21 P. 26 P. 31 P. 35 Diana L. Nelson Lauren Aste Celine Truong Benoît Margueritte Andrea Wysemborski Jo-Lynn Loh Samantha Simms Katja Seemayer Julie Cedo P. 3 P. 17 Neil Visram P. 27 Jürgen Pospiech Kurt Ekert Alice Rebondy Oluchi Nwandu Magalie Laederich Corinna Manteufel P. 36 Rebecca Hussain Richard Scott Bettina Cramme P. 8 Benoît Margueritte P. 22 Ina Fosli P. 32 Françoise Grumberg Anna Cope Laura Jacquier Carlos Lopez P. 37 P. 18 Kiko Basilio Yvonne Hilgert P. 14 Shantok Karavadra P. 23 P. 28 Iriz Dulu Johannes Remling Marie Van Vlemen Samantha Simms Nadya Davies Ulrike Umbach-Bodde Monika Singh P. 20 P. 24 P. 33 Julie Cedo Neil Kelly David Moran P. 30 Pierre Gallant Jo-Lynn Loh Harshal Mehta Siddharth Singh P. 25 P. 34 Sheila Laquindanum Françoise Grumberg P. 15 Eric Cabaysa Kerstin Sautter Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 61 THANKS AND PHOTO CREDITS P. 38 P. 43 P. 49 Top right Top right (not in order) P. 55 Left Gunther Dekeyser Brett Elzinga Karolina Bergman Liu Xiaolong Left Andrea Wysemborski Agatina Befumo Pamela Yonkers Maciej Krzyminski Zhang Yan Ivonne Pardo Latifa Bilou Dorota Suchodolska-Wilk Zhang Junying Denise Harris Right Daniela Spano P. 50 Zuzanna Kominczyk He Xinyu Lana Day Desmond Lua Eric De Rouck Dorine Belliard Wen Yuxi Maureen Fogarty Kerstin Sautter Racquel Raymundo Bottom Lin Ting Aneta Soares Melanie Low P. 44 Harshal Mehta Ryan Valera Zheng Xin Lynnda Lindsay Justin Er Andy Wang Kerstin Sautter Kiko Basilio Chen Ben Maggie Vandenbroek Krizia Benedicto Andy Wang Norlan Bautista Xu Yali Frank Cifelli Lynette Gaspar Noel Mark Alhambra Jian Tingting Seline Johnston P. 45 Elaine Ng Ben Cinco P. 51 Tracie Dykas Harshal Mehta P. 54 Bottom left Adriana Magill Marge Espina Carlos Lopez Sophia Bremner Top left Sondra Broderick Ian Donaldson Thea Panes Learnie Quidato Pohlin Ng Wai Mun Wong Mira Broderick Julie Simpson Iriz Dulu Everest Lau Jacinda Ng Michele Maya Sevi Anagnostis P. 46 Sheila Laquindanum Ivy Ng Susie Hulen Anne Relph Lisa Campbell Isce Batin P. 39 Grace Wong Sabrina Mitchell Kiko Basilio Tony Panter John Butler Center P. 47 Joyce Hegedus Bottom right Gabriela Martinez Agatina Befumo P. 52 Muthu Meyyappan Santiago Rocca P. 40 Carrie Han Eric De Rouck Renata Moreti Sunil Unnikrishnan Jim Deimel Alice Siau Fernanda Garcés Monika Singh Riitta Korpi Ana Roblas Brett Elzinga P. 53 P. 48 Imo Ervin Sherlin Suman Top left Neil Kelly Right P. 41 Abdul Nasir Shariff Top row: Beth Heisel, Kathy Orner Max and his family Silke Bellof Akansha Gupta Melanie Myer Tony Wagner Nisanth Unnikrishnan Front row: Larita Lane, Pam Kurt Ekert P. 42 Yamini Naidu Brunton, Chrissy Pedroli, Kathy Orner Karen Schonhoff, Tim Rule P. 57 and Linda Behlmann Abhimanyu Rathod 62 Annual Responsible Business Report June 2017 carlsonwagonlit.com
