UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 CONTENT 3 About the report 4 CEO Statement 5 INTRODUCTION 5 Company Profile 7 Our Sustainability Framework 7 Approach 8 Stakeholders 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 9 Management structure 9 Internal control and risk management systems 11 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY 11 Empowerment and support 13 Protecting human and labour rights 17 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 17 Product safety and restricted list 17 Carbon Disclosure Project 18 Environmental Initiatives 19 BUSINESS ETHICS 19 Corruption and Bribery 19 Data Privacy 20 CONCLUDING REMARKS WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 2 About the report This report represents William Demant‘s management commitment to secure good corporate governance and business ethics as well as social and environmental responsibilities of the Group. The reported numbers and policies encompass all companies in the William Demant Group, which also include our joint venture Sennheiser Communications A/S. Encompassing our joint venture means that we will pin out specific numbers and initiatives from Sennheiser Communications here and there in the report. The structure of this report is based on the very own representation of the Group CSR structure and functions as the Communication on Progress (COP) to the UN Global Compact as well as William Demant Holding’s statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act. In addition, this report represents the statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b. This report is published annually and it covers the solar year 2016 from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. With William Demant, Communication and CSR manager Trine Kromann-Mikkelsen is responsible for coordinating our CSR activities and policies and the liaison between the organisation and the executive management board (see page 9 on Corporate Governance). Contact information: Trine Kromann-Mikkelsen, +45 5117 6873, trkr@demant.com WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 3 CEO STATEMENT Our vision is to make a life-changing difference to people sufIn 2016, our Group and the OticonFoundation published the fering from hearing loss. In fact, care for other people is the very whitepaper “Hearing Care across the Life Span”, which offers a foundation of our company. perspective on establishing a complete hearing care program in less developed countries. I am very proud of this initiative, and The story of our company starts in the beginning of the twentiI look forward to seeing the projects it will help offset in places eth century with one man’s passion to help his wife lead a better where hearing healthcare is low or absent. Proper hearing care life, unhindered by her hearing loss. This passion for empowis not only a social and economic gift to society, it’s a way to ering hearing disabled to play an active part in improving their make a positive, life-changing difference for people living with lives is what has driven the William Demant Group through the hearing loss. In this way, we commit and contribute to the SDG last century, what drives us now and what will drive us in the no. 3 of good health and well-being. years to come. In 2016, we updated our reporting structure and framework As an integrated part of our business, we are committed to high in order to adhere to the changes in the DIRECTIVE 2014/95/ standards of ethics, quality and fairness and we are dedicated EU of the European Parliament and the Council, and hence the to upholding environmental and social responsibilities. Within Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and 99b. We meet our natural sphere of influence, we strive to actively improve the new requirements by elaborating on the company business people’s quality of life and minimise the adverse effects of our model and by giving explanations of our policies, processes, activities. This is achieved by ensuring that business results actions and results. From 2016, the Group also adheres to the are financially viable, socially balanced and environmentally United Nations Convention Against Corruption, the Modern sustainable. Slavery Act, and the UK Bribery Act. In 2015 the UN member states agreed on the UN Sustainable We have been committed to the UN Global compact since Development Goals (SDG). The goals are encouraging, and Spring 2010 and we will continue to be committed to support William Demant Group is committed to take part in these goals the Global Compact Initiative and its principles and goals. by focusing on the ones where we have a natural access to improvement. I would like highlight one of these goals, the empowerment of people through better health and care. Niels Jacobsen President & Chief Executive Office We continuously commit to raise the bar in terms of accessibility, quality and technology of our products. Hearing loss is a serious risk to health and poses several social, psychological and physical issues: Social isolation, reduced mental well-being, depression and cognitive decline as well as underemployment or even unemployment. Through projects and initiatives, we strive to build awareness in the field of audiology and increase general understanding of living with hearing impairment and treating hearing loss. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 4 INTRODUCTION Company Profile BAL DISTRIBUTION GLO nts Hear The William Demant Group is a global market leader in hearing pla ing Im De healthcare. We develop, manufacture and sell products and g Hear es equipment that help people with hearing loss connect and in vic RASTRUCTUR communicate with the world around them. INF E VA NO TI The company is listed on Nasdaq Copenhagen as part of the IN ON OMXC20 index portfolio consisting of the 20 most traded shares. A copy of the annual report for 2016 can be found online at: Demant.com/About/Business-activities). The Oticon Foundation is the majority owner of William Demant Holding through the investment company William Demant D ia ts Invest. We focus on three business activities: Hearing Devices, gnos m en Diagnostic Instruments and Hearing Implants. By utilising techtic I nst r u nology from our hearing devices and knowhow from the Group, we develop and expand our personal communication business, our joint venture Sennheiser Communications, in a growing market of headsets for unified communication and leisure. Our companies collaborate in many areas and to a wide extent Hearing devices share resources and technologies as well as infrastructure and Hearing devices represent our main focus. In our journey to distribution channels. These synergies will help millions of peoimprove life of people suffering from hearing loss, we target all ple experience the joy of hearing for many years to come just as sales channels and customer segments thriving to deliver the they also facilitate smarter ways of working and decreases the best products possible and state-of-the-art technology. Group’s general impact and footprint. William Demant operates globally employing more than 12.000 Hearing implants people, through local subsidiaries in more than 30 countries Hearing implants comprise bone anchored hearing systems and and with an extended presence through our trusted distributors cochlear implants, and they aim to improve the life of people in more than 130 countries. Our main volume production is who are profoundly deaf or have sever hearing loss. based in, Poland and Denmark and we are present with custom production in the Americas (US, Canada, Mexico), EMEA region (Poland, Italy, Turkey) and Asia Pacific (Australia, China, Japan Diagnostic Instruments and Korea). Diagnostic Instruments help diagnose and measure patients affected by hearing loss and balance problems. We aim at bringing true innovation to the market in an efficient manner. Sharing knowledge and expertise across our Group also implies using our shared services function, infrastructure and common distribution to increase cost efficiency and stay highly competitive. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 5 INTRODUCTION In the financial year 2016, total revenues was a little above DKK 12 billion. 3% 3% 7% 9% 88% 43% 8% Hearing Devices Europe Diagnostic Instruments 39% North America Hearing Implants Pacific Asia Other countries Revenue by business activity Revenue by geographic region Vision Our vision is to make a life-changing difference to people suffering from hearing loss. Mission The aim of all our businesses is to become each customer’s preferred supplier of state-of-the-art solutions and to create a platform for continued organic growth. We strive to meet end-user needs by maintaining a high level of innovation and constantly expanding our global infrastructure. Identity All companies in the William Demant Group seek to promote a stimulating and rewarding working environment through a flexible, knowledge-based organisation. Moreover, each company has its own position and unique business model. Everybody is committed to high standards of ethics, quality and fairness and dedicated to meeting our environmental and social responsibilities. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 6 INTRODUCTION Our Sustainability framework 5. We do not use and prohibit the use of forced or child labour. 6. We provide a safe and healthy working environment where employees can perform to their full potential and where initiative We organise our work within Corporate Social Responsibility in is encouraged. a framework that comprises four different categories and entails 7. We recognise our employees’ rights to freedom of association 14 principles. and collective bargaining. 8. We strive to maintain good relations with neighbours and the The principles provide guidance for management and all emsurrounding society through involvement and open communiployees. William Demant additionally recognises its responsication. bility to promote similar practices among suppliers and other business partners. William Demant Holding’s Management Read more on page 11 review the principles and update them if necessary on a yearly basis. 3. Environmental protection 1 Corporate governance The Group endeavours to protect the environment for future gener2. People and society ations by monitoring and reducing the environmental impacts of its business activities. 3. Environmental protection 9. We use materials efficiently and strive to optimise packaging as well as waste handling. 4. Business ethic 10. We limit the use of hazardous substances in products and processes. 11. We monitor our impact on the climate and aim to reduce 1. Corporate governance energy consumption. William Demant Holding’s Board of Directors and Management Read more on page 17 consider corporate governance on an ongoing basis and regularly assess whether amendments to the Company’s Articles of Association or managerial processes are required. 4. Business ethics 1. We maintain an accountable and efficient management structure. WDH believes that in a competitive market the Group’s businesses 2. We communicate in an open, transparent, impartial and can only flourish if based on sound business ethics. The Group adtimely manner with the stock market about the Group’s heres to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, and the strategy, objectives and risks. UK Bribery Act. Most of the Group’s activities can be characterised 3. We maintain adequate internal control mechanisms with a as “relationship business”, which frequently involves close interview to monitoring, managing and mitigating any material action with clients, including consulting, training and entertaining risks associated with our business. hearing care professionals, for instance audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-and-throat specialists and clinic owners. Read more on page 9 12. We are committed to abide by the laws and regulations of the countries in which we operate. In the absence of adequate laws and regulations, we refer to recognised international 2. People and society standards and industry norms. The Group makes a positive contribution to the communities 13. We work against bribery and other forms of corruption, both in which it operates through job generation, economic growth, directly and indirectly through our business partners, and we tax payment and the marketing of products that contribute to strive to avoid facilitation payments. enhancing people’s quality of life. William Demant supports the 14. To benefit the users of our products is our primary goal. We Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO’s Declaration of therefore avoid actions that may influence business decisions Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Modern Slavery to the disadvantage of the end users. Act. 4. We treat our employees with respect and dignity, encourage Read more on page 19. diversity and ensure fair treatment. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 7 INTRODUCTION Approach Politically, we work on actively promoting collaboration on public/private research through our participation in e.g. Vækstteam UN Global Compact for life science and a joint project group with representatives Our 14 principles also cover our commitment to including from the industry, patient organisation and health and educathe ten principles of the UN Global Compact as a part of our tion system in Denmark. business strategy and daily operations. The ten principles of UN GC covers four main areas, human rights, labour rights, We strive to maintain an active and open dialogue with the environment and anti-corruption, and our compliance with the media and provides quick, current, correct and relevant answers principles can be found in the report as follows: to requests in a professional and respectful manner. • Human rights: page 13-14 • Labour rights: page 14-15 Internally, we have the intranet Kitenet, an internal newspaper, • Environment: page 17-18 Demant Inside, and an online news portal also called Demant • Anti-corruption: page 19 Inside as well as a monthly engagement survey. UK Modern slavery act In order to comply with the new British legislation of March 2016 that organisations are required to publish an annual statement setting out steps to ensure that there is no modern slavery within their organisation or supply chains, we include a thorough description of our processes and policies in place (see page 14). Stakeholders This report is a presentation of our CSR activities based on data collected from the whole Group told in a simple way yet with a comprehensive scope. It is intended for stakeholders who are interested in learning about our approach to CSR. Our main stakeholders are customers (audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-and-throat specialists and clinic owners), end-users, partners and suppliers, healthcare professionals and policy makers as well as shareholders, analysts, the general public and media. We also encourage our employees to study the report. In order to engage in dialogue with our stakeholders, William Demant has different channels: Investor Relations department who services analysts and investors on a daily email and phone call basis as well as road shows and capital market days. Our brands have direct customer communication via social media and newsletters, magazines, satisfaction surveys, events and conferences as well as direct sales meetings with customers. For 2017 and beyond we have decided to roll-out a comprehensive customer service project. The organisation sponsored by Oticon Foundation, IDA Institute, has direct dialogue with healthcare professionals and academics. We have several industry organisation memberships in e.g. Denmark (Dansk Industri), Europe (EHIMA) and US (HIA). Our supplier dialogue is via Code of Conduct and audits. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 8 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In order to balance our many stakeholders’ interests, we have 1.2 Internal control and risk management systems established a set of processes and relations by which we control and direct our company. William Demant Holding’s Board of The Board of Directors and the Executive Board are in an ongoDirectors and Management consider corporate governance on ing dialogue on the identification, description and handling of an ongoing basis and regularly assess whether amendments to the business risks to which the Company may be exposed. Any the Company’s Articles of Association or managerial processes material risks are described in the Annual Plan and Budget on are required. a yearly basis and that is approved by the Board of Directors. In the chapter on risk management activities in our annual report, William Demant Holding is subject to the Danish Recommenwe provide a review of the main elements of our internal control dations on Corporate Governance laid down by the Danish and risk management systems in connection with the financial Committee on Corporate Governance in respect to the way in reporting process. which we adhere to the recommendations. As a listed company, the Group thrives to maintain an accountable and efficient manFrom a financial reporting process and internal control point of agement structure and communicate in an open, transparent, view, once a year we carry through a very detailed planning and impartial and timely manner with the stock market about the budgetary process. Any deviations from the plans and budgets Group’s strategy, objectives and risks. Control mechanism are in resulting from this process are carefully monitored month by place with a view to monitoring, managing and mitigating any month. material risks associated with our business as explained below. To ensure high quality in the Group’s financial reporting systems, the Board of Directors and Executive Board have adopted 1.1 Management structure policies, procedures and guidelines for financial reporting and internal control to which the subsidiaries and reporting units William Demant Holding has a two-tier management structure must adhere, including: consisting of a Board of Directors and an Executive Board. • Continuous follow-up on results achieved compared to the approved budgets; Under the Company’s Articles of Association, the Board of Direc• Policies for IT, insurance, cash management, procurement tors must consist of four to six Board members elected by the etc.; shareholders at the general meeting in addition to staff-elected • Reporting instructions as well as reporting and finance Board members. Currently, the Company’s Board of Directors manuals; has eight members: five elected by the shareholders and three elected by our employees in Denmark. The responsibility for maintaining sufficient and efficient internal control and risk management in connection with financial reThe Company’s Executive Board presently consists of three exporting, governance and corporate social responsibility lies with ecutives: President & CEO, Chief Operating Officer & Deputy CEO the Executive Board. As such, the Executive Board is responsible and Chief Financial Officer. The Executive Board has the overall for shaping and supporting the corporate social responsibility responsibility for the activities and the day-to-day operations of mission and activities of the Group and the responsibility of the Company. The tasks, responsibilities and scope of the Execcoordinating, aligning and reporting to the Executive Board lies utive Board as well as the guidelines in respect of the delegawith William Demant Group Communication. tion of duties between the Board of Directors and the Executive Board are stipulated in the Instructions for the Executive Board. 1.3 Reporting on corporate governance The annual general meeting is the supreme authority in all company matters. The Company has one ultimate shareholder, When reporting on corporate governance, we follow the “comply the Oticon Foundation, which directly or indirectly holds approx. or explain” principle, which means that failure to comply with 58% of the shares and voting rights at the annual general a recommendation does not constitute a breach, as long as meeting. we explain why we have chosen not to follow a given recomTopic Initiatives and results Management structure Board of Directives and Executive Board Internal control and risk managements systems Financial reporting, responsibility and control environments WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 9 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE mendation and also explain what we do instead. The few cases where we have chosen to deviate from a recommendation are well-founded, and we explain what we do instead. To further increase transparency, we have decided to provide supplementary and relevant information, even when we follow the recommendations. A complete schematic presentation of the recommendations and our compliance, Corporate Governance 2016 – Statutory report on corporate governance, cf. section 107 b of the Danish Financial Statements Act, is available at www.demant.com/media/#media-documents WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 10 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY As noted earlier, care for other people is the very foundation of 2.1 Empowerment and support our company. Hans Demant founded the company on a passion to help his hearing impaired wife lead a better life. When he We take pride in empowering individuals and communities not passed away his son William Demant continued the business. only directly through our products, but also through initiatives He was a visionary man driven by a strong personal interest aimed at improving people’s life. in hearing and treatment of hearing loss. More than 100 years later, this care for other people on which the company was The growth strategy of William Demant (explained in the section founded and developed is still the focal point of everything we Company profile) also contributes positively to our work with do. We want to help people hear better. To have conversations CSR. The more the company earns, the more is given back to the with their loved ones. To be a part of society. majority owner the Oticon Foundation who, in turn, reinvests in society and hearing healthcare by grant activities and invest“With less feeling of straining to hear, my energy level is better.” ment activities in William Demant Invest. One of the reasons End-user of Oticon hearing aid, Barbara Abromowitz for channeling our philanthropic activities and some of our CSR work through the Oticon Foundation is the separation of our I am generally invigorated and have more energy at the end of a commercial activities from these activities. day. On court, my witness interrogations required less focus on hearing which liberated my thinking to examine more effectiveThrough the Oticon Foundation multiple initiatives and charitaly.” ble projects are fostered and initiated. Projects and initiatives End-user of Oticon hearing aid, Christopher N. Mammel in the fields of research, education, culture and selected social areas are carried out with particular emphasis on audiology and For reasons of clarity we divide this section in two paragraphs: hearing, i.e. projects initiated to outline the impacts of hearing “Empowerment and support” and ”Protecting human and labour loss, and treat or alleviate its symptoms. rights”. In both sections, we elaborate on the policy, actions and results for both theme. We are positive that a foundation formally separated from the commercial organisation will be fully dedicated to the best “Empowerment and support” focuses on the actions, policy and allocation of resources in a way that best serves the purpose of results with the aim of alleviating hearing loss, foster research empowering and support hearing impaired people. Following and technological development and enabling people empowerthis vision, two engineers specialized in audiology and related ment through rehabilitation and hearing care programs. disciplines work with the Foundation one to two days a week respectively to make sure applications are reviewed in a proper “Protecting Human and Labour rights” elaborates on how we and professional manner. deal with human rights and labour rights what are our policies, actions and results in the fields. This section also touches upon, In 2016, the Oticon Foundation donated approx. 80 million krohuman and labour rights, child labour, code of conduct, modern ner to projects within the areas of research, education, culture slavery, sustainability in the work place and female leadership. and care. A total of 42 million kroner was donated to projects alleviating hearing loss all over the world and to education and research in hearing healthcare. More than 29 million kroner was donated to cultural and educational purposes – especially with donations to student exchange programs. Topic – Empowerment and support Initiatives and results Alleviating hearing loss in distant areas Mobile Hearing Clinic Education and research Audio explorers, Eriksholm Summer Camp, PH.ds and leading universities’ contributions, CASPR and BEAR projects People Empowerment IDA institute, telehealth tools and telecare platform, BEAR rehabilitation project, whitepaper “Hearing Care across the Life Span” WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 11 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY Alleviating hearing loss in distant area Centre for Acoustic Signal Processing Research (CASPR) means a The Oticon Foundation has donated DKK 1.12 million to the project strong contribution towards the specialization of statistical signal called “Mobile Hearing Clinic” – a hearing clinic on wheels that can processing for portable audio devices such as hearing aids and reach the rural districts in China. The project was initiated in 2015 Cochlear implants. This will bring strong advances in sound analysis and will run for two more years with the aim is to help 6,000 people algorithms and understanding of their interplay with auditory a year. The mobile hearing clinic provide basic counselling and perception facilitating a new generation of advanced speech services, including cleaning of ears, hearing testing and fitting of enhancement schemes for assistive listening. hearing aids as well as counselling of parents to children suffering from hearing loss. Over the next years, the mobile hearing clinic People Empowerment will cover as much of China as at all possible, including Tibet. The For several years, the Oticon Foundation has funded the IDA Insticlinic focuses particularly on rural areas where access to hearing tute and it has contributed with 12 million kroner to the work of the rehabilitation is traditionally very poor. Institute in 2017. IDA is an organisation that works to disseminate patient centered hearing rehabilitation globally and that develops Education and research tools to empower and support people with hearing impairment The Oticon Foundation funds educational institutions and research in their process of recognition and treatment. The work of the projects in the field of audiology. institute aims to improve the patient journey and positively impact hearing-impaired persons and hearing care professionals around For the first time in 2016, an exciting initiative called the Audio the world by promoting research and education within the field of Explorers challenge was carried out. Supported by the Oticon acoustic communication. Foundation, Oticon hosted a nationwide competition aimed at Engineering students with an interest in mechanical, electrical or Among the education and clinical tools IDA has established this software development. The winners flew to New York to measure year, particular relevancy assume telehealth tools and telecare and document the sound level in the urban environment, and to platform specifically developed for teenager and twins. The online study and understand what it takes to overcome the challenges resources help them manage the different transitions in their life of hearing aid production and the development of state-of-the-art of young hearing impaired, empower them and enable them to solutions. self-manage their hearing tools. Another enriching educational experience sponsored by Oticon Additionally, the Oticon Foundation together with Danish univerFoundation is the Eriksholm Summer Camp. In 2016, the summer sities, national hearing aid producers and research organizations camp gave 58 young audiologists representing 23 countries a established the BEAR rehabilitation project. The project has the aim unique opportunity to engage in formal and informal discussions to increasing the quality of hearing rehabilitation for people with and hands-on workshops with leading scientists from Eriksholm hearing loss allowing for significant improvements in life quality. Research Centre, guest experts, Oticon audiologists and specialists. At last year’s summer camp, research was linked to practice, user Along with the Oticon Foundation, William Demant companies needs to technology, and people across borders shared insights Oticon, Interacoustics and Oticon Medical published a whitepaand new experiences. The discussion of the latest findings within per “Hearing Care across the Life Span”. The whitepaper offers a the field was taken further with interactive workshops in which perspective on establishing a complete hearing care program in a the participants were invited for group discussion and knowledge less developed country. sharing. As with most healthcare issues in society today, addressing such a The Oticon Foundation has a long history of donating to projects task can be complex and considerable expertise is required in order that promote research and the dissemination of knowledge in audito secure success when implementing screening, fitting and rehaology. Every year the Foundation finances two PH.D. projects within bilitation processes. The whitepaper offers a complete guideline the field of audiology and hearing. These two projects are selected for a patient-centered as well as a cost-effective methodology for among a number of approx. 10-15 applications submitted on 1 Dehearing care, which fits into an overall healthcare set-up in a given cember. In 2016, the Foundation donated 11 million Danish kroner country. to audiology research at leading universities around the world. Large amounts were donated to universities in Holland, US, South The argument of the whitepaper is that proper hearing care is not Africa and Italy and to research initiatives in Nordic universities. only a social and economic gift to society, it’s a way to make a positive, life-changing difference for people living with hearing In Denmark the Oticon Foundation co-founded the establishment loss. of CASPR with a contribution of 8 million Danish Kroner. The establishment of a new research center at Aalborg University, the WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 12 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY 2.2 Protecting Human and Labour rights Human rights William Demant respects the protection of human rights through As a company, we acknowledge our responsibilities for the the implementation of the established principles and regulations surroundings where we operate and for the people and organicontained in its business ethics policy and code of conduct. The sations we work with. For this reasons, William Demant supports policies can be found on our website at: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO’s Declaration www.demant.com/media/ of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Additionally, production of hearing aids is not a dangerous and With regard to governing our policies, we operate with a global/ risky manufacturing activity. The employees are not involved in danlocal approach: The William Demant Group formulates policies gerous procedures, components, or material. By way of example, and guidelines and the local management have the mandate our 2016 global accident report from our production and service and responsibility of daily operation as well as solving, reporting sites (approx. 3,500 employees) in Denmark, Poland, Mexico and and taking actions according to company policies and local US shows only 16 accidents, which were all of smaller character. legislation. This model has functioned within a continuously growing and successful global company, which William Group At William Demant, more than 90% of our turnover comes from has become over the years. the OECD countries; this does not erase the risk of human rights violation, however, it lower the exposure to such a risk. In countries In the recent years, we have established a strategic global HR where securing human rights is covered by local legislation, we act Board, which currently functions as an activity coordinating in accordance by following the UN Global Compact Principles. To body in terms of HR strategy, organisational and leadership dethis, we add the implementation of principles and policies from our velopment as well as deployment of HR systems. The board can code of conducts and business ethics policy. be activated in case of urgency or breach of company policies. In terms of our suppliers and external partners, we make sure Most of our production sites are located in OECD countries. When they comply to our code of conduct and audit them if our risk we operate with countries outside OECD we mitigate the risk by assessment indicate so. making sure we only employ and conduct business with highly skilled labour selling and handling our advanced products. ViolatWe additionally strive to create a rewarding, respectful and safe ing proclaimed human rights is against our business model and place of work, where our employees are motivated and thrive against our own business ethics policy. professionally and personally. Where local legislation does not naturally protect human rights In the recent years, we have established a strategic global HR and labour rights, we use our code of conduct to ensure that high Board, which currently functions as an activity coordinating standards are met when doing business and dealing with e.g. supbody in terms of HR strategy, organisational and leadership depliers, which are beyond the boundaries of our own company. velopment as well as deployment of HR systems. The board can be activated in case of urgency or breach of company policies. All in all, company makes efforts in supporting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within and outside the In terms of our suppliers and external partners, we make sure corporate boundaries. Even though it can hardly be justified as prothey comply to our code of conduct and audit them if our risk tection of human rights, William Demant tries to exercise a positive assessment indicate so. spillover effect and improve conditions for people less fortunate, with a specific focus on its core business and mission: health and We additionally strive to create a rewarding, respectful and safe hearing care. place of work, where our employees are motivated and thrive professionally and personally. Topic – Protecting Human and Labour rights Initiatives and results Human and labour rights Stand on human and labour rights, child labour Code of conduct and compliance Code of conduct, risk assessment and audit Modern Slavery Stand on risk of exploitation of labour Sustainability in the workplace Health and safety, personal development, work-life balance, stress policy, engagement survey, graduate program Diversity and gender equality Results and progress WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 13 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY Labour rights The typical non-compliances among suppliers are: The William Demant Group has signed collective agreements • Too many working hours per week with relevant labour unions. Subsequently, we negotiate and sign • Lack of one day off per week local agreements, duly considering local conditions, thus further • Fines to workers for breaking internal rules, e.g. violation of improving terms regarding salary, working hours, salary increments, smoking prohibition education etc. • Lack of evidence of CSR audits of subcontractors • Emergency exits blocked We respect the individual’s membership of labour unions. • Lack of exit signs • Lack of training in fire extinction and emergency handling Child labour • Lack of written emergency plans As declared in our business ethics policy and code of conduct, and likewise implemented by our suppliers, we uphold the effective abolition of child labour and condemn its usage. Modern slavery We stand by building awareness of modern slavery and against Due to the quality and sophistication of our products and services, exploitation of labor, slavery, servitude, forced and compulsory the vast majority of our employees, as well as the employees of labor and human trafficking. the companies with which we conduct business, are highly skilled, having to go through years of training and/or education. This is We consider the risk of human trafficking in our supply chain a requirement to enable them to develop, sell and handle the to be very mild. Our revenue model has a predominant base products. in OECD countries, where the government has a higher level of control over human rights, labour rights and modern slavery Code of conduct enforcement. In terms of production and assemblies of our As mentioned, all suppliers must sign a comprehensive code of products, the company operates predominantly in Europe, conduct that lists criteria, governing aspects of human rights, North and Latin America, where the risks are contained. labour rights, the environment as well as anti-corruption. We tackle the risk of exploitation in the labour market by workThe code of conduct has been used since 2010 throughout the ing with suppliers, entities, sales subsidiaries and distributions Group, and we are proud of announcing that in 2016 a total of 346 network that comply and abide with our code of conduct, out of 567 suppliers have signed the code of conduct. This is an regulations on human rights, labour rights and business ethics. increase of 105 suppliers signing the code of conduct, in compariA significant size of our collaborators have to undergo formal son to 2015. education and training scheme, and this reduce even more the risk associated with human trafficking. We select and currently assess our suppliers based on this code. The suppliers are grouped in three categories according to the level The statement of our engagement against modern slavery can of risk of breach of our code of conduct. The risk assessment is be found on our website at: based on William Demant’s own methodology. It is subject to indewww.demant.com/about/responsibility pendent audit and based on the supplier’s geographical presence, sector, management practices and strategic importance for William Demant. The categorisation of suppliers helps us prioritise the resources needed for further dialogue with the suppliers. If we find that there is a risk that a supplier does not live up to our code of conduct, we carry out an audit and prepare a report, listing the items that need to be addressed before we can initiate or continue cooperation with that supplier. In 2016, an external auditing firm performed 5 CSR audits. In addition, 3 external CSR audits has been performed by Sennheiser Communications. The external audits were followed up by internal audits, to control that initiatives contained in prior action plans had indeed been carried out, and to take actions on the results of the audits. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY 14 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY Sustainability in the workplace tions to longer, monthly leave of absence. They cover employees The occupational health and safety team makes sure our at our locations in Denmark. company is run in safety by carrying out review of the status of safety at work, initial and periodic safety training for new emIn 2016, a slight increase incurred, which is a cause of singular ployees, participation in the creation of the safety instructions events such as a major product launch and a comprehensive at the workplace, preparation of risk assessment and protective audit. In peer to peer analysis, we only find few other companies measures, and consultancy in aspects relating to safety at work. with as comprehensive policies and actions as us and we trust our continuous commitment to the stress management policy to To make sure that we allow our employees to develop in the keep us on the right track. best possible way and to grow within the organization, we review their competences, performances and career plans on a Percentage of employees affected by stress yearly basis. In order to enable the development and growth of our employees, the Group has established an education platform called Demant Training Academy. The Demant Academy 6,0 offers a broad variety of training opportunities: on a general level, communication and facilitation courses; for engineers, test driven development and scrum training; project management 4,0 and general leadership training as well as support for additional training; activities on working smarter activities are also offered. 2,0 Our company put focus on healthy lifestyle as well as work-life balance. In some of our premises, we offer the possibility for 0,0 our employees to join the corporate gym. In our headquarter, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 we also offer the possibility to sign up for our canteen schemes, which serve freshly made meals 60% of organic food, as well as As an ambitious company, we want to be the best, have and the opportunity to join other leisure activities and sport clubs. retain the best employees, work smarter and reach ambitious goals. Therefore, it is very important that we keep having dedDealing with stress is a part of our responsibility as a modern icated employees with high engagement. In 2015, we started and accountable company and for this reason we actively running an Engagement Survey to track the overall engagement engage employees in preventing and dealing with stress. The level in the company. This is used to obtain knowledge about: company has established a stress policy in this regard, and have • The development of the engagement level in general in our defined prevention initiatives, courses and toolbox. The purpose Danish subsidiaries of our stress policy is to clarify what is expected of each of us • How activities in the daily company life affect our overall in our various roles and not least, during the different phases engagement. of cases of stress. The policy should be treated as a guideline for what we must do depending on the role(s) we have in the The knowledge we obtain from the surveys is used as part of company. future decisions in regard to management tools, employee development and communication in the organization. Results It is our ambition to keep stress to an absolute minimum and are available on our intranet. In the coming years, we plan to run to constantly strive to keep it minimized for the benefit of a test in 2017 on a global Engagement Survey in some countries, employees and the company. Top Management expects that which potentially can be rolled out in all major locations from leaders in the company, as a part of their duties, know when a 2018. member of their staff is suffering from stress. In these cases, the leader must take the necessary action normally in cooperation In order to recruit new talents and to train them within the orwith HR. Top Management also expects that leaders have made ganization, William Demant has developed a Graduate program themselves familiar with company stress policy and the tools scheme, which started in 2014 and it is now recruiting for its 4th described in the Stress Toolbox. consecutive year. The Graduate Program is a two-year scheme in the course of which young candidates explore the Company and In 2012, we experienced a significant increase in the number of develop their personal and professional skills throughout four our employees affected by stress. By developing a policy and job rotations. Each period enhances their business understandtaking actions, we have managed to decrease the occurrence ing both functionally and geographically. The program has now of stress cases significantly, as shown by the table below. The developed to the following streams in Denmark and abroad: numbers include all occurrences from minor, short-term situaFinance, Operations, IT, Sales & Marketing, Quality and R&D, Retail. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 15 PEOPLE AND SOCIETY To secure and plan for future recruitment of engineers, which remain For our joint venture Sennheiser Communications, there are currenthigh priority for the William Demant Group, we has invested in the ly no female board members, but they have set a on one female Polish market and will be expanding Research & Development divimember in 2020. Since the target was only set in 2016, it has not sion in Warsaw, Demant Technology Centre. William Demant is not a been reached yet. small satellite in Poland, but is investing in labour and talent in the country. We also have our central hub for production in the country. • In job advertisements, employer branding material, and communication, we always aim to balance the tone of voice Diversity and gender equality between ‘male’ and ‘female’ connotations and visuals. Diversity at management level addresses age, international expe• Concerning recruitment, we require qualified female candirience and gender. In recent years, soft law and statutory requiredates in the second round when cooperating with external ments have focused specifically on gender equality. On 1 April 2013, recruiting agencies. With regard to external recruitment new rules for the gender-specific composition of top management processes, relevant departments in the Group must prioritise in all large Danish companies became effective. The rules aim to sending female employees to job fairs. ensure that the proportion of women in managerial positions in • From a talent management perspective, our managers make large companies is increased significantly in the coming years. The an effort to guide and nudging female talents towards pursuing rules oblige companies to set a target for the representation of the opportunities for promotion. under-represented gender on the company’s board and to set a deadline for reaching this target. Since we started recording these numbers in 2009, the male/ female manager ratio in our Danish companies has improved from Moreover, companies must adopt general policies on how they will 89/11 in 2009 to 81/19 in 2016. In middle and first-line managefurther women’s access to managerial positions in the company ment, the ratio has increased from 84/16 in 2009 to 79/21 in 2016. based on the assumption that more women in managerial positions will – generally speaking – provide the basis for the future recruitHowever, the percentage development shows a slowdown in the ment of women as board members. last 2 years. Traditionally, our recruitment base has been male dominated, and we still find it to be unbalanced with considerably Lastly, the rules provide that once a year, namely on publication of less females studying engineering. We continue, however, doing all its annual report, the company must publicise its targets and adoptwe can with regard to our own job advertisement and recruitment ed policies as well as the progress made in the period under review, processes recognizing that more could be done and that there is either in the company’s annual report or on its corporate website. still a long way to go. From a talent management perspective, we Having signed the UN Global Compact and by submitting annual are planning an organisational talent review where we will include Communication on Progress reports, we automatically comply with a diversity angle. the rules of law. It should be noted that organizational levels were redefined in 2016 This report constitutes our annual progress report on Female Leadand actual numbers may not be directly comparable with previous ership. The policy and the progress we make are also available on years. our website: www.demant.com/about/responsibility Development in male-female leadership 2009-2016 100 We work to encourage more women to seek executive and manage80 rial positions. This commitment is anchored with the Board of Directors and the Management. In 2012, we defined a diversity policy and 60 specific initiatives for increasing the share of female managers in the 40 Group. We called it ‘More female managers’. On an ongoing basis, concrete initiatives are taken to support the policy, from communi20 cation to recruitment and leadership. % 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 Female Male In terms of gender equality in the Board of Directors, a female Board member was elected at the annual general meeting in April 2014. In connection with this CSR report, we have included Sennheiser By that the Board reached its first target within one year after the Communications’ numbers on “diversity in management” for the target was set, and the Board decided in 2016 to set a new target first time in 2016 and thus the numbers do not yet represent a and deadline: Before the end of 2020, the Board of Directors aims to development. In 2016, the number of female and male managers have at least two female members. Since the target was only set in are the following: 2016, it has not been reached yet. Top management: 0/2 Other management levels: 1/28 WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 16 ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION On the basis of what is in our sphere of influence, we aim at Substances are categorised in classes: adopting a responsible approach to minimise environmental • Class I: Prohibited (not to be introduced in the production or challenges, undertake initiatives that promote environmental be present in any products put on the market by the William responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of Demant Group). environmentally friendly technologies. • Class II: Restricted (for restricted use only). • Class III: Subjected to special deliberation (can be used, but Naturally, we comply with all current environmental rules and under observation). regulations in all the countries in which we operate. Our prod• Class IV: Under observation (can be used after thorough risk uct-related environmental impact is fairly limited. Production of assessment). hearing aid does not require significant quantity of material and waster, and it does not utilize significant amount of water in the In addition to requirements and restrictions, which are mandaproduction process. By way of example, a hearing aid weighs tory by law, we have enforced extra specifications, e.g ban on just 2-6 grammes and contains no harmful substances. the use of al phthalates and natural rubber latex. Working with restricted lists ensures full transparency on the use of hazardous substances, it ensures compliance with relevant directives, and 3.1 Product safety and restricted list it gives the manufacturers the opportunity to set the bar even higher than required or recommended by external standards. Although the use of raw material is limited compared to other industries, we still enforce a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Thus, we have implemented the use of 3.2 Carbon Disclosure Project ‘restricted lists’, which is a compliance providing instruction and information on what is the basis for substances utilization and In 2008, we joined the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon categorization of substances and material. Disclosure Project), providing us with a means of measuring and recording our environmental footprint. Every year, we submit the The aim is to provide detailed instructions on how to ensure CDP report on corporate CO2 emissions and climate strategy. that the group complies with relevant law regulations related All reports are available on our website under: demant.com/ with content specific substances. The document lists all relevant media/#media-documents components and materials, which are banned or restricted. In 2016, our Group’s CO2 emissions reached 14,973 tonnes, It is mandatory for our suppliers to comply with the restricted representing 2.32 CO2 tonnes per employees. This is a stable list, which is controlled through a declaration of conformity and/ trend compared to 2015, when emissions reached a total of or audits. The list is an initiative taken by William Demant and is 14,406 tonnes representing an amount of 2.36 CO2 tonnes per based on the following regulations: employee. As a company in growth, we are satisfied with our • Restriction of Hazardous Substances (ROHS) ability to decrease, slightly, our footprint per employee com• Toys directive pared to 2015. For Sennheiser Communications the emission • Conflict minerals that are subject to the requirements of has increased from 0,81 CO2 tonnes per employee to 0,95 CO2 Dodd-Frank Section 1502 tonnes per employee due to an increase in the rented square • Registration, and the Evaluation, Authorisation and Restricmeters in their headquarter office. The total CO2 emission for tion of Chemicals directive (REACH). Sennheiser Communications reached 165 tonnes compared to 121 tonnes in 2015. In 2016, William Demant Group CO2 emissions are split among electricity accounting for 74%, heating of buildings for 9%, and cars for 17%. Topic Initiatives and results Product safety and restricted list Restricted list and substances’ classes CDP Results Environmental initiatives Actions and initiatives results WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 17 ENVIROMENTAL PROTECTION 3.3. Environmental initiatives Other measures have been to replace our main storage solution at our most predominant hosting location, and also replacing Facility and IT related initiatives our backup power units there. Being responsible means acting both globally and locally in terms of environment, and having the right attitude. We constantly try to Based on our set goals and the measured power consumption, do better in this field. In every possible way, we aim to act responwe’ve concluded that DGS have been successful in our goals to sibly when it comes to our environmental awareness. Seemingly get more for less while maintaining agility. trivial changes may have a relatively large impact on our energy consumption and hence on our environmental footprint. These initiatives are to be further developed and scaled out in 2017. In 2015, together with our energy provider SEAS-NVE, we have carried out a mapping and analysis of our energy consumption Offshore windmills farm to easily process and suggest for saving energy. As suggested by Another example is our stake in the offshore windmills farm the analysis, during 2016, a replacement of the uninterruptible in the German North Sea, an investment that is capable of power supply has been carried out, contributing to a 13% improved producing electricity to the equivalent consumption of 320000 efficiency. households once all 78 wind turbines will be commissioned. In addition to implementing initiatives with a view to reducing our The investment of DKK 1.7 billion was made in early 2012 by the energy consumption, we have initiated awareness projects with the Oticon Foundation through William Demant Invest (WDI), our potential of becoming best practices going forward. For instance, majority stakeholder and WDI’s interest in the wind farm constiwe run a so-called waste academy project that teaches our employtutes about 18%. The corresponding production of green power ees how to and what to recycle, and we run waste management will be more than five times the total corporate consumption of analyses at some of our sites. electricity. At our headquarter, we have recently implemented our circular economy initiative by collecting and recycling organic by-products 600,000 by using it to supply green energy, biomass and fertiliser. The food waste we collect is used in the production of biogas, a green and CO2-friendly alternative to incineration. The used cooking oil is 400,000 recycled as biodiesel, which is a green substitute for fossil fuels. By way of example, we have ambitious goals regarding IT infrastruc200,000 ture. Continuing our goals to optimize business agility and lower energy consumption when delivering IT solutions, our investments 0 have proved beneficial in both these major areas for 2016. This year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 our service utilization had a 20 % increase in users, at our major Energy consumption in server room at William Deamant headquaters. data center. This increase have been consumed alongside with a Level has significantly decreased since the establishment of server virtualsavast consolidation effort while still maintaining to save on power tion in 2010. consumption when compared to prior years. Not only are the increase covered by our power saving initiatives, but we’re also limiting the amount of less power effective solutions available when seen globally due to the consolidation. Hence the savings are even more vast than visualized below in KW/h. Actual initiatives taken, are to scale and expand systems just in time, and when capacity increases are required. This constantly keeps us at the best cost base and environmentally optimal solution, instead of procuring overcapacity for growth over multiple years. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 18 BUSINESS ETHICS 4.1 Corruption and Bribery 4.2 Data Privacy We are convinced that our business can only flourish if based We are aware and highly respectful of the sensitive nature of the on sound business ethics. We develop innovative, high-quality personal data our customers and end-users trust us to process, products and our primary goal is for the users to benefit from and we are committed to protecting such personal data through our products. We therefore have no interest in supporting busihigh levels of security measures and responsible policies. Our ness conduct that contributes to distorting market mechanisms. ambition is to raise the awareness level regarding data privacy Equally, we want to protect any end user data that we process. throughout our Group and to proactively manage and mitigate our data protection risk. In 2010, we adopted a formal business ethics policy that applies to all Group companies. The policy outlines how we want to act We have in 2016 established a data privacy project with the and how we want to be perceived, when it comes to the ethical scope of ensuring data privacy compliance globally, and we are aspects of doing business and interacting with customers. Speon the path to becoming GDPR compliant before May 2018. cifically, the policy provides guidelines as to what is appropriate and inappropriate marketing, hospitality and other interaction with hearing healthcare professionals. We do not offer, give, accept or receive bribery in any form and we discourage facilitation payments. Along these lines, it is important to note that situations where corruption is prevalent often occur in third-world countries in connection with public tenders and that these tenders represent a very limited part of our total revenue. By the nature of our business, challenges regarding corruption are thus extremely rare. Nevertheless, according to the policy, we have incorporated business ethics principles into contracts with third parties where relevant, and we have applied a set of principles to avoid misuse of payments and financial transactions. Furthermore, we make an effort to communicate our business ethics to all our companies, thus making ethics a natural part of all managers’ meetings and internal training sessions. The Group adheres to the United Nations Convention Against Corruption, and the UK Bribery Act. Most of the Group’s activities can be characterised as “relationship business”, which frequently involves close interaction with clients, including consulting, training and entertaining hearing care professionals, for instance audiologists, hearing aid dispensers, ear-nose-andthroat specialists and clinic owners. The Group’s strong focus on ensuring the highest degree of business ethics possible has resulted in the fact that the Group has not received any reports on cases of either corruption or bribery in 2016. We believe that this is a direct result of the significant attention paid to the business ethics policy by employees and managers on all levels of the Group. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 19 CONCLUDING REMARKS Concluding remarks During 2016, William Demant carried out a thorough benchmark and compliance analysis of our CSR activities and structure. In respect of initiatives, processes, assessment and enabling systems, we found to be in compliance with the market standard in a spectrum of comparable companies. On this basis, we identified areas to which we want to direct our CSR attention, targets and strategy for the coming years. The areas are: Update our supplier risk assessment system with the objective to get more transparency on supplier compliance and save costs on audits. Update our Code of Conduct to lift content and processes to new level and include new standards, e.g. conflicting minerals. Analyse our compliancy with anti-bribery legislation and based on the conclusion of the analysis potentially roll-out an internal training system. Create and formalise a CSR Governance structure with the objective of getting a more clear governance structure, effective risk management and alignment of successes. The last initiative has been completed in 2016 while the others are still in process. 2016 was also the year where EU legislation on reporting was updated, and our reporting resembles the new requirements such as company profile, clearer explanation of processes, risk assessments and KPI’s. WILLIAM DEMANT CSR REPORT 2016 20
