QANTAS ANNUAL REVIEW 2017 P O S I T I O N I N G F O R S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y AND GROWTH Contents Operating Responsibly and Transparently 16 Safety and Security 16 Governance 16 Leader in Aviation Security 16 Aviation Safety 17 Workplace Health and Safety 17 Business Resilience 18 Summary of 2016/17 Financial Performance 2 Cyber Security 18 Financial Framework 3 Capacity Building 18 Optimal Capital Structure 3 Climate Change and Environment 19 Improving Return on Invested Capital 3 Measure, Reduce, Offset and Influence 19 Shareholder Returns 3 International Action 21 Chairman’s Report 4 Protecting Against Pollution 21 CEO’s Report 5 Business Integrity and Sustainability in Our Supply Chain 22 Building and Protecting Value 6 Human Rights 22 Delivering Against Clear Strategic Pillars 8 Ethical Supply Chain 23 Maximising our Leading Domestic Position 8 Supplier Diversity 23 Building a Resilient Qantas International 9 Giving Back to the Community 24 Aligning Qantas and Jetstar with Asia’s Growth 10 Reconciliation Action Plan 24 Diversification and Growth at Qantas Loyalty 11 Helping Power the Australian Economy 25 Investing in Customer, Brand and Digital 12 Support for Tourism 25 Investing in New Technology 12 Working with Communities and Engaging Our People 25 Investing in a New Experience 13 Championing the Best of Australia 26 Investing in a New Brand 13 Being There for Australians 26 Focus on People, Culture and Leadership 14 A Fair Go 26 Diversity and Inclusion 15 Our Reporting Approach 27 United Nations Global Compact 27 Open Source Disclosure 27 Performance and Metrics 28 Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 1 SUMMARY OF 2016/17 Financial Performance 1 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Underlying Profit Before Tax: $1,401 million (second highest in Qantas’ history) Qantas reported an Underlying Profit Before Tax of $1,401 million in 2016/17 — the second highest performance in our 97-year history. Statutory Profit Before Tax: $1,181 million This result shows the Qantas Group’s margin advantage over deliver the second highest profit in its 13 years of operation at Statutory Earnings Per Share: 46c local and global competitors, which has been underpinned by $417 million of Underlying EBIT. completion of its three year Transformation Program. Qantas Loyalty booked a record $369 million Underlying EBIT Return On Invested Capital: 20.1% In the domestic market, Qantas and Jetstar combined reached a on a 4 per cent increase in revenue as it continued to diversify record $865 million Underlying EBIT, making them again the two its earnings. most profitable Australian airlines. Net free cash flow: $1,309 million A drop in the Group’s Statutory Profit Before Tax of $243 million Qantas International, which has faced high levels of capacity reflects that our 2015/16 result included the gain on sale from growth in the broader market, saw an improvement of conditions the Sydney Domestic Terminal. Up to $500 million shareholder return: in the second half; it posted an Underlying EBIT of $327 million. announced 7 cents per share ordinary unfranked dividend, In total, this performance means Qantas is able to reward plus an on-market buy-back of up to $373 million Continued strength in its core markets helped the Jetstar Group shareholders, recognise the hard work of its people and invest for customers. Qantas Qantas Jetstar Qantas Qantas Domestic International Group Freight Loyalty $645m $327m $417m $47m $369m Underlying EBIT. Underlying EBIT. Underlying EBIT. Underlying EBIT. Underlying EBIT. Up 12% Down 36% Down 8% Down 27% Up 7% 1 Refer to the Review of Operations section in the Qantas Annual Report 2017 for definitions and explanations Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 2 of non-statutory measures. Unless otherwise stated, amounts are reported on an underlying basis. SUMMARY OF 2016/17 Financial Framework Short-term liquidity remains strong at $1.8 billion of cash, Track Record of Delivering Shareholder Returns ($M) plus another $1 billion in undrawn facilities. Improving Return on Invested Capital All parts of the Group delivered a return above their weighted Capital Return Dividend average cost of capital. As a whole, the Group achieved a Buy-back 12-month return on invested capital of 20.1 per cent. This Qantas’ Financial Framework continues to guide is supported by disciplined capacity management and how we create value for our shareholders. improved fleet utilisation across Qantas and Jetstar, as Our overarching goal is to achieve maintainable well as new businesses within Qantas Loyalty providing new 373 earnings-per-share growth through the cycle, and revenue streams. in turn deliver total shareholder returns in the top Another $470 million in transformation benefits were 505 500 275 quartile of global airline peers and the ASX100. delivered in 2016/17, completing the three year program and outperforming the $2 billion target by $125 million. 91 The three core objectives of the Framework are: ——Maintaining an optimal capital structure that minimises 134 127 127 OPTIMAL CAPITAL STRUCTURE the Group’s cost of capital. Surplus Capital No Surplus Capital ——Achieving return on invested capital (ROIC) above 10 per cent through the cycle. 1H16 2H16 1H17 2H17 1H18 ——Growing invested capital with disciplined investment, Increased Shareholder Returns returning any surplus to shareholders. distributions, Debt reduction grow invested focus In 2016/17 a total of $627 million was distributed to ROIC (%) Our performance against each of these objectives in 2016/17 capital shareholders through an on-market share buy-back and is outlined below. ordinary dividends. 10% ROIC Optimal Capital Structure In August 2017, the Directors declared an unfranked final In 2016/17 the Group further strengthened its capital position dividend of 7 cents per share and announced a further through sustained positive free cash flow. Net debt fell by on-market share buy-back of up to $373 million. Once this $434 million to $5.2 billion compared to the prior year, latest buy-back is completed, the number of Qantas shares which is at the lower end of the target range. More than $4.8 $6.0 is expected to have been reduced by more than 20 per cent Net Debt ($B) since October 2015. 60 per cent of the Group’s fleet is now debt-free, representing an unencumbered asset base of around US$3.8 billion. Where debt is within the target range and surplus capital exists, it will be returned to shareholders. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 3 Chairman’s Report The Qantas Group posted the second highest Customers have benefited from our continued Qantas Points. This is opening up profit in its long history for 2016/17. This investment in better product and service, from new revenue streams in a range follows on from the record profit the prior year new aircraft to new lounges. of segments, including financial and comes despite some challenges in our services, health insurance and Our people have also shared in the benefits. international markets that have pushed some of online retail. As part of our financial results, we announced our global peers into losses. a Turnaround Bonus of $2,500 for 25,000 nonUnderpinning the Group’s performance The result coincides with the successful executive staff. This is the third bonus in as is our continued commitment to safety. completion of the Qantas Transformation many years for our frontline employees, worth Operational safety remained strong. Program. This three year initiative delivered a cumulative total of more than $220 million. However, we didn’t meet all our targets on $2.1 billion in benefits and achieved our goal occupational safety. This will continue to Drivers of performance of putting the Group in a more stable financial be an area of focus in the year ahead. position, enabling us to remain sustainably Beyond Transformation, the drivers of the Group’s performance in 2016/17 remained its Board developments profitable through the economic cycle. diversified portfolio. I was pleased to announce Richard Goyder AO Benefits of the turnaround will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director In the domestic aviation market, Qantas and The turnaround of Qantas over the past few from November 2017, pending shareholder Discipline towards our Financial Framework Jetstar combined had around 90 per cent of years has been remarkable. It’s a testament to approval at the Annual General Meeting. Richard remains key. This means balancing our capital the profit pool from just over 60 per cent of the the strategy executed by Alan Joyce and his has worked for many years at the highest levels expenditure with returning surplus funds to market share. This outperformance was achieved Management team, and to the 30,000 people of Australian business and his experience will be shareholders and keeping debt within our by the competitive strength of the network we working across the Group to make it better a significant asset to the Qantas Board. target range. Maintaining strong free cash offer, record levels of customer satisfaction and every day. flow is critical. We are targeting an average of a constant focus on cost control. Looking ahead $400 million in benefits per year as part of our These efforts have delivered significant benefits Our forward strategy is shaped by the four Internationally, we increased our focus on Asia as ongoing Transformation to help achieve this. for our shareholders and customers. Since the global forces that we believe will influence our the fastest growing aviation market in the world. start of transformation, the Group has generated operating environment into the future — the This will keep the Qantas Group on a path of The Group now has more than 50 per cent of its $3.5 billion in cumulative underlying profit and growth of Asia, big data, shifting customer sustainable, profitable growth. capacity directed towards Asia in response to the returned more than $9 billion to shareholders expectations and the implications of resource strong demand we’re seeing in the region. Leigh Clifford AO through buy-backs, dividends and share price constraints like energy. The Annual Review appreciation. Qantas was the top performing Qantas Loyalty continued to expand into new maps out some of the ways we are responding company on the ASX100 in 2016/17. enterprises using the common currency of to these trends. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 4 CEO’s Report Three years ago we started an ambitious seats from 2019 onwards. This refit will also Leveraging our strengths turnaround plan at the Qantas Group. It saw us improve the overall economics of the aircraft With the balance of economic tackle some difficult structural issues, become through smarter use of space and an overall power in our region shifting a lot more efficient and improve what we offer to increase in premium seating. increasingly to Asia, the Qantas our customers. Group is well positioned. In 2016/17 We are accelerating the rollout of inflight Wi-Fi Those efforts — which are an absolute credit to across our domestic A330 and 737 aircraft. we opened new markets, including our people — have certainly paid off. This follows a successful trial that showed Sydney–Beijing and Melbourne–Ho very positive customer feedback and potential Chi Minh, as well as adding capacity In 2016/17, Qantas Domestic and Qantas Loyalty on existing routes. The strength of productivity gains in flight planning and recorded their best ever financial results. For Jetstar-branded airlines in Japan, disruption management. Jetstar and Qantas International it was their Singapore and Vietnam is a platform for second highest. Qantas Freight, while posting a We’re welcoming the game-changing Dreamliner further growth as these markets develop. lower profit than the year prior, performed well in into Qantas International — an aircraft that will a challenging market. open up unique routes, such as Perth–London Accountability and integrity direct, and deliver significantly lower operating The Qantas Group is conscious of the social, our success throughout that time — from the The Group’s strong financial performance economic and environmental footprint of our costs. invention of business class to creating Jetstar. was coupled with record levels of customer operations. We took several important steps in We have now set our sights on a new horizon. satisfaction and employee engagement — two Jetstar is upgrading the cabins of the A320 2016/17 in this regard, including formalising our We plan to offer direct services from the east key indicators that are deeply linked. aircraft that make up the backbone of its fleet, support for the United Nations Global Compact coast of Australia to London and New York by increasing capacity by 3 per cent without on human rights, labour, environment and antiInvesting for future performance 2022, and we have challenged the aircraft compromising interior comfort. corruption. We are committed to the ten principles These strong foundations mean we can continue manufacturers to provide an aircraft with the All of these improvements are designed to laid out in the Compact and this Annual Review range to do so. investing in the future. And the pipeline of contribute to the Qantas Group’s margin outlines some of the ways these principles are projects that is improving the experience for our This is the kind of pioneering spirit that the advantage in key markets, which is central to embedded into how we do business. customers as well as the return on investment national carrier is built on. And it’s the kind of for our shareholders is very exciting. driving our future financial performance. Towards 100 years of Qantas spirit that we want to take us forward. Our Airbus A380 fleet will receive a major Qantas has been serving Australia for almost Alan Joyce AC upgrade, with plans to install next generation a century. Innovation has been at the heart of Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 5 Building and Protecting Value Aviation is often viewed as an industry that is especially susceptible to shocks. From oil prices to economic cycles through to major weather events and geopolitical changes, it has always been true that aviation can be impacted by many different forces. But it’s also true that few industries have proven as resilient, or are more experienced at managing risk. On top of this is the growing demand for aviation services. This year, more than 3.8 billion people stepped onto an aircraft somewhere in the world. Over the next 20 years this number is expected to double, led by a growing middle class in Asia. The Qantas Group is focused on the long-term sustainability of its business, which relies on being able to manage — as well as capitalise on — changes in the broader environment. Achieving this requires an ability to look ahead, plot a course and make adjustments when things change. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 6 B U I L D I N G A N D P R O T E C T I N G VA L U E Our model for building long-term value hardwires LOOKING AHEAD future trends and responsible Through four global forces actions into our strategy. We have identified the four global forces that are likely to have the biggest impact on what we do, both positively and negatively over the shortand long-term. And we have mapped several different scenarios for the aviation industry in light of these forces. In 2017, we used these global forces as part of New centres of Rapid digitalisation Shifting customer Resource scenario planning to stress test our strategy, to customer demand and and the disruption and workforce constraints and ensure the future success of the Qantas Group. geopolitical influence from big data preferences climate change This strategy is delivered through six pillars. For consumer brands especially, protecting value is also about maintaining a social licence DELIVERING TODAY to operate. Central to this is maintaining high Through clear strategic pillars operational standards, acting responsibly and being transparent. In May 2017 we launched the Qantas sustainability portal which provides details and regular updates on how we are positioning for Building a resilient Maximising leading and sustainable Aligning Qantas Investing in customer, Diversification Focus on people, the four global forces, how we embed future domestic position and Jetstar with brand, data and digital and growth culture and leadership Qantas International, thinking through scenario planning, how we through dual brand growing efficiently Asia’s growth at Qantas Loyalty strategy with partnerships determine materiality and how we hold ourselves accountable to the highest standards in everything we do. ACTING RESPONSIBLY AND TRANSPARENTLY Through our Financial Framework and non-negotiable business principles Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 7 DUAL BRAND STRATEGY VIDEO Delivering Against Clear Strategic MAXIMISING OUR LEADING DOMESTIC POSITION Pillars The Qantas Group maintained its strong position in the Queensland, ensuring continued earnings growth while Australian domestic market in 2016/17. still meeting the needs of our fly-in/fly-out customers. Through our dual brand strategy, Qantas continued Qantas Domestic maintained a clear lead as the airline to service the premium leisure and business market of choice in the corporate travel market, and continues segments, while Jetstar provided low fares to millions of to grow in the small business and premium leisure customers in the price-sensitive market. Between them, markets. Our extensive network, premium on-time these two airlines have approximately 90 per cent of the performance and service earned record customer domestic profit pool from two-thirds capacity share. satisfaction levels. Looking ahead, we are rolling out free, fast inflight Wi-Fi on our domestic A330 and 737 As the Australian economy continues to transition from aircraft, which will further strengthen our position in the the resources boom, we redirected some of our domestic domestic market. capacity to the growing tourism markets on the east coast of Australia. This has offset the Group’s exposure Jetstar is the preferred low-cost carrier in Australia to the resources sector in Western Australia and for domestic travel1 and is ranked as one of the world’s safest low-cost carriers. 2 1 House of Brands Tracker, June 2017 2 AirlineRatings.com Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 8 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S BUILDING A RESILIENT QANTAS INTERNATIONAL We have continued to build a more resilient and During 2016/17, we prepared to welcome the first sustainable Qantas International by transforming the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner to our fleet, which will business, as well as leveraging opportunities with replace our older Boeing 747 aircraft. The Dreamliner key partners including Emirates, China Eastern and is a game-changer for Qantas International. It American Airlines. provides unprecedented flying range, substantial cost efficiency and unrivalled customer experience, Through transformation, we have improved our cost giving us a sustainable long-term advantage. It also base, increased aircraft utilisation and redesigned allows us to change the structure of our network, and our network to high-growth markets, largely in Asia. use our geography to our advantage. At the same time, we’ve achieved record customer satisfaction levels and have continued to invest in A prime example is the new Perth–London route product and service. using the Dreamliner. The 17-hour flight will be the first regular, non-stop passenger service to link Australia with Europe when it commences in March 2018. INTRODUCING QANTAS 787-9 DREAMLINER FACTS DREAMLINER VIDEO Responsive cabin Fuel savings Lower CO2 and Smooth ride Calmer cabin Dreamliner lighting The Qantas NOx emissions technology A holistic approach windows The lighting in a Qantas Dreamliner uses Carbon dioxide (CO2) is The Qantas Dreamliner is to cabin noise quality Windows on the 787-9 Dreamliner will be up to 20 per cent produced as a result of equipped with a system which implements are 65 per cent larger adjustable to suit the less fuel than fuel burn and reduced fuel that senses turbulence and multiple solutions than comparable time of day and service other aircraft of consumption means fewer commands wing control throughout the aircraft and activity and includes equivalent size. CO2 emissions. The next surfaces to counter it, aircraft addresses customers can adjust a simulated sunrise to generation engines in the smoothing out the ride so the causes of the amount of light gently wake customers Qantas Dreamliner also reduce customers can enjoy a more annoying noise and that comes through on morning flights. nitrogen oxide emissions by up comfortable flight. vibrations. electronically. to 20 per cent. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 9 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S ALIGNING QANTAS AND JETSTAR WITH ASIA’S GROWTH Asia remains the world’s fastest growing aviation Focusing on Greater China, we have a three-pronged market, and is expected to be bigger than the North strategy to take advantage of the country’s huge America and Europe markets combined by 2035. growth: By 2030, two-thirds of the world’s middle class 1. Serve the key business hubs: Hong Kong, Shanghai will be in the Asia-Pacific region. and Beijing (with a population of 53 million between Our strong partnerships in the region, as well as our them). geography, ensure we are well placed to capitalise 2. Further strengthen our partnerships with China on this growth. Eastern and China Southern, which provide the Group with 22 destinations in China. More than 50 per cent of the Qantas Group’s 3. Funnel inbound Chinese tourists — who take an international capacity is currently focused on Asia, average 2–3 domestic flights when visiting Australia with daily services into the major business hubs of — onto the Group’s domestic network. Singapore, Shanghai, Beijing, Hong Kong and Tokyo. Jetstar-branded airlines based in Asia now have 54 This year, Qantas launched Sydney–Beijing and aircraft in the region. This growing network — which Melbourne–Narita and increased capacity to Singapore, remained profitable in FY17 — gives the Group a strong Hong Kong, Bali, Jakarta and Manila to meet growing presence in key markets. demand. Jetstar launched services to Ho Chi Minh City from Melbourne and Sydney and will start services Jetstar Japan, which has entered its sixth year of between Melbourne and the Chinese city of Zhengzhou operation and has grown to 21 aircraft, was ranked 58 th in 2017/18. in the top 100 most recognised brands in that country. 1 During 2016/17, Jetstar Japan launched flights from JETSTAR Tokyo to Shanghai and announced plans for a third STRATEGY base for Nagoya. Jetstar Asia continues to evolve its network out of VIDEO Singapore and Jetstar Pacific has grown to tap into the increasing travel market both in and out of Vietnam. 1 Campaign Asia Top 1000 Brands (Japan category) Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 10 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S QANTAS POINTS VIDEO DIVERSIFICATION AND GROWTH AT QANTAS LOYALTY Qantas Loyalty continues to provide a diversified, Looking ahead, Qantas Loyalty will continue to stable earnings stream for the Group, while innovate and diversify for stable, non-cyclical earnings strengthening loyalty to the Qantas brand. growth to achieve annual growth of 7–10 per cent through to FY22. The core Frequent Flyer program grew its membership by almost 4 per cent to 11.8 million, helped by the Now in its 30 th year, Qantas Loyalty has diversified addition of 22 new partners (including Airbnb, Jaguar and expanded into new areas, bringing members fresh Land Rover and Samsung) as well as a renewed opportunities to earn Qantas Points. This includes partnership with supermarket chain Woolworths. travel, life and health insurance (Qantas Assure) and a travel money card that has captured 17 per cent of the We also have an extensive partner coalition network of market in four years (Qantas Cash). over 270 partners across multiple sectors — including 50 airlines — that delivers a global network for airline In June 2017, we launched the Qantas Premier credit redemption. card, which offers a high rate of points earn as well as a number of travel benefits. At the same time, Qantas Loyalty is taking advantage of business opportunities in other segments to grow The credit card provides our business with another revenue through a pipeline of new ventures. The Qantas revenue stream and our customers with more choice Business Rewards Program strengthened our presence and more ways to earn points. in the small business market. Red Planet and our equity Around 35 per cent of credit card spending in Australia stake in Data Republic have seen us continue to invest currently earns Qantas Points. in big data services. Qantas Loyalty is more than the Frequent Flyer program. It’s one of the world’s most diverse airline loyalty businesses. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 11 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S DREAMLINER COMMERCIAL At the same time as Perth–London flights went on sale, Qantas launched the third wave of our Feels Like Home VIDEO brand campaign. INVESTING IN CUSTOMER, BRAND AND DIGITAL The Qantas Group aims to be the first choice among Investing in New Technology The introduction of free, fast inflight Wi-Fi started customers in every market we serve. Our investment in data and digital transformation midway through 2016/17 with a trial on a Boeing 737. has enabled more targeted and personalised Almost 90 per cent of customers rated their Wi-Fi Across our airline brands (Qantas and Jetstar) and communications, and allowed us to realise additional experience as positive, with reliability of the service the world-leading Qantas Loyalty programs, our revenue opportunities. Coupled with further at 98 per cent. 1 The rollout will ramp up during 2017/18 investment in customer, product and service has enhancements to the Qantas and Jetstar online with around 80 domestic aircraft equipped by the end translated into a clear premium over our competitors. process, we’re able to deliver improved booking flows of calendar 2018. During 2016/17, we have kept investing to maintain and a more personalised experience. Our intention is to extend the service to our regional this advantage. A major upgrade to the Qantas App allows our and international fleets as Wi-Fi technology improves. customers to keep track of their Qantas Frequent Flyer benefits, with a personalised news feed providing additional offers and news features. We launched a Facebook Messenger bot called Qantas Concierge to give customers 24/7 personalised travel inspiration, along with faster responses and more 1 Qantas/ViaSat user data, June 2017 relevant information. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 12 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S The Qantas Group continues to outperform against key brand and customer metrics. 70% of Australians prefer to fly with Qantas Group brands for domestic travel and over 50% Investing in a New Experience prefer to fly Qantas to the USA.1 We announced or delivered a number of customer improvements during 2016/17: ——Unveiled cabins for the 787-9 Dreamliner, including a class-leading Premium Economy, an updated Business Suite and an all-new Economy seat. ——Opened new international and domestic Investing in a New Brand lounges in Brisbane. In preparation for the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner ——Announced direct Perth–London flights on the and our centenary in 2020, we are refreshing Dreamliner, which will be the first regular direct our iconic kangaroo brand. The new brand air link between Australia and Europe when it symbolises a new era of new destinations, new starts in March 2018. technology and a new standard of service. ——Started construction on a new lounge at London This change is only the fifth time the red-andHeathrow, opening in late calendar 2017. white image on the tail of Qantas aircraft has ——Began work on an integrated domesticbeen updated since it was first introduced in international passenger hub at Perth Airport 1944. The last update was in 2007 to coincide to save passengers significant connection time. with the introduction of the Airbus A380 to the This includes construction of a new Qantas fleet. transit lounge. ——Announced a refresh of Jetstar A320 cabin interiors with new seating and better overhead storage. 1 House of Brands Brand Tracker, June 2017 Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 13 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S FOCUS ON PEOPLE, CULTURE AND LEADERSHIP Airlines rely on multiple tasks and supply chains Our program of ongoing customer service training coming together at the right time to deliver a safe, has continued across Qantas and Jetstar. Around reliable service for customers. Our people are 10,000 Qantas and Jetstar customer-facing team central to making this happen and that’s why we members have participated in a program aimed continue to invest heavily in training, engagement at creating meaningful connections with our and leadership. customers. This training has included staff in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore and Japan. In 2017, engagement across the Qantas Group reached a record level. Based on our annual The focus on strengthening our desired culture independent survey, around 80 per cent of continues and a program dedicated to this has been employees understand and support the objectives rolled out to over 8,500 of our employees. Around of the organisation. Nearly 70 per cent said being 1,000 leaders and supervisors received training to part of Qantas and Jetstar inspired them to do their help them grow in their roles as part of our active best work. investment in leadership development, and over 400 senior leaders participated in a residential Growth within the Group is creating new career experience designed to develop and engage this opportunities for our people, particularly as we level of leadership. continue to invest in new products and services. The introduction of the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner into the Qantas fleet means building additional capability amongst our pilots, cabin crew and engineers. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 14 D E L I V E R I N G A G A I N S T C L E A R S T R AT E G I C P I L L A R S Diversity and Inclusion We believe that embracing diversity helps us attract the best talent and leads to a more innovative mindset for the organisation. In 2017, we improved our parental leave scheme to help address the gap in superannuation many women (in particular) experience by taking time out of the workforce to raise a family. This involves offering a further two weeks’ paid parental leave that is paid directly into superannuation by default. We provided over 2,000 leaders with tools to mitigate unconscious bias, creating a more inclusive culture and place to work. We also continued to roll out our Flex@Q program to offer greater flexibility in where and when our people work. QANTAS GROUP BELIEFS This flexibility is helping increase wellbeing and reduce absenteeism. We expanded our policy on domestic violence to offer better support to people experiencing what is a significant issue in Everyone has the Customers Being a fit, agile Working together Each employee the broader community. right to return determine our and diverse in an inclusive deserves respect, home safely success organisation drives manner always trust and good Our focus on recruitment and promotion processes has innovation and delivers the best leadership delivered our gender diversity objective of 35 per cent of female simplicity Group outcome representation in senior management one year ahead of target. We will continue to embed these practices across all levels of our organisation to build strong pipelines and a platform to further improve the gender balance of our senior leadership team. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 15 Operating Responsibly and Transparently SAFETY AND SECURITY Governance Leader in Aviation Security The safety and security of our customers and our people is Safety and security performance and risks are monitored Qantas operates within a Security Management System, our first priority, underpinning the trust of our customers and reported at all levels of the Qantas Group — from Boarda systematic approach to managing security, including and stakeholders, the health and wellbeing of our workforce, level oversight by the Committee for Health, Environment, the necessary organisational structures, accountabilities, and the way we operate. We take a vigilant, proactive and Safety and Security through to our business unit safety policies and procedures. The system is recognised globally systematic approach to protect the Qantas Group against a committees. Our governance structure allows safetyand by the industry as an example of best practice and forms range of risks and strive for continuous improvement in our security-related information to flow freely throughout the the foundation of our risk management approach. To safety and security practices and performance. organisation, ensuring that our risks are openly discussed support this, Qantas has a specific focus on proactive and best practice shared across our businesses. collaboration with its stakeholders, our global partners across the industry and the various governments and Qantas Group businesses operate integrated management regulators worldwide. systems, which have the necessary organisational structures, accountabilities, policies and procedures to Qantas is at the forefront of improving security outcomes ensure risks are identified and mitigated to protect our for our passengers, customers and employees. We work with customers and our people. law enforcement agencies, regulators, major corporates, as well as security suppliers and vendors to build a security framework that is proportionate, agile and responsive to changing threats and risks across our network. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 16 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY Aviation Safety Workplace Health and Safety Aviation remains the safest form of travel and, to Workplace safety was a key area of focus for the Group maintain this, the entire industry needs to continue to in 2016/17 and our performance for Total Recordable work together. We continue to reinvest and build our Injury Frequency Rate improved compared to last capability in safety management systems. year. However, our Lost Work Case Frequency Rate and Duration Rate both rose slightly. As part of a constant drive towards continuous improvement, individual airlines in the Group are now Our frontline leaders and their teams continue introducing additional technology solutions and tools. to collaborate to drive improvements in safety These aircraftand ground-based systems will improve performance. The Qantas Group has also established the robustness of how we manage operational risk a number of new initiatives to improve and enhance helping those who interact with, maintain and fly our workplace health, including: aircraft to do their work with increasing safety and ——Fitness for Work Framework — a holistic framework to efficiency. As an example, we are in the final stages ensure our staff remain fit for work. of rolling out a new safety database. This will allow ——Ergoanalyst — a risk assessment tool to improve our employees and contractors to use mobile devices understanding of our ergonomic risks and establishing to communicate any safety issues and potential more effective controls to mitigate them. deficiencies which they observe. ——MyLife Hub — a 24/7 online platform providing all In 2016/17, we hosted a number of industry safety Group employees with resources and services to meetings and conferences, including the IATA Safety support them through key stages of their working life. Meeting and the Qantas Group Safety Conference, which ——Healthier Places; Healthier Bodies; Healthier Minds; some of our competitors attended. Collaboration across Healthier Culture — our Health and Wellbeing program. our own businesses supports our philosophy of sharing ——Our Minds Matter — a program that supports lessons with a safety benefit or learning. With a focus on employees with mental health issues and creates a standardisation and best practice, liaison groups have mentally healthy workplace culture. been formed covering: Flying Operations, Flying Training, Ground Operations, Cabin Services, plus Engineering and Airworthiness. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 17 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY Business Resilience In an ever-changing global environment, the ability to identify, assess and effectively respond to risks is the cornerstone of the Qantas Group’s industry-leading business resilience and crisis management frameworks. Cyber Security meetings, including the inaugural AustraliaThe Qantas Group is constantly improving United States Cyber Security Dialogue to its cyber and data privacy capabilities. discuss ways to collaborate on better security Like many large organisations, we operate in outcomes. an environment of ever-evolving cyber threat, Cyber security risk assessments have also where external attackers are always adopting been conducted on our higher risk third party new and more sophisticated techniques. suppliers. Where appropriate, we continue Protection from these attacks — and the to work with these suppliers to ensure risks potential financial and public reputation identified through this process are addressed. implications associated with unauthorised access to the Group’s information — is central Capacity Building to our our strategy. With our partners, Qantas has played a leading role in capacity building programs As part of an ongoing cyber transformation across the region, resulting in significant initiative and cyber safety educational and improvements. As a consequence, the cultural program, we work to constantly expand passenger experience has been significantly employee awareness of cyber risks, including enhanced, and importantly, the security through simulations. outcome has improved. Qantas continues to The Qantas Group continues to support work with governments and security suppliers key external initiatives under the Australian to explore additional opportunities in the region. Government’s Cyber Security Strategy, the voluntary ASX100 Cyber Health Check, and joint Commonwealth and private sector Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 18 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY Four pillars through which we We take responsibility for our deliver on our commitment to environmental sustainability. environmental impact seriously. We also believe we have a responsibility to influence and CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENT enable others to act. As a major consumer of fossil fuels, we recognise our responsibility to reduce our emissions, work with partners, governments and industry, and contribute to the global response to climate change and resource Measure our impact with constraints. Our comprehensive environment strategy ensures that best practice analytics we play a positive role in the community while reducing cost and risk. — Measures of performance: fuel and energy use, carbon emissions and waste to landfill Measure, Reduce, Offset and Influence Environmental Performance Human-induced climate change and resource scarcity is 9.6 years (Qantas Group) impacting natural environments and communities around the Fleet age 10.6 years (Qantas) Reduce our impact with 7.4 years (Jetstar) industry-leading innovation world, influencing consumer behaviour and reshaping government policies and regulations at a global and local level. Qantas 6.2% improvement achieved against 2009 baseline supports the world-wide priority of limiting the rise in global Fuel efficiency (on track for 2020 target of 16.5%) temperatures to below 2 degrees above pre-industrial levels and recognises our responsibility to reduce our impact on the Total emissions 12,387,666 tonnes CO2-e (0.5% efficiency environment. (scope 1 & 2) improvement against prior year) Environmental performance and risks, including climate change, are monitored and reported at all levels of the Qantas Group Total fuel Offset our impact with 4,873,267 litres (increase of 1.4% against prior year) world leading initiatives — from Board-level oversight by the Committee for Health, consumption Environment, Safety and Security through to our business unit safety committees. 23.1% reduction achieved against 2009 baseline Electricity (on track for 2020 target of 35%) 10-YEAR CARBON OFFSET 10.4% reduction achieved against 2009 baseline Water ANNIVERSARY (on track for 2020 target of 20%) Influence and inspire 24.5% reduction achieved against 2009 baseline VIDEO Waste to landfill (on track for 2020 target of 30%) others to act Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 19 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY We continue to work with General Electric to embed enhanced We are also investing in: fuel analytics into our operations to reduce fuel consumption. ——The electrification of our ground fleet, with 12 electric belt In 2016/17, we developed the FlightPulse iPad application to loaders ordered and due into service in 2017 to replace diesel deliver individualised fuel use data to pilots to give them better powered units. access to data on fuel consumption and fuel efficiency practices. ——Innovative flight planning systems to deliver operational and While our absolute emissions increased in 2016/17 due to fuel efficiency benefits. increased flying, our fuel efficiency continues to improve, ——Technology enablers to accelerate the fuel efficiency benefits with initiatives across the Group delivering 30.2 million litres of our over 100 initiatives across the airline businesses. in fuel savings. We are on track to meet our 2020 target of We have the world’s largest airline offset program and have now 1.5 per cent per annum average increase in fuel efficiency, and been carbon offsetting for over 10 years. In 2016/17, we reached the introduction of the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliners to Qantas three million tonnes offset. International in 2018 will deliver a step change. We continue to offset the emissions from our own business travel In 2016/17, we conducted a feasibility study with the Crucible and ground operations and give customers the choice to offset Group into converting quarantine waste to energy which when they fly. demonstrated the technical, engineering, environmental, biosecurity and economic perspectives. The focus in 2017/18 will We are now commercialising and sharing this capability with be on the commercialisation pathway. other businesses. Through commercial partnerships we provide customers with carbon offsets from high quality projects, scalable technology that allows their customers to offset purchases, and market research insights on sustainability from Qantas Frequent Flyers. This is adding new value to our customers and scaling our internal carbon market capability. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 20 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY Every 53 seconds a Qantas customer flight is offset. Around 80% of consumers expect that businesses will act to solve environmental challenges. — 2 017 Qantas consumer environment benchmark study International Action Aviation has been on the front line of the global business response to climate change, becoming the first industry to voluntarily commit to emissions targets out as far as 2050. Protecting Against Pollution Three Global Industry PFAS is a group of chemicals that have been used in a range In October 2016, an historic agreement was reached to meet the Emissions Targets of industrial and consumer products for many decades, industry’s commitment of carbon neutral growth from 2020. The Carbon Offset and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation including fire fighting foams. There is an increasing move (CORSIA), commencing in 2021 under the United Nations body away from these chemicals because they may pose a 1 for aviation, will require airlines to purchase offsets to meet potential risk to human health and the environment. 1.5% average annual fuel efficiency their share of the industry’s growth emissions. Qantas strongly We have committed to installing aviation accredited PFASimprovement from 2009 to 2020 advocated in support of the Australian Government opting into free fire-fighting foam in all Qantas Group sites over the the first phase of the scheme to avoid the alternative patchwork next 12 months. We are the first major Australian airline to approach to carbon pricing. do so. 2 In June 2017, we supported the IATA resolution calling for A spill of fire-fighting chemicals (containing PFAS) at Carbon neutral industry growth governments to implement policies to accelerate the deployment our Brisbane hangar in April 2017 fell well below the from 2020 of aviation biofuels. We continue to work with Australian federal environmental standards that the Qantas Group sets and state governments on the design of policies to support itself and has been followed by an extensive clean-up and commercialisation of aviation biofuels in Australia, which is investigation, in collaboration with Queensland and federal 3 currently sub-scale. regulators as well as Brisbane Airport. 50% reduction in net emissions by 2050 (2005 baseline) Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 21 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND SUSTAINABILITY IN OUR SUPPLY CHAIN In response to rapidly evolving regulatory and reputational Human Rights needs, we have established a dedicated function Qantas recognises the wide reaching impact of our responsible for managing risks associated with: business on people in Australia and around the world. We believe that business has a significant role in ensuring ——Bribery and corruption that customers, employees and people within the global ——Trade sanctions supply chain are treated with dignity and respect, as ——Human rights expressed in the International Bill of Rights. ——Privacy compliance With an estimated 30.4 million people enslaved in the The function, with Board-level oversight through the Audit Asia-Pacific region1 , the blight of modern slavery is Committee, is responsible for the implementation of a a particular focus of the Qantas Group, and we are coherent and effective strategy for managing corporate committed to meeting our moral and ethical obligation compliance and will focus on enhancing the Group’s to help end modern slavery. ability to prevent, detect and address gross unethical conduct whilst meeting the growing expectations of global In 2016, we released our first Modern Slavery Statement regulators and stakeholders. in line with the UK Modern Slavery Act. We welcome similar legislation currently under consideration in Australia. The newly formed business integrity and compliance function will align the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the OECD Guidelines with the Qantas Group’s policies and business practices over the As part of the business integrity next 12 months. and compliance function, Qantas is a member of TRACE International, a business association funded by over 500 members that leverage a shared-cost model to develop antibribery compliance tools, services 1 Global Slavery Index 2016 and resources. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 22 O P E R AT I N G R E S P O N S I B LY A N D T R A N S PA R E N T LY Ethical Supply Chain Supplier Diversity Qantas takes a proactive approach to managing ethical risks in As the national carrier, we are proud to support Australian our supply chain. businesses by showcasing their products across the country and around the world. We spent $6.6 billion with AustraliaWhere necessary, we have requested independent due diligence based suppliers in 2016/17, representing 65 per cent of total or audits for new suppliers and secondary audits for existing procurement expenditure. suppliers to ensure that the organisations from which we procure align with our compliance and ethical standards. With our origins in outback Australia, we recognise the importance of supporting regional communities. We do business with more In 2016/17, we initiated 90 due diligence reports relating to than 1,200 suppliers in regional areas. anti-corruption and bribery, workplace health and safety and environmental and social practices. As a founding member of Supply Nation — an Australian leader in supplier diversity that connects Australian companies and To further strengthen confidence that our supply chain matches government with Indigenous businesses — we continued to our ethical standards, we have launched a Supply Chain support Indigenous suppliers. We have made great progress Assurance (SCA) program. This program aims to formalise risk towards our Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) target, having tripled governance throughout our supply chain and has a clear focus on our spend with Indigenous suppliers from last financial year. five key risk areas: We are also proud supporters of small businesses, and have 1. Anti-bribery & corruption signed up to the Australian Supplier Payment Code. This is a 2. Modern slavery and child labour commitment to change our payment terms for small businesses 3. Environmental impact from the standard 45 days to 30 days. 4. Workplace health and safety 5. Cyber security (particularly in terms of data protection) The program will be implemented during financial year 2017/18. Herb Smith, Founder, Dreamtime Tuka, visits Qantas headquarters as part of National Reconciliation Week 2017. Herb supplies baked slices for QantasLink’s morning and afternoon tea services. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 23 Giving Back to the Community Our community strategy governs the high-level investments RECONCILIATION ACTION PLAN we make and the partnerships we form to champion Australia at home and internationally, with four core focus areas: We are proud to be one of only eight companies in We are continuing to achieve our targets in our Australia to have achieved Elevate status for our Reconciliation Action Plan, which are: ——Showcasing the best of Australia. Reconciliation Action Plan — the highest level endorsed ——Reconciliation Action Plan. ——Lift our proportion of Indigenous employees from by Reconciliation Australia. ——Supporting communities and engaging our people. 1.2 per cent to 1.8 per cent by 2018. ——Demonstrating the intrinsic Australian values of fairness Our plan outlines our commitment to growing economic ——Grow our spend with Indigenous suppliers to and equality. opportunity for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander $1.75 million over the same period. people, growing Indigenous supply chains and telling the ——Create more than 200 internships for young Aboriginal stories of the First Australians. and Torres Strait Islander people over the next 10 years, through partnership with Career Trackers. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 24 GIVING BACK TO THE COMMUNIT Y HELPING POWER SUPPORT FOR TOURISM WORKING WITH COMMUNITIES THE AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY We are the largest investor in Australian tourism, with AND ENGAGING OUR PEOPLE The Qantas Group plays an integral role in the Australian $80 million in marketing agreements with Tourism Australia and The Qantas Group has long-standing partnerships with economy, both as the national carrier and as one of the state tourism bodies. organisations that have a positive impact on the community. largest employers in the country. For Qantas, these partners include Make-a-Wish-Australia, Following the success of last year’s safety video — which had the National Australia Day Council, the Australian Olympic and A Deloitte Economics report found that the Qantas Group had more than 90 million views across Qantas’ in-flight and social Paralympic Committees, and UNICEF Australia. Over the past a $22 billion impact on the Australian economy in 2015/16. media platforms — we launched a new safety video showcasing 25 years, Qantas passengers have raised over $32 million for some of Australia’s most stunning landscapes and locations. This includes indirect economic impact adding up to UNICEF through the Change for Good initiative. $11.6 billion, or 0.7 per cent of Australian GDP, as well as Jetstar’s community activities include StarKids, which has $10.4 billion of tourism spending throughout the country. QANTAS SAFETY raised more than $9 million for World Vision, and Flying Start, We also directly and indirectly support almost 60,000 jobs, VIDEO 2017 which offers grants of up to $30,000 to charitable initiatives. or 0.6 per cent of total Australian employment. VIDEO We also re-launched our Side by Side program to support our employees who donate their time and skills to good causes. Through this program, our staff can apply for grants for the organisations they are actively involved with. QANTAS AVRO ACCELERATOR VIDEO Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 25 GIVING BACK TO THE COMMUNIT Y CHAMPIONING THE BEST BEING THERE FOR AUSTRALIANS OF AUSTRALIA As the national carrier, we have a long and proud history Australia is a sporting nation, and we are proud to support of helping Australians in their time of need. With the Australian Rugby Union, the Football Federation of Australia devastating impact of Cyclone Debbie throughout and Cricket Australia as they compete on the global stage. Queensland and Northern NSW, we assisted in transporting emergency services personnel to the areas that were We also partner with the best Australian arts and cultural hardest hit, as well as transporting residents out of the organisations including Bangarra Dance Company, disaster area. Opera Australia, The Australian Ballet, National Gallery of Australia, Museum of Contemporary Art, National Gallery of Victoria and Museum of Old and New Art. The funding for A FAIR GO the International Acquisition of Contemporary Australian Qantas, alongside many other Australian companies, Art Program established with the MCA and Tate saw further engages on a number of social issues from gender diversity, works acquired and the announcement that the first of Indigenous reconciliation and marriage equality. Our identity these acquisitions will be hung in London’s Tate in late 2017. is the Spirit of Australia, and one of the most fundamental values in this country is the notion of a ‘fair go’, which is why we speak up on important social issues — just as we do on economic matters. Bennelong , Bangarra 2017. Photo by Edward Mulvihill. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 26 Our Reporting Approach ‘For Qantas, doing business responsibly isn’t just the right thing Qantas believes in a process of continuous improvement towards United Nations Global Compact integrated reporting, with a view to delivering more meaningful to do — it’s also the smart thing to do. In February 2017, we formalised our support of the Ten Principles corporate reporting. Our objective is to drive better outcomes for of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) on human rights, A clear social purpose helps attract our business and better transparency for stakeholders. labour, environment and anti-corruption. new generations of customers and In line with best practice, a materiality assessment was employees; a proactive response to This Annual Review also serves as our first UNGC Communication performed to validate the issues most relevant to our stakeholders on Progress, describing our actions and measures to embed the climate change gives us the licence — including investors, aircraft and engine manufacturers, Global Compact principles into the way we do business. We will to grow over the long-term; robust airline and industry peak bodies, peers, government agencies, continue to restate our commitment to public accountability supply chain policies help us expand non-government organisations and employee and customer and transparency across the four Global Compact areas in the representatives. responsibly into emerging coming years. markets – the list goes on.’ The key issues identified are reflected in this document. Open Source Disclosure — Alan Joyce, Qantas Group CEO, 2017 Reporting Suite This financial year, Qantas exceeded performance in letter to UN Secretary General Annual Report A detailed account of our FY17 financial sustainability benchmarking indices, moving from the bottom to performance the the top tier of the Macquarie Environment Social Governance (ESG) ratings, achieving CDP A List and CDP Supplier Climate Annual Review Focusing on strategy, corporate governance and our integrated financial, Change A List and rated at a ‘Leading’ level by the Australian social and environmental performance Council of Superannuation Investors. Investor Relations Portal Our in-depth sustainability performance, case studies, disclosure on management From 2017/18, we will shift our reporting to open source approaches, periodically updated here disclosures, leveraging our sustainability portal as a single source of publicly available policies, procedures, initiatives and performance indicators across our material issues, starting with our Climate Change and Carbon Disclosures. From 2018, we intend our climate change disclosures to align with the recommendations of the Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 27 Performance and Metrics Unit 2016/17 2015/2016 2014/2015 Notes* ECONOMIC INTEGRITY Underlying PBT $M 1.401 1,532 975 1 ROIC % 20.1 22.7 16.2 2 Net free cash flow $M 1,309 1,674 1,104 3 Optimal capital structure – FFO/net debt % 58 52 45 4 Optimal capital structure – Debt/adjusted EBITDA x 2.3 2.5 3.0 5 SAFETY AND SECURITY Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate TRIFR 24.7 25 30.3 6 Lost Work Case Frequency Rate LWCFR 9.1 8.6 10 7 Duration rate DR 66.7 56.9 60.3 8 Fatalities # 0 0 0 CUSTOMER AND BRAND On-time performance % 81.2 83.0 83.4 9 Brand preference – Best Products and Services % 74 72 65 10 Domestic Operational NPS – Gap over major competitor Score 23 16.5 20.2 11 Total number of suppliers # 9,933 10,128 11,194 12 Total supplier spend $M 10,089 9,887 10,365 13 Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 28 PERFORMANCE AND METRICS Unit 2016/17 2015/2016 2014/2015 Notes* Australian supplier spend $M 6,603 6,395 6,814 14 Total community partnerships investment $M 3,671 6,806 3,300 15 Proportion of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander investment % 32.6 41.0 22.5 16 Total UNICEF donations facilitated through Change for Good program $M 1,429 1,500 1,400 17 Total World Vision donations facilitated through StarKids program $M 1,655 2,600 1,600 18 PEOPLE AND CULTURE Number of full-time equivalent employees # 29,596 29,204 28,622 19 Percentage of part-time employees % 18.5 17.0 16.8 20 Percentage of employees under a collective bargaining agreement % 80.6 80 20 Percentage of women % 42.6 41.7 40.6 20 Percentage of women in senior positions % 35.0 34.0 31.6 20 Percentage of women Directors on the Qantas Board % 30.0 30.0 33.3 20 Number of women Directors on the Qantas Board # 3 3 3 20 Percentage of women recruited into the graduate program % 52.4 61.0 N/A 20 Percentage of temporary or casual employees % 8.7 9.9 7.5 20 Number of Indigenous Australian employees # 384 369 329 20 EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP (PERMANENT EMPLOYEES) 16–24 years % 6.5 4.8 4.9 20 25–34 years % 20.9 20.0 20.6 20 35–44 years % 24.5 26.2 27.5 20 45–54 years % 29.8 31.5 31.4 20 55–64 years % 16.7 16.3 14.5 20 65 years + % 1.7 1.2 1.1 20 Voluntary employee turnover % 4.9 4.4 4.7 Total employee turnover % 8.4 7.8 11.6 Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 29 PERFORMANCE AND METRICS Unit 2016/17 2015/2016 2014/2015 Notes* ENERGY AND EMISSIONS Average aircraft age – scheduled passenger fleet Years 9.6 8.6 7.7 21 Aviation fuel consumption ‘000 Litres 4,873,267 4,805,045 4,635,760 22 Electricity (Australia) MWh 169,466 172,092 191,459 23 Natural gas (Australia) GJ 218,797 229,630 316,198 23 Diesel (Australia) Litres 6,115,161 6,370,835 7,199,289 23 Fuel per 100 RTKs (Group efficiency) Litres 37.6 37.7 37.9 24 Water (Australia) ‘000 Litres 902,545 973,611 874,929 25 CO2-e emissions – Scope 1 Tonnes 12,248,233 12,070,474 11,707,259 26 CO2-e emissions – Scope 2 Tonnes 139,433 142,227 155,826 27 CO2-e emissions – Total Tonnes 12,387,666 12,212,701 11,863,085 28 CO2-e emissions – Domestic Tonnes 4,503,746 4,569,452 4,613,753 29 CO2-e emissions – International Tonnes 7,883,921 7,643,249 7,249,332 30 CO2-e per 100 RTKs (Group efficiency) Kilograms 96.0 96 97 31 Change in emissions (year on year) % 1.4 3.0 –2.1 32 Direct waste to landfill (Australia) Tonnes 20,635 21,972 20,115 33 Footnotes: Scope includes Qantas Airways Limited and controlled entities, including Qantas International, Qantas Domestic, QantasLink, Network Aviation, Jetstar International, Jetstar Domestic and Jetstar Asia unless stated otherwise. 1 Underlying Profit Before Tax (PBT) is a non-statutory measure, and is the primary reporting measure used by the Qantas Group’s chief operating decision-making bodies, being the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors, for the purpose of assessing the performance of the Group. Underlying PBT is derived by adjusting Statutory PBT for the impacts of ineffectivenss and non-designated derivatives relating to other reporting periods and certain other items which are not included in Underlying PBT. For the reconciliation of Underlying PBT to Statutory PBT, refer to Note 1A to the Financial Statements in the Qantas Annual Report 2017. 2 Return on Invested Capital (ROIC %) is a non-statutory measure and is the financial return measure of the Group. ROIC is calculated as Return on Invested Capital EBIT (ROIC EBIT) divided by Average Invested Capital. ROIC EBIT is derived by adjusting Underlying EBIT to exclude non-cancellable aircraft operating lease rentals and include notional depreciation for these aircraft to account for them as if they were owned aircraft. Invested capital includes the net assets of the business other than cash, debt, other financial assets and liabilities, tax balances and includes the capitalised value of operating leased aircraft assets. Average invested capital is equal to the 12-month average of the monthly invested capital. 3 Net free cash flow is a measure of financial performance calculated as operating cash flows net of investing cash flows (excluding aircraft operating lease refinancing). Scope: The Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 comprise Qantas and its controlled entities and the Qantas Group’s interest in investments accounted for under the equity method. 4 Funds from Operations/net debt: Management’s estimates based on Standard & Poor’s methodology. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 30 PERFORMANCE AND METRICS 5 Debt/Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation. Management’s estimates based on Moody’s methodology. 6 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR): Lost time injuries per million hours worked. The total number of injuries or illnesses during work hours (1 July to 30 June) with an accepted workers’ compensation claim for Australian-based personnel, or equivalent in other jurisdictions, per million hours worked. Journey and slip port injuries are excluded from this calculation. This metric includes embedded contractors that work exclusively for the Qantas Group and perform work that is considered core business. When considering lost time, Qantas Group injury metrics are calculated using medically certified calendar days, including partial days, for which the injured worker is unable to fulfil the duties for which they are employed regardless of roster (partial days are counted as one full day). 7 Lost Work Case Frequency Rate (LWCFR): Described as the total number of injuries or illnesses during work hours (1 July to 30 June) with an accepted workers’ compensation claim for Australian-based personnel, or equivalent in other jurisdictions, which resulted in total incapacity, per million hours worked. Total incapacity is defined as any injury or illness that results in an injured worker being unfit for work. Journey and slip port injuries are excluded from this calculation. This metric includes embedded contractors (as described above) and employees of wholly-owned entities of the Qantas Group. When considering lost time, Qantas Group injury metrics are calculated using medically certified calendar days, including partial days, for which the injured worker is unable to fulfil the duties for which they are employed regardless of roster (partial days are counted as one full day). 8 Duration rate indicates the average number of lost days per injury/illness with an accepted workers’ compensation claim for Australian-based personnel, or equivalent in other jurisdictions, resulting in partial incapacity or total incapacity. Partial incapacity means any injury/illness that resulted in an injured/ill worker being fit for work but at a reduced capacity. When considering lost time, Qantas Group injury metrics are calculated using medically certified calendar days, including partial days, for which the injured worker is unable to fulfil the duties for which they are employed (partial days are counted as one full day). Journey and slip port injuries are excluded from this calculation. This metric includes embedded contractors and employees of wholly-owned entities of the Qantas Group. 9 On-time performance as measured by the percentage of flights departing within 15 minutes of scheduled departure for Total Group operations including Qantas International, Qantas Domestic, QantasLink, Jetstar International and Jetstar Domestic, including Jetstar Domestic New Zealand. 10 Brand Preference — Best Products and Services indicates percentage of customers who agree with the statement ‘Qantas is focused on providing the best products and services to its customers’. Source: Brand Tracking Research (House of Brand Group). 11 Domestic operational NPS — Average Qantas Domestic Gap to Competitor, based on internal Qantas reporting. 12 Total number of suppliers has been restated for 2015/16 and 2014/15. 13 Total supplier spend excluding payments processed through IATA clearing account and direct bank deposits for the purposes of aircraft lease payments. 14 Australian supplier spend where supplier headquarters are located in Australia. Australian supplier spend has been restated for 2015/16 and 2014/15. 15 Total Qantas community partnerships investment excludes donations facilitated through other areas of the business and voluntary logistical support provided to the Australian Government in times of crisis. The Group has transitioned from the Qantas Foundation into an internal Grant Giving program, managed by Good 2 Give. This transition has impacted the disbursement of cash compared to 2015/16. Next year will reflect the disbursement of grants donated to employees’ chosen organisations, estimated at $200,000 per year. 16 Proportion of total community invesment donated to benefit Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities. Proportion of total community investment donated to benefit Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities has been restated for 2015/16. 17 Total UNICEF donations facilitated through Qantas’ Change for Good program. 18 Total World Vision donations facilitated through Jetstar’s StarKids program. 19 Total number of employees of wholly-owned entities of the Qantas Group as by employment type, full-time or part-time. 20 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity is limited to total workforce of whollyowned entities of Qantas Airways Limited broken down by gender, age group and Indigenous employees as well as women in the following positions: Non-Executive Directors and Senior Management. Gender diversity indicators are consistent with diversity policy and targets, measured as at 30 June 2017. Indigenous employees refer to team members who have identified as being Aboriginal or Torres Strait Islander. 21 Average fleet age — scheduled passenger fleet is calculated by determining the average age of the Group’s scheduled passenger fleet based on manufacturing dates. Scope: The scheduled passenger fleet of the Qantas Group, including both owned and leased aircraft. The Qantas Group’s scheduled passenger fleet does not include dedicated freighters and Network Aviation fleet. 22 The total volume of aviation kerosene consumed by the Qantas Group’s flying businesses from 1 July to 30 June. Scope: Aviation fuel consumption includes Qantas, Jetstar, QantasLink, Network Aviation, Jetconnect and Qantas Freight, for both domestic and international operations. Aviation fuel consumption does not include consumption by Jetstar Asia or codeshare partners. 23 The total amount of electricity consumed as measured in megawatt hours (MWh), Natural gas measured in gigajoules (GJ) and diesel measured in litres (L) where separately billed to Qantas wholly-owned entities within Australia for the period 1 July to 30 June. 24 Fuel per 100 revenue tonne kilometres (RTK). RTK quantifies Group fuel efficiency, described as the amount of revenue-generating payload carried, for the distance flown. Total number of tonnes of paying passenger, freight and mail carried, multiplied by the number of kilometres flown. Scope: Fuel per 100 revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) includes Qantas, Jetstar, QantasLink, Jetconnect, Network Aviation and Qantas Freight for both domestic and international operations. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 31 PERFORMANCE AND METRICS 25 Total municipal water supplies withdrawn at metred Australian locations, measured in kilolitres (‘000 L) where water is separately billed to Qantas wholly-owned entities for the period 1 July to 30 June. 26 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) measured in tonnes. Scope 1 emissions include aviation fuel and aircraft engine oil from international and domestic operations as well as ground fuel (unleaded petrol and diesel) from airport operations in Australia. The Qantas Group applies the National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) emissions factors and methodology for the calculation of CO2-e. Scope: All activities under the control of the Qantas Group. 27 Total indirect greenhouse gas emissions measured in tonnes. Scope 2 emissions include electricity use from Australian facilities. The Qantas Group applies the NGA emissions factors and methodology for the calculation of CO2-e. Scope: All activities under the control of the Qantas Group. 28 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions measured in tonnes. The Qantas Group applies the NGA emissions factors and methodology for the calculation of CO2-e. Scope: All activities under the control of the Qantas Group. 29 CO2-e emissions — Domestic: Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions measured in tonnes. The Qantas Group applies the NGA emissions factors and metholody for the calculation of CO2-e with the exception of aviation fuel. Scope: Australian operations. 30 CO2-e emissions — International: Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions measured in tonnes. The Qantas Group applies the NGA emissions factors and methodology for the calculation of CO2-e. Scope: International operations. 31 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity measured in kilograms of CO2-e per 100 revenue tonne kilometres (RTK) converted to CO2-e tonnes by the NGA emissions factors. Scope: All activities under the control of the Qantas Group. 32 Percentage change in total greenhouse gas emissions (CO2-e) compared with the previous financial year. Scope: All activities under the control of the Qantas Group. 33 Total waste generated measured in tonnes, where this waste is delivered from Qantas premises directly to a landfill site and where the Qantas Group is responsible for the waste removal and is separately billed to Qantas wholly-owned entities by a waste service provider. Q A N TA S A N N U A L R E V I E W 2 0 1 7 32
