ANNUAL REPORT 2016/2017 TOP-TOY Holding II A/S Delta Park 37, 2665 Vallensbæk, Denmark CVR: 37 25 47 03 2 CONTENT 4 Introduction 28 Planet 5 Highlights of the year 29 Reducing our environmental impact 6 Message from our CEO 30 Partnerships 8 Key figures and financial ratios 31 Our partnerships 9 Operating and financial review 32 Corporate governance and risk management 11 About TOP-TOY 33 Corporate governance 12 TOP-TOY inspire play @ every occasion 34 Risk management 14 Our business model 36 Board of Directors and Executive Management 15 A strategy for sustainable growth 37 Board of Directors 16 Continuing our journey 39 Executive Management 17 Stores 40 Consolidated financial statements 18 BR – always new 19 TOYS”R”US – always fun 84 Parent company financial statements 20 People 98 Management statement 21 Safe and responsible working conditions 100 Independent Auditors’ report 22 Employees 103 Scope, legal notices and methodology 23 Diversity 24 The children who play with our products 25 Products 26 Our products 27 Safe playing experiences 3 INTRODUCTION 4 Introduction HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR LAUNCH OF BABIES”R”US We have introduced a new baby section in our TOYS”R”US stores, designed as a store within the store and its own look and feel. Our baby venture has commenced with test stores in Sweden. We have initiated the development of A NEW MODERN INWE HAVE INTRODUCED “HAPPY GUARANTEE” STORE DESIGN FOR OUR FOR ALL CLUB BR MEMBERS. TOYS”R”US STORES. The new “HAPPY Guarantee” means that Club BR members can design focuses on creating and inspiring G exchange products for up to 14 days after their purchase, UA E play experiences and making it easier for RANTE even after unwrapping and playing with them. customers to navigate our stores. 3,365.5 13 NEW BR STORES DKK OPENED THEIR DOORS MILLION IN REVENUE TO CUSTOMERS 15 stores closed as part of our store network optimisation. EBITDA BEFORE SPECIAL ITEMS DKK 138.9 MILLION Customers bought more than We have IMPLEMENTED A NEW 180,000 of our FSC®-CERTIFIED ERP SYSTEM to help us OWN BRAND WOOD create even better customer experiences PRODUCTS. and enhance our efficiency. 2,287 new products were We screened working We now use LED-lightning in verified as part of our conditions at AROUND 93% of our stores product safety procedure. 1,000 FACTORIES that manufacture our products. WE CELEBRATED THE WE HAVE UPDATED OPENING OF 7 NEW OUR STRATEGY TOYS”R”US STORES WITH THE GOAL 3 stores closed as part TO INSPIRE PLAY @ of our store network optimisation. EVERY OCCASION Introduction 5 MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO Søren Torp Laursen CEO 6 Introduction As the Nordic leader in the dynamic retail market for toys our • We are strengthening our omni-channel approach to give ambition is to grow and bring great experiences to children customers the best possible experience, whether they shop in our and their families when they shop in our stores – online physical or online stores or both and offline. In 2016/2017, we have faced challenges and • We are strengthening our pricing with initiatives such as price our unsatisfactory financial performance has highlighted match and everyday low prices several improvement areas. The launch of new concepts and • We have invested in a new ERP system to help us create even implementation of a new ERP system are key steps in our better customer experiences and enhance our efficiency efforts to make the necessary changes. We will continue to All of this will make us even better at giving children and their families modernise our business to ensure we always offer great special experiences and expert advice. I am confident that this is the play experiences. path to future growth for TOP-TOY. A challenging year Growing responsibly Our financial performance has not been satisfactory this year, Our long-term growth has to be achieved in a responsible manner. showing a decline in both revenue and profit. The implementation This is why TOP-TOY has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact of a new ERP system has occupied many key resources both before since 2010. Our commitment is as strong as ever. and after go-live and has had a direct impact on financial results. Furthermore the important Christmas season in 2016 also delivered Especially close to TOP-TOY’s heart – and to my own – is slightly below our expectations and the bad weather this spring and the commitment to ensuring safe play for children, safe and summer had a negative impact on sales of outdoor products, which responsible conditions for those who work in the factories that is an important category for TOP-TOY. produce our products, and an ethical approach to our product offering and marketing. We remain determined to further improve our operations and achieve a higher level of agility while serving our customers with the best assortment at highly competitive prices. Going forward we will be even more agile and market-driven in our pricing and marketing. In light of the changes in our markets and the less than satisfactory results, we have adjusted our organisation to keep our business Søren Torp Laursen agile, competitive and efficient and to prepare for the future. This CEO unfortunately meant that we in August 2017 had to say goodbye to a number of employees across our office locations. I would like to thank our former colleagues and wish them the best of luck in their future careers. The journey ahead This year’s performance should be viewed in broader context. We are on a journey to fundamentally change TOP-TOY and build the foundation for our future growth. Here are a few of the initiatives I expect to have a positive impact on TOP-TOY’s growth: • We are investing in new store concepts. This includes a new in-store design for our TOYS”R”US stores and an upgrade of our BR stores • We are testing a new BABIES”R”US concept in two TOYS”R”US stores in Sweden Introduction 7 KEY FIGURES AND FINANCIAL RATIOS 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 20161 Key figures Revenue 3,365.5 1,259.3 Gross Profit 1,762.8 634.8 EBITDA before special items 138.9 -126.5 Operating result -16.0 -201.5 Financials, net -29.6 -30.1 Result for the year -38.7 -188.6 Total assets 3,047.9 2,928.1 Investment in property, plant and equipment 35.2 41.5 Equity 959.7 1,010.9 Cash flows from operating activities -107.4 -342.7 Cash flows from investing activities -124.3 -2,121.1 Cash flows from financing activities -9.7 2,099.2 Total cash flows -241.4 -364.6 Financial ratios2 Gross margin 52.4% 50.4% Solvency ratio 31.5% 34.5% Average number of full-time employees 2,124 2,266 Number of stores 311 309 1) As TOP-TOY Holding II A/S was established on the 25th of November 2015 and went into operation on the 1st of January 2016 last year’s financial data covers from the 1st of January 2016 until the end of financial year. 2) Financial ratios are calculated in accordance with the Danish Finance Society’s guidelines on the calculation of financial ratios, “ Recommendations and Financial Ratios 2015”. For terms and definitions, please see the accounting policies. 8 Introduction OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW TOP-TOY’s revenue totalled DKK 3,365.5 million in the 2016/2017 The operational issues with the ERP system will be solved in 2017/2018. financial year, which were below the expectations. The decrease was However, there will still be an impact on Q1 in the new financial year. primarily driven by challenges following the launch of our new ERP The focus is on ensuring all areas of operation are fully up to speed system at the end of March 2017 and the fact that the implementation before the 2017 Christmas season. of the new system occupied many key resources both before and after go-live. Poor weather in the Nordic region during the summer The main business impact on our financial performance was a significant 2017 also had a negative impact on sales of outdoor products. Finally, decline in revenue during Q4 of our financial year (April – June 2017). the all-important Christmas season was slightly disappointing due Furthermore the gross margin was negatively affected as weak sales to competition and the fact that TOP-TOY did not benefit fully from lead to price reductions to reduce inventories of seasonal goods. OPEX increased online demand. also increased during Q4 of our financial year due to the need for stock recounts and manual order handling. The implementation of a new ERP system brought a number of challenges which affected our operational performance in 2016/2017. The Board of Directors and the Executive Management view the overall Customers, who used our web shops after go live experienced operational and financial performance in 2016/2017 as unsatisfactory. significantly limited search capabilities, lack of promotional pricing and poor checkout flow. Many customers start their search online even when We have launched several initiatives to improve short and mid-term they intend to make their purchase in a physical store. So, this problem performance. Key initiatives are centred around achieving positive samealso had an impact on our physical stores. In addition, poor performance store sales growth, this includes attractive prices and promotions as in our supply chain as a result of the new system meant that customers well as a good store service level to enhance the customer experience who visited our online and physical stores found a less attractive and making a visit to our stores appealing. This also includes proactive assortment – often without the products they intended to buy. Due to introduction of category initiatives such as the launch of Babies”R”Us in ERP system challenges store employees also focused more on internal selected test stores. issues like stock counting than on purely serving the customers. Introduction 9 Another focus area is to reduce costs and make the company more be improved in the current financial year, and the higher interest agile in order to react faster to changes in consumer demands and expenses, which will continue in the years ahead. market trends. Unfortunately this meant that we in August 2017 had to say goodbye to a number of employees across our office locations. Cash flow from investing activities was DKK -124.3 million. The main asset acquired was the new ERP system, which has been fully One of the key areas to improve our performance is to excel in online capitalized and started to be amortised at go-live. From 2017/2018, sales. From autumn 2017, we have strengthened our price offering investment activities will be more normalized and primarily focus on by increased use of “price matching” and “everyday low prices”, store openings and upgrades. supported by the introduction of a “price crawler” which constantly checks competitor prices. We have also invested significantly in an The interest-bearing debt increased from DKK 1,349.4 million in up-to-date online platform to improve the customer experience and 2015/2016 to DKK 1,563.1 million in 2016/2017. TOP-TOY has after agility of our online offer. This new platform will go live in Q4 of 2017. the balance date entered into a committed load facility agreement of DKK 250 million with the shareholders who hold 5% or more of the Revenue development share capital. TOP-TOY is in dialogue with the owners and Lenders about the future finance structure. Total revenue for 2016/2017 was DKK 3,365.5 million, which were below the expectations. This was mainly driven by a decrease in same-store sales, as the opening of new stores almost sets off the Outlook for 2017/2018 impact of store closures. In 2017/18 revenue and operating result before special items are expected to grow despite continued uncertainty due to the new The decline in same-store sales was largely caused by issues with ERP system. our new ERP system. However, the underlying consumer preference for online sales clearly poses a challenge to our physical stores. Consumers are increasingly doing their shopping online, which globally is changing the purpose and need for shopping experience in the physical stores – a challenge TOP-TOY has taken on board. Development in earnings The gross margin was 52.4%, which was below our expectations. It was impacted by significant inventory inefficiencies due to implementation of the new ERP system. Increasing price competition, especially on branded goods like LEGO, also had an impact on earnings. Operating costs were DKK 1,623.9 million, representing 48.3% of revenue. The target is to reduce operating costs as a percentage of revenue – both in individual stores and administrative functions. EBITDA before special items amounted to DKK 138.9 million impacted by the low operational result after ERP going live. Operating result and result for the year showed a loss at DKK -16.0 million and DKK -38.7 million respectively. The result is positively affected by changes in exchange rates. The effect is DKK 40.3 million, hereof DKK 24.4 million from loans in foreign currency. Free cash flow and net interest-bearing debt Net working capital increased due to the go-live of the new ERP system. This was due to a decision to fill up inventories before go-live on 27th of March. Due to payment terms, most were paid for before year end. Cash flow from operating activities was DKK -107.4 million. This was mainly driven by changes in working capital, which are expected to 10 Introduction ABOUT TOP-TOY About TOP-TOY 11 TOP-TOY INSPIRE PLAY @ EVERY OCCASION 311 STORES REVENUE DKK 3,365.5 MILLION MORE THAN 32,000 PRODUCTS IN ASSORTMENT 2,124 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES EBITDA before special items DKK 138.9 MILLION “ We strive to inspire play whenever we meet children and their families. “ Inspiring play for more than 50 years – and continuing to innovate TOP-TOY has more than 50 years of experience in inspiring play. We modernise our business continuously and take an innovative approach that includes investing in new store concepts. This year we have initiated the development of a new in-store design for our TOYS”R”US stores and a new concept for our BR stores. In the future, We are the leading retail company for toys and other we will reinforce our market and price agility, for example through children’s products in the Nordic region, defined by our strong new initiatives such as price match and everyday low prices. heritage and sound store concepts. We have a passion for play, a commitment to responsible business and a desire to Being present for our customers all year round meet and exceed customer expectations at every occasion. We want to be present in the most convenient locations for customers, whether they use our online or physical stores – and A leading position through more than 300 BR and to provide a seamless experience if they use a combination of TOYS”R”US stores both. Being present also means being a relevant place to visit Through our two retail chains BR and TOYS”R”US, we offer a broad right through the year. While Christmas is naturally an important range of inspiring products that enable children of all ages to explore season, customers should also have clear reasons to visit in the and develop their creativity while learning and having fun. The range summer, when they shop for outdoor products, or in the autumn, spans everything from toys, trampolines and pools to children’s when children return to school. Our new “BABIES”R”US” concept books, bed linen, role-play costumes and accessories. We sell our strengthens our ability to be relevant throughout the year and own brand products and other leading international brands. makes TOYS”R”US relevant for parents-to-be. We operate more than 300 stores. Most of our stores are in the Nordic region, but we also have more than 20 BR stores in Germany. In addition, we have four BR web shops and four TOYS”R”US web shops. This makes TOP-TOY the leading player in the Nordic toy market. 12 About TOP-TOY 2 30 ICELAND FAROE FINLAND SWEDEN ISLANDS 8 NORWAY 29 22 190 16 1 67 franchise store* 43 530 331 HONG KONG 67 16 85 DENMARK Copenhagen 887 Business sense We strive to give our customers the best possible service and offer them products of the right quality at the GERMANY right time and price. Good business sense is also about being proactive 23 and driving our markets. 89 Responsibility We take responsibility for our actions throughout the value chain and with respect for our most important stakeholders – the children who play with our products. Family tree Main offices The importance of family is apparent throughout TOP-TOY. Families are the most frequent visitors to our stores, 2,124 and there is a strong family spirit among our employees. full-time employees Top performance 247 We strive to be top performers. We want to do better than yesterday, BR stores and we do this by listening to relevant stakeholders and closely monitoring our performance. 64 TOYS”R”US stores Toy fun Fun is a key driver of our work that we would not be without. Just as children have fun experimenting and trying * Our franchise store in the Faroe Islands is not included in the total number of stores. out new things, we have fun when choosing and testing the products we Our business as it looked at the end of the fiscal year June 30, 2017. The number of sell and growing our company. employees is the average number of full-time employees in the financial year 2016/2017. About TOP-TOY 13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model focuses on the selection and purchase of finished products and the design of our own products and private labels. All products are sold in our online and physical stores in Northern Europe. Below is an overview of the key processes in our business model. Designing and choosing our products Ensuring that we have a fun and inspiring selection of toys and other products in our stores is crucial to our business. This Production requires that we find the best of the many new toys introduced by suppliers each year as well as develop As we do not own any own brand and private label products. Our design factories or production team in Hong Kong is responsible for the latter. facilities, we work closely with the suppliers that We integrate product safety and ethical produce our products. Our suppliers considerations in our product design and selection. either have their own factories or contracts with sub-suppliers. Through our factory compliance programme, we work to ensure our products are produced under safe and responsible conditions for factory workers. Products on the move Most of our products are produced in Asia, while others are produced in European countries. It is vital that the toys arrive in our warehouse for timely distribution to our stores. Selling our products We try to avoid air freight and work to Our many store reduce waste, energy use and emissions at employees meet our distribution centre. We also take care children and their to create a good work environment and families with the goal of giving minimise work-related injuries among them the best possible shopping our employees. experience. This includes ensuring an ethical product offering and marketing, so parents can be sure their children are not exposed to products or marketing that could affect them negatively. Our products in play We see the value of our business when children play with our products and create worlds that are much bigger than an individual toy. We test our products thoroughly – because children have a right to safe play. 14 About TOP-TOY A STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Our ambition is to inspire play @ every occasion. We should inspire many different ways of playing, learning and having fun for children and their families. Achieving this ambition is key to maintaining our position as the undisputed leader in the Nordic retail toy market and achieving sustainable growth. To meet our ambition, we have revised our strategy 2016/2017 and established three core aspirations: In 2021 TOP-TOY… ...offers world-class ...is the undisputed leader ...has a lean and agile shopping experiences that in the Nordic retail toy market and organisation and strong inspire play among children, the clear no. 1 online and foundation for further parents and gift-givers omni-channel toy player international expansion Each of the core aspirations is supported by a number of strategic priorities: The undisputed leader in the Nordic retail toy market and clear no. 1 online • We have launched BABIES”R”US in two Swedish TOYS”R”US stores. Here, customers can find a wider selection of products for babies than in any of our other stores. • In 2016/2017, we upgraded our omni-channel approach significantly. This included changing our system platform, giving us the foundation we need to upgrade the customer experience in the years ahead. At an organisational level, we have significantly strengthened the teams responsible for ongoing improvements to our online environment. These upgrades are part of a new omnichannel strategy to continue professionalising our web shops and improving the customer experience. • In 2016/2017 we introduced “HAPPY Guarantee” for all Club BR members. “HAPPY Guarantee” means that Club BR members can exchange products for up to 14 days after their purchase, even after unwrapping and playing with them. Going forward we will continue to revitalise Club BR by significantly increasing the value and benefits for Club members so they have more reasons to visit BR all year round. Offering world-class shopping experiences A lean and agile organisation and a strong that inspire play foundation for expansion • We have initiated the development of a new modern • We implemented a new global ERP system in March in-store design for our TOYS”R”US stores and have 2017. This is an important step in our continued efforts implemented the first changes in our test store in to increase our agility and create even better customer Denmark. The new design focuses on creating and experiences. The system will, for example, enable inspiring play experiences for our customers and us to collect better data about customer purchasing making it easier for them to navigate the large selection behaviour under consideration of general data privacy of exciting products. We will continue to develop the regulation, equipping us to create a more tailor-made concept and use what we learn from the test store to experience for the individual shopper. With the system improve the in-store concept in all our TOYS”R”US stores. more processes can be automated in the future. • Based on the success of our own brand products in BR This will enable us to focus our resources on sourcing and a wish to give customers a unique experience when the best collection of toys and serving our customers. they visit our stores, we will strengthen our exclusive offering and make focused investments in our own products and private label across both our banners. About TOP-TOY 15 CONTINUING OUR JOURNEY Many of our strategic initiatives are continuously developed Launch of “Spire” our new concept for own brand as part of our ongoing journey to meet our strategic products ambitions. You can find important examples here. Based on the success of our own brand products in BR, we have decided to offer them to customers in TOYS”R”US as well. Price match and everyday low prices In September 2017, we introduced a new line of own brand products Price agility is key to success in the highly dynamic retail toy market. called “Spire”. “Spire” will be sold in BR and TOYS”R”US. It consists both This is why we have launched “price match” for all our products above of well-known existing products and some exciting new products. a given price. At the same time, we have implemented an “everyday low prices” initiative, where we have lowered the price of many key products. One step further in developing our new in-store concept for TOYS”R”US Grand opening of BABIES”R”US We have continued to develop the new modern in-store design for Following the soft launch of the two new BABIES”R”US test stores in our TOYS”R”US stores for example by improving navigation. Sweden in June 2017, we invited our customers to a grand opening We will continue to develop the concept in our test store in Denmark celebration of this new concept in September. and use what we learn to improve the in-store concept in all our TOYS”R”US stores. Organisational changes In August 2017, we made organisational adjustments to keep New service concept for our store employees our business agile, competitive and efficient. These adjustments We have developed a new service concept to ensure all our regrettably included saying goodbye to a number of employees across customers get the same good service experience whenever they visit office locations. All affected employees have been offered guidance our stores – supporting our overall strategic goal to provide worldand support in taking the next step in their careers. Employees class shopping experiences that inspire play. This includes working in our stores and warehouse have not been affected. equipping our store employees with stronger sales knowledge. All store employees have now been trained in the new service Continued optimisation of our store network concept and will receive ongoing training to build competences and provide new inspiration. As part of our store network we expect to open around five new stores this fall, and close three. A number of stores will also be relocated. 16 About TOP-TOY STORES “ Most of our customers know TOP-TOY not as TOP-TOY but as BR or TOYS”R”US. It is through these two well-known brands that we provide customers with play experiences and inspiration “ that keeps them coming back to our physical and online stores. Stores 17 ALWAYS NEW 247 STORES Over 1,000 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES “ We want Club BR to offer good value to members, so they have more BR has more than 50 reasons to visit BR all year round. To ensure this, we introduced “HAPPY Guarantee” for all Club BR members in 2016/2017. years of experience in inspiring play. Our BR How BR is inspiring play “ We opened the first BR store in 1963. This means BR has more employees are important than 50 years of experience in inspiring play. Our BR employees and mascot are important ambassadors of play – and a symbol of ambassadors of play – along the hours of play that childhood entails. One way of improving our with our BR mascot. ability to inspire play is to offer more solutions and packages for our customers instead of focusing on individual products alone. Our passion for play is also the reason why celebrating children’s birthdays are important for us. All Club BR members can collect a BR is TOP-TOY’s high street toy retailer with stores in prime free gift in their local BR shop when their big day comes around. locations, a strong brand with a recognisable mascot, wellestablished customer relationships and, not least, our loyalty Fun, inspirational, safe toys of high quality programme Club BR. Our selection of toys is key to our ability to inspire play. BR offers a focused assortment of fun, inspirational and high quality toys and Our BR store network covers almost 250 stores, all located close other products that target young children. The assortment comprises to our customers in shopping centres and other prime locations in our own brand, our private-label brands and many well-known Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, the Faroe Islands and Germany. brands from our suppliers. BR offers a broad range of creative and educational products, such as baby and toddler toys, children’s Always new books, role-play costumes and accessories, interactive toys, video We have revised our strategy for BR as part of our overall strategy games and much more. revision. Our ambition is that customers will experience BR as always new. BR should be the preferred toy store for gifts and an exciting place where children always want to stop by to see what is new. 18 Stores ALWAYS FUN 64 STORES Over 600 FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES TOYS”R”US is TOP-TOY’s chain of large toy stores, offering a zones that offer immersive play experiences for children and broad assortment of entertaining products at great prices and parents. Part of this new strategy for our in-store design has targeting children of all ages. already been implemented in our TOYS”R”US store in Gentofte, Denmark. The new design inspires play experiences for example the For almost 20 years, TOP-TOY has successfully operated a strong store now has a brand new skating rig where children can try out network of TOYS”R”US stores across the Nordic region under a our skating products. licence agreement. Today we have a strong market position as we operate more than 60 stores across Norway, Sweden, Finland, BABIES”R”US a new baby venture Denmark and Iceland. On 1 June 2017, we launched BABIES”R”US in two Swedish TOYS”R”US stores. Always fun We have revised our strategy for TOYS”R”US as part of our overall In addition to baby toys, the BABIES”R”US stores offer strollers, strategy revision. Our ambition is that customers will experience furniture, car seats, baby clothes and a variety of other products for TOYS”R”US as always fun. TOYS”R”US should be a destination for the new family members in Scandinavian design of the highest quality. whole family throughout the year. The brands in the new BABIES”R”US are all well known, including Cybex®, Maxi Cosi®, Philips Avent®, Babyjogger®, bObles®, Sebra®, Each TOYS”R”US store offers a broad product assortment Celavi® and Medela®. covering everything from trampolines, swimming pools, bicycles and construction toys to party tableware, lamps and children’s BABIES”R”US sections are designed as a store within the TOYS”R”US furniture. It should always be possible to find a wide selection of store and have their own look and feel. BABIES”R”US employees are the hottest well-known brands in TOYS”R”US. These include LEGO®, dedicated to the baby store and, after extensive product training, PLAYMOBIL®, FISHER PRICE®, and our private-label brands, such as can offer parents expert advice. OUTRA® and COLOR KIDS®. The launch of BABIES”R”US is an important part of our strategy and A new in-store experience to inspire play ambition to be a proactive market leader. We want TOYS”R”US to offer our customers a great store experience. This is why we aim to improve in-store navigation by having distinct Stores 19 PEOPLE “ TOP-TOY is all about people. People are involved at every step in a toy’s journey: from the first idea for a new toy to its production, “ transportation and sale – until it finally reaches the children. 20 People SAFE AND RESPONSIBLE WORKING CONDITIONS One of the preconditions for inspiring play @ every occasion is We do not own any factories ourselves but collaborate with our that we are confident the products we offer are made under suppliers to ensure the people who make our toys have safe, humane responsible conditions. and healthy working conditions, where their rights are respected. As part of our human rights policy, we recognise our responsibility to Through our social compliance programme, we work continuously pay attention to younger workers and migrant workers. to ensure our products are made under responsible conditions with respect for international human rights and labour standards. We monitor our suppliers’ performance via social audits, where Our products are only produced in factories that have been audited we screen factory working conditions. In 2016/2017, we screened in accordance with our social compliance standards. around 1,000 factories1. Audits Factory performance and progress are monitored via Approval audits. Audits can be conducted by ourselves or, in If an audit report does not contain any critical findings or, most cases, by third party auditing bodies. The factory if required, the factory agrees to appropriate audits consist of several steps, including document corrective action, the factory is approved and reviews, interviews with workers and management, and production can start. The factory may be a visual inspection of the factory. subject to a follow-up audit to verify that corrective action is being implemented according to plan. Assessment of Social audits the documentation at factory if required Relevant factory Assessment of documentation is audit reports submitted to AUDITS TOP-TOY Screening of Approval or potential rejection of factories DOCUMENTATION factory APPROVAL An idea is born Production starts Documentation Factories have been assessed according to submitted documentation before an approval has been issued and an order placed with a supplier. Factory geographical distribution 2016/20172 Audit standards in percent 2016/20172 2% 1% 1% 1% 2% ICTI CARE process 5% China 5% 7% Low risk EU/EAA (excl. Nordic) 15% BSCI audits 23% 62% 62% Nordic countries 41% 41% SMETA audits ICTI CARE China Greater Asia (excl. China) Process TOP-TOY and 3rd party audits USA 35% A800 audits Other Other audit standards 1) This year we include screenings for actual and potential purchases. Last year we only included screenings for actual purchases. 2) The data covers the period from 1 July 2016 to 1 March 2017. People 21 EMPLOYEES At TOP-TOY, we view our employees – their knowledge, and proactive in reporting workplace hazards and accidents and creativity and engagement – as our most important asset. raising concerns about the workplace that can impact physical or psychological safety. That is also why training on how to reduce the Creating good jobs risk of work-related injuries is part of our store manager school. One of our key contributions to society is job creation. Through our Should a safety incident occur at our warehouse, we have a first stores, warehouse and offices, we create jobs that require a range of response team, which ensures immediate action is taken to help skill sets. Located throughout the Nordic countries, our stores create the employee involved in the incident and to inform all warehouse local jobs for skilled and unskilled workers. In 2016/2017, more than employees. The first response team then works closely with work 6,000 people were employed at TOP-TOY, corresponding to 2,124 environment representatives to investigate the source of the full-time employees. accident and prevent it from happening again. We do not just create jobs – we strive to create good jobs in an engaging work environment. This is why we invest in our employees. Supporting employees and ethical behaviour At TOP-TOY, we are committed to maintaining high ethical standards Training in everything we do. To support this, we developed our Code of Conduct, which helps guide the responsible behaviour of We continuously work to improve our training of store and office our employees. employees to maintain and develop their skills. During 2016, 72 store managers and trainee store managers attended our store manager The Code of Conduct is a tool for encouraging and supporting school. In 2016/2017, our training focus was to prepare employees dialogue when solving the ethical dilemmas that employees may face for our new ERP system. As part of this, we conducted more than 400 in their daily work and for establishing clear roles and responsibilities live training sessions and 2,500 hours of e-learning. across the organisation. It also ensures our external stakeholders know what to expect from us. Detailed policies and tools support the Health and safety practical application of our Code of Conduct. We have a strong health and safety organisation in our stores, warehouse and offices. We encourage employees to be prompt 22 People DIVERSITY Gender in top management 2015/2016 2016/2017 Women Men Women Men Board of directors 0% 100% 0% 100% Executive Management Team (EMT) 0% 100% 14% 86% Top Management Team (TMT) 23% 77% 30% 70% Middle managers 31% 69% 30% 70% Store managers1 65% 35% 69% 31% Entire top management 60% 40% 60% 40% New appointments to managerial positions 2015/2016 2016/2017 Women Men Women Men Board of directors 0% 100% 0% 100% Executive Management Team (EMT) 0% 100% 50% 50% Top Management Team (TMT)2 0% 100% 33% 67% Middle managers 62% 38% 14% 86% Store managers 44% 56% Entire top management 31% 69% 37% 63% Our future competitiveness depends on our ability to attract and Our long-term goal for diversity is that two members of our Board retain an engaged and competent workforce, recognising the benefits of Directors should be women in 2019/20203. In 2016/2017, our of diversity in respect of gender, culture and experience. Board comprised men only. One member of the board changed during 2016/2017 where the majority owner EQT appointed a new Our aim is to continue progressing towards our long-term EQT partner from their partner portfolio to represent them. The new commitment of hiring and promoting women. Diversity is therefore board member was chosen based on a strong profile and a good a focus area in our recruitment to managerial positions. Part of the strategic fit to TOP-TOY. brief given to internal hiring managers and external recruitment agencies is that they should ensure a representative candidate list In 2016/2017 we hired the first woman to our Executive Management also in relation to gender, although qualifications remain the most Team (EMT), and in doing so, we reached our target that half of all important criteria for recruitment. new appointments at EMT level should be women. Diversity and integration at our warehouse In 2015, the local district authority contacted the management team at our warehouse in Greve to understand whether they were interested in hiring refugees for language internships. The idea was well received as it lives up to the overall philosophy of the warehouse: if there is a need for extra labour and a person sincerely wishes to contribute, then everyone is welcome and will receive the training they need. After thorough consideration of available resources and how to overcome language barriers, our warehouse decided to participate in the programme. Since then, five refugees have worked at the warehouse in language internships. The goal is to help refugees gain new skills and become more familiar with the Danish labour market. The program has been ssuccessful. In May 2016 two of the refugees started in permanent jobs at the warehouse. 1) In 2015/2016 assisting store managers were included. In 2016/2017 we excluded assisting store managers to give a more accurate picture of diversity in our top management. 2) Our TMT has been expanded this year to ensure a commercial focus. This means that among others category managers and marketing managers have been included in the TMT. Only new hires have been included in the table. 3) Since the end of the financial year, we have set an additional diversity target for our Executive Management Team (EMT) and Top Management Team (TMT). This aims for an equal gender distribution (40/60%) at both these management levels in 2020/2021. The diversity target for the Board of Directors has been aligned with this new target. People 23 THE CHILDREN WHO PLAY WITH OUR PRODUCTS It is through our products and marketing that we engage most Responsible marketing directly with children and their families. Children experience Our Ethical Product Offering Policy also covers marketing-related issues. our marketing and product offering when they browse our However, because we recognise that marketing communications can catalogues and visit our stores. influence children’s behaviour, we have set ourselves a goal to develop a separate Responsible Marketing Policy. We wish to ensure our Ethical product offering marketing promotes safe, inclusive and active play. As children are our target group, we have a great responsibility to ensure an ethical product offering and marketing. Customers should Examples of our positions feel confident that children will not be exposed to products that may Safe play: We offer personal protection equipment along with affect them negatively, for example by sending inappropriate signals products such as bikes, skateboards and roller skates. We also make or causing emotional or physical harm. For this reason, we developed sure that the use of relevant personal protection equipment is shown our Ethical Product Offering Policy in 2015 to define products that when promoting these products. are unsuitable for our assortment. Right impression of product features: We promote products in a way Examples of our positions that gives children the right impression of product features. This Tobacco and alcohol: We do not offer products that can be perceived avoids disappointing the children. as promoting the use of tobacco or alcohol. As far as possible, this also applies to the reproduction of related logos on, for example, football trading cards and model vehicles. Toy weapons: We do not offer toy weapons that are realistic copies of modern firearms and can be associated with modern war, terror or street crime. We acknowledge that most children, at some time, are interested in role-play where ‘the good’ are against ‘the bad’. For this reason, we do offer toy weapons, such as cowboy guns, for use in role-play. Gender, marketing and product offering In our experience, girls and boys often like to play with many different toys across traditional and stereotypical gender categories. This is why we always strive to give our customers the opportunity to buy and play with the toys of their choice regardless of gender. This principle is also reflected in our marketing, where we work to portray children playing together with products across categories, both in our catalogues and when we produce other marketing material. We also make efforts to avoid stereotyping in our store design. In all BR stores and new TOYS”R”US stores, the sections are not categorised according to gender but according to product categories such as interactive play, creativity and learning, baby and toddler and so on. Although we work continuously to ensure we portray modern ways of playing without stereotyping, we acknowledge that this takes time and that things do not change overnight. 24 People PRODUCTS “ Our products are enablers for the much bigger worlds that children create through play. We “ always strive to ensure children can play safely with our products. Products 25 OUR PRODUCTS We offer a broad range of inspiring products that spans everything We design own brand products or choose some of the interesting from toys, trampolines and pools to children’s books, bed linen, new products developed by other toy suppliers. Here is an example role-play costumes and accessories. of how that process works from the first idea for a fun vehicle range to the arrival of the Rockin’ Rollers series in the homes of children The right product assortment is key to our business. So it is essential and their families. for us to find fun and exciting products that inspire play and have a positive impact on children’s development. 2015 EARLY 2015 MARCH 2015 An idea is born We get the idea to create a range of vehicles for young children with a unique play feature. The new range should fit the Rockin’ Rollers on the drawing board overall vision for our own brand products for small children: classic toys with a Our design team comes up with a figure on wheels. The contemporary Scandinavian twist. figure has a counterweight so it stands upright and at the same time has wobbly action. Animals and fun vehicles to fit the figures also becomes part of this new series, which we call “Rockin’ Rollers”. Play features that are developmentally appropriate for SEPTEMBER 2015 young children are added to the animals. For example, the lion makes a clicking sound when you turn its head and has a chewable textured mane. The Rollers should be as safe as they are fun. They are tested thoroughly. For example, there must be no small parts in the Rollers, so they are safe for children below three years of age. Production of our Rockin’ Rollers assortment initiated As part of our factory compliance programme, it was checked that the FEBRUARY 2016 factory producing the Rollers has been subject to a social audit to ensure production conditions are safe and responsible for factory workers. MARCH 2016 Rockin’ Rollers on the move The first shipment of Rockin’ Rollers lands in our distribution centre in Greve in February 2016. In our distribution centre, we focus on reducing waste and energy use, for example by using environmentallyfriendly, longer-lasting banderole foil. Rockin’ Rollers in our stores and in play As the Rockin’ Rollers are part of our own brand range, the product packaging Our customers can buy the first Rollers in our is made of recycled cardboard with a stores from March 2016 and the wider range UV coating that ensures quality and from September 2016. The world of Rocking environmental standards are met. Rollers has come to life by children playing with them and creating their own stories and games with these wobbly toys. 2016 26 Products SAFE PLAYING EXPERIENCES Children have a right to safe play. The safety of the children ourselves higher standards than those of the EU Toy Safety Directive. who play with our products is at the very top of our priorities. We communicate with new suppliers to introduce them to our We can only inspire play @ every occasion when we know each product safety requirements and ensure they have the necessary product has been subject to our thorough safety procedure. knowledge to produce safe products. We work systematically to integrate safety in a product’s entire We help support good and meaningful safety regulations by lifecycle. All our products are tested thoroughly to make sure they collaborating with the European Committee for the Standardisation are safe to play with, and they naturally always comply with relevant of Toys (CEN TC 52) and the Danish Standardisation Agency. We also EU and national safety regulations. In the case of chemical content encourage market surveillance by relevant authorities to ensure a and for some toys aimed at children under the age of three, we set level playing field. Production Quality checks and inspections are performed during production as a safeguard against potential safety risks. We pay special attention to critical points in the manufacturing process, for example the use of chemicals. Complex products such as cosmetics are subject to particular scrutiny. If we find parts or Verification materials that do not meet our requirements, they are improved or reworked as early in the production 72 Production All finished products are assessed to ensure they process as possible. inspections meet the strict European standards for mechanical and chemical safety. Production Process starts inspection Product accepted for production FInal products 3,111 Product inspections Confirmation Testing of ODUCTI ON products by 3rd of factory PR party labs Specification of Product requirements inspection by TOP-TOY 2,287 DEVELOPMENT VERIFICATION Verification of Assessment of documentation product design and labelling New products verified 381 and sample Final products Products assessed are approved A sample is made Shipment An idea is born SALE Monitoring and collecting claims Evaluation and Sales Development registration of incidents Once products are on the market, Feedback to Every product design is assessed supplier we continue to monitor their for its chemical and mechanical safety by collecting feedback from safety and quality. The design consumers. This provides input may be changed and improved before products are approved 4 Recalls for any future product redesigns or potential product recalls. for production. Due to our strict safety and quality control, we have had very few recalls in recent years. Only the recall data covers the full financial year. The rest of the data covers the period from 1 July 2016 to 26 March 2017. Products 27 PLANET “ We have a responsibility to care for the planet, so children can grow up and play in a healthy environment. This is why we are committed to minimising our environmental “ impact, including the promotion of environmentally responsible behaviou. 28 Planet REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Our environmental policy of 2017. We hope this will encourage our customers to consider other alternatives before they buy a plastic bag or reuse the bags they buy. Our biggest direct environmental impact comes from our distribution As part of the initiative, we have also decided that, in the future, we will set-up and retail stores, because we do not own any manufacturing only sell bags made from 100% recycled material – 80% from postor production sites. Our environmental policy focuses on the consumer waste and 20% from industrial waste. following six priority areas where we believe we can bring about the most positive change: Responsible own brands • Energy and emissions We have integrated environmental concerns in the development of • Product packaging new own branded products. Packaging is made of recycled cardboard • Waste with a waterbased UV coating that ensures quality and environmental • Transportation standards are met. In addition, our series of own branded wood • Product suppliers products is made entirely of FSC-certified wood. In 2016/2017, we sold • Investments and purchases more than 180,000 of these products. In 2016/2017, we carried out a series of initiatives in line with our policy: Energy and emissions: LED lightning in our warehouse and stores Reducing waste by using bags instead of One of our most important steps to reduce energy consumption cardboard for web orders and emissions is the switch to LED lighting in our own facilities. We have reduced packaging for many of our web order deliveries by At our distribution centre, this has saved approximately 710,000 kWh, using plastic bags instead of cardboard. This reduces the amount corresponding to 300 tonnes of CO2 a year. At our BR stores, we have of packaging waste. In addition, the plastic bags are made from saved approximately 4.4 million kWh, corresponding to a CO2 reduction recycled material – 10% from post-consumer waste and 90% from of 1,800 tonnes. In 2016/2017, we introduced LED lighting in the industrial waste. We currently deliver 25% of our web orders in remaining TOYS”R”US stores that still used traditional lighting. All but recycled plastic bags. one of our TOYS”R”US stores now use LED lighting. Charging for plastic bags and changing to Stores with LED lightning at year-end recycled material EU has an ambition to reduce plastic bag consumption by 50% before 2014/2015 2015/2016 2016/2017 2025. We welcome this, so in 2016/2017, we decided to start charging for our plastic bags. The decision will be implemented in the second half 35% 75% 93% Planet 29 PARTNERSHIPS “ We are conscious of the fact that TOP-TOY does not exist in a vacuum, but that we are completely dependent on our stakeholders and surrounding environment. “ So we always strive to be a respected and trusted partner. 30 Partnerships OUR PARTNERSHIPS For us, partnerships are long-term commercial relations with parents and caregivers; ensure that products and services are safe; and suppliers and major toy companies, such as Mattel® and LEGO®. use marketing and advertising that respect and support children’s rights. Our partnerships also include our work with industry associations to ensure meaningful regulation and with the Red Cross in the We support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. Our responsibility Nordic countries. Regardless of who we work with, we always strive focus areas are largely aligned with those goals where we believe we can to be a respected and trusted partner. make the most meaningful contribution. In particular: Commercial partnerships As we do not produce any products ourselves, some of our most important commercial relationships are with suppliers and toy companies, which produce products that end up in our stores. We always have a common interest in the products becoming a success. For example, in close cooperation with LEGO®, we have trained one employee in each of our TOYS”R”US stores to be a LEGO® expert. This initiative is of benefit to TOP-TOY, LEGO® and our customers, who get better advice on the product that best suits their needs. Collaborations for responsibility We believe that most challenges are best faced together. This is why we support initiatives that promote responsible business and collaborate with relevant organisations that work to ensure responsible manufacturing practices or good and meaningful safety regulations. We therefore support: BR and Red Cross Pa r ti CI cipa nt of BS WE SUPPORT The Business Social The UN Global Compact Compliance Initiative Signatory since 2010 The ICTI CARE Foundation We are part of the ICTI CARE Committed Brands PLUS Program In October 2016, we launched a partnership between the Red Cross and BR in the Nordic countries. We also collaborate with the committee for the Standardisation of Toys (CEN TC 52) and the Danish Standardisation Agency. The partnership is based on our recognition that play is important to all children – but that play is often challenged UN Global Compact and Sustainable when disasters hit, when children have to flee from their Development Goals home or when they grow up in deprived families. In these As part of our commitment to responsibility, we have been a signatory situations, the Red Cross uses play to improve the children’s of the UN Global Compact since 2010. We work with the UN Global well-being. Compact principles at all stages of our value chain. BR supports these activities through the sale of a Red Cross UN, UNICEF and Save the Children have developed the Children’s Rights teddy, where all proceeds go to the Red Cross and their work and Business Principles that guide us in prioritising our sustainability with vulnerable children in the Nordic countries and the activities throughout our value chain. We focus primarily on the rest of the world. The partnership raises awareness of the following principles: Respect and support children’s rights; contribute to importance of Red Cross’ work for vulnerable children. the elimination of child labour; provide decent work for young workers, Partnerships 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT 32 Corporate governance and risk management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance practices at TOP-TOY The content of the meetings is determined by the Board’s meeting schedule, which is updated and approved by the Board of Directors at TOP-TOY strives to comply with generally accepted corporate the beginning of each financial year and through ongoing discussions governance principles as required under the Danish Companies Act, the between the Board of Directors and Executive Management. Danish Financial Statements Act, the International Financial Reporting Standards and the internal rules and procedures described in the company’s Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors and Executive Board and Executive Management Management. As TOP-TOY is controlled by EQT, which is a member The Board of Directors has six members and held six board meetings of the Danish Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (DVCA), in 2016/2017. Each meeting lasted at least a day, ensuring enough the company also strives to comply with the corporate governance time to discuss current performance and strategic issues. Key topics of guidelines issued by DVCA. discussion this year related to sales development, ERP implementation, our omni-channel approach, deep dives into each of our six markets At TOP-TOY, powers are distributed between the Board of Directors and the company’s strategy. and Executive Management in accordance with common practices for Danish companies and as formalised by the company’s Rules During 2016/2017, Albert Gustafsson, partner in EQT Partners, became of Procedure. The Executive Management handles all day-to-day a member of the Board, replacing Anders Misund, partner in EQT operations while the Board of Directors supervises the work of the Partners. There were no changes in the composition of the Executive Executive Management and approves certain types of decisions and Management during the financial year. investments. TOP-TOY’s Executive Management is supported by an Executive Management Team (EMT), consisting of four members in Internal control systems addition to the Executive Management. The Executive Management is responsible for maintaining an adequate and efficient internal control environment in connection with financial TOP-TOY’s Board of Directors develops the corporate strategy reporting. In the coming year, we will continue to strengthen the control together with the Executive Management, oversees progress and environment as part of our ongoing efforts to ensure we benefit fully financial development, and assesses whether the necessary skills and from our new ERP system. qualifications are in place to support TOP-TOY’s development and strategic business objectives. In addition, the Board of Directors ensures Ownership and capital structure that TOP-TOY works towards implementing efficient and transparent business procedures. The Board aims to have six board meetings a year. TOP-TOY’s majority shareholder is private equity fund EQT, which owns 73% of TOP-TOY, while the founding Gjørup family owns 24%. The remaining shares are owned by board and management members. Corporate governance and risk management 33 RISK MANAGEMENT Liquidity risk TOP-TOY monitors liquidity flow in order to ensure adequate liquidity resources are available. Credit risk TOP-TOY has limited credit risk exposure related to trade receivables as revenue transactions are settled by cash, credit or debit cards. We are not exposed to any major credit risk related to trade receivables from any single customer or other party. However, we do have credit risk in relation to cash held at financial institutions and unrealised gains on financial contracts. Operational risk TOP-TOY has identified key operational risks within the areas of: • Market place • Sourcing • Legislation • Infrastructure • People The Executive Management works actively with risk management. Ongoing discussions and assessments of actual and potential risks Market place ensure such risks are managed in a proactive and efficient manner. Competition This includes departmental follow-ups to drive risk mitigation and action plans. The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for As a retailer, TOP-TOY is exposed to competition from specialist risk management. retailers with a value proposition similar to TOP-TOY’s as well as more generalist retailers like hypermarkets. An increasing part of the competition comes from online formats – both omnichannel Financial risk players and pure online retailers. To mitigate competition from The nature of TOP-TOY’s operations, investments and financing other retailers, TOP-TOY continues to invest and develop the BR and arrangements exposes TOP-TOY to financial risks from fluctuations TOYS”R”US concepts to sustain their relevance and an attractive value in foreign exchange rates and interest rate levels. TOP-TOY’s treasury proposition to customers. Initiatives include continued strengthening policy is to address financial risks actively in order to mitigate the risk of our creative capabilities within category management, product of material impacts on TOP-TOY’s financial position. design and innovation, visual merchandising, marketing and branding as well as training of store staff in order to sustain or improve the Currency risk level of service we provide. Due to our international activities, our financial results, cash flows and equity are exposed to fluctuations in various foreign currencies. Product assortment The main exchange rate exposure faced by TOP-TOY relates to the In line with other retailers, our product assortment needs to meet purchase of goods in foreign currency, mainly USD, and net cash customer preferences in order to keep our two store concepts flows from foreign subsidiaries, mainly SEK and NOK and debt in SEK succesful. Should we fail to select the right products at the right and NOK. Our policy is to hedge foreign currency risk at least on a prices, then financial performance will be affected. We review half-yearly basis for minimum 75% of planned procurement prior to our assortment continuously and actively engage in category purchasing for each season. Exchange rate exposure is not hedged management to constantly improve our trend spotting and stay up to when related to the translation of financial results, debt and equity of date with market developments. foreign subsidiaries into DKK. Product development Interest rate risk TOP-TOY depends on the product development of major toy TOP-TOY is exposed to interest rate risk when borrowing funds suppliers. The industry is very trend driven and relies on demand at variable interest rates. TOP-TOY monitors the risk and applies created primarily by strong movie merchandise. The strength of hedging to maintain a mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings major movie launches varies from year to year and has a significant in accordance with our treasury policy. impact on specific demand within our categories. 34 Corporate governance and risk management Expansion Legislation Our growth ambitions require strong performance in our physical TOP-TOY operates in the regulated market for selling toys to children stores and online. Failure to address performance issues in local and their families. As such, it is important to develop our marketing markets may impact overall financial results. We work continuously to efforts in compliance with the legislation and standards that apply in improve our monitoring, business review and controlling so we can our markets. Failure to comply with local regulations and standards proactively address any potential disruptions in local markets. may negatively affect our reputation and financial performance. We have dedicated teams focusing on legal and compliance matters pertaining to our business model. When required, we make use of Sourcing external advisors. Forecasting We work constantly to strengthen our forecasting tools so we Infrastructure are better able to predict demand. Our latest initiative is the TOP-TOY’s business model depends on a well-functioning IT implementation of a formal Sales & Operations Process (S&OP) in infrastructure and automated logistics setup. Continued disruptions 2016/2017. Failure to assess demand correctly will have a negative and/or delays in the implementation of our new global ERP system impact on our financial results. Underestimating demand will lead may have a negative impact on our financial results. Disruptions in to availability issues and missed sales with limited opportunities for our day-to-day operations may potentially continue to occur as a substitution. Similarly, overestimating demand will cause inventory consequence of the implementation. To mitigate potential risks, build-up and potential future write-downs on stock. we have strengthened our project organisation and project management capabilities. In addition, we have implemented a Suppliers governance structure anchored with the Executive Management to Products are sourced from external suppliers. If the suppliers fail to ensure all departments allocate sufficient attention and resources to comply with TOP-TOY’s Product Integrity Policy, our reputation and the project. brand may be jeopardised. We monitor compliance through our product integrity programme. See the sections “Safe and responsible working People conditions” and “Safe playing experiences” for further information. To meet our growth ambitions, we must continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees at all levels of the organisation Supply chain disruptions – from store staff and managers to creative and administrative Disruption in our supply chain may cause product shortage and/ people at office locations. TOP-TOY has a central HR function or prolonged lead times, which could have a negative impact on our focused on promoting and strengthening employee engagement and reputation as well as our ability to meet demand – with potential satisfaction in our stores and office locations. Local HR managers negative impact on our financial results. To mitigate this risk, are employed in all markets to support local sales management and TOP-TOY monitors the supply chain continuously and invests in implement initiatives for store employees. Among other initiatives, sourcing and supply chain systems, processes and capabilities. we will develop and roll-out programs in all stores, focusing on our Our main distribution centre in Greve, Denmark receives special sales training and service concept. attention in the form of an annual risk management survey conducted at the site. Corporate governance and risk management 35 BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 36 Board of Directors and Executive Management BOARD OF DIRECTORS Michael Hauge Sørensen Henrik Gjørup Chairman of the Board Board member and one of the founders of TOP-TOY Member since 2016 Member since 1963 Educational background: Educational background: Executive training from Stanford, IMD and INSEAD Business administration, CBS and retail traineeship in USA and Switzerland Current position: Professional board member and industrial advisor, EQT partners Current position: Professional board member and investor Other board positions: Fristads Kansas Group AB (chairman) Elevate Global Limited Santa Fe Group A/S IC Group A/S Zebra A/S Pandora A/S Peter Gjørup Albert Gustafsson Board member Board member Member since 1990 Member since 2017 Educational background: Educational background: Business administration, CBS Executive and INSEAD Business administration Current position: Current position: Professional board member and investor Partner, EQT Partners Other board positions: Odin DK Holding A/S (chairman) Sekoia ApS Board of Directors and Executive Management 37 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Erik Lindgren Frederik Steenbuch Board member Board member Member since 2016 Member since 2016 Current position: Educational background: Industrial Advisor, EQT Partners Business and marketing, Norges Markedshøyskole (NMH) Other board positions: Current position: Independent Vetcare CEO of XXL Sports & Outdoor Musti ja Mirri Oy Eton AB Other board positions: Megaflis AS 38 Board of Directors and Executive Management EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Søren Torp Laursen Henning Andersen Bröchner Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Started in 2016 Started in 2013 Educational background: Educational background: Business administration and marketing Commercial law and business administration Board positions: Previous positions: Varier Furniture A/S CFO in Carli Gry International A/S and KOMPAN Holding A/S A.T. Cross Company Toy Industry Foundation Connecticut Children’s Medical Center Previous positions: President of LEGO Americas and various other positions in the LEGO Group Board of Directors and Executive Management 39 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 40 Consolidated financial statements CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 42 Income statement 43 Statement of comprehensive income 44 Balance sheet 46 Statement of changes in equity 47 Cash flow statement 48 Notes 48 Accounting policies Note 1 55 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Note 2 56 Employee expenses Note 3 57 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment Note 4 57 Special items Note 5 57 Fees paid to auditors appointed at the annual general meeting Note 6 57 Financial income Note 7 58 Financial expenses Note 8 58 Income tax Note 9 59 Deferred tax Note 10 60 Intangible assets Note 11 61 Impairment test Note 12 63 Property, plant and equipment Note 13 64 Investments in subsidiaries Note 14 64 Inventory Note 15 64 Trade and other receivables Note 16 64 Cash and cash equivalents Note 17 65 Share capital Note 18 65 Capital management Note 19 66 Provisions Note 20 66 Borrowings Note 21 68 Trade and other payables Note 22 68 Change in working capital Note 23 69 Business combinations Note 24 70 Financial risks and financial instruments Note 25 75 Leases Note 26 75 Collaterals and contingencies etc. Note 27 75 Related party disclosures Note 28 76 Events after the reporting period Note 29 76 Impact of transition to IFRS Note 30 83 Standards issued but not yet effective Note 31 Consolidated financial statements 41 INCOME STATEMENT 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 Note DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Revenue 3,365.5 1,259.3 Cost of goods sold -1,602.7 -624.5 Gross profit 1,762.8 634.8 Other external expenses -927.6 -432.4 3 Employee expenses -696.3 -328.9 EBITDA before special items 138.9 -126.5 4 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses -62.5 -28.8 Other operating expenses -1.1 -1.5 Operating profit (EBIT) before special items 75.3 -156.8 5 Special items -91.3 -44.7 Operating result -16.0 -201.5 7 Financial income 40.5 3.3 8 Financial expenses -70.1 -33.4 Result before tax -45.6 -231.6 9 Tax on result of the year 6.9 43.0 Result for the year -38.7 -188.6 42 Consolidated financial statements STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 Note DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Result of the year -38.7 -188.6 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to the result in subsequent periods (net of tax): Exchange differences on translation of foreign entities -3.5 -3.0 Value adjustment of hedging instruments -11.5 7.1 9 Income tax 2.5 -1.6 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax -12.5 2.5 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -51.2 -186.1 Attributable to: Shareholders of the parent -51.2 -186.1 Consolidated financial statements 43 BALANCE SHEET Note DKK million 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 25 November 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets 11 Intangible assets 1,773.0 1,698.7 0.0 13 Property, plant and equipment 171.4 190.4 0.0 10 Deferred tax asset 76.6 50.7 0.0 Other non-current assets 7.2 7.5 0.0 Total non-current assets 2,028.2 1,947.3 0.0 Current assets 15 Inventories 895.3 836.8 0.0 16 Trade and other receivables 22.1 50.8 0.0 Income tax receivable 14.3 16.1 0.0 Prepayments 48.9 43.5 0.0 17 Cash and cash equivalents 39.1 33.6 0.5 Total current assets 1,019.7 980.8 0.5 TOTAL ASSETS 3,047.9 2,928.1 0.5 44 Consolidated financial statements BALANCE SHEET Note DKK million 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 25 November 2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 18 Share capital 11.6 11.6 0.5 Hedging reserve -3.5 5.5 0.0 Foreign currency translation reserve -6.5 -3.0 0.0 Retained earnings 958.1 996.8 0.0 Proposed dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total equity 959.7 1,010.9 0.5 Non-current liabilities 10 Deferred tax liabilities 58.2 58.8 0.0 20 Provisions 16.1 16.6 0.0 21 Credit institutions 834.5 900.4 0.0 Total non-current liabilities 908.8 975.8 0.0 Current liabilities 20 Provisions 14.0 18.9 0.0 17,21 Credit institutions 687.2 399.8 0.0 22 Trade and other payables 420.6 449.7 0.0 Income tax payable 10.6 14.1 0.0 Joint taxation payables 27.0 41.1 0.0 Deferred income 20.0 17.8 0.0 Total current liabilities 1,179.4 941.4 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,047.9 2,928.1 0.5 Consolidated financial statements 45 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Foreign currency Share Hedging translation Retained Proposed Total DKK million capital reserve reserve earnings dividend equity 2016/17 Equity 1 July 2016 11.6 5.5 -3.0 996.8 0.0 1,010.9 Result for the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 -38.7 0.0 -38.7 Other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation of foreign entities 0.0 0.0 -3.5 0.0 0.0 -3.5 Hedging instruments 0.0 -11.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 -11.5 Tax on hedging instruments 0.0 2.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.5 Total other comprehensive income 0.0 -9.0 -3.5 0.0 0.0 -12.4 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -9.0 -3.5 -38.7 0.0 -51.2 Transactions with owners Dividend distributed 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Equity 30 June 2017 11.6 -3.5 -6.5 958.1 0.0 959.7 2015/16 Equity 25 November 2015 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.5 Result for the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 -188.6 0.0 -188.6 Other comprehensive income Foreign currency translation of foreign entities 0.0 0.0 -3.0 0.0 0.0 -3.0 Hedging instruments 0.0 7.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 7.1 Tax on hedging instruments 0.0 -1.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 -1.6 Total other comprehensive income 0.0 5.5 -3.0 0.0 0.0 2.5 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 5.5 -3.0 -188.6 0.0 -186.1 Transactions with owners Issue of share capital 11.1 0.0 0.0 1,185.4 0.0 1,196.5 Total transactions with owners 11.1 0.0 0.0 1,185.4 0.0 1,196.5 Equity 30 June 2016 11.6 5.5 -3.0 996.8 0.0 1,010.9 46 Consolidated financial statements CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 Note DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Operating result -16.0 -201.5 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses 62.5 28.8 Other adjustments of non-cash operating items 14.1 -5.5 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 60.6 -178.2 23 Change in working capital -72.5 -129.4 Cash flow from operations -11.9 -307.6 Interest expenses, paid -62.3 -29.4 Interest income, received 0.2 0.6 Cash flow from ordinary activities -74.0 -336.4 Income tax paid -33.4 -6.3 Cash flow from operating activities -107.4 -342.7 Acquisition of intangible assets -87.1 -65.8 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment and leasehold improvement -37.6 -41.7 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.1 9.3 24 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 -2,022.9 Change in rental deposits 0.3 0.0 Cash flow from investing activities -124.3 -2.121,1 Repayment of borrowings -9.7 0.0 Proceeds from borrowings 0.0 902.6 Proceeds from share issue 0.0 1,196.6 Cash flow from financing activities -9.7 2,099.2 Cash flows for the year -241.4 -364.6 Cash and cash equivalents 1 July 2016 / 25 November 2015 -364.1 0.5 Foreign currency translation of cash and cash equivalents -0.4 0.0 17 Cash and cash equivalents 30 June -605.9 -364.1 The amounts in the Cash Flow Statement may not be derived solely from the published accounting records in the income statement and balance sheet. Consolidated financial statements 47 NOTES 1 Accounting policies Summary of significant accounting policies The financial statements section of the annual report for Basis of preparation the period 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017 comprises both the The consolidated financial statements include the parent company consolidated financial statements of TOP-TOY Holding II TOP-TOY Holding II A/S and its subsidiaries at 30 June 2017. A/S and its subsidiaries (the Group or the TOP-TOY Group) and the separate parent company financial statements. The Subsidiaries are entities over which the TOP-TOY Group has control. The comparative figures cover the period 25 November 2015 – 30 Group has control over an entity, when the Group is exposed to or has June 2016. rights to variable returns from its involvement in the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. The Group is the leading retailer in toys and other children’s products in the Nordic Region, with stores located in Denmark, Only potential voting rights that are considered to be substantive at the Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland and North Germany. balance sheet date are included in the control assessment. TOP-TOY Holding II A/S is incorporated and domiciled Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control in Denmark. over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the subsidiary. The consolidated financial statements of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S have been prepared in accordance with International Financial The consolidated financial statements are prepared by combining Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (IFRS) and Danish uniform items. On consolidation, intercompany income and expenses, disclosure requirements for large reporting class C entities. shareholdings, intercompany accounts and dividend as well as realised and unrealised profit and loss on transactions between the consolidated The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have on 1 companies are eliminated. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses of a November 2017 discussed and approved the annual report for subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the TOP-TOY Holding II A/S. The annual report will be presented to consolidated financial statements from the date the Group gains control the shareholders of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S for adoption at the until the date the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. annual general meeting on 1 November 2017. Subsidiaries’ financial statement items are recognised in full in the Basis of preparation consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements have been presented in Danish kroner, presented in million with one decimal. This set of financial statements covers the second financial year of the TOP-TOY Group. The consolidated financial statements for the period 25 November 2015 – 30 June 2016 was prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. These financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 are the first the Group has prepared in accordance with IFRS. Information on how the Group has adopted IFRS and the effect that the transition has had on the Group is disclosed in note 30 In connection with the transition to IFRS, the TOP-TOY Group has chosen to early-adopt the following standard, which becomes mandatory for financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018: • IFRS 9 Financial Instruments . The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently in respect of the financial year and to comparative figures. For standards implemented prospectively, comparative figures are not restated. 48 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 1 Accounting policies (continued) On initial recognition, foreign currency transactions are translated to the functional currency at the exchange rates at the transaction date. Business combinations Business combinations are accounted for using the Foreign exchange differences arising between the rate at the transaction acquisition method. date and the rate at the date of payment are recognised in profit or loss as financial income or financial expenses. The acquired businesses’ identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities are measured at fair value at the Receivables and payables and other monetary items denominated acquisition date. Identifiable intangible assets are recognised if in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at the they are separable or arise from a contractual right. Deferred exchange rates at the date of the statement of financial position. tax related to the revaluations is recognised. The acquisition date is the date when TOP-TOY Holding II A/S effectively obtains The difference between the exchange rates at the end of the reporting control over the acquired business. period and at the date at which the receivable or payable arose or was recognised in the latest annual report is recognised in profit or loss as The consideration paid for a business consist of the fair value of financial income or financial expenses. the agreed consideration in the form of the assets transferred, equity instruments issued and liabilities assumed at the date In the consolidated financial statements, the statements of of acquisition. If part of the consideration is contingent on comprehensive income of foreign operations with a functional currency future events, such consideration is recognised in cost at fair other than Danish kroner are translated at the exchange rate at the value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent transaction date, and the statement of financial position items are consideration are recognised in the income statement. translated at closing rates. An average exchange rate for each month is used as the exchange rate at the transaction date in so far as this does A positive excess (goodwill) of the consideration transferred not significantly distort the presentation of the underlying transactions. (including any previously held equity interests and any non-controlling interests in the acquired business) over the Foreign exchange differences arising on translation of the opening fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded equity of such entities at closing rates and on translation of the as goodwill. Upon acquisition, goodwill is allocated to the statements of comprehensive income from the exchange rate at the cash-generating units, which subsequently form the basis for transaction date to closing rates are recognised in other comprehensive impairment testing. income in a separate translation reserve under equity. On disposal of a reporting entity, the component of other comprehensive income Costs directly attributable to the acquisition are expensed relating to that particular reporting entity is reclassified to profit or loss. as incurred. Derivative financial instruments If uncertainties regarding identification or measurement Derivative financial instruments are recognised initially in the balance of acquired assets, liabilities or contingent liabilities or sheet at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered determination of the consideration transferred exist at the into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Positive and acquisition date, initial recognition will be based on provisional negative fair values of derivative financial instruments are recognised values. Any adjustments in the provisional values are adjusted as other receivables or other payables and positive and negative values retrospectively, including goodwill, until 12 months after the are set off only when the Group has the right and the intention to settle acquisition, and comparative figures are restated. several financial instruments net. Translation of foreign currency The Group uses derivate financial instruments, such as interest rates The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented swaps, to hedge its interest rate risk and forward contract to hedge in Danish Kroner (DKK), which is also the parent company’s currency (cash flow hedge). Changes in the portion of the fair value of functional currency. For each of the reporting entities in derivative financial instruments designated as and qualifying as a cash the Group, including subsidiaries and foreign branches, a flow hedge that is an effective hedge of changes in future cash flows are functional currency is determined. The functional currency recognised in other comprehensive income under a separate hedging is the currency used in the primary financial environment in reserve in equity until the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss. which the reporting entity operates. Transactions denominated If the hedged transaction results in gains or losses, amounts previously in currencies other than the functional currency are foreign recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the currency transactions. same item as the hedged item. Consolidated financial statements 49 NOTES 1 Accounting policies (continued) Special items Special items consist of significant recurring and non-recurring income If the hedging instrument does no longer qualify for and expenses which management does not consider to be part of the hedge accounting, the hedge will cease to be effective. Group’s ordinary operations, primarily acquisition costs, restructuring The accumulated change in value recognised in other and fundamental structural costs, as well as gains or losses arising in comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss when this connection. These items are classified separately in the income the hedged cash flows affect profit or loss or are no statement in order to give a more true and fair view of the Group’s longer probable. operating profit. The portion of the value adjustment of a derivative financial instrument that is not included in a hedge is presented Financial income and financial expenses under net financials. Financial income and expenses comprise interest income and expenses, realised and unrealised capital gains and losses concerning For derivative financial instruments that do not qualify for securities, liabilities and transactions in foreign currencies. Furthermore, hedge accounting, changes in fair value are recognised in the amortisation of financial assets and liabilities, as well as surcharges and income statement as financial income or financial expenses. allowances under the on-account tax scheme. Income statement Income tax TOP-TOY Holding II A/S is jointly taxed with all its Danish subsidiaries. Revenue The current Danish corporate income tax charge is allocated between Income from the sale of goods is recognised when it is the jointly taxed entities in proportion to their taxable income. The probable that economic benefits will flow to the group and jointly taxed companies are taxed under the on-account tax scheme. the income from the sale of goods can be reliably measured, despite when the payment is received. Income from sale of Tax for the year comprises current tax charge and deferred tax goods is measured at fair value of the received consideration adjustments. The tax expense is recognised in profit or loss, other or receivable, taking into account contractually defined terms comprehensive income or directly in equity. of payments, excluding taxes and duty. Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current period are Cost of goods sold measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid Cost of goods sold comprises cost on goods sold and any to the tax authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute write-downs on inventory. Cost of goods sold are recognised the amount are those that are enacted, or substantively enacted, at when revenue is earned. the reporting date in the countries where the Group operates and generates taxable income. Other external expenses Other external expenses include costs and expenses for Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in other distribution, sale, advertising, administration, premises etc. comprehensive income or equity is recognised there and not in the income statement. Management periodically evaluates positions taken Employee expenses in the tax returns with respect to situations, in which applicable tax Employee expenses comprises wages and salaries including regulations are subject to interpretation, and establishes provisions pensions and other costs for social security etc. In employee where appropriate. expenses received refunds from public authorities are offset. Statement of comprehensive income Other operating income and expenses Other operating income and expenses comprise items Other comprehensive income consists of income and costs not secondary to the principal activities of the entities, including recognised in the income statement, including exchange rate adjustment gains and losses on disposal of intangible assets and items arising from the translation from functional currency to presentation of property, plant and equipment are calculated as the sales currency and fair value adjustments of hedging instruments. price less selling costs and the carrying amount at the time of disposal. In the event of the disposal of an entity, the accumulated exchange rate adjustment relating to the relevant entity is reclassified to the income statement. 50 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 1 Accounting policies (continued) Goodwill and Brand Goodwill and BR-Brand are tested for impairment annually and when Balance sheet circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may be impaired. Intangible assets Impairment is determined for goodwill and Brand by assessing the Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at cost recoverable amount being the highest of value in use and fair value on initial recognition. The cost of intangible assets acquired less cost of disposal of each cash-generating unit (or group of cashin a business combination is their fair value at the date of generating units) to which the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable acquisition. Following initial recognition, intangible assets are amount of the cash-generating unit is less than their carrying amount, carried at cost less accumulated amortisation (for intangible an impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to goodwill assets with finite lives) and accumulated impairment losses, cannot be reversed in future periods. if any. Development projects in progress The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite Development projects in progress clearly defined and identifiable, or indefinite. where technical feasibility, sufficient resources and where the Group intends to complete and use the individual project, are recognised as Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their intangible assets provided that the cost can be measured reliably. When useful lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is development projects are finalised they are transferred to the relevant an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The group of assets and then depreciated over a straight-line basis. amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least Other intangible assets at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected Customer relationship, leasehold rights and Licenses, rights and useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future software are measured at cost less accumulated amortisation. economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by Leasehold rights are amortised over the duration of the lease contract. changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, Customer relationship and Licenses, rights and software are amortised and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The over the estimated useful lives of the assets which are estimated based amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is on Management’s experience. recognised in the income statement as amortisation. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, Property, plant and equipment but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or Leasehold improvements and plant and equipment are measured at at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost comprises acquisition cost and life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite expenses directly attributable to the acquisition until the time when the life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life asset is ready to be used. from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. Where individual components of an item of plant and equipment have Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible different useful lives, they are depreciated separately. Depreciation is asset are measured as the difference between the net provided on a straight-line basis and based on the estimated useful life disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset of the assets: and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised. Leasehold improvements 5-10 years Plant and machinery 5-10 years A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible assets is as follows: The depreciation period and the residual value are determined at the acquisition date and are reassessed annually. If the residual value • Goodwill indefinite exceeds the carrying amount, depreciation is discontinued. • Brand – indefinite Depreciation charges are recognised in the income statement as a • Customer relationships amortised on a straight-line basis separate line item. over 8 years • Leasehold rights amortised on a straight-line basis over Gain or loss resulting from the sale of property, plant and equipment 5-10 years is measured as the difference between the sales price reduced by • Licenses, rights and software amortised on a straight-line the selling costs and the carrying amount at the time of the sale. basis over 3-10 years The profit or loss is recognised in the income statement under other • Development projects no amortisation operating income or expenses. Consolidated financial statements 51 NOTES 1 Accounting policies (continued) exceed the carrying amount that would have resulted (net of amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised Other non-current assets in respect of the asset in prior years. Other non-current assets include deposits of rent, which are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at Inventories amortised cost. Inventories comprising goods for resale are measured at cost based on weighted average prices. Cost comprises the purchase price plus Impairment of non-current assets delivery costs. Goodwill and Brand are subject to annual impairment tests. Where net realisable value is lower than cost, inventories are written The carrying amount of goodwill and brand are tested for down to this lower value. The net realisable value is calculated as the impairment together with the other non-current assets of the sales amount less costs of completion and costs necessary to make the cash-generating unit or group of cash-generating units to which sale and is determined taking into account marketability, obsolescence goodwill and brand are allocated. The assets of the cashand development in expected sales price. generating units are written down to the recoverable amount over the income statement if the carrying amount is higher. Financial assets Receivables are classified as financial instruments measured at The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is generally amortised costs, when both of the following conditions are met: determined as the present value of the expected future net cash flows from the entity or activity (cash-generating unit) to • The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to which the goodwill and brand relates. hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and • The contractual terms of the financial asset gives rise on specified For goodwill the cash-generating unit is defined as per dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and country in line with the internal model for monitoring and interest on the principal amount outstanding. follow up on performance. Financial assets within this category are measured at amortised cost The carrying amount of other non-current assets is tested using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. annually for evidence of impairment. When there is evidence that assets may be impaired, the recoverable amount of the The group recognises a provision for impairment for expected credit asset is calculated. The recoverable amount is the higher of an loss on financial assets measured at amortised cost. asset’s fair value less expected costs to sell and its value in use. The provision for impairment for trade receivables are always measured Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit loss. expected to be derived from an asset or the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Prepayments The carrying amount of other intangible assets and property, Prepayments recognised under assets comprise costs and expenses plant and equipment as well as investments in subsidiaries paid that concern the following financial year. Prepaid expenses are other investments is subject to an annual test for indications of measured at cost. impairment. Write-down is made to the recoverable amount if this is lower than the carrying amount. Recognition of impairment losses in the income statement The impairment loss is recognised in the income statement as depreciation or amortisation, respectively. Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses recognised in respect of other assets are reversed in so far as the assumptions and estimates underlying the impairment losses have changed. Impairment losses are reversed only in so far as the new carrying amount of the asset does not 52 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 1 Accounting policies (continued) • when the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a Equity business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects Hedging reserve neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss The hedge reserve comprises the accumulated net change in fair value of hedging transactions which meet the criteria of • in respect of taxable temporary differences associated with hedging future cash flows and for which the hedged transaction investments in subsidiaries when the timing of the reversal of the is yet to be realised. temporary differences can be controlled and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Foreign currency translation reserve The exchange adjustment reserve in the consolidated financial Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary statements comprises exchange differences arising on the differences, the carry-forward of unused tax credits and any unused translation of the financial statements of foreign enterprises tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that from their functional currencies into Danish kroner, including it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the exchange differences on financial instruments considered deductible temporary differences, and the carry-forward of unused tax to be a part of the net investment or as hedging of the net credits and unused tax losses can be utilised, except: investment. On realisation, accumulated value adjustments are taken from equity to financial items in the income statement. • When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability Dividend in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time Dividend proposed for the year is recognised as a liability at of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable the date when it is adopted at the annual general meeting profit or loss. (declaration date). Dividend expected to be distributed for the year is disclosed as a separate item under equity. In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse Provisions in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against Provisions are recognised when the Group has a current which the temporary differences can be utilised. legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event at the balance sheet date and it is probable that an outflow of The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each resources embodying economic benefits will be required to reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable settle the obligation. that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are Provisions include warranty and sales returns, restoration of re-assessed at each reporting. leasehold improvements etc. Financial liabilities Current and deferred tax Amounts owed to credit institutions, etc. are recognised at the date Current tax liabilities and current tax receivables are recognised of borrowing at fair value less transaction costs paid. On subsequent in the balance sheet as tax computed on the year’s taxable recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using income adjusted for tax on the previous year’s taxable income the effective interest method. Accordingly, the difference between the and tax paid on account. proceeds and the nominal value is recognised in the income statement under financial expenses over the term of the loan. Joint taxation contribution payable and receivable is recognised in the balance sheet as “Joint taxation receivable” or “joint Other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost. taxable payable”. Deferred income Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on Payment received concerning income in regards to the following temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and financial years are recognised under deferred income recognised liabilities and their carrying amounts for financial reporting under liabilities. purposes at the reporting date. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, except: Consolidated financial statements 53 NOTES 1 Accounting policies (continued) The cash flow effect of acquisitions of businesses is shown separately in cash flows from investing activities. Cash flows from acquired businesses Leases are recognised in the cash flow statement from the date of acquisition. For financial reporting purposes, lease liabilities are classified as finance lease liabilities and operating lease liabilities. A finance Cash flow from operating activities lease is classified as a lease which in all material respects Cash flows from operating activities are determined as profit for the year transfers the risk and benefits associated with ownership of adjusted for non-cash operating items, the change in working capital the leased asset to the lessee. All other leases are classified as and income tax paid. operating leases. Currently, all leases entered into by the Group are classified as operating leases. Cash flow from investing activities Cash flows from investing activities comprise payments in connection Operating lease payments are recognised in the income with the acquisition and sale of intangible assets, property, plant and statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. machinery and financial assets. Fair value measurement Cash flow from financing activities Cash flows from financing activities comprise change in the size or The Group uses the fair value concept in connection with composition of the Groups share capital and related costs as well certain disclosure requirements and for recognition of financial as borrowing, repayment of interest-bearing debt and payment of instruments. Fair value is defined as the price that would be dividends to shareholders. received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants (“exit price”). Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash, short term bank debt and The fair value is a market-based and not an entity-specific short-term marketable securities with a term of three months or less measurement. The entity uses the assumptions that the which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. market participants would use for the pricing of the asset or liability based on the current market conditions, including Key figures and financial ratios risk assumptions. The entity’s purpose of holding the asset or Key figures and financial ratios have been calculated as follows: settling the liability is thus not taken into account when the fair value is determined. Operating profit before special items (adjusted EBITDA) is calculated The fair value measurement is based on the principal market. as operating result with addition of amortisation, depreciation and If a principal market does not exist, the measurement is impairment losses as well as special items, which the management find based on the most advantageous market, i.e. the market that outside of the normal ordinary operation. maximises the price of the asset or liability less transaction and transport costs. Gross profit ×100 Gross margin Revenue All assets and liabilities measured at fair value, or in respect of which the fair value is disclosed, are classified based on the fair Equity,end ×100 value hierarchy, see below: Solvency ratio Total liabilities, end • Level 1: Value in an active market for similar assets/liabilities • Level 2: Value based on recognised valuation methods on the basis of observable market information • Level 3: Value based on recognised valuation methods and reasonable estimates (non-observable market information). Cash flow statement The Cash Flow Statement shows the cash flows of the Group for the year, distributed on operating activities, investing activities, and financing activities for the year, changes in cash and cash equivalents, and the cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and the end of the year, respectively. 54 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 2 Significant accounting judgements, Valuation of inventories estimates and assumptions Write-down for obsolete inventories is carried out on the basis of an assessment of their recoverability at the reporting date. Inventories are When preparing the consolidated financial statements for analysed and written down based on analysis of inventory days and the Group, Management undertakes a number of accounting assessment of expected net realisable value. Movements in inventory estimates and judgements to recognise, measure and classify write-downs are reflected in note 15. the Group’s assets and liabilities. The most significant areas subject to estimates and judgements are mentioned below. Valuation of intangible assets The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite or indefinite. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over their useful lives and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an intangible asset with a finite useful life are reviewed at least at the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the asset are accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income statement as amortisation. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. The estimated value in use is computed on the basis of the expected free cash flow from the relevant cash-generating unit based on updated budgets for the next 5 years. The calculated value in use is based on a number of assumptions and is by nature subject to uncertainty. The key assumptions are disclosed and further explained in note 12. Business combinations The allocation of the acquisition cost to the fair value of the acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities and thus to goodwill, including the allocation to cash-generating units, may have a significant impact on future profits. Fair values are based on estimates using information available at the time control was achieved. When part of the acquisition cost for entities acquired is dependent on the development in future profits, estimates are made of the most probable value of the contingent acquisition cost based on current forecasts. Please refer to note 24 for information about business combinations. Consolidated financial statements 55 NOTES 3 Employee expenses 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Wages and salaries 644.3 292.5 Pensions, defined contribution plans 42.5 15.9 Other costs for social security 65.7 33.3 752.5 341.7 Capitalised salaries and wages related to development projects -10.9 -4.6 Salaries classified as special items -45.3 -8.2 Total 696.3 328.9 Average number of full time employees 2,124 2,266 Management & Board of Directors remuneration 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017 25 November 2015 – 30 June 2016 Other key Other key Executive Board of management Executive Board of management board directors personnel board directors personnel Wages and salaries 9.0 0.7 13.7 12.0 0 16.0 Pensions, defined contribution plan 0.8 0.0 0.9 0.2 0 0.3 9.8 0.7 14.6 12.2 0 16.3 Remuneration in 2015/16 and 2016/17 includes salaries to resigned Executive board and Other Key management personnel. The Executive Board and key management personnel are eligible for bonuses, depending on result of operations and personal KPI’s. Key management personnel comprise the Chief Officers of Sales, Commercial, Operations, Procurement, eCommerce, Experience, and Marketing. 56 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 4 Amortisation, depreciation and impairment 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Amortisation of intangible assets 10.6 2.5 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 51.9 26.3 62.5 28.8 5 Special items Costs related to acquisition 0.0 33.3 Costs related to strategic review 5.7 0.6 Costs related to organisational restructuring 27.7 6.0 Costs related to new ERP 47.3 0.0 Costs related to winding down wholesale activity 0.4 0.2 Costs related to establishment of new management team 0.5 2.0 Costs related to buyout 5.3 2.7 Loss / gain on disposals of assets 1.3 0.3 Other special items, net 3.3 -0.4 91.3 44.7 6 Fees paid to auditors appointed at the annual general meeting Fee related to statutory audit 0.9 0.9 Fees for tax advisory services 1.6 0.3 Other assistance 2.8 0.2 5.3 1.4 7 Financial income Interest and similar income 0.2 0.6 Exchange rate adjustments, net 40.3 2.7 40.5 3.3 Interest on financial assets measured at amortised cost 0.2 0.5 Consolidated financial statements 57 NOTES 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 8 Financial expenses Interest and similar expenses 62.2 29.4 Amortisation of borrowing costs 7.9 4.0 70.1 33.4 Interest on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 61.8 29.6 Borrowing costs held during the year amount s to DKK 0.0 million (2015/16: 53.3 million). 9 Income tax Total tax for the year is specified as follows: Tax on result of the year 6.5 43.0 Tax on other comprehensive income* 2.5 -1.6 9.0 41.4 Income tax expense for the year is specified as follows: Current tax -16.8 -3.6 Deferred tax 23.7 46.6 6.9 43.0 * Relates to tax on gain/loss on cash flow hedges Tax on the result for the year can be explained as follows: 2016/17 2015/16 DKK million % DKK million % Result for the year: Calculated 22% tax of the result before tax 9.9 22.0 51.0 22.0 Adjustment of the tax rates in foreign subsidiaries relative to the 22% 0.4 0.1 1.1 0.5 Tax effect of: Non-deductible costs -3.4 -7.0 -9.1 -3.9 6.9 15.1 43.0 18.6 Effective tax rate 15.1% 18.6% Non-deductible costs mainly relates to non-deductible interest due to limitation in respect of the interest celling rules and 2015/16 is also impacted by non-deductible acquisition costs. 58 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 10 Deferred tax 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Deferred tax 1 July 2016 (25 November 2015) -8.1 0.0 Additions from business acquisitions 0.0 -54.6 Adjustments of deferred tax in profit and loss 23.7 46.6 Adjustments of deferred tax in other comprehensive income 2.8 -0.1 Deferred tax 30 June 18.4 -8.1 Deferred tax is recognised in the balance sheet as: Deferred tax asset 76.6 50.7 Deferred tax liability -58.2 -58.8 Deferred tax 30 June 18.4 -8.1 Deferred tax is related to: Intangible assets -57.9 -58.1 Property, plant and equipment 17.0 11.8 Trade receivables 0.0 0.0 Tax loss carry forward 66.0 43.8 Other receivables -0.2 -0.3 Provisions and short term debt 8.4 11.6 Re-tax balance -16.0 -15.2 Transactions on equity 1.1 -1.7 Deferred tax 30 June 18.4 -8.1 Deferred tax assets relate mainly to temporary differences on tangible assets and tax losses carried forward. Tax losses relates to the Danish joint taxation and is expected based on budgets to be used in the near future. Consolidated financial statements 59 NOTES 11 Intangible assets Licenses, Development Customer Leasehold rights and projects in DKK million Goodwill Brands relationships rights software progress Total Cost 1 July 2016 1,316.1 257.2 8.9 13.8 6.8 98.4 1,701.1 Additions during the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 1.5 0.8 83.1 85.4 Transfer 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 181.5 -181.5 0.0 Exchange differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.4 0.0 0.0 -0.4 Cost 30 June 2017 1,316.1 257.2 8.9 14.9 189.1 0.0 1,786.2 Amortisation and impairment 1 July 2016 0.0 0.0 0.6 1.9 0.1 0.0 2.6 Amortisation 0.0 0.0 1.1 3.5 6.0 0.0 10.6 Exchange differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amortisation and impairment 30 June 2017 0.0 0.0 1.7 5.4 6.1 0.0 13.2 Carrying amount 30 June 2017 1,316.1 257.2 7.2 9.5 183.0 0.0 1,773.0 Remaining amortisation period 7 years 1-5 years 2-10 years Cost 25 November 2015 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Additions from business acquisitions 1,316.1 257.2 8.9 9.1 0.1 51.9 1,643.3 Additions during the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.9 6.7 46.5 58.1 Exchange differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 -0.2 0.0 0.0 -0.2 Cost 30 June 2016 1,316.1 257.2 8.9 13.8 6.8 98.4 1,701.2 Amortisation and impairment 25 November 2015 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Amortisation 0.0 0.0 0.6 1.8 0.1 0.0 2.5 Amortisation and impairment 30 June 2016 0.0 0.0 0.6 1.8 0.1 0.0 2.5 Carrying amount 30 June 2016 1,316.1 257.2 8.3 12.0 6.7 98.4 1,698.7 Remaining amortisation period 8 years 1-4 years 3-5 years Except from goodwill and brand, all intangible assets have finite lives. Development projects in progress relates to implementation of a new ERP platform, which has been amortised as from end of March 2017 over a 10 year period from that time. 60 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 12 Impairment test At 30 June 2017, the Executive Board completed the annual impairment testing of goodwill and brands with indefinite, useful lives. The impairment tests are performed on a country by country basis, which is considered the lowest measurable cash-generating unit, and are based on the budgets and business plans approved by the Executive Board and the Board of Directors as well as other assumptions adjusted, as required, to comply with IAS 36. In connection with the acquisition of TOP-TOY A/S on 1 January 2016 and the related purchase price allocation, goodwill was allocated to the respective countries. The value of brand (BR) was capitalised and allocated to Denmark entirely as the Danish entity owns the brand and the other Group entities pay a royalty to use the brand. At year-end, the carrying amount of goodwill in the Group is attributable to the following cash-generating units: Goodwill DKK million 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 Denmark 834 834 Sweden 144 144 Norway 162 162 Finland 131 131 Iceland 17 17 Germany 28 28 1,316 1,316 At 30 June 2017, the carrying amount of brands with indefinite useful life was DKK 257 million (2016: DKK 257 million). When performing impairment tests of cash-generating units, the recoverable amount calculated as the discounted value of the expected future cash flows (value-in-use) is compared to the carrying amount of each of the cash-generating units. For all cashgenerating units the key parameters are revenue growth between 2% and 17% in the budget period and EBIT-margin of 3.7% and 7.6%. The cash flows covering the next 5 years are based on approved business plans and budgets. The cash flow projections for subsequent years (the terminal value) include assumptions on general expectations on growth, market and risks supported by internal market knowledge as well as macroeconomic sources. The terminal growth rates do not exceed the expected long-term average growth rate in the respective countries of operation including inflation. The discount rate (WACC) for each country reflects the specific risks relating to the business and underlying cash flows for the respective countries. The budget and forecast are based on specific future business entity initiatives for which the risks relating to key parameters have been assessed and recognised in estimated future free cash flows. The key parameters in the calculation of the value in use are revenue, earnings, working capital, capital expenditure, discount rate and the preconditions for the terminal value. Estimates are based on historical data and expectations on future changes in initiatives, markets and products. These expectations are based on a number of assumptions including development in markets such as online versus retail, ongoing working capital optimisation, product pricing as well as geographical expansions. Consolidated financial statements 61 NOTES 12 Impairment test (continued) The main assumptions are shown in the table below. Revenue (CAGR) EBIT margin in the Growth in the WAAC before tax 2017-2021 terminal period (%) terminal period (%) period (%) 30 June 2017 30 June 2017 30 June 2017 30 June 2017 Denmark 12.8% 16.9% 2.0% 15.9% Sweden 10.6% 3.0% 2.0% 13.0% Norway 11.5% 3.0% 2.0% 14.5% Finland 9.3% 3.0% 2.0% 12.5% Iceland 4.2% 3.0% 2.0% 14.6% Germany 4.7% 3.0% 2.0% 13.8% 11.1% 7.6% 2.0% 15.2% Based on the impairment tests, the Group did not have any impairments related to goodwill or brand as of 30 June 2017 or 30 June 2016. Sensitivity analysis The calculation of value in use of the cash-generating units are most sensitive to the assumptions for WACC and terminal growth. A reasonable possible change in these key assumptions, respectively, for the cash-generating units as set out below would cause the carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount (assuming all other assumptions remaining constant): WACC before tax Growth in the terminal period (%) 30 June 2017 30 June 2017 Denmark +2.25% -2.0%* Sweden +3.50% -2.0%* Norway +4.00% -2.0%* Finland +3.75% -2.0%* Iceland +0.10% -0.1%* Germany +0.10% -0.1%* * No impairment with 0% growth in terminal period. 62 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 13 Property, plant and equipment Leasehold Plant and DKK million improvements Machinery Total Cost 1 July 2016 52.1 163.4 215.5 Additions during the year 16.4 18.8 35.2 Disposals during the year -2.1 -5.9 -8.0 Exchange differences -0.8 1.1 0.2 Transfer 1.4 5.5 6.9 Cost 30 June 2017 67.0 182.8 249.8 Depreciation and impairment 1 July 2016 4.4 20.8 25.2 Depreciation 10.8 41.1 51.9 Depreciation on disposals -0.9 -4.7 -5.6 Exchange differences 0.0 0.0 0.0 Transfer 2.1 4.8 6.9 Depreciation and impairment 30 June 2017 16.4 62.0 78.4 Carrying amount 30 June 2017 50.6 120.8 171.4 Cost 25 November 2015 0.0 0.0 0.0 Additions from business acquisitions 40.0 149.6 189.6 Additions during the year 24.8 16.7 41.5 Disposals during the year -11.4 -0.5 -11.9 Exchange differences -1.3 -2.3 -3.6 Cost 30 June 2016 52.1 163.5 215.6 Depreciation and impairment 25 November 2015 0.0 0.0 0.0 Depreciation 5.2 21.1 26.3 Depreciation on disposals -0.7 -0.1 -0.8 Exchange differences -0.1 -0.2 -0.3 Depreciation and impairment 30 June 2016 4.4 20.8 25.2 Carrying amount 30 June 2016 47.7 142.7 190.4 Consolidated financial statements 63 NOTES 14 Investment in subsidiaries Voting right and Name and registered office ownership share Country TOP-TOY Holding III A/S, Vallensbæk Strand 100% Denmark TOP-TOY A/S, Vallensbæk Strand 100% Denmark TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong 100% Hong Kong TOP-TOY Norge AS, Sarpsborg 100% Norway BR-Spielwaren GmbH, Hamburg 100% Germany TOP-TOY Iceland ehf, Reykjavik 100% Iceland Jannes Lek in liquidation, Haparanda 100% Sweden NORSTAR A/S, Vallensbæk Strand 100% Denmark NORSTAR AB in liquidation, Ängelholm 100% Sweden STARNOR AB, Ängelholm 100% Sweden NORSTAR AS in liquidation, Sarpsborg 100% Norway NORSTAR OY in liquidation, Espoo 100% Finland All subsidiaries are separate legal entities. 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 15 Inventory Finished goods 895.3 836.8 Value of inventories written down to fair value 78.2 52.9 At 30 June 2017 net write-downs amounted to DKK 45.2 million (30 June 2016: DKK 39.0 million). The net change in write-downs is recognised in the cost of goods sold negatively impacted by discontinued products in preparation of the ERP implementation in March 2017. As part of this effort DKK 11.5 million was expensed as a one-off write-down. 16 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables 1.8 5.6 Receivables from shareholder 7.0 12.6 Derivatives 0.7 7.7 Other receivables 12.6 24.9 22.1 50.8 17 Cash and cash equivalents Cash 39.1 33.6 Credit institutions -645.0 -397.7 -605.9 -364.1 Cash at banks earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. At 30 June 2017, the Group’s undrawn, committed borrowing facilities totalled DKK 140.0 million (2015/16: DKK 402.3 million). 64 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 18 Share capital Issued shares Number of shares Nominal value 2017/16 2016/15 2017/16 2016/15 1 July (25 November) 11,648,400 500,000 11,648,400 500,000 Share capital increase 11 January 2016 8,126,020 8,126,020 Share capital increase 12 January 2016 2,875,340 2,875,340 Share capital increase 28 June 2016 147,040 147,040 Total share capital 11,648,400 11,648,400 11,648,400 11,648,400 The share capital consists of 11,648,400 shares of a nominal value of DKK 1, divided into 9,901,140 preferred shares (A-shares) and 1,747,260 ordinary shares (B-shares). All shares have equal voting rights. There are special economical rights apply to the different share classes. 19 Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to maximise shareholder value. In order to achieve this overall objective, the Group’s capital management aims, e.g., at ensuring that it meets financial covenants connected with the interest-bearing loans and borrowings that define capital structure requirements. Failure to meet the financial covenants would permit the bank to call loans and borrowings. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments in the light of changes in economic conditions and the requirements of the financial covenants. The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. Net debt includes interest-bearing loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash. DKK million 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,563.1 1,349.4 Trade and other payables 420.6 449.8 Less cash -39.1 -33.6 Net debt 1,944.6 1,765.6 Equity 959.7 1,010.9 Total capital and net debt 2,904.3 2,776.5 Gearing ratio 0.67 0.64 Consolidated financial statements 65 NOTES 20 Provisions Restoration Warranty Other DKK million provision provision provisions Total Provisions 1 July 2016 16.7 4.3 14.5 35.5 Arising during the year 0.9 50.7 9.9 61.5 Utilised -0.8 -51.4 -14.5 -66.7 Exchange differences -0.2 0.0 0.0 -0.2 Provisions 30 June 2017 16.6 3.6 9.9 30.1 Distributed as follows in the balance sheet: Current 0.5 3.6 9.9 14.0 Non-current 16.1 0.0 0.0 16.1 16.6 3.6 9.9 30.1 Warranty provision relates to any form for warranties on goods sold. The provision is expected to be used within one year. Restoration provision relates to restoration of leases upon termination which is based on historical information and management expectation. The expected costs are by nature uncertain. Other provision relate to tax and VAT cases. No provisions are discounted as the impact is insignificant. 21 Borrowings 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Credit institutions, non-current 834.5 900.4 Credit institutions, current 687.2 399,8 Total borrowings 1,521.7 1,300.2 Nominal value 1,563.1 1,349.4 Maturity of non-current and current borrowings, nominal value Less than one year 693.9 407.7 Between one and five years 173.4 200.4 More than five years 695.8 741.3 1,563.1 1,349.4 66 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 21 Borrowings (continued) The Group has taken out the following interest-bearing loans and borrowing: Nominal amount – Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Expiry Floating rate 30 June 2017 Facility A Expire up till 2022 3.5-4.7% 222.2 Facility B Expire up till 2023 4.0-5.2% 695.8 Revolving facility Expire up till 2022 2.8-3.5% 645.1 Total 1,563.1 Non-current 869.2 Current 693.9 Total 1,563.1 Nominal amount – Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Expiry Floating rate 30 June 2016 Facility A Expire up till 2022 3.5-4.7% 237.9 Facility B Expire up till 2023 4.0-5.2% 713.8 Revolving facility Expire up till 2022 2.8-3.5% 397.7 Total 1,349.4 Non-current 941.7 Current 407.7 Total 1,349.4 The nominal debt of DKK 918.0 million (2015/16: DKK 951.7 million) is with floating interest rate of which 67% (2015/16, 67%) is hedged to a fixed interest rate via interest rate swaps in accordance with Group policy. Currency risk is hedged by cash flow in underlying Group companies. The Group’s loans from credit institutions are subject to a normal loan covenants. A waiver for loan covenants was required and agreed with the Lenders at 30 June 2017. The two shareholders, TT Holding I S.á.r.l and Odin DK Holding A/S have in September 2017 committed a loan facility of DKK 250 million to TOP-TOY A/S. The Group is in dialogue with the owners and Lenders about future loan covenants and finance structure. Management expects during the financial year 2017/2018 to come to a satisfactory arrangement. Costs related to borrowings amounted to DKK 41.4 million (2015/16: DKK 49.3 million) at 30 June 2017 and are amortised until the expiry date of the loans. Amortisation in 2016/17 amounted to DKK 7.9 million (2015/16: DKK 4.0 million). Consolidated financial statements 67 NOTES 22 Trade and other payables 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Trade payables 196.0 196.7 Holiday obligation 78.6 75.8 Other Payroll related debt 61.1 47.9 VAT 50.1 84.5 Loyalty club 26.5 39.6 Derivatives 5.1 0.6 Other payables 3.2 4.6 420.6 449.7 Trade payables are non-interest-bearing. 23 Change in working capital Change in inventory -58.5 97.6 Change in receivables 12.2 124.3 Change in trade payables and other debt -26.2 -351.3 Change in working capital, total -72.5 -129.4 68 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 24 Business combinations, January 2016 TOP-TOY A/S was acquired for cash consideration on 1 January 2016 and the Group was established. TOP-TOY A/S is 100% owned by TOP-TOY Holding III A/S which is a 100% owned subsidiary of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S. TOP-TOY is the leading retailer in toys and other children’s products in the Nordic Region, with stores located in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland and North Germany. Specification of recognised assets and liabilities on the date of acquisition. DKK million January 2016 Intangible assets 327.2 Property, plant and equipment 189.6 Deferred tax asset 12.2 Other non-current assets 7.5 Inventories 934.9 Trade and other receivables 159.2 Income tax receivable 22.3 Prepayments 51.6 Cash and cash equivalents 22.6 Deferred tax liabilities -66.8 Provisions -40.0 Trade and other payables -820.1 Income tax payable -64.7 Deferred income -6.1 Net assets acquired 729.4 Goodwill 1,316.1 Consideration 2,045.5 Cash holdings from TOP-TOY A/S -22.6 Cash consideration 2,022.9 Recognition of fair value of the identified net assets is based on available information at the acquisition date. In case of new information occurring, the recognition is changed within a one-year measurement period. Goodwill represents future expected earnings according to a growth plan in the Nordic countries. Goodwill is non-tax-deductible. The cash consideration for TOP-TOY A/S and its subsidiaries was DKK 2,022.9 million. Acquisition cost amounts to DKK 33.3 million, which are recognised in the income statement as special items. The net assets are listed above. The revenue for the ownership period 1 January – 30 June 2016 was DKK 1,259.3 million and for full year, it would be DKK 3,916.7 million. Gross profit of the ownership period was DKK 158.0 million compared to full year of DKK 815.0 million. Net result after tax of the ownership period in 2016 was DKK -133.0 million compared to full year of DKK 13.0 million. Consolidated financial statements 69 NOTES 25 Financial risk and financial instruments Risk management policy The Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, comprise loans and borrowings, trade and other payables. The main purpose of these financial liabilities is to finance the Group’s operations. The Group has loans, trade and other receivables and cash that derive directly from its operations. There have not been any changes in the Group’s risk management policy compared to 2015/16. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. It is the Group’s policy not to trade in derivatives for speculative purposes. Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit risk from financial instruments and cash and cash equivalents. Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The majority of the Group’s sales are cash sales, thus the credit risk for trade receivables amounting to DKK 1.8 million (2015/16: DKK 5.6 million) is considered insignificant. The impairment on trade receivables is immaterial. Cash and cash equivalents At 30 June 2017, the Group has cash and cash equivalent of DKK 39.1 million (30 June 2016: DKK 33.6 million). Credit risk from balances with banks and financial institutions is managed by group management on a regular basis. The cash balances are concentrated at mainly counterparties rated AA. Liquidity risk The equity share was 31.5% (30 June 2016: 34.5%) at the end of June 2017. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, etc. The Group considers the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt as moderate. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. 70 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 25 Financial risk and financial instruments (continued) Contractual maturities of financial liabilities: Contractual maturity incl. interest Carrying 1–5 DKK million amount Total <1 year years >5 years 30 June 2017 Non-derivative financial instruments Credit institutions 1.563,1 1,950.9 750.5 399.2 801.2 Trade payables 196.0 196.0 196.0 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives 5.1 5.1 5.1 0.0 0.0 1,764.2 2,152.0 951.6 399.2 801.2 30 June 2016 Non-derivative financial instruments Credit institutions 1,349.4 1,729.4 452.1 423.8 853.5 Trade payables 196.7 196.7 196.7 0.0 0.0 Derivative financial instruments Derivatives 0.6 0.7 0.0 0.7 0.0 1,546.7 1,926.8 648.8 424.5 853.5 Consolidated financial statements 71 NOTES 25 Financial risk and financial instruments Currency risks on items of the statement of financial position are monitored and hedged by using primarily financial instruments. (continued) The risk exposure is considered limited. Interest rate risk The group is exposed to the currencies: NOK, SEK, USD, HKD, The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest ISK and EUR. The Group’s most material exchange rate risk is rates relates primarily to the Group’s long-term debt obligations the exposure to USD purchases, and SEK/NOK net inflows from and revolving credit facility with floating interest rates. stores in Sweden and Norway. The income statement is affected by changes in exchange rates. The Group enters into interest rate swaps to mitigate this risk, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified The Group policy is to hedge between 50-75% of the expected intervals, the difference between fixed and variable interest outflow of USD 7-8 months before the season starts, and 90-100% rate amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon five months before the season starts. The Group hedges up to 90% notional principal amount. These swaps are designated to of the expected net cash inflow of SEK and NOK no later than five hedge underlying debt obligations. Hence changes in the months before the season starts. interest rates will not have any significant impact on profit or loss. Information on the Group’s hedging of interest on loans The Facility A & B loans are exposed to 60% in SEK and 40% in NOK. is disclosed in note 21. The loans are not hedged, since they correlate on long term basis with the net inflow in the currencies. Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to foreign currency risks arising Please find below a table of impact on profit for the year and from its operating and financing activities, as the Group equity from change in the Group’s primary currencies adjusted for has sales, purchases and financing in foreign currencies. hedge accounting: In accordance with the Group’s risk management policy, the Group hedges foreign currency risks arising from: recognised and unrecognised transactions using forward exchange contracts. 2016-17 2015-16 Change in Profit before Profit before DKK million exchange rate tax Equity tax Equity USD 1% 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 USD -1% -0.2 -0.2 0.0 0.0 SEK 1% -2.5 -1.9 -2.1 -1.9 SEK -1% 2.5 1.9 2.1 1.9 NOK 1% -2.8 -2.1 -1.3 -1.2 NOK -1% 2.8 2.1 1.3 1.2 The analysis is based on monetary assets and liabilities as of end 2016/17 and 2015/16. The movements arise from monetary items (cash, borrowings and payables) and hedging instruments where the functional currency of the entity is different to the currency that the monetary items are denominated in. 72 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 25 Financial risk and financial instruments (continued) Categories of financial instruments DKK million 2016/17 2015/16 Financial assets measured at amortised cost Trade and other receivables 21.4 43.1 Other non-current assets 7.2 7.5 Cash and cash equivalents 39.1 33.6 67.7 84.2 Financial assets at fair value Derivatives 0.7 7.7 0.7 7.7 Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost Credit institutions 1,521.7 1,300.2 Trade payables 196.0 196.7 Other payables 3.2 4.6 1,720.9 1,501.5 Financial liabilities at fair value Derivatives 5.1 0.6 5.1 0.6 Other receivables and other payables are excluding non-financial instruments such as VAT, Loyalty club, holiday obligation and other payroll etc. The fair value of the assets and liabilities listed above is not materially different from the carrying amount except from interest-bearing loans and borrowings: Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (fair value) 1,563.1 1,349.4 Consolidated financial statements 73 NOTES 25 Financial risk and financial instruments Methods and assumptions for calculating fair value (continued) The methods applied and the assumptions used when calculating the fair value of the financial instruments is given for each class of financial instruments. Fair values Hedge accounting and Interest rate Swaps Financial instruments measured at fair value Financial instruments measured at fair value are limited to Interest rate swaps are valued using generally accepted valuation derivative instruments. As described below, the fair value of techniques based on relevant observable swap curves and derivatives is based on observable market data and valuation exchange rates. techniques (level 2). The financial instruments are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Both externally and internally calculated fair values are used based on discounted future cash flows. Where internally calculated fair values Financial instruments measured at amortised cost are used, these are reconciled quarterly with the externally calculated The carrying amount of the Group’s financial instruments, fair values. measured at amortised cost, are reasonable approximations of fair values. The fair value of derivative financial instruments is calculated using valuation models, such as discounted cash flow models. The expected Valuation techniques cash flows for the individual contract are based primarily on observable Management has assessed that cash, trade receivables, market data, such as interest yield curves and exchange rates. trade payables, bank overdrafts and other current liabilities approximate their carrying amounts largely due to the shortterm maturities of these instruments. The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of other financial instruments: Floating-rate borrowings are evaluated by the Group based on parameters such as interest rates and the Groups’ individual creditworthiness. The fair value is estimated using a discounted cash flow model. The own non-performance risk at 30 June 2017 was assessed to be insignificant. Derivative financial instruments with various counterparties are principally financial institutions with investment grade credit ratings. The applied valuation techniques are discounted cash flow models, which incorporate various inputs, including the credit quality of counterparties, foreign exchange spot and forward rates, and interest rate curves. The changes in counterparty credit risk had no material effect on the hedge effectiveness assessment for derivatives designated in hedge relationships and other financial instruments recognised at fair value. Fair values of the Group’s interest-bearing borrowings and loans are determined by using the DCF method using a discount rate that reflects the issuer’s borrowing rate at the end of the reporting period. The own non-performance risk at 30 June 2017 was assessed to be insignificant. 74 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 26 Leases Operating leases The Group leases spaces and cars under operating leases. The leasing period is typically between 3 and 10 years with the possibility of extending the contracts. Non-cancellable operating lease payments are as follows: DKK million 2016/17 2015/16 Less than one year 374.1 332.1 Between one and five years 737.7 776.0 More than five years 593.1 615.2 1,704.9 1,723.3 For the year 2016/17, DKK 409.2 million was recognised (2015/16: DKK 206.2 million) in the income statement with regards to operating leases. 27 Collaterals and contingencies etc. Contingent liabilities The Group is party in a number of pending tax audits and lawsuits. In Management’s opinion, apart from the receivables and payables recognised in the balance sheet at 30 June 2017 the outcome of these tax audits and lawsuits is not expected to have further effect on the group’s financial position. Collaterals, pledges and securities The Group is jointly liable for the Group’s bank loans of DKK 918.0 million (2015/16: DKK 951.7 million) and the revolving facility of DKK 645.0 million (2015/16: DKK 397.7 million). The Group has bank guarantees for DKK 17 million related to leasehold rights. The Group has issued a share pledge over its shares and significant subsidiaries as security for the Group’s loans under the Senior Facility Agreement. Consolidated financial statements 75 NOTES 28 Related party disclosures 30 Impact of transition to IFRS The financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 TOP-TOY Holding II A/S is subject to controlling influence by with comparative figures are the first the TOP-TOY Group TT Holding I S.à.r.l., 23, rue Aldringen, L-1118 Luxembourg, has prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed by the which holds 73% of the share capital. EU. For periods up to and including the year ended 30 June 2016, TOP-TOY Group prepared its financial statements in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act. TOP-TOY Holding II A/S has registered the following Accordingly, TOP-TOY Group has prepared financial shareholders who hold 5% or more of the share capital: statements which comply with IFRS applicable for periods ending on or after 1 July 2016, together with the TT Holding I S.à.r.l., 23, rue Aldringen, L-1118 Luxembourg comparative period at and for the year ended 30 June Odin DK Holding A/S, Roskildevej 16, 4030 Tune 2016, as described in the summary of significant accounting policies. In preparing these financial statements TOPIn 2015/16 and 2016/17 there were no transaction between TOY Group opening balance sheet was prepared at 1 July the Group and TT Holding I S.á.r.l. except transactions 2016, the date of transition to IFRS. This note explains the related to capital increases. The Group has had transactions principal adjustments made by TOP-TOY Group in restating with Odin DK Holding A/S regarding rent of premises in its financial statements prepared in accordance with the 2016/17 amounting to DKK 19.5 million (2015/16 DKK 33.4 Danish Financial Statements Act, including the balance sheet million) and minor corrections of the purchase price. at 30 June 2016 and the financial statements at and for the year ended 30 June 2016. Executives As described in note 1, the Group has in connection with The Group’s related parties with significant influence its transition to IFRS chosen to early adopt IFRS 9 Financial includes the Group’s Board of Directors and executives instruments. in the parent company, including these employees’ family members. Related parties furthermore include the The impact from the implementation of this new standard companies, where the mentioned related parties have has no impact on the figures. significant interest. The remuneration to the Management & Board of Directors is disclosed in note 3. 29 Events after the reporting period No events have occurred after the balance sheet date to this date which would influence the evaluation of these consolidated financial statements. 76 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Balance sheet 25 November 2015 Effect of IFRS transition to 25 November DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Property, plant and equipment 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax asset 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current assets Inventories 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade and other receivables 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income tax receivable 0.0 0.0 0.0 Prepayments 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.0 0.5 Total current assets 0.5 0.0 0.5 TOTAL ASSETS 0.5 0.0 0.5 Consolidated financial statements 77 NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Balance sheet 25 November 2015 Effect of IFRS transition to 25 November DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 2015 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 0.5 0.0 0.5 Hedging reserve 0.0 0.0 0.0 Foreign currency translation reserve 0.0 0.0 0.0 Retained earnings 0.0 0.0 0.0 Proposed dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total equity 0.5 0.0 0.5 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Provisions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Credit institutions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total non-current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current liabilities Provisions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Credit institutions 0.0 0.0 0.0 Trade and other payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income tax payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 Joint taxation payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred income 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 0.5 0.0 0.5 78 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Balance sheet 25 November 2015 Effect of IFRS transition to 30 June DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets A, B Intangible assets 1,690.6 8.1 1,698.7 C Property, plant and equipment 193.7 -3.3 190.4 Deferred tax asset 50.7 0.0 50.7 Other non-current assets 7.5 0.0 7.5 Total non-current assets 1,942.5 4.8 1,947.3 Current assets Inventories 836.8 0.0 836.8 Trade and other receivables 50.8 0.0 50.8 Income tax receivable 16.1 0.0 16.1 Prepayments 43.5 0.0 43.5 Cash and cash equivalents 33.6 0.0 33.6 Total current assets 980.8 0.0 980.8 TOTAL ASSETS 2,923.3 4.8 2,928.1 Consolidated financial statements 79 NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Balance sheet 25 November 2015 Effect of IFRS transition to 30 June DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 2016 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 11.6 0.0 11.6 Hedging reserve 5.5 0.0 5.5 C Foreign currency translation reserve 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 Retained earnings 990.4 6.4 996.8 Proposed dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total equity 1,007.5 3.4 1,010.9 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 57.4 1.4 58.8 E Provisions 16.6 0.0 16.6 Credit institutions 900.4 0.0 900.4 Total non-current liabilities 974.4 1.4 975.8 Current liabilities E Provisions 18.9 0.0 18.9 Credit institutions 399.8 0.0 399.8 Trade and other payables 449.7 0.0 449.7 Income tax payable 11.2 0.0 11.2 Joint taxation payables 44.0 0.0 44.0 Deferred income 17.8 0.0 17.8 Total current liabilities 941.4 0.0 941.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,923.3 4.8 2,928.1 80 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Income statement 25 November 2015 – 30 June 2016 Effect of transition to DKK million DK GAAP IFRS IFRS* Revenue 1,259.3 0.0 1,259.3 Cost of sales -624.5 0.0 -624.5 Gross profit 634.8 0.0 634.8 A Other external expenses -435.3 -33.3 -468.6 Employee expenses -337.1 0.0 -337.1 B, D Amortisation, depreciation and impairment losses -72.2 43.4 -28.8 D Other operating expenses 0.0 -1.8 -1.8 Operating result -209.8 8.3 -201.5 Financial income 3.7 -0.4 3.3 C Financial expenses -33.4 0.0 -33.4 Result before tax -239.5 7.9 -231.6 B Tax on result for the year 44.4 -1.4 43.0 Result for the year -195.1 6.5 -188.6 * Due to the transition to IFRS special items are reclassified in the income statement, which can be seen on page 38. Consolidated financial statements 81 NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Effect of transition to DKK million DK GAAP IFRS IFRS Result for the year -195.1 6.5 -188.6 Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods (net of tax): D Exchange differences on translation of foreign entities 0.0 -3.0 -3.0 Value adjustment of hedging instruments 7.1 0.0 7.1 Income tax -1.6 0.0 -1.6 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax 5.5 -3.0 2.5 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax 189.6 3.5 186.1 Effect of transition A) Acquisition costs has been capitalised as part of goodwill under the Danish Financial Statements Act but under IFRS the acquisition cost should be expensed in the income statement. B) Amortisation of goodwill and brand under Danish Financial Statements Act is reversed under IFRS, as goodwill and brand is tested for impairment annually. Deferred tax on amortisation of brand under Danish Financial Statements Act is reversed under IFRS. C) Currency translation of branch’s and subsidiaries has been different between Danish Financial Statements Act and IFRS. Reclassifications Apart from changes in accounting policies, the following reclassifications and changes in format, including restatement of comparative figures for 2015/2016, have been made: D) Gain and losses from disposal of assets have been under Danish Financial Statements Act been presented as “amortisation and depreciation” but is under IFRS presented as “other income and expenses” E) Assets are presented as either non-current or current assets compared to fixed assets and non-fixed assets previously and provisions are included in current and non-current liabilities. Further a few reclassifications between balance sheets have been made with no impact on the income statement and equity. 82 Consolidated financial statements NOTES 30 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) IFRS 16 Leases IFRS 16 Leases was issued in January 2016 and will be effective for Cash flow statement annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2019. The standard will significantly change the accounting treatment of leases that are The transition from the Danish Financial Statements Act currently classified as operating leases. IFRS 16 requires that all leases to IFRS has not had a material impact on the cash flow – with few exceptions – are recognised in the balance sheet as an asset statement except from classification of acquisition costs, with a corresponding liability. Further, the income statements will be which has been part of the investment cash flow under affected as the lease expense for all operating leases under IFRS 16 Danish Financial Statements Act, but under IFRS part of the will be split into depreciations and interest expenses, which under the operating cash flow. current IAS 17 all is recognised in other external costs. The Group is currently in the process of carried out a preliminary impact assessment 31 Standards issued but not yet effective of the consequences of implementing IFRS 16. The Group adopt IFRS 16 when it becomes effective. The IASB has released the following new standards and interpretations which may be material to the Group, however, not mandatory for the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017. • IFRS 16 Leases • IFRS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture – Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 • IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers – Clarifications to IFRS 15 • IFRS 2 Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions – Amendments to IFRS 2 • IFRIC 22 Foreign currency transaction and advance consideration • IFRIC 23 Uncertainty over income tax treatments • Parts of Annual improvements to IFRSs 2014-2016 cycle The Group expects to adopt standards when they become effective. As described in note 1, the Group has in connection with its transition to IFRS chosen to early adopt IFRS 9 Financial instruments. IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers IFRS 15 was issued in May 2014 and establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with customers. Under IFRS 15, revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. The new revenue standard will supersede all current revenue recognition requirements under IFRS and is required to be applied on all sales contracts with customers. IFRS 15 is mandatory for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Group is currently in the process of carried out a preliminary impact assessment of the consequences of implementing IFRS 15. The Group adopt IFRS 15 when it becomes effective. Consolidated financial statements 83 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 84 Parent company financial statements PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 86 Income statement 86 Statement of comprehensive income 87 Balance sheet 89 Parent statement of changes in equity 90 Cash flow statement 91 Notes 91 Accounting policies Note 1 91 Significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions Note 2 92 Employee expenses Note 3 92 Income tax Note 4 93 Investments in group enterprises Note 5 94 Share capital Note 6 94 Financial risk and financial instruments Note 7 94 Capital management Note 8 94 Related party disclosures Note 9 94 Collaterals, contingencies etc. Note 10 94 Events after the reporting period Note 11 94 Standards issued but not yet effective Note 12 94 Impact of transition to IFRS Note 13 Parent company financial statements 85 INCOME STATEMENT 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 Note DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Other external costs -1.3 -0.2 Result before tax -1.3 -0.2 4 Tax on result for the year 0.3 0.0 Result of the year -1.0 -0.2 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 Note DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Result for the year -1.0 -0.2 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax 0.0 0.0 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -1.0 -0.2 86 Parent company financial statements BALANCE SHEET Note DKK million 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 25 November 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets 5 Investment in group enterprises 1,197.0 1,197.0 0.0 Deferred tax asset 0.3 0.0 0.0 Total non-current assets 1,197.3 1,197.0 0.0 Current assets Receivables from group enterprises 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.0 0.0 0.5 Total current assets 0.0 0.0 0.5 TOTAL ASSETS 1,197.3 1,197.0 0.5 Parent company financial statements 87 BALANCE SHEET Note DKK million 30 June 2017 30 June 2016 25 November 2015 LIABILITIES Equity 6 Share capital 11.6 11.6 0.5 Retained earnings 1,184.3 1,185.3 0.0 Proposed dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total equity 1,195.9 1,196.9 0.5 Current liabilities Trade payables 0.5 0.1 0.0 Payables from group enterprises 0.9 0.0 0.0 4 Income tax payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total current liabilities 1.4 0.1 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,197.3 1,197.0 0.5 88 Parent company financial statements PARENT STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Share Retained Proposed Total DKK million capital earnings dividend equity Equity 1 July 2016 11.6 1,185.3 0.0 1,196.9 Result for the year 0.0 -1.0 0.0 -1.0 Total other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -1.0 0.0 -1.0 Transactions with owners Dividend distributed 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total transactions with owners 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Equity 30 June 2017 11.6 1,184.3 0.0 1,195.9 Equity 25 November 2015 0.5 0.0 0.0 0.5 Result for the year 0.0 -0.2 0.0 -0.2 Total other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total comprehensive income for the year 0.0 -0.2 0.0 0.3 Transactions with owners Issue of share capital 11.1 1,185.5 0.0 1,196.6 Total transactions with owners 11.1 1,185.5 0.0 1,196.6 Equity 30 June 2016 11.6 1,185.3 0.0 1,196.9 Parent company financial statements 89 CASH FLOW STATEMENT 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 Note DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Operating result before tax -1.3 -0.2 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital Change in payables from group companies 0.9 0.0 Change in trade payables 0.4 0.2 Cash flow from operations 0.0 0.0 Cash flow from operating activities before tax 0.0 0.0 4 Income tax paid 0.0 0.0 Cash flow from operating activities 0.0 0.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.0 -1,197.0 Cash flow from investing activities 0.0 -1,197.0 Proceeds from share issue 0.0 1,196.5 Cash flow from financing activities 0.0 1,196.5 Cash flows for the year 0.0 -0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 1 July (25 November) 0.0 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 30 June 0.0 0.0 90 Parent company financial statements NOTES 1 Accounting policies Fees paid to auditors appointed at the annual general meeting TOP-TOY Holding II A/S is the holding company of the Pursuant to section 96(3) of the Danish Financial Statements TOP-TOY group with its principal activity to hold shares Act, the Company has decided not to disclose audit fees in subsidiaries. as the Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S, which include The separate financial statements of the parent company consolidated disclosures. have been included in the annual report as required by the Danish Financial Statements Act. 2 Significant accounting judgements, The separate financial statements for the parent company estimates and assumptions for 2016/17 are prepared in accordance with International In connection with the preparation of the parent company Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (IFRS) financial statements, Management has made accounting and Danish disclosure requirements. estimates and judgements that affect the assets and liabilities reported at the balance sheet date as well as the Basis of preparation income and expenses reported for the financial period. Management continuously reassesses these estimates and The parent company’s financial statements have been judgements based on a number of other factors in the presented in Danish kroner, rounded to the nearest given circumstances. DKK million. Management assesses that, in respect of the financial The parent company’s financial statements for the period 25 reporting for the parent company, no accounting estimates November 2015 – 30 June 2016 was prepared in accordance or judgements are made when applying the parent with the Danish Financial Statements Act. These financial company’s accounting policies which are significant to statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 are the first the financial reporting apart from those disclosed in note year the parent company has prepared in accordance with 2 to the consolidated financial statements, including the IFRS. For information on how TOP-TOY Holding II A/S has assessment of the valuation of investment in subsidiaries, adopted IFRS and the effect the transition has had on the which outcome is based on the impairment tests prepared separate financial statements, please refer to note 30. as part of the consolidated financial statement. The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis. Financial statements of the parent company The accounting policies of the parent company are consistent with those applied in the consolidated financial statements, note 1 in the consolidated financial statements, with the following exceptions: Investments in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries are measured using the cost method in the parent company’s financial statements. If an indication of impairment is identified, an impairment test is carried out as described in the accounting policies of the consolidated financial statements. If the carrying amount of investments exceeds the recoverable amount, a corresponding impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses are recognised in the parent company’s income statement as financial items. Parent company financial statements 91 NOTES 3 Employee expenses There are no employees in the parent company. The Board of Directors and the Executive Board of the Parent company receive only remuneration from the subsidiaries. Please refer to the note 3 at the Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Income tax 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Total tax for the year is specified as follows: Income tax recognised in profit and loss 0.2 0.0 Tax on other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.2 0.0 Income tax of the year is specified as follows: Current tax 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.0 Tax on the profit for the year can be explained as follows: 2016/17 2016/17 2015/16 2015/16 DKK million DKK million % DKK million % Profit for the year: Calculated 22% tax of the profit before tax 0.2 22.0 0.0 22.0 Tax effect of: Non-taxable income 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non-deductible costs 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.2 22.0 0.0 22.0 Effective tax rate 22% 22% 92 Parent company financial statements NOTES 5 Investments in group enterprises 1 July 2016 25 November 2015 DKK million – 30 June 2017 – 30 June 2016 Cost at 1 July (25 November) 1,197.0 0.0 Additions 0.0 1,197.0 Cost at 30 June 1,197.0 1,197.0 Impairment at 1 July (25 November) 0.0 0.0 Impairment 0.0 0.0 Impairment at 30 June 0.0 0.0 Carrying amount at 30 June 1,197.0 1,197.0 For more information on the acquisition of the subsidiary refer to note 24 in the consolidated financial statements. For the list of subsidiaries, please refer to note 14 in the consolidated financial statements. Parent company financial statements 93 NOTES 6 Share capital 11 Events after the reporting period For information on share capital, please refer to note 18 in No events have occurred after the balance sheet date to the consolidated financial statements. this date which would influence the evaluation of the Parent Company financial statements. 7 Financial risk management objectives and policies 12 Standards issued but not yet effective The Company has only investment in the subsidiary TOP-TOY For the note on standards issued but not yet effective, Holding III A/S and does not have any significant receivables please refer to the note 31 in the consolidated financial or debt. Risk related to currency, credit and liquidity is statements. None of the standards or interpretations are maintained on group level. Please refer to note 25 to the expected to have an effect on the parent company. consolidated financial statements for further information on the Group’s exposure to the financial risks. 13 Impact of transition to IFRS The financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2017 8 Capital management with comparative figures are the first set of financial The primary objective of the Company’s capital management statements prepared in accordance with IFRS as endorsed is to maximise shareholder value which is maintained on by the EU. For periods up to and including the year ended group level. Please refer to note 19 to the consolidated 30 June 2017, TOP-TOY Holding II A/S prepared its financial financial statements for further information on the Group’s statements in accordance with the Danish Financial capital management. Statements Act. 9 Related party disclosures Accordingly, TOP-TOY Holding II A/S has prepared financial statements which comply with IFRS applicable for periods Related parties are described in note 28 to the consolidated ending on or after 30 June 2017, together with the financial statements. Remuneration to Board of Directors comparative period at and for the year ended 30 June and Executive Board are listed in note 3 to the consolidated 2016, as described in the summary of significant accounting financial statements held by the subsidiaries. Further the policies. In preparing these financial statements, TOP-TOY Company has intercompany group balances re balance Holding II A/S opening balance sheet was prepared at 1 July sheet. The Company does not have any other related 2016, the date of transition to IFRS. This note explains the party transactions. principal adjustments made by TOP-TOY Holding II A/S in restating its financial statements prepared in accordance 10 Collaterals, pledges and contingencies etc. with the Danish Financial Statements Act, including the The Company is jointly taxed with the Danish subsidiaries in balance sheet at 30 June 2016 and the financial statements the Group and operate as an administration company. The at and for the year ended 30 June 2017. Company has joint and several unlimited liability for Danish corporation taxes and withholding taxes on dividends, interests and royalties in the joint taxation unit with other Danish companies. At 30 June 2017, the net taxes payable to SKAT by the companies included in the joint taxation amounted to DKK 0 thousand. Any subsequent corrections of the taxable income subject to joint taxation amounted to taxes on dividends, etc., may entail that the companies’ liability will increase. TOP-TOY Holding II A/S is jointly and severally liable for the Group’s bank loans of DKK 918.0 million (2015/16: DKK 951.7 million). TOP-TOY Holding II A/S has issued a share pledge over its shares in TOP-TOY Holding III A/S and significant subsidiaries as security for loans under the Senior Facility Agreement. 94 Parent company financial statements NOTES 13 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Balance sheet 25 November 2015 Effect of IFRS transition to 25 November DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 2015 ASSETS Non-current assets Investments in group enterprises 0.0 0.0 0.0 Deferred tax asset 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total non-current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 Current assets Receivables from group enterprises 0.0 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 0.0 0.5 Total current assets 0.5 0.0 0.5 TOTAL ASSETS 0.5 0.0 0.5 LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 0.5 0.0 0.5 Retained earnings 0.0 0.0 0.0 Proposed dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total equity 0.5 0.0 0.5 Current liabilities Trade payables 0.0 0.0 0.0 Income tax payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total current liabilities 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 0.5 0.0 0.5 Parent company financial statements 95 NOTES 13 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Balance sheet 30 June 2016 Effect of IFRS transition to 30 June DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 2016 ASSETS Non-current assets A Investments in group enterprises 1,007.6 189.4 1,197.0 Deferred tax asset 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total non-current assets 1,007.6 189.4 1,197.0 Current assets Receivables from group enterprises 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total current assets 0.0 0.0 0.0 TOTAL ASSETS 1,007.6 189.4 1,197.0 LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 11.6 0.0 11.6 A Retained earnings 995.9 189.4 1,185.3 Proposed dividends 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total equity 1,007.5 189.4 1,196.9 Current liabilities Trade payables 0.1 0.0 0.1 Income tax payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total current liabilities 0.1 0.0 0.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,007.6 189.4 1,197.0 96 Parent company financial statements NOTES 13 Impact of transition to IFRS (continued) Income statement 25 November – 30 June 2016 Effect of IFRS transition to 25 November 2015 DKK million DK GAAP IFRS 30 June 2016 Other external costs -0.2 0.0 -0.2 Operating result -0.2 0.0 -0.2 A Income from investment in subsidiary -194.9 194.9 0.0 Result before tax -195.1 194.9 -0.2 Tax on result for the year 0.0 0.0 0.0 Result for the year -195.1 194.9 -0.2 Statement of comprehensive income Result for the year -195.1 194.9 -0.2 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassified to profit or loss in subsequent periods 0.0 0.0 0.0 Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the year, net of tax 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total comprehensive income for the year, net of tax -195.1 194.9 -0.2 Effect of transition A) Investment in subsidiary was recognised based on the equity method under Danish Financial Statements Act, but are under IFRS recognised at a cost. Reclassifications Apart from changes in accounting policies, the following reclassifications and changes in format, including restatement of comparative figures for 2015/2016, have been made: B) Assets are presented as either non-current or current assets compared to fixed assets and non-fixed assets previously. Cashflow statement The transition from the Danish Financial Statements Act to IFRS has not had a material impact on the cash flow statement. Parent company financial statements 97 MANAGEMENT STATEMENT 98 Management statement MANAGEMENT STATEMENT The Board of Directors and the Executive Board have today discussed and approved the annual report of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S for the financial year 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017. The annual report has been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European Union and Danish disclosure requirements applying to reporting class C large enterprises. It is our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group’s and the Company’s financial position at 30 June 2017 and of the results of the Group’s and parent company’s operations and cash flows for the financial year 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017. Further, in our opinion, the Management’s review gives a fair review of the development in the Group’s and the Company’s operations and financial matters and the results of the Group’s and the parent company’s operations and financial position. We recommend that the annual report be approved at the annual general meeting. Vallensbæk Strand, 24 November 2017 Executive Board: Søren Torp Laursen Henning Andersen Bröchner Board of Directors: Michael Hauge Sørensen Henrik Gjørup Peter Gjørup Chairman John Albert Gustafsson Hans Frederik Steenbuch Erik Carl Ragnarsson Lindgren Management statement 99 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 100 Independent Auditors report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT To the shareholders of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S Moreover, it is our responsibility to consider whether the Management’s review provides the information required under the Danish Financial Opinion Statements Act. We have audited the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S for the financial Based on our procedures, we conclude that the Management’s review is year 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017, which comprise an income statement, in accordance with the consolidated financial statements and the parent statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of company financial statements and has been prepared in accordance changes in equity, cash flow statement and notes, including accounting with the requirements of the Danish Financial Statements Act. We did policies, for the Group as well as for the Parent Company. The not identify any material misstatements of the Management’s review. consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements are prepared in accordance with International Financial Management’s responsibilities for the Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU and additional disclosure consolidated financial statements and the parent requirements of the Danish Financial Statements Act. company financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial Management is responsible for the preparation of consolidated financial position of the Group and the Parent Company at 30 June 2017 and statements and parent company financial statements that give a true of the results of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations and fair view in accordance with International Financial Reporting and cash flows for the financial year 1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017 in Standards as adopted by the EU and additional disclosure requirements accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted of the Danish Financial Statements Act and for such internal control by the EU and additional disclosure requirements of the Danish as Management determines is necessary to enable the preparation Financial Statements Act. of consolidated financial statements and parent company financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to Basis for opinion fraud or error. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (ISAs) and additional requirements applicable in Denmark. Our responsibilities under those standards and requirements are further described in the “Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Code) and additional requirements applicable in Denmark, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these rules and requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Statement on the Management’s review Management is responsible for the Management’s review. Our opinion on the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements does not cover the Management’s review, and we do not express any assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements, our responsibility is to read the Management’s review and, in doing so, consider whether the Management’s review is materially inconsistent with the consolidated financial statements or the parent company financial statements, or our knowledge obtained during the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. Independent Auditors report 101 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT In preparing the consolidated financial statements and the parent statements and the parent company financial statements and, based company financial statements, Management is responsible for assessing on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern on the Group’s and the Parent Company’s ability to continue as a and using the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related statements unless Management either intends to liquidate the Group disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the parent or the Parent Company or to cease operations, or has no realistic company financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, alternative but to do so. to modify our opinion. Our conclusion is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the events or conditions may cause the Group and the Parent Company consolidated financial statements and the parent to cease to continue as a going concern. company financial statements • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and contents of the Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial statements, including the note disclosures, and whether the statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is manner that gives a true and fair view. not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and additional requirements applicable in Denmark will always detect a • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from information of the entities or business activities within the Group to fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion. statements and parent company financial statements. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among As part of an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and additional other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant requirements applicable in Denmark, we exercise professional audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control judgement and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. that we identify during our audit. We also: Copenhagen, 24 November 2017 • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the ERNST & YOUNG consolidated financial statements and the parent company financial Godkendt Revisionspartnerselskab statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit CVR no. 30 70 02 28 procedures responsive to those risks and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit Torben Bender in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the State Authorised circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion Public Accountant on the effectiveness of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by Management. Ole Becker • Conclude on the appropriateness of Management’s use of the going State Authorised concern basis of accounting in preparing the consolidated financial Public Accountant 102 Independent Auditors report ABOUT THIS REPORT In our 2016/2017 report, we have integrated our financial statement and non-financial progress in one report for the first time. Previously, we published two separate reports: a financial report and our performance report. Legal notices Throughout this report, references are made to TOP-TOY, which consists of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S and its subsidiaries. The CVR number of TOP-TOY Holding II A/S is 37 25 47 03. METHODOLOGY AND and Vallensbæk Kommune is the registered office. REPORTING FRAMEWORK TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd. BR and the Guardsman (workmark and devices) are Scope registered trademarks of TOP-TOY A/S. This report focuses on our financial and non-financial performance during the financial year from 1 July 2016 to 30 TOYS“R”US, BABIES”R”US, the TOYS“R”US & Star design and June 2017. As TOP-TOY Holding II A/S was established on the the Giraffe design are registered trademarks of Geoffrey, LLC. 25th of November 2015 and went into operation on the 1st TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. of January 2016 last year’s financial data covers from the 1st of January 2016 until the end of financial year. Non-financial Throughout this report, references are made to EQT, which data from before the establishment of TOP-TOY Holding II covers the private equity group EQT including EQT VII, which is A/S is included when it is comparable with the data from the the majority owner of TOP-TOY. 2016/2017 financial year. Non-financial data The report is based on quantitative and qualitative nonfinancial data collected from internal systems and key people across the organisation. Statements and data have been verified for correctness by responsible managers to ensure the report is an accurate reflection of TOP-TOY’s performance. We work continuously to improve our nonfinancial data collection and verification systems and become more data driven. Non-financial data in the report complies with the statutory statement on corporate social responsibility by the Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a and section 99b. The report meets the criteria of the UN Global Compact, including the commitment to issue an annual Communication on Progress (COP) report. For an overview of the link between our business model, as communicated in this report, and the UN Global Compact principles, please visit TOP-TOY.com/sustainability. Financial data The financial data in this report covers TOP-TOY HOLDING II A/S and its subsidiaries. TOP-TOY presents its consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by EU. The report is supported by more extensive online information about our company, policies and performance. These are available at www.top-toy.com Scope, legal notices and methodology 103 LIST OF GROUP COMPANIES Investment in group companies compromise the following at 30 June 2017. Foreign branches TOP-TOY A/S Danmark, filial Sverige, Sweden TOP-TOY A/S, filial i Finland, Finland Group companies Votes and Country ownership TOP-TOY Holding III A/S, Vallensbæk Strand Denmark 100% TOP-TOY A/S, Vallensbæk Strand Denmark 100% TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong Kong Hong Kong 100% TOP-TOY Norge AS, Sarpsborg Norway 100% BR-Spielwaren GmbH, Hamburg Germany 100% TOP-TOY Iceland ehf, Reykjavik Iceland 100% Jannes Lek AB in liquidation, Haparanda Sweden 100% NORSTAR A/S, Vallensbæk Strand Denmark 100% NORSTAR AB in liquidation, Ängelholm Sweden 100% STARNOR, Ängelholm Sweden 100% NORSTAR AS in liquidation, Sandefjord Norway 100% NORSTAR OY in liquidation, Espoo Finland 100% 104 Scope, legal notices and methodology Scope, legal notices and methodology 105 TOP-TOY Delta Park 37, 2665 Vallensbæk Denmark Tel +45 4616 3656 www.top-toy.com TOP-TOY Hong Kong 11/F, Manhattan Place, 23 Wang Tai Road Kowloon Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong Tel +852 3143 8888 www.top-toy.com For more information about TOP-TOY and our responsibility approach and our policies, visit: www.top-toy.com Please forward any questions or comments to the Communications and Sustainability team at com@top-toy.com © 2017, TOP-TOY A/S. All rights reserved.
