Sustainability Report 2016 sustainable business sustainable future securing a sustainable future Contents at Polymetal, we believe that Overview sustainability is the only way Overview The Group CEO’s statement 02 Our approach to sustainability 10 forward. As well as being the At a glance 04 Stakeholder engagement 16 Where we operate 06 Materiality 18 right thing to do, sustainability Business model 08 is essential to helping us secure our business in the long-term. protecting the We are committed to delivering sustainable value for all our Environment Environment stakeholders. This includes our people, investors, and the Water 24 local communities where we operate. Our sustainability Waste management 24 programme prioritises protecting the environment, valuing Energy and carbon management 26 our employees, ensuring their health and safety, supporting Air quality 27 Biodiversity 28 local communities and creating economic value. Mine closures 29 All these priorities are crucial for the well-being of our planet valuing our Employees and people – and the future of our business. Employees Diversity 34 Training 35 Employee relations 36 Prioritising Health and safety Assessing risks 40 Safety measures 42 supporting local Communities Communities Social investment 48 Responding to community needs 49 About this report We are pleased to present Polymetal at a core option against the International’s Sustainability Report 2016. guidelines, which means we assess what is This covers Group-wide policies and material for our business and focus activities at our wholly owned operating our reporting on these Aspects. mines and sites, as well as our headquarters creating Economic value Economic in St Petersburg, and other projects in For the second year running, PwC has Tax transparency 54 Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia (see full assured our performance data relating Local employment 54 list of segments on pages 66). It includes to our most critical economic, social and Supply chain 55 performance for the reporting period environmental impacts. By following GRI’s 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016 model and seeking external assurance, Voluntary social investments 55 and comparative information for prior years. we hope to increase levels of stakeholder Product responsibility 55 trust and understanding. The report presents comprehensive and detailed information on our sustainable In this report, you will read a summary of development performance from operations our past accomplishments, as well as our within our reporting boundary. We currently main achievements in 2016. We focus on Assured GRI index do not report on non-financial information issues that are most ‘material’, or relevant, Appendices disclosures for our Nezhda development project in to our stakeholders. Yakutia, which is managed together with our External assurance report 56 partner Polyus Gold. If you have any questions about anything Key sustainability data 58 you read in this report, please do GRI disclosures 62 The report follows Global Reporting get in touch at sustainability@ Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting polymetalinternational.com. Other information 66 Guidelines, which are the benchmark for sustainability reporting globally. We report We look forward to hearing from you. Polymetal International plc sustainability report 2016 01 The Group ceo’s statement A thriving and responsible business involving 1,300 employees. We have also updated policies Recognitions of our efforts Overview As Nelson Mandela once said, “Action without vision is only and procedures to allow us to prioritise charity initiatives, passing time, vision without action is merely day dreaming, work closely with our partner charities to identify their but vision with action can change the world.” needs, and provide support in a timely manner. AWARDs Our vision at Polymetal is to continue to build a thriving In 2017, we plan to further structure our charity activities and • Viksha PGM was awarded Best and responsible mining business, and we are taking action update our Social and Charitable Donations Policy, ensuring Exploration Project at MINEX to achieve this. our investments in local communities respond to community needs and help as many people as possible. • Polymetal has been named Our employees’ dedication and hard work ensures that safety Employer of the Year by Superjob.ru is prioritised, we are minimising our environmental footprint, Engaging our stakeholders • Named Philanthropist of the Year we have a positive impact on the local communities where Engaging our stakeholders means listening and acting in Khabarovsk region (Far East of Environment we operate, and we continue to engage stakeholders – upon feedback received. In 2016, for example, we started a Russia) by Russian Ministry of Culture whether they are investors, NGOs, or local, regional dialogue with the community in Kapan, which is the location • Albazino won Best Pension Insurance or national authorities – all while growing our business. of our new project in Armenia. We also continue to engage Company Award in All-Russia Contest community stakeholders at each site where we operate. Safety – our number one priority • Varvara obtained a 3-year Certificate of Safety is, and will continue to be, our number one priority. Continuous growth and improvement Credibility (compliance with labour law) We want a culture of safety that spreads across every Sustainability is a journey – we have made good progress, from Kazakhstan Government OUR VISION AT POLYMETAL IS TO aspect of our work. and are continuously looking at ways we can improve • Kubaka land reclamation was named CONTINUE TO BUILD A THRIVING and grow our operations. Best Project by People Investor AND RESPONSIBLE MINING BUSINESS, In 2016, we were deeply saddened to lose four colleagues • Dukat won Magadan Government’s in tragic workplace accidents, two of which were caused In 2016, we introduced our new policies on human rights AND WE ARE TAKING ACTION TO Employees Best Employee Mentoring System Award by falling rock in our underground mines. We have now and carbon management, and will start to implement ACHIEVE THIS. introduced a positioning system which hugely improves these throughout 2017. As well as our new site in Armenia, • Omolon came third in High Culture’s safety in our underground operations – our most significant we acquired new assets in Russia (JV at Nezhda), and Creation contest risk in 2015. We have also identified problem areas, defined Kazakhstan (Komar). And we achieved re-certification of • Our CEO and PR director were ranked near-miss incidents, and applied advanced methods to our EMS and Occupational Health and Safety Management first in mining sector by biggest news identify the primary cause of incidents. In 2017, we will System in compliance with international standards. agency Kommersant continue to improve safety in our mines, as well as focus on other risks in our operations. And we will prioritise critical We were delighted to have our work in 2016 recognised risk management over general organisational safety activities. externally, having been reaffirmed as a member of the achievements FTSE4Good Index, and included in the STOXX ESG Leaders • Polymetal was included in international Lowering our environmental footprint Index. And in 2017, we will continue on our journey of sustainability index STOXX ESG Leaders Communities Following a sustainability agenda has numerous benefits – continuous growth and improvement. for our planet, for our local communities, for our employees • Reaffirmed membership in FTSE4Good and even for our costs. Sustainability – an issue that businesses • Renewed membership of Euronext cannot ignore Vigeo 70 Emerging Markets In 2016, we became signatories to the International Cyanide We believe that sustainability is no longer ‘nice to do’ – • Included in Top 10 for Best Corporate Management Code. We maintained our long track record it is central to business success and is an issue that Communications and Relations in of zero environmental incidents, and worked on preventing businesses can no longer afford to ignore. Russia by Top-Comm 2015 potential accidents by auditing our tailings dams. The Board and I are devoting considerable efforts to making When designing and constructing new mines, such as our our business more sustainable, and we are involved in Honours flagship Kyzyl project, we implement best practices, such as sustainability issues across the Group. We cannot achieve 45 of our employees received honorary Economic conducting an Environmental Social Impact Assessment in our goals alone, and are grateful to the involvement of all diplomas, certificates and Miner’s Glory/ line with European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Polymetal stakeholders. Honourable Miner Awards from various standards. In 2016, we also included biodiversity conservation Government Ministries in Russia and and restoration in our Environmental Management System It is important to remember that when our environment and Kazakhstan, including the Ministry of (EMS) and Corporate Environmental Policy for the first time, society flourish, our business can flourish. When they falter, Industry and Trade, Ministry of Natural and we will continue to offset biodiversity. our business will falter. Only by working in harmony with Resources and Environment, Ministry our surroundings can we thrive together. of Energy, and the Mining Association Our positive impact on local communities We want to increase our positive impact on the In 2017, we will continue to build a thriving and Letters of gratitude communities where we operate. In 2016, we invested responsible business. We received 80 letters of gratitude more than US$5 million in local communities and Appendices from local community groups, NGOs, constructed or upgraded over 50 community facilities, IMN groups and local authorities in the including kindergartens, schools, hospitals, and sports regions where we operate and cultural centres. In 2016, corporate philanthropy was our key focus area. We are helping more than 1,000 people from vulnerable social groups. We held several fundraising initiatives, Vitaly Nesis Group Chief Executive Officer 02 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 03 At a glance Polymetal International plc is a leading precious metals mining 2016 sustainability highlights Overview group operating in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia. Listed on the London Stock Exchange, Polymetal has a portfolio of eight Became signatories To producing mines, an impressive pipeline of future growth projects, the International Cyanide and is a major employer in the regions where it operates. Management Code Sustainability is a vital component of our business strategy. For us, it represents an investment in society and the environment, as well as in the long-term future of our Company. Environment Key facts 2016 Our strategy Operating assets Key goals – combining growth and dividend 8 Biodiversity conservation 50% reduction in extreme risk and • Pay significant and sustainable dividends through the cycle incorporated into 14% LTIFR reduction Employees environmental Employees • Continue to grow our business without 11,261 diluting its quality policy Community investment (US$) 5.1m Strategic objectives to achieve key goals • Deliver robust operating and financial Corporate Environmental incidents performance at existing mines through cost charitable 0 control and reserve replacement donations policy Communities and approach • Deliver medium-term growth through building reviewed and and ramping up Kyzyl structured GE production • Build and advance long-term growth pipeline 1.27Moz through opportunistic M&A and greenfield exploration Sales revenue (US$) • Maintain high standards of corporate governance and sustainable development 1,583m Read more in our Annual Report 2016 Staff turnover rate decreased By 34% (from Economic (pages 11–19) 8.3% to 5.5%) Our values Stewardship Dialogue Fairness We work to protect the environment, We promote stakeholder dialogue We show fairness, equality and maximise the health, safety and wellbased on openness, honesty respect to our employees and being of employees, and respect the and transparency. local communities. rights of all stakeholders affected by Included among our operations.. STOXX ESG Leaders Appendices Reaffirmed as a Compliance Ethical conduct Effectiveness FTSE4Good member We meet all legal obligations at local, We expect employees, contractors We aim to be effective in everything national and international levels. and business partners to display that we do. Over 50 social the highest standards of ethical service institutions conduct, with zero tolerance for constructed or corruption, bribery and fraud. upgraded in host communities 04 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 05 Head office Hub Exploration projects: Workforce GHG emissions + City/town Operating mine 11 Viksha Where we operate Seaport Development project 12 Nezhda Local employees 13 Prognoz Bringing significant investment to Overview remote locations 7 Voro Life of mine: 2027 1 Dukat hub Life of mine: 2023 Climate and economic context Climate and economic context • Railway connection with a Group-owned • No railways, accessible by sea and spur located 18 km from the site. The site auto transport has access to a power grid station. • Severe climate, with long, cold winters (-40˚C) and short and humid summers (+25˚C). The surrounding area is very sparsely populated and mostly covered with tundra forests. 8 Varvara Life of mine: 2029 Renovation of Renovation of 2 Omolon hub Life of mine: 2024 Environment culture centre a kindergarten Climate and economic context in settlement and playground Climate and economic context • 13 km railway spur to facilitate bulk • Located in remote, unpopulated areas transportation of ores from other deposits 849 100% 53 Kt mostly covered with taiga forest and with to the Varvara processing plant. 1,885 86% 179 Kt only seasonal access available. • Unpredictable weather with 24h changes • Land transportation between production from +10˚C to -5˚C, very windy and cold 5 sites is only possible during winter. In winters (-45˚C) and very hot and dry Pevek summer, access is available only by light summers (+40˚C). aircraft or helicopter. Renovation Renovation of boarding of heating system school in a kindergarten Employees 2 1,123 96% 177 Kt 745 93% 41 Kt 1 Magadan 9 Kyzyl 11 Life of mine: 2039 3 4 Amursk/Albazino Life of mine: 2031 13 • Located in a traditional mining region with 12 6 Okhotsk Climate and economic context good infrastructure including easy access + St Petersburg • Albazino is located in a remote area to power and rail; 75 km west of the covered with taiga forest, at times accessible mining and metallurgical industry centre only by ferry (summer period) or helicopter. Communities of Oskemen. Electricity is generated on-site by diesel• ESIA completed in 2016. Our first powered generators. + Moscow resettlement experience was successful. • Amursk POX is located in the city. Russia 4 • Climate is very humid with -40˚C in winter 7 Intensive 3 Complete and +30˚C in summer. overhaul of the overhaul of a only kindergarten + Ekaterinburg kindergarten’s baby Khabarovsk + in the whole swimming pool settlement 407 92% 38 Kt 8 + Kostanay 1,325 98% 119 Kt Economic Oskemen + Georgia 10 Kapan 9 6 Okhotsk hub Life of mine: 2024 5 Mayskoye Life of mine: 2034 Climate and economic context 10 Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Climate and economic context Climate and economic context • Located 320 km from the capital city • Located in a very sparsely populated • Accessible all year round via 187 km of of Yerevan. area covered with taiga forest. improved unpaved road from the town • The climate is highland continental, Armenia • The seaport of Okhotsk is 118 km to of Pevek (major seaport operating from July to early November). dry with four seasons. Temperatures the south and can be accessed by can vary considerably between seasons: an unpaved road. • Harsh climate: -18˚C to -42˚C (-60˚C) +25˚C in summer to -5˚C in winter. in winter, wind up to 40–80 m/sec. Appendices Transportation Medical equipment Transport of teachers and supply for hospital supply for the students to Kapan neonatal intensive reindeer herders school from the care unit neighbouring 1,135 99% 8 Kt community 1,235 100% 30 Kt 886 93% 80 Kt 06 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 07 Business model Our business model achieves positive outcomes Overview for our stakeholders: the strength of our capitals, how we manage our assets and the differentiators that make us successful. Our capital Mining cycle What makes us different Value creation for stakeholders Financial Our investment in the skills and Mining closure Investing in exploration Shareholders Strong balance sheet and expertise that support key and rehabilitation Investment in both greenfield and near-mine exploration We deliver on our promises while Environment a large portfolio of available competencies, backed by strong We manage the end-ofprovides us with a cost-effective increase in our reserve base and, providing a sustainable dividend undrawn credit facilities; financial discipline, ensures a robust mine life responsibly, along with successful acquisitions, is the key source of our longstream and future growth through access to international equity performance throughout the cycle. employing environmental term growth. quality assets. markets and use of shares as best practice and a duty of acquisition currency. care to local communities Hub-based system Other capital providers during the closure/ Our centralised hub-based system handles ores from different We have an excellent credit history Intellectual rehabilitation process. sources, achieving economies of scale by minimising processing and strong partnerships within Investment in skills and expertise; and logistics costs, as well as reducing capital spending per financial markets. mastering leading technologies in ounce. This facilitates production at otherwise uneconomical refractory gold processing (POX); Exploration Selling mediumand small-sized near-plant deposits. Employees Employees selective mining; development of We replenish reserves We sell gold and silver We provide remuneration that is know-how. through active brownfield bars, mainly to Russian Focus on high-grade assets above the regional average and and greenfield exploration, and Kazakhstan banks, Return on investment in the precious metals industry is reliant on comfortable working conditions, Business and have a robust and gold concentrates grades and mining conditions. We achieve better returns and lower along with career development Key competencies in refractory evaluation system to select to off-takers throughout risks from our project portfolio by setting appropriate thresholds on opportunities. gold concentrate trading; high-quality assets for the global market. head grades and largely focusing on open-pit mines. sustainable relationships with further development. Communities suppliers and contractors. Strong capital discipline We invest in our local communities, We engender a strong focus on capital discipline throughout the providing employment opportunities Human Development Processing business; maximising risk-adjusted return on capital is our priority and improving infrastructure, and Attracting and retaining highWe have a track record of We employ both in all investment decisions. We do not retain excess cash and we engage with them to achieve their Communities potential employees across Russia delivery on time and within conventional (such as return free cash flow to shareholders through substantial dividend support for the projects that we and Kazakhstan; nurturing young budget, including growth flotation or heap leaching) payments while retaining a safe leverage level. undertake. leaders to manage further growth. projects in challenging and leading processing locations without access technologies (such as POX) Exemplary governance and responsibility Government to infrastructure. that maximise recoveries Social We believe that good corporate governance is key to We contribute to the national wealth at our plants. Mitigating the impact of our the ongoing success of the business and value creation and are a significant tax payer in the licence to operate; fostering for our shareholders. We are compliant with all regulatory regions of operation, supporting local and maintaining good relations requirements and are recognised as sustainability leaders in the governments’ social projects. with local governments Mining ore Logistics/ countries in which we operate, adopting best practice in nurturing and communities We have a strong skill set transporting ore relationships with all our stakeholders in government, industry Suppliers Economic in selective open-pit and In the remote regions and the communities. We provide fair terms and are Natural underground mining, of our operation, we have developing long-term partnerships, Unparalleled portfolio of high-grade incorporating global best acquired vital skills for Operational excellence while ensuring suppliers’ integrity reserves ensuring robust cost and practices and robust grade inbound logistics of We pride ourselves on our operational excellence and delivering on and Environmental, Social And operating performance through the and dilution control. consumables and our promises to shareholders. Despite difficult trading conditions, Governance (ESG) compliance. cycle; water, energy and fuel to run outbound transportation we beat our production guidance for the fourth consecutive year. our operations. of ores and concentrates to make the best use of our hub strategy. Appendices Market challenges and opportunites Strategy Risk management Governance Our business model allows us to invest in high-quality A robust business model is supported by flexible Efficient risk management system is designed to minimise Through effective leadership and management we adhere assets at attractive valuations during the low point of the strategies, which enable us to respond effectively to both potential threats to achieving our strategic objectives. to the highest of ethical standards that shape our business commodities cycle; these in turn ensure sustainable free market opportunities and challenges. model and strategic approach. cash flow generation even at depressed commodity price levels. Read more in our Annual Report 2016 Read more in our Annual Report 2016 Read more on page 14 and in our Read more on pages 10–14 and in our (pages 10–11) (pages 11–19) Annual Report 2016 (pages 64–69) Annual Report 2016 (pages 71–103) 08 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 09 Our approach to sustainability Our approach to sustainability is based on regular How we Identify focus areas Overview consultation with stakeholders, identifying material issues, rigorous risk management, and complying with international standards and best practice. STAKEHOLDER Complying with the highest level standards ENGAGEMENT Our sustainability strategy is designed to meet the principles of the UN Global Compact, a voluntary international standard Pages 16–17 which Polymetal first signed up to back in 2009. We comply with the Ten Principles relating to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We also participate GOVERNANCE MATERIALITY in the UN Global Compact Network Russia. FRAMEWORK Environment Page 18 Pages 10–14 These standards – along with our corporate values of dialogue, compliance, ethical conduct, fairness, stewardship and effectiveness – help to inform our sustainability policies. risk These policies are agreed by central management and assessment implemented Group-wide. And through regular monitoring and auditing, we benchmark our performance against the Page 14 We know that the way we most up-to-date regulatory requirements. interact with communities and the environment will determine Sustainability risk management Drawing on our engagement with stakeholders, we work our long-term future as an Employees hard to identify, manage and mitigate the sustainability organisation. risks that we face. Responsibility for this process lies with Sustainability focus areas the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee and Safety and We have used our materiality analysis and stakeholder engagement processes to define six core focus areas. Sustainability Committee (see page 14). These are: Leonard Homeniuk Chair of the Polymetal Safety and Sustainability Committee Stakeholder engagement and materiality Improving health and safety for Attracting and retaining more Enhancing transparency in our We want our sustainability initiatives to address the our employees and contractors high-quality people, creating communications with suppliers, issues most relevant to our stakeholders. To identify (see Health and Safety section). an even better place to work subcontractors and partners the stakeholders on whom we have the biggest impact, (see Employees section). (see Overview). we conduct stakeholder mapping exercises (see page 18 for more information). Once we have identified these core Communities groups, we engage with them and record all issues and concerns they raise in order to inform our decision-making process. We conduct an in-depth materiality analysis Maintaining positive working Continuously upgrading our Further developing water and regularly to identify the key ‘Aspects’ we need to tackle relationships with local government, technologies and approach energy efficiency programmes in our sustainability initiatives and reports (see pages NGOs and the communities where to environmental protection (see Environment section). 16–17). Our directors also engage in communication we operate (see Economic and (see Environment section). with shareholders’ CSR teams to better understand their Communities sections). approach to governance and sustainability. Sustainability leadership Role of our Board and CEO Economic Ultimate responsibility for sustainability lies with our Board Sustainability standards of Directors. Our Group CEO, Vitaly Nesis, oversees all local management decisions and processes, and sustainability Internal standards EXTERNAL standards performance reviews take place at Board meetings several times a year. The Board approves sustainability strategy • Safety and Sustainability Committee terms of reference • UN Global Compact initiatives and has final sign-off on our sustainability reports. • Sustainability values • EBRD Environmental and Social Policy (ESP) • Code of Conduct • GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines We act in full compliance with the UK Code of Corporate • Political and Charitable Donations Policy • UK Corporate Governance Code Governance, and our Board comprises the non-executive • Policy on Social Investment • International Cyanide Management Code Chairman, Group CEO and seven non-executive Directors • Community Engagement System • ISO 14001:2001 (four of which are independent). The Chairman and nonAppendices executive Directors assess the Company’s management • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy • OHSAS 18001 and performance, review financial information and monitor • Human Rights Policy internal risk management procedures and controls. • Health and Safety Policy The interests of Directors are disclosed on an annual basis • Environmental Management Policy and any changes to those interests are made known to the • Carbon Management Policy Company Secretary. Additional information on our Board • Human Resources policies is included in the Governance section of our Annual Report. • Employee development and training standard 10 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 11 Our approach to sustainability continued Responsibility for sustainability lies with our senior Overview management and Board-level committees, reflecting its centrality and importance within the Company. Environment Governance framework The Board defines The Nomination Committee ensures Chairman Committees business strategy, a balance of skills, knowledge, independence, Bobby Godsell N A Audit and Risk Committee assesses risks experience and diversity on the Board and R Remuneration Committee and monitors Board its committees. Executive Director N Nomination Committee performance. Vitaly Nesis S S Safety and Sustainability Committee Non-executive Directors Konstantin Yanakov Jean-Pascal Duvieusart Marina Grönberg S Employees The Audit and Risk Committee helps the Board to monitor the integrity of the Group’s financial statements; Independent non-executive Directors reviews the effectiveness of the Group’s system of Christine Coignard A R N Safety and Audit and internal controls and risk management systems. Russell Skirrow A S Remuneration Nomination Jonathan Best A R Sustainability Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Leonard Homeniuk R S N The Chief Sustainability Officer coordinates sustainability The Group CEO takes initiatives and activities to ensure Safety and Sustainability Committee Remuneration Committee ultimate responsibility for transparency and long-term Embed and integrate ALIGN VALUES AND INCENTIVES delivering on strategy and value for investors and other operating performance. In 2015, we established our Safety and Sustainability The Remuneration Committee determines the framework stakeholders. Committee to provide support to the Board by monitoring and broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, Communities Chief the Group’s safety record, sustainability performance and Group Chief Executive, and any other members of the The Safety and Sustainability Committee Group Sustainability ethical conduct. The Committee oversees the Company’s executive management team. With sustainable shareholder CEO Officer monitors the Group’s social, overall approach to sustainability, developing and value creation as its guiding principle, the Remuneration ethical, environmental and safety performance, implementing short and long-term policies and standards; Committee works to ensure that Directors and senior and oversees all sustainable it ensures that the Company consistently exhibits and managers are fairly rewarded for responsibilities they development issues on Agree priorities promotes ethical, transparent and responsible behaviour, successfully undertake and ensures pay levels and bonuses behalf of the Board. and actions and engages key stakeholders and communities. To address are in line with our overall health and safety performance. Health and Safety The Technical Council The Chief Operating Officer safety, which is the significant area of concern, the Committee Following the fatalities in 2015, we have significantly increased agrees strategy and tactical together with our HSE department has been working hard to implement major improvements the focus on safety KPIs within senior management implementation across sets targets and is responsible the business. in the risk management procedures to achieve our goal remuneration. This includes remuneration for the Group for performance in this area. of zero fatalities. The Committee measures the impact of CEO, COO, the Managing Directors of Operations and Economic The Remuneration Technical Environment the Company’s initiatives, and helps the Audit and Risk cascades down throughout the Group. Committee is Council Define and The Chief Operating Officer, supported Committee to identify, manage and mitigate sustainability responsible for by our HSE department, sets targets for risks (see page 16). Nomination Committee review strategy Group remuneration maintaining health and safety performance. The Nomination Committee is responsible for making policy, and for In 2016, the Safety and Sustainability Committee held four recommendations on the composition of the Board and setting pay levels Communications and bonuses for meetings, during which it reviewed circumstances of all its committees. It ensures a balance of skills, knowledge, The Communications and PR Director is senior management responsible for identifying and engaging accidents that took place; analysed pay structure to ensure independence, experience and diversity and promotes in line with individual with the majority of external stakeholders, no unnecessary risks were taken; reviewed a visit to a healthy corporate culture. Regularly reviewing leadership performance. including government and regional authorities, peer’s operations to share best practice; and analysed safety needs and priorities, the Nomination Committee ensures Ensures safety local communities and NGOs. KPIs are included checks at specific operations. The Committee is supported the Group can continue to compete effectively in the by the Technical Council, which meets each month to marketplace. It also leads evaluation of the Board and Appendices in remuneration Human Resources package. Operations assess progress on our sustainability targets. All heads non-executive Directors. The Human Resources Director Our operating mines and development defines and monitors employment properties have heads of Operations, of department report to the Technical Council, giving senior contracts and employee performance. management an opportunity to input on sustainability issues. Human Resources, Environment and Health and Safety, who implement and monitor corporate systems, supported Read more in our annual report 2016 (pages 70–99) and by specialist PR and engineering teams. on our website at www.polymetalinternational.com 12 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 13 Our approach to sustainability continued Sustainable development goals Audit and Risk Committee Managing our risks On 1 January 2016, the United Nations ushered in the Overview The Audit and Risk Committee is a fully independent body, We are committed to minimising risks to our people, consisting only of independent non-executive Directors local communities and the environment. New Year with the new 2030 Agenda for Sustainable with relevant skills and experience in financial reporting and Development. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals risk management. It actively encourages a commitment to Our Group CEO and Technical Council together identify (SDGs) replace the Millennium Development Goals, discipline right across the business, which is very much in our business risks. Our Board of Directors then takes keeping with Polymetal’s overall approach to governance. responsibility for monitoring these risks and ensuring they and comprise 169 targets to wipe out poverty, fight The Committee focuses on ensuring the consistent quality are managed effectively. And the Board’s Audit and Risk inequality and tackle climate change. of reporting, internal control and risk management processes Committee develops and oversees implementation of our that, in turn, warrant the objectivity and transparency of the risk management strategies. These are informed by our Company’s financial statements. stakeholder engagement – with government agencies, employees, local communities, NGOs, and the financial Organisations such as the UN Global Compact (to which We are playing our part, and have aligned our business Environment community, as well as our suppliers and customers. Polymetal is a signatory) expect companies to take strategy with the SDGs. responsibility to advance these goals. We provide decent work to people by full and productive We build and support infrastructure projects Risk management responsibilities employment to fight against poverty, support of local/IMN communities and charity activities Board of Directors, Monitor and control risk management efficiency, approve risk management policies and guidelines, Audit and Risk Committee review risk management strategy and risk reports, take responsibility for key risk identification of the Board We drive efficiency in material use and monitor all Employees production processes Group CEO and Identify risks to the business and associated management operations We ensure healthy workplaces and promote well-being Technical Council Internal Audit Define and monitor the risk management process and mitigation tools and actions, Department prepare risk reports We are aware of climate change and demonstrate our We provide learning opportunities for all and invest in education commitment by implementing our Carbon Management Operational Managers Identify and evaluate everyday risks and report them, implement risk mitigation programmes Policy and cooperating with the Carbon Disclosure Project of communities and our employees by donating money to schools, cooperating with colleges and universities, providing internships and training our employees Communities Key sustainability risks Across our operations we have identified a number of sustainability risks. These include: We support life on land by restoring land, planting forests Environment Employees Community Economic and preventing biodiversity loss We are proud of maintaining full gender equality and The Company’s management The Company may fail to recruit Our operations may cause The title to mineral rights empowering women in Polymetal systems may not negate or and retain enough talented potential harm to local may be challenged and the reduce harmful spillages or people to maintain operational communities purchase of land may be releases into the environment, integrity opposed locally, thereby which may also harm preventing or curtailing their Economic employees and others living use by the Company. Failure We promote responsible business and societies by applying in the vicinity to secure such additional best practices in business ethics and corporate governance reserves will lead to a long-term We care about water (and run water-efficiency and reduction in output water management programmes) The Company may fail to The Company’s health and Community members Severe weather and climate comply with environmental laws safety systems may not protect may oppose new mining conditions may disrupt ongoing and regulations employees from harm construction projects or operations mine expansions We strive to revitalise global partnerships for sustainable Issues may arise relating to Unforeseen emergencies may The Company may fail to Access to and security development by supporting the UN Global Compact with its management, biodiversity impact the health and safety demonstrate shared value of affordable energy may We provide economic growth by creating processing Ten Principles and other international and local organisations and planning for mine closure of employees or to deliver on commitments become restricted hubs and ensuring further scale up, and we are a and initiatives Appendices significant taxpayer Company emissions may Labour relations may Ineffective use of materials and contribute to severe weather become strained over wages energy may lead to unwanted conditions and global warming and benefits financial cost/inefficiency The Company may fail to adequately manage third-party suppliers, leading to financial inefficiency in the supply chain, delays and disruption 14 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 15 Stakeholder engagement We are committed to regular, meaningful and transparent stakeholder engagement. Using a range of communication Overview channels, we encourage open and honest dialogue with our stakeholders, building a clear understanding of the issues that matter to them and how we can address them. investors and shareholders employees Suppliers and contractors government and communities and ngos Environment industry authorities Why they are As a company, Polymetal exists to create Our people are one of our core strengths Our suppliers and contractors make a We maintain good relations with the Polymetal depends upon communities and important to us sustainable value for shareholders. and assets; the success of our business significant contribution to our business. national and local governments under NGOs for its licence to operate in specific Employees depends upon their expertise, dedication We build stable, long-term relationships whose jurisdictions we operate. localities and regions. In turn, our shareholders and investors and skill. with them, enabling us to achieve provide us with the capital we need to We abide by all laws and regulations that We work with these stakeholders to create mutually beneficial terms of contract develop and expand our operations. We hire the most talented staff and apply to our business, and we enter into mutually beneficial conditions. We also and uninterrupted supply. invest significantly in their training and open and transparent dialogue with respect the rights of local and indigenous development. We also work hard to In collaboration with our contract partners, industry authorities. In particular, we communities and invest in those areas that provide a safe environment for them. we work to ensure compliance with engage with authorities on issues relating are important to them. environmental and safety standards across to improvements in mining legislation. the Polymetal supply chain. Who is responsible • Board • Group CEO • All production departments • Group CEO • Communications and PR team within Polymetal • Group CEO • Chief Financial Officer • Legal team • Managing directors at our operations Communities • Chief Financial Officer • Human Resources team • Polymetal Trading and procurement • GR team • Chief Sustainability Officer • Health and Safety team teams within operations • Communications team • IR team • Communications team • Legal team • Operations directors and chief engineers Channels of engagement • AGM/GM • Employee opinion polls and questionnaires • Direct correspondence • Working groups • Opinion polls and questionnaires • Annual and Sustainability Reports • Workers’ councils • Contractual relationships • Meetings • Public and face-to-face meetings • Investor conferences and • Internal hotline, website, suggestion boxes • Meetings and trainings • Direct correspondence • Communication with Company one-to-one meetings and grievance mechanisms • Compliance audits with Polymetal’s • Industry conferences managers • Presentations/conference calls • Meetings and face-to-face communication requirements with focus on safety • Press conferences Economic • Site visits with management • Working groups (for NGOs) • Direct correspondence • Performance reviews • Grievance mechanisms • Annual direct line with the Group CEO • Email and telephone helplines Material issues • Financial, operational and • Wages, benefits and social packages • Contract specifications • Regulatory compliance • Investment sustainability performance • Working and living conditions • Tenders • Taxes • Employment • Dividends • Health and safety • Account management relationships • Labour issues • Infrastructure development • Regulation, economics and politics • Career progression and opportunities • Health and safety • Health and safety • Environmental and health impacts • Mergers and acquisitions • Social needs • Regulation • Environmental protection • Local culture, lifestyle, language • Labour • Training, development and education • Impact on environment, human rights • Infrastructure and local development and traditions Appendices • Health and safety and society • Compliance with international environmental standards Read more in our Read more in our in the employees Read more in the Economic Read more on pages 22, 32, Read more in the Communities Annual Report 2016 section of this report section of this report 40, 46, 54 of this report section of this report 16 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 17 Materiality Our performance It is challenging for a company the size The results of our materiality assessment are presented in Sustainability goals 2016 outcomes Overview the chart below, and for the purposes of this report, we cover and geographical diversity of Polymetal to all Aspects listed in the dark grey zone. These Aspects are Governance select issues for inclusion in its reporting. relevant to all parts of our Group. The matrix also identifies In this report, we address the sustainability five material issues for management and reporting which are Ensure high standards of corporate governance and • Adopted new Human Rights Policy and Carbon Management Policy applied to our partners, contractors and suppliers. Issues • Included in STOXX ESG Leaders Index and reaffirmed as a FTSE4Good and issues that mattered most to our business that fall outside of the material zone are still important but sustainable development Euronext Vigeo member and stakeholders in 2016. less relevant because, for example, they are already managed by national legislation or regulations. Environment A full-scale materiality assessment was carried out in 2014 by a working group of managers responsible for all our activity 1 The GRI defines relevant Aspects as those that ‘may reasonably be considered Reduce our environmental • Underwent ISO 14001 recertification audit and obtained a compliance certificate important for reflecting an organisation’s economic, environmental and social impacts, footprint for our EMS for three years relating to GRI reporting Categories and Aspects.1 The group or influencing the decisions of stakeholders’. ‘Materiality’ is the threshold ‘at which Environment consulted our stakeholders through a questionnaire and Aspects become sufficiently important that they should be reported’ (source: • Included biodiversity conservation and restoration in our corporate Environmental Policy g4.globalreporting.org/how-you-should-report/reporting-principles/principles-forpersonal meetings, and from this was able to establish defining-report-content/materiality). and Management System materiality scores for sustainable development issues. • Became signatories to the International Cyanide Management Code – another step in The challenges identified in 2014 are still relevant to the implementing international best practices across all areas of sustainable development current business issues. Employees Embed robust safety • Strengthened safety procedures, especially those aiming to reduce the risk level Materiality issues 07 17 procedures and safeguard in our underground mines 29 01 employee well-being • Continued Group recertification of safety in compliance with OHSAS 18001 Aspects Significance Water Local Economic Employment Important Aspect inside Material 06 communities performance • Continued developing measures and incentives for better safety performance Employees the Company 15 Energy • Continued implementing safety monitoring and control software Low • Further involved contractors in risk management and health and safety control procedures Significance of Polymetal’s economic, environmental and social impacts Important Aspect inside and Supplier 32 31 Not material outside of the Company environmental 34 assessment Training and Occupational Build a motivated, loyal and • Decreased staff turnover rate from 8.3% to 5.5% education Equal health and safety 39 21 capable workforce • Upgraded training initiatives, procedures and courses; invested US$866 thousand in 35 12 remuneration for Freedom Compliance 33 women and men professional training, and as a result 82% of our employees received development training Supplier of association Environmental assessment for 03 • Signed collective bargaining agreements at our new operations: Bakyrchik (Kazakhstan), and collective compliance Diversity and labour practices bargaining equal opportunity 43 Kapan (Armenia), Svetloye (Okhotsk hub), Komar (Kazakhstan) and extended them at 38 Indirect 36 existing operations (Mayskoye, Okhotsk, Voro) Non-discrimination Indigenous economic Labour practices 16 rights impact • Upgraded our social benefits package: treatment in health resorts is now available for all grievance Communities employees; the budget for employee financial aid in 2017 was increased twofold mechanisms Environmental grievance 04 09 27 mechanisms Social Procurement Emissions practices Closure planning Maintain strong links and • We continue to work closely with local communities under the 25 active cooperation 18 relationships in the regions agreements currently in place 08 where we operate Anti-corruption 05 • Invested US$5.1 million in social support and territorial development programmes; provided 10 46 Biodiversity Materials assistance to 51 entities (schools, kindergartens, health centres, sports and cultural facilities) 51 Effluents Human rights • Supported and promoted charity campaigns aimed at helping vulnerable groups; provided and waste grievance 23 Legal targeted assistance to over 1,000 people mechanisms compliance 24 Grievance 30 • Started dialogue with the Kapan community (Armenia) in order to implement grievance mechanisms Economic Emergency mechanisms for local people and our employees for impacts Labour/ preparedness 41 on society management 45 relations Economic Supplier Forced or 11 02 human rights compulsory 26 Ensure financial stability and • Generated a healthy free cash flow of US$257 million; coupled with a strong balance sheet labour Market shareholder returns assessment Products and this translated into cash returns for our investors 44 services presence Resettlement Human rights Pursue further growth • Began gold production at Svetloye – the key driver for sustaining production levels 20 assessment 13 opportunities at our Okhotsk hub Anti-competitive Transport 14 • Acquired Komar gold deposit, an easily accessible ore feed for Varvara behaviour • Acquired Kapan mine close to our Lichkvaz deposit, to strengthen operating platform in Armenia Overall Appendices 19 (environment 22 protection Maintain excellent working • Worked with large, global manufacturers who operate to the highest international standards Public policy investments) relationships with suppliers on services, employment, quality and environment Supplier assessment 28 • Worked with local, reliable suppliers – around 50% of our supplier purchases come from for impact the regions where we operate (in Russia and Kazakhstan, approximately 30% in Armenia) on society Material stewardship Influence on stakeholder assessments and decisions 18 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 19 Environment Protecting the Overview environment Through innovation and continuous improvement, we aim to achieve greater efficiencies across our business and minimise the impact of our operations, putting environmental Environment sustainability at the heart of everything we do. Employees Communities Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material aspects do we follow? Group CEO, Chief Sustainability Employees, government, local Maintain ISO 14001 compliance • Materials • Land reclamation Officer, Chief Operating Officer, UN Global Compact, Group Code communities, indigenous peoples’ and implement 2015 version; • Energy • Effluents and waste HSE Director, Head of Environment, of Conduct, Environmental Policy, groups and other NGOs, suppliers continue tailing dams inspections, • Water • Supplier environmental assessment regional environmental managers, ISO 14001, Carbon Management and contractors expand application of Cyanide • Biodiversity • Environmental grievance managing directors, chief engineers Policy, Cyanide Code, EBRD Management Code guidelines • GHG and other mechanisms and heads of environmental at all operations, implement energy emissions assessment Appendices Environmental and Social Policy departments at our operations management system; develop detailed management standards, including a water management policy and corporate standard on waste management and materials reduction use 20 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc sustainability report 2016 21 environment The importance of auditing and compliance Our Group-wide ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS 2016 Overview In addition to complying with relevant legislation and (%) environmental approach ISO 14001, we undergo audits by state authorities and external service providers to drive our environmental No organisation today can afford to risk its reputation performance. In 2016, we received no significant fines ■ Water 24 by ignoring its environmental responsibility. Organisations or non-monetary sanctions for breaches or infringements. ■ Waste 23 need continual, robust and wide-ranging environmental Historically, we have had no major, moderate or ■ Land 18 management. We operate systems designed to protect catastrophic environmental incidents. ■ Natural resources use efficiency 18 human health and the environment. US$14.3m ■ Air 10 We assess supplier and contractor ■ Other 7 As with all mining companies, our work involves a number environmental performance of environmental risks, and to manage these, our Group-wide In our contractual agreements with suppliers, we insist on Environment Environmental Management System (EMS) focuses on compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, our driving resource and energy efficiency across the business. EMS, and with all requirements around issues like packaging, This includes using modern, efficient equipment and noise, pollution and emergency preparedness. We ask technologies, preventing pollution, and engaging employees equipment suppliers to provide guarantees that their We invest in environmental protection on environmental issues. We currently follow international hardware operates within established limits. In addition, our During 2016, our overall investment in environmental standard ISO 14001 (2004). In 2017, we plan to upgrade Supply Chain Management Department (Polymetal Trading) protection was US$14.3 million, a significant increase our EMS to comply with the 2015 version of the standard, from US$5.1 million in 2015. These investments As our business grows, we and to certify it in 2018. is developing a new supplier assessment programme, include expenditures on maintenance and acquisitions of which will help us conduct formal supplier assessments are committed to conducting and audits for environmental compliance and best practice. environmental equipment, EMS programmes and monitoring. business in an environmentally Our Environmental Policy shapes all our environmental Above these investments we make quarterly payments activities. The policy focuses on continuous improvement, Listening to our stakeholders to governments in the regions where we operate to offset responsible way to mitigate Employees risk reduction, use of best practice, and compliance. We enable our stakeholders to voice any concerns or any negative environmental impact caused by our business. our risks and protect the It also covers the management of key environmental issues, grievances by complying with rigorous environmental These payments are governed by environmental law including incident and emergency control and the use and are defined by audits conducted at our sites by natural environment. of environmentally friendly materials. impact assessment procedures, including public hearings government agencies. and other mechanisms. At each of our sites we document comments from the public in a log book, and deliver a Andrey Savchenko Our in-house engineering company, Polymetal Engineering, range of engagement activities to hear stakeholder feedback. HSE Director works to ensure that all environmental aspects are taken In 2016, we received no new complaints or grievances into account during the design, construction and operation about our environmental impacts. of our mines and processing facilities. We also ensure that every production site has its own environmental team to Environmental training is critical monitor impacts. Teams collect surface and ground water Training is important to ensure our staff are up-toCommunities Group and air quality samples, which are analysed at internationally date on key environmental issues. Our environmental CEO certified laboratories, and review performance in quarterly managers attend national and international seminars, reports to the Group. and we encourage participation in courses on issues such as environmental management, water quality Innovation and Research and Development assessment, hazardous waste, environmental security Our scientific and technical department focuses on and land reclamation. identifying the latest innovations and integrating them into our production processes. COO CSO As a result of the development of autoclave oxidation technology, for example, we have been able to launch Economic and successfully operate the first hydrometallurgical autoclave gold mining plant in Russia (Amursk POX). The plant includes new technology that improves energy efficiency, arsenic management, closed water cycle and semi-dry cake storage, which together help to minimise HSE Operations our impact on the environment. Director Directors We strive to incorporate a culture of ongoing improvement across our operations, and since 2012 we have implemented our Continuous Improvement System (CIS), which aims to improve operational efficiency. While CIS is focused Appendices Regional Head of environment on saving money by improving processes, it often involves environment actions such as reducing material consumption and more managers efficient use of equipment – actions that help to reduce our environmental footprint. We have created five specialised departments at key operating mines to drive our CIS, and we plan to create two more in 2017. So far, in total, we have saved more than US$14 million through Environmental teams at our operation Continuous Improvement. 22 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 23 environment continued We actively source water for our operations, such as the water Our audit teams carry out regular internal checks and assess We are rigorous in our handling, management and Overview WATER that naturally seeps down and collects in our underground our compliance with national and regional standards, and monitoring of cyanide due to its hazardous potential. mines. We use this water underground, but we also pump it government agencies conduct regular environmental Our approach involves identifying all associated hazards, Focus on water to the surface to be used in our gold processing operations. performance spot-checks at our facilities. We now operate strictly controlling all cyanide levels in our tailings, and Whether for industrial use, drinking or irrigation, water When extra water is needed, we may purchase it from utility eight tailings dams, and in 2016 there were no significant monitoring air, soil, surface and ground waters. We also management is essential to our business and to our host suppliers, and as a last resort, we are also allowed a certain or major environmental accidents involving tailings facilities provide environmental monitoring results to public authorities, communities. However, as a result of demographic and level of take-off from rivers, dams, and groundwater aquifiers. at our operations. and deliver environmental protection measures. These climate changes, concerns have increased about long-term include the design, construction and monitoring of tailings availability, quality and security of access to water. We As far as possible, we re-use water. In fact, we get most Recycling our waste dams, and the monitoring of water sources and quality, recognise that water management is not just a technical of our water from internal recycling. As well as minimising Wherever we can, we re-use the waste that we generate riverbed changes and associated drainage. debate around levels of abstraction and quantitative data – offtake of fresh water, it also means we reduce the risk of within our operations. We have developed systems and it is also an issue that our stakeholders feel passionate about. releasing unsafe water into the surrounding area. Any water procedures that enable us to maximise the amounts we In 2016, we became signatories to the International Cyanide Environment that we do release is tested to make sure it meets discharge recycle and minimise waste to landfill. In 2016, we were Management Code followed by the certification of Amursk Our sites are located in low water stress areas and in our standards and is safe. able to recycle 20%, the same as in 2015. POX. At Polymetal, we used 8.8 thousand tonnes of cyanide case, the major water issue is not its scarcity but its excess. in 2016. To ensure there is no waste, we always use 100% We have to mitigate the threat of flooding by evacuating We also find uses for our waste outside of Polymetal. of the volumes of cyanide we purchase. And we also take the excess water. Despite the additional cost of pumping WASTE For example, at Amursk POX we signed a contract in a cautious approach to the transportation of hazardous it to the surface, being able to use it in our operations is 2016 with a waste recycling company to provide them with materials. In 2016, we did not transport, import or export a positive outcome. We strive to increase efficiencies in Reducing our materials and waste 300 kg of packaging (PE, PP, wood) for incineration and any waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the the use of water by maximising water recycling and reuse We are firmly committed to the responsible management energy production. This is the first agreement of this kind Base Convention 2, Annex I, II, III and VIII. In total in 2016, within mining operations. of waste materials. In our production processes, we use at the Company. Where we can’t recycle or re-use materials, we produced 11 Kt of hazardous waste, compared to large quantities of ore and energy to produce products we dispose of them at our own waste facilities or outsource 15 Kt in 2015. In 2016, we used 14.5 million cubic metres per annum, such as Doré bars, zinc precipitate, and flotation and waste disposal to external companies. In 2016, we disposed Employees compared to 11.7 million in 2015. At each of our sites, we gravity concentrates. Overburden and tailings are the most of 56,132 (Kt) of waste, compared to 56,836 (Kt) in 2015. are committed to reducing our water use and minimising significant waste streams associated with our operations, WASTE INTENSITY the volume and impact of liquid discharged into watercourses accounting for more than 99% of the total waste volume. (tonnes of waste per tonne of ore mined) Strict procedures to prevent contamination in accordance with local legislation and target indicators. Overburden is the material that is extracted to uncover ore Environmental legislation in countries where we operate sets All water is either re-used or treated and discharged, deposits, while tailings is a by-product of ore processing. out strict requirements for the prevention of soil and water or stored in tailings dams. We use water and flow meters contamination. Our tailings storage facilities (TSF) have been and indirect measuring to capture all water consumption In order to minimise our impact, we drive efficiency in material 6.4 6.5 built in full compliance with these requirements, and they 5.8 and discharge data. use. For example, we identify the most harmful materials also take into account detailed engineering and geological in our operational processes – such as explosives, drilling studies. In 2016, we hired external consultants to conduct Local and state authorities grant permission for our water parts and mill balls for grinding – and make efforts to reduce an independent audit of our design and management system withdrawal each year, and as our operations are spread volumes of these materials without impacting quality. During and to reassess the stability of one of our tailings dams, Communities across a wide geographical area, we do not over-exploit any 2016, we mined 13,380 Kt of ore, processed 11,417 Kt, Varvara TSF. We will continue this practice at our other TSFs. 2014 2015 2016 single source. Our usage always remains within acceptable and generated 73,974 Kt of waste. (While this is more than limits. We do not withdraw water from surface sources in in 2015, when we generated 69,878 Kt of waste, the number Cyanide and hazardous waste management The waste intensity increase is associated with the start environmentally sensitive areas, or where water is of great of our mines has increased). Our production methods involve several harmful consumables. of operations at Kyzyl which resulted in a growth in stripping importance to local or indigenous communities. Among these, the largest is cyanide, which generates volumes and therefore an increase in waste rock. hazardous waste during the recovery of gold from the ore we process. Within our process, cyanide can also exist as a chemical compound found in gas, water and solids, which we later purify. Water Economic (thousand of cubic meters) Total withdrawal: 14,477 Total discharge: 11,850 waste Surface water Watercourses (Mt) 5,779 8,478 Waste rock Ground water Water recycled Collecting ponds 63.1 Waste reused Waste disposed 8,284 and reused 3,169 56 20% Tailings External water supply 84% Landscape 10.6 (15 Mt) Waste incinerated Appendices 414 26 Other (materials and domestic) of total waste generated 0.1 0.2 Sewage 177 24 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 25 environment continued And across our sites, we have introduced a range of energy GHG EMISSIONS Overview ENERGY AND CARBON MANAGEMENT saving initiatives, such as a lightning update and frequency changer application, which has led to savings in diesel Securing our energy supply fuel consumption. 642 621 638 The wide geographical spread and remote location of our facilities, extreme weather and limited grid power, make us Our commitment to alternative 725 737 672 dependent on diesel as a fuel source. Along with the gas energy sources we procure from third-party suppliers, diesel accounts for We are continuously assessing options for sourcing energy the bulk of our total direct energy consumption – primarily from alternative and renewable sources. In 2017, we will for heating, powering equipment and vehicles. In 2016, conduct a feasibility assessment into the use of solar and we consumed 7,020 terajoules of energy, compared wind energy at our remote sites. to 6,195 terajoules in 2015. 2014 2015 2016 Environment ENERGY To ensure energy security for our operations, we use ■ GHG emissions intensity (CO2eq. t/10 Kt or ore processed) ■ GHG (Kt) company-owned diesel generators. In 2016, in-house A first in Russia – electric See reportable segments for 2015 and 2016 in the GRI G4 Table and power generation accounted for 32% MWh of our total 5.0 5.7 5.4 Reportable Segments 2016 on page 65 of this Report. vehicles in underground mines electric power consumption. In 2017, we plan to increase power generation capacity, and to conduct energy audits 7,020 In 2016, Polymetal became the first company in Russia to 6,195 aimed at optimising mill and ventilation operations (the largest 5,622 use battery-driven mining equipment. Our new load-haul items in electricity consumption). dumpers (LHDs) are world-class, and because nobody in Russia had any experience in operating the upgraded machinery, we provided training for our people to obtain ENERGY CONSUMPTION (thousand gigajoules) the appropriate expertise. Employees 2014 2015 2016 Battery-driven LHDs have many environmental Direct ■ Intensity (GJ/10 Kt of ore processed) advantages. They do not generate exhaust emissions, ■ Diesel power plant 2,294 ■ Consumption (terajoules) eliminating any additional ventilation costs and lowering ■ Diesel (transport and 2,002 Values for 2015 and 2014 were restated due to methodology change in 2016. mobile machinery) our impact on climate change. They also do not thaw See reportable segments for 2015 and 2016 in the GRI G4 Table and Reportable Segments 2016 at the end of this Report. drifts within a rock mass – this means there is lower risk ■ Electricity purchased 1,844 of spontaneous rock mass detachment, hugely improving ■ Coal 670 mining safety. They also have lowered our costs. Our ■ Natural gas 167 Lowering our greenhouse gas emissions operational expenses have gone down by 40%, and ■ Petrol 43 electricity costs from mine ventilation are 50% lower. Finding renewable energy sources is a priority if we are to lower our greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) and manage Communities carbon emissions (see our Carbon Management Policy). “The new equipment is not only good for the environment, Heat and electricity from our diesel generators, as well as Air quality it is also good for business. These machines have good We aim to be energy efficient our mining fleet operations, produce GHG emissions. prospects,” summarised Tagir Ibragimov, Mayskoye Mine Balancing our energy requirements with the need for Many of our core activities, including stripping, mined waste Manager. We will now fully assess the overall impact of The burning of natural gas and coal and the use of landfill efficiency is a challenge. However, we are committed storage, ore processing and energy use, generate air our new LHDs, and will consider rolling them out to also contribute to our GHG footprint. We measure and to achieving energy efficiency – it makes business sense emissions. These emissions include carbon dioxide and other operations. monitor our CO2 emissions using established international and it is better for the environment. In 2016 we decreased nitrogen, sulphur oxides and non-organic dust. methodology. energy intensity of ore mining and processing for 6% Group-wide. Between 2012 and 2016 we saw an increase in pollutant In 2016, direct CO2 emissions linked to our operations emissions as a result of the expansion of our mining activities POLLUTANTS INTO AIR amounted to 268 Kt compared to 244 Kt in 2015. In order to As part of this commitment, we adopt a range of measures. and energy usage. However, during 2016 Polymetal emitted (t) minimise future emissions, we will continue to ensure that our Economic no ozone-depleting substances and our organisational 8.0 For example, we carefully plan the amount of power vehicles and mining equipment are modern and compliant 7.5 resources we need, provide our operations with the requisite efficiency improved overall. In order to minimise future 6.2 with European quality standards, and feature the most amount of fuel within a set period of time, and monitor power emissions, we will continue to ensure that our vehicles 4,619 4,565 up-to-date technology. supply and consumption against approved budgets and and mining equipment are modern and compliant with 4,125 energy efficiency targets. We also conduct regular energy European quality standards, and feature the most up-toThe increase in the intensity of greenhouse gas emissions efficiency audits, and appoint external agencies to inspect date technology. is associated with the increase in production (+6%), mining 2,153 our operations and resolve power supply issues. 1,852 1,823 (+6%), stripping (+25%) and underground development 1,493 847 1,608 614 1,361 (+26%) in our newly launched mines, Svetloye, Komar and 304 In 2016, we continued to refurbish our main power 5% Kapan while these processes are fuel intensive. 2015 infrastructure and install new equipment to help improve 2014 2016 our operational efficiencies. For example, we reduced Growth is also associated with energy consumption at our Appendices ■ Sulphur dioxide (SOx) ■ Nitrogen oxide + dioxide (NOx) consumption of natural gas by 11% compared to 2015 at new project Kyzyl, with intensive open pit mining carried out, reduction in GHG emissions ■ Carbon monoxide (CO) ■ Inorganic dust (solid particles) Amursk POX and Voro. We were able to do this by adjusting while the first concentrate production will begin in the 3Q 2018. ■ Intensity (tonnes per 10 Kt of ore mined) the equipment and by using the thermal energy released 6% from an isothermal reaction in the autoclave. We have also However, there is a 5% reduction in GHG emissions intensity implemented automatic control systems at our power at our mature mines as a result of our energy and cost plants at Lunnoye (Dukat hub) and Kubaka (Omolon hub). efficiency programme. reduction of energy intensity 26 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 27 environment continued LAND LEASED AND OWNED Overview BIODIVERSITY Planning for mine closures (in thousands hectares) Protecting biodiversity As all sites will eventually deplete their mineral resource and 19.3 We are committed to treading lightly in the regions where ore reserves, it is essential that we plan responsibly for the 7.9 we operate and work hard to minimise our impact on local end of each mine’s operational life. As a priority, we relocate 14.5 biodiversity. To this end, as a matter of policy we do not workers to our other mines (see Employees section for 12.3 6.0 operate in or adjacent to protected or vulnerable areas. information about changes to key employment terms). 3.4 11.4 We respect, and will not encroach upon, land that has Mining impacts land through open pits, tailings facilities, 8.9 8.5 particular value – natural, historical or cultural – for processing plants, roads and other infrastructure. 2.5 Indigenous Minorities of the North (IMN). We also engage 0.8 1.1 1.5 0 0.3 in comprehensive land rehabilitation once we have finished Our long-term remediation obligations include fulfilling 2014 2015 2016 working in a particular area, focusing on the reparation of any decommissioning and restoration liabilities and covering Environment environmental damage that our operations may have caused. suspension or abandonment costs in compliance with ■ Land remaining disturbed as at 31 Dec ■ Land newly disturbed for the year Supporting the first national regulations and legislation. Costs are covered ■ Land remaining undisturbed as at 31 Dec ■ Land rehabilitated for the year In 2016, we evaluated the status of biodiversity and our ever ‘reindeer census’ by the Company. We also carry out geological, surveying impact on it at our production sites as well as in neighbouring and repair works to ensure that, once a mine is suspended in Okhotsky District or abandoned, underground operations, drilling sites and areas. The results of baseline data gathering showed the presence of just one critically endangered species at one buildings are not hazardous or dangerous, and that we Some of our sites are situated in the forest areas of of our mines – we identified the Calypso onion flower, carry out any environmental rehabilitation. Russia’s Far East, which provide natural habitats for plants which is listed in Russia’s Red Data Book, at Albazino mine. and animals. So we play our part in protecting biodiversity So we have included measures to help conserve this flower in the areas where we operate. In 2016, for example, Our progress in 2016 in our action plans. we funded the first ever veterinary reindeer census in Our action plan for 2015–2017 is geared towards the continuous improvement of our environmental footprint. Employees Okhotsky District, Russia. The Okhotsky division of the The plan’s targets, and the progress we have made against them, are set out below: Due to the extreme northern location of most of our sites, Public Association of Indigenous Minorities of the North where the surrounding territory is low in conservational value, invited a veterinary team to examine 1,000 of the region’s there are no significant biodiversity impacts linked to our We said... We did... reindeer. Due to lack of previous funding, this was the operations. However, some sites are situated in the forest first time in more than 20 years that a vet had examined and tundra areas of Russia’s Far East, which provide natural We would complete the reconstruction of the dump facility for Work is ongoing, design has been completed and documents the reindeer. solid domestic and industrial waste in Lunnoye. are going through the state approval procedure. habitats for various rare and threatened or vulnerable plant and animal species. Some of our licence areas are located “We went into the heart of the taiga forest some 300 km in these territories, which means we have to be mindful of away,” says veterinarian Oleg Emelyanov. “We worked We would start the recycling of industrial waste in Mayskoye. The recycling facility has been acquired and we now use waste temporary extraction of land for mining and construction under all weather conditions, because we needed to oil to produce energy. of facilities, and temporary change in conditions necessary complete the examination before the cold set in. It took Communities to support flora, fauna, and invertebrates. over six weeks but we were there in good time to We would carry out external audits and stability assessments The tailing dam at Varvara underwent external inspection and Following this evaluation, we included a biodiversity complete everything.” of tailings dams, and deliver project updates. design was improved as a result of re-assessment. conservation commitment in our Corporate Environmental Policy, and biodiversity management and monitoring The examination involved taking blood samples to test We would obtain approval for our Carbon Management Policy. Policy has been signed and is now being implemented. procedures in our EMS. the health of the reindeer – all were found to be in good health. In another ‘first’, the reindeer were also chipped Our 2016–2017 Biodiversity Conservation Plan includes: to help with identification and breeding. “Now that every We would launch a biodiversity offset assessment programme We updated our Environmental Policy to incorporate biodiversity • Releasing young fish in waterbeds where communities reindeer has a chip,” says reindeer breeder Oleg Danilov, at one of our production sites, and expand to other sites protection and we implemented internal procedures aimed at catch fish “we’ll know everything about their migration, growth, and if successful. preserving biodiversity. We have collected baseline data for eight diseases – we’ll know their entire life story.” All information production sites and made an action plan for nine sites for 2017. • Making artificial mineral and salt licks for deer and hare from the chips will be entered into the All-Russian Economic • Cleaning waterbeds (springs) Database of Chipped Animals. • Installing bird repellers and nets at tailings dams and See our environmental performance in detail in our key sustainability figures table at the end of this report. ponds to protect them from contact with cyanide and In total, there are 6,000 reindeer in the District, and other chemicals breeders hope to continue with the deer identification process. • Planting trees and grass Plans for 2017 and beyond • Installing troughs in habitats Looking ahead, we plan to: • Fencing at depleted pits Read more in the communities section • Develop corporate energy management system in • Improve heating system at Amursk POX and use heat • Installing road signs where roads and animal compliance with ISO 50001 standard released from autoclave for plant heating migration routes cross paths, and where wild animals • Consider using renewable energy sources (wind and solar) • Implement our biodiversity conservation action plan Appendices appear frequently at remote production sites • Reconstruct ponds of waste and pit waters at Albazino In addition, we insist that all site staff, including contractors, • Complete reconstruction of the dump facility for solid • Review our Environmental Management System and take part in environmental, health and safety awareness domestic and industrial waste in Lunnoye start transition to ISO 14001:2015 training to ensure they understand their responsibilities to protect biodiversity. 28 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 29 employees valuing our Overview employees The training, development and well-being of our employees is of paramount importance. We invest heavily in these areas as part of our commitment to our people and the Environment long-term future of our company. Employees Communities Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material aspects do we follow? Group CEO, HR Director and Employees, specialised Provide safety environment and • Employment • Labour practices and HR team, COO, Head of HSE, UNDHR, UN Global Compact, Group agencies, suppliers equal opportunities, ensure equal • Labour/management relations grievance mechanisms communications department, Code of Conduct, National Labour remuneration, promote diversity, • Training and education • Occupational health and safety managing directors and HR teams Codes, Standard Regulation on Social implement Human Rights Policy; • Diversity and equal opportunities • Non-discrimination at our operations Conditions and Service Quality Control, recruit and retain engaged and • Equal remuneration for • Freedom of association and motivated employees and interns, women and men collective bargaining Appendices Human Resources policies, Collective Agreements develop career pathways, improve • Human rights communications with employees, • Mine closure enhance training programmes 30 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc sustainability report 2016 31 Investing in our people Anti-corruption Our approach to attract Overview We work hard to raise awareness of bribery and corruption and retain top talent and its potential impact on our business. Across the Group, we have implemented a variety of measures to help prevent We work to create a fair and inclusive environment to corruption and fraud among our employees, contractors attract the best people and keep them inspired to stay. and suppliers. We continued our anti-corruption training in By developing our employees’ skills and enhancing their 2016, for example, holding more than 70 seminars, which leadership capabilities, we increase their motivation were attended by more than 1,800 Polymetal employees and create our leaders of the future. and contractors. We pay competitive salaries that benchmark well within During the year, the instances of corruption identified the industry, and offer equal terms of recruitment and within our business were limited to minor fraud relating to Environment employment. By rewarding good performance and purchasing, equipment inventory, supplier lobbying and prioritising health and safety, our people know they the quality of materials and equipment. Four managers were are supported, listened to and looked after. Case study – sanctioned for fraudulent activities and four were dismissed. None of these cases had a material impact on our operations Rewarding ‘Best in Profession’ In return, we expect all employees to sign up to our or financial position, and no court cases relating to corruption knowledge and skills Company Code of Conduct and to contribute to sustainable were brought against the Company or any of our employees. value creation. This is underpinned by a range of policies, In our 2015 Employee Survey, our employees told us that Building a motivated, loyal and covering equality, professional development, appraisal, Human rights they enjoy competitions as a way of improving learning. capable workforce is critical training, resources and skills, organisational design, In 2016, we adopted our new policy on human rights, So building on from our successful quizzes for mining to the expansion of our business. productivity, and motivation and reward. By ensuring our and will start to implement this throughout 2017. We take specialists on Miner’s Days, in 2016 we held ‘Best in employees comply with our policies on these issues, and a zero tolerance approach to slavery and human trafficking. Profession’ – our new skills contest for more than a Employees by listening and responding to their concerns, our company We also engage in dialogue with stakeholders to promote dozen professions in our operations. Dmitry Razumov culture is based on mutual understanding, respect and trust. human rights, and seek to influence partners, contractors Deputy CEO, Human Resources and suppliers to apply the same rigorous standards. Held at Albazino and Svetloye, over 1,000 employees, International standards including geologists, lab technicians, miners, environmental We take guidance from the UN’s Global Compact and Equal opportunities engineers, truck drivers and mechanics among others, International Labour Organization Principles, and we We are committed to equal opportunities and terms tested their knowledge and practical skills to help us have developed a range of policies and procedures that of employment. We recruit people on merit and do not find the very best. Winners received a financial reward, are coordinated by our Group Head of Human Resources. discriminate on any grounds, including gender, race, and there were some surprising results. For instance, Our Human Resources Committee and operating subsidiary skin colour, religion, nationality, social origin and political the winner of our drivers’ competition at Lunnoye was managing directors implement these policies in collaboration opinions. In 2016, we employed eight people with disabilities former sailor Nikolai Varlamov, who traded the sea with relevant HR teams. or health conditions. And we are fully compliant with for underground mining only two years ago and beat Communities national and international standards relating to staff and other drivers with more than 30 years’ experience. Code of Conduct management, ensuring that our working environment is We introduced our Code of Conduct in December 2011, based on fairness and respect. In 2016, no reported cases The contest has helped to improve knowledge and with which all employees must comply. The Code guides of discrimination were made within the Group. operating methods, as well as the status of ‘blue-collar’ ethical behaviour across the Company, covering employees’ jobs. It has also helped us engage staff and increase conduct towards colleagues and customers, business Headcount and turnover labour efficiency. “It’s a challenge,” says Dmitry Aryshev, Group partners, state authorities and society. It focuses on At 31 December 2016, we employed 11,261 people Deputy Chief Production Engineer at Mayskoye. “To CEO numerous issues, including equality, health and safety, compared to 9,238 in 2015 across the Group’s research, prepare for the competition, participants really worked government and community relations, environmental development, design, exploration, production, logistics hard and interacted very closely, practising with senior protection, transparency, competition and data protection. and management activities. This increase in headcount managers and asking their advice.” It also sets out our zero tolerance approach to drug use, was a result of new acquisitions of Kapan in Armenia Economic conflicts of interest, bribery and bullying. Employees and Komar in Kazakhstan, and new project works Following very positive feedback, in 2017 we plan to hold can access all documents and policies associated with getting underway at our Kyzyl and Svetloye. The majority ‘Best in Profession’ contests across all of our sites. HR the Code through the Company’s intranet portal. of our people work on a ‘fly-in/fly-out’ basis rather than Director permanent relocations, because of the demanding nature We monitor all commercial actions and decisions taken of the work and our remote site locations. Each year, across the Company. Responsibility for this process lies with on average approximately half of our employees are our Internal Audit Department (IAD). The head of IAD reports shift workers. All of our personnel (100%) are employed to our Group CEO and to the Board of Directors through on a permanent basis. the Audit and Risk Committee. The IAD conducts random Employee HR policy audits of stocks and assets, assesses building and assembly and social Training HR contracts, and reviews decisions that relate to major Appendices engagement development centres manager manager manager construction projects. In 2016, we had five cases of Code of Conduct violations. HR teams at operations 32 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 33 Investing in our people continued Improving working and living conditions 42% TRAINING Overview In 2016, we continued to improve working and living (number of employees trained) conditions for employees, particularly those engaged in shift work in remote locations. Our efforts included of qualified personnel are female infrastructure improvement and development at the mines. 46% 46% 43% At Albazino, we renovated our existing dormitory and built 60 a new one for 100 employees. At Khakanja, the canteen facilities and dormitory were renovated at a cost of around US$300,000. At Mayskoye, we renovated facilities for women, 54% 64% 57% hours of training per person and opened a new office and canteen building as the former ones were located on the site of our expanded open pit. 2014 2015 2016 Environment At Dukat, we renovated an entire housing estate, while at Kyzyl, we built a new dormitory for our contractors. In 2017, ■ In-house training ■ Outsourced training we plan to complete construction of a portable sports complex for training and holding team competitions. Talent pool Over the last six years, we have been steadily reducing Competitive salaries and benefits our average employee turnover rate (including fly-in/fly-out We acknowledge and reward employees’ hard work We continued to provide all employees in our Talent Pool We invest in training and development with personalised targets, assessments and development operations). In 2011, this rate was 19.6%, and in 2016, the and achievements. To help us attract and retain the best We invest in Group-wide training and development to plans in 2016. As a result of comprehensive training rate was just 5.5%. This achievement is partly attributable candidates, we offer competitive salaries and benefits build our workforce’s skills, ensuring we meet our longconducted in 2014–2016, last year we were able to promote to a difficult macroeconomic environment, but also to which exceed regional averages in our areas of operation. term Company objectives and provide opportunities for 16 employees from our Talent Pool to key positions within our efforts to promote internal employee mobility, training Our long-term incentive programme, meanwhile, links our employees to progress in their careers. This includes the Company. In fact, our Talent Pool provided 33% of our and development, and favourable working conditions. directly to share price performance (see our Remuneration our Talent Pool to help develop the next generation of internal recruitment needs (52% was met by other in-house Our Human Resources Committee also plays a vital role Report for more details www.polymetalinternational.com). Employees skilled managers. promotions, and only 15% through external recruitment). in helping reduce employee turnover. Our operational staff receive a time-paid salary that is set From day one, each employee is given an appraisal where Programmes for young people according to the number of hours worked and the amount HEADCOUNT AND TURNOVER a personal training programme is decided upon, covering During 2016, people under 30 accounted for 24% of our of work completed, plus performance-based monthly and both general operational and technical aspects of our workforce (24% of those are female). We provided training annual bonuses. As always, in 2016, we sustained stable business. At each subsequent appraisal, we agree further for those with high potential to prepare them for leadership 19.2 wage growth in line with inflation. 11,261 training – professional and managerial – through our network challenges of the future. We covered subjects such as 8,998 9,180 9,238 of corporate training centres and guest coachers. And to occupational health and safety, production control, We also offer social support for workers. For example, 11.4 expand horizons, we give key employees the opportunity construction, mine planning and labour relations. In 2017, we offer financial aid to those in need, and we doubled to attend training sessions held by other international mining we will expand the number of groups and participants. 8.3 the budget available for this in 2016 compared to 2015. companies, and we provide training sessions to the teams Communities 5.5 We provide housing support and cover interest payments of other mining and engineering companies. In 2016, we held a scientific and industrial conference on employee mortgages. We subsidise our employees’ children’s kindergarten, afterschool activities and a holiday for young professionals in three regions simultaneously. Over the past years, we have also offered a distance learning This attracted 43 participants (32 in 2015) to discuss 2013 2014 2015 2016 camp. And we pay holiday travel costs for employees programme, which complements the work of our training their research interests and explore career development working in remote locations – and their families – once centres and on-site teaching facilities, increases productivity opportunities. For the second time, we held a contest for ■ Female personnel ■ Male personnel ■ Turnover every two years. and efficiency, and particularly helps us provide training for best project proposal, and the winners were announced employees in remote locations. In 2016, we updated some of at the International Forum of Young Scientists at the Mining Diversity Health is important, not only to our employees but also to our distance learning training courses and published exams University of St Petersburg in April 2016. We have also been Our industry is known for being traditionally male dominant, the health of the business. We take steps to ensure a healthy to help employees test their knowledge. This culminated in working with 12 universities and five technical colleges to due to the physical requirements and nature of mining. workplace and promote well-being. For example, in 2016 our 2016 competition to find our ‘Best in Profession’ (see provide internships, placements and other opportunities Nevertheless, we actively promote the inclusion of women we introduced an annual free stay in a partner health resort. case study for more information). Economic in our workforce and leadership teams. In 2016, women We provide additional severance pay to retired employees for their young students to gain experience in industry. occupied 22% of our senior management roles, and upon their leaving, and offer parental leave. In 2016, In 2016, we invested US$866 thousand in professional represented 42% of our qualified personnel. Women also 296 people took maternity (99%) and paternity (1%) leave, training across the business – 28% more than in 2015. make up 22% of our Board and 21% of our total workforce and 100% returned to Polymetal following their leave. 8,891 employees (82% of our workforce) received training, (see the diagram below). and the number of employees trained in-house increased by 10% at the same cost as in 2015. We also increased FEMALE PERSONNEL POLYMETAL SALARIES COMPARED TO REGIONAL WAGES our number of in-house trainers. On average, those (%) (Polymetal minimum salaries were 218% higher than trained received 60 hours of training, while managers, the regional minimum) qualified employees and workers received 34, 41 and 104 hours respectively. Appendices 43 44 42 22 22 23 23 21 22 2014 2015 2016 Russia Kazakhstan Armenia ■ Total workforce ■ Qualified personnel ■ Senior personnel ■ Regional minimum ■ Polymetal minimum ■ Regional average ■ Polymetal average 34 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 35 Investing in our people continued Our progress in 2016 0 We said... We would promote safe behaviour and risk assessments to We did... We continued to promote safe behaviour by providing safety Overview strikes or lockouts help decrease injury rate. training to our personnel. We also continued implementing shift risk assessments in hazardous production facilities and automated data collection and processing aimed at eliminating hazards 5.5% at work places. turnover rate We would keep our turnover rate level at less than 10%. We decreased it by 34% from 8.3% to 5.5%. Environment We would develop our young leaders’ skills according to our We developed our young employees through training, holding new programmes implemented in 2015. our conference and participating in International Forum of Young Scientists at the Mining University of St Petersburg. Regulated and fair employee relations Changes to key employment terms We would conduct targeted training for engineers. We expanded the number of courses and added technical training. We have an excellent track record in regulating employee and notice periods relations based on equality, consideration of mutual interests, We communicate any changes in working conditions and We would launch new courses at our Mining IT centre. Achieved – we have expanded the number of courses. strict compliance with local social and labour regulations other significant events in a timely and appropriate way. and constructive dialogue between partners on all social The amount of notice given to employees is covered by and labour issues. collective agreements and complies with appropriate We would conduct targeted training for employees involved We trained our employees involved in underground mining to legislation in the country of employment. In the Russian in underground mining. operate machines via remote control, enabling them to work Employees We support our employees’ rights to freedom of association Federation, the minimum notice period for changes in in hazardous areas. and collective agreements. In 2016, 88% of all our employees employment terms due to organisational change; changes worldwide and 100% of personnel at our operating sites in to operational working conditions; changes in, or introduction We would progress 30% of our interns to full-time employment. We employed 19% of our interns in full-time positions. Russia, Armenia and Kazakhstan were covered by collective or review of worktime standards; or upcoming dismissal due bargaining agreements. We signed collective bargaining to Company liquidation is two months before changes come agreements at all our new operations including Kyzyl, into effect. In the Republic of Kazakhstan and Republic of Svetloye, Komar and Kapan mines. We also extended Armenia, the notice period for these changes is one month. agreements at Mayskoye, Voro and Okhotsk for a further Plans for 2017 and beyond three years. In the face of any potential numerous layoffs the Company Looking ahead, our key objectives for 2017 and beyond are dismisses step-by-step, and temporarily suspends as follows: At each site, we have established Labour Relations recruitment. We provide training for workers to enhance • To implement more training on safety and risk assessment Communities Commissions to facilitate discussions between our their skills or change professions as needed by the Company, • In February 2017, to hold a Young Geologist meeting employees and the Company. We have also created continue to pay salaries throughout re-training, and wherever at Voro, involving training on our Company standards – Workers’ Councils and set up a system of formal feedback possible, transfer employees to other areas of the business. this will also help us expand our Talent Pool sessions. We provide employees with opportunities to feed back any concerns – including anonymously – through our • To create multimedia for training courses in our centres. Internal Communication System. In 2016, we received 1,269 • To continue to provide a salary increase in line with inflation enquiries (814 in 2015). So far, we have responded to 99.6% of these, mostly at meetings (57%) and through our hotline • To expand our Talent Pool and include energy engineers (17%). We also introduced a new system that outlines and geologists in this department regulations and job descriptions to improve transparency for all our employees. And we conducted Economic personnel audits at our sites at Mayskoye and Omolon, in line with state labour inspection requirements. ENQUIRIES FROM EMPLOYEES (%) ■ Social benefits 29 ■ Living conditions 17 ■ Labour conditions 14 Appendices ■ Remuneration 13 1,269 ■ H&S 9 enquiries ■ Training and development 6 ■ Relations with employer 4 ■ Other 8 36 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 37 health and safety Prioritising Overview health and safety The safety of our employees is our number one priority. We won’t compromise on making Environment sure our people work in a safe environment, despite often harsh and remote conditions, a greater number of employees, and increasing our underground operations. We invest heavily in safety training, and strive to meet the most stringent international health and safety standards. Our goal is a zero harm work culture. Employees Communities Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material aspects do we follow? Group CEO, Chief Operating Officer, Employees, contractors, suppliers, local To achieve zero harm, reduce and • Types of injury • Total number of work-related HSE Director, Head of Health and UN Global Compact, ICMC guideline, communities, specialised government effectively manage critical risks, • Rates of injury accidents Safety, managing directors, chief Group Code of Conduct, Health agencies, independent auditors and maintain a safe working • Occupational diseases • Risk assessment and management engineers and health and safety and Safety Policy, OHSAS 18001, environment for all employees; • Lost days and absenteeism • Emergency preparedness managers at our operations, GOST R 12.0.007-2009 and promote safe conduct; prevent HR department workplace accidents and workAppendices management systems relating to labour protection, adhering to national related illnesses; comply with relevant occupational safety standards regulations and standards and embed responsible safety behaviour across every aspect of our operations 38 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc sustainability report 2016 39 HEALTH AND SAFETY Identifying risk management focus areas Our ‘zero harm’ approach Overview We recognise the risks associated with each of our sites – in Russia, Kazakhstan and Armenia, 93 individual units We strive for a ‘zero harm’ culture, in which every employee across our production facilities, plants and mines have been takes personal responsibility for their own safety as well as classified as ‘hazardous’. That is why our primary focus that of their colleagues. We continually promote excellent is on reducing the level of the most significant risks at our safety behaviours to ensure all our people and contractors 12 underground operations. work in a safe environment. And we are not complacent – this is an ongoing journey of constant training, improvement We carry out an annual qualitative hazardous risk and re-evaluation. assessment, and inform employees of the results through a range of communications channels. We have increased Despite our best efforts on training, creating safety the number of critical risks (from five in 2015, seven in 2016 management systems and complying with stringent Environment to ten in 2017). And we have identified the greatest hazards international standards and regulations, accidents at our sites as falling rock, road transportation accidents New positioning system unfortunately can happen. In recent years, we have been and working at heights. Other hazards include maintenance faced with larger volumes of underground mining operations works, trapping, blows, fires and electricity. improves safety for miners in more challenging geomechanical conditions. However, we are encouraged that we have been able to maintain In 2016, we introduced an innovative positioning system In 2016, we updated our OHSMS. For example, we reour Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR), despite at all our Polymetal underground mines. The new system Working in remote locations allocated responsibilities for actions and outcomes, checked an increase in personnel, underground operations and allows us to track – in real-time – the whereabouts of all equipment and our mining fleet from a safety perspective, and environments means that operations intensity. and changed incentive systems to reduce risks and avoid our people working underground. This means that in the maintaining rigorous safety safety being sacrificed for achieving production targets. event of an emergency, trackers could more accurately While we had modest improvement in 2016, the loss of detect our miners’ location. processes can sometimes Employees four lives during the year is a tragic result, which we view We are now implementing our new Critical Risks be challenging. But we take as an area of major concern. The system can provide audio and visual alarms to the Management (CRM) system. Our old system looked at three miners, alerting them to get in contact with the dispatcher seriously our responsibility to Corporate governance, regulation types of general organisational measures aimed at safety and leave the work zone. It uses a gas analyser to monitor improvements, but we now focus on critical risks. For 2017, embed safety at all times, and and standards we identified risks as being extreme (20%), high (23%), the air quality in the mine, and records dispatchers’ audio We comply fully with H&S legislation wherever we operate, messages, similar to flight data recorders on aircrafts. across our entire organisation. and strive to meet all relevant international requirements. average (30%) and low (27%). The system saves daily information on our server, Our employees’ safety is our In 2016, we worked hard to ensure that our compliance allowing us to develop a positioning archive, and as Workplace accidents absolute top priority. with external certification OHSAS 18001 was reaffirmed for We are deeply saddened that in 2016 we lost four colleagues mining proceeds, the system can be adapted to cover our Occupational Health and Safety Management System new working zones. in tragic workplace accidents. Two were caused by falling (OHSMS). Following the update of our Health and Safety Vitaly Savchenko rock at our Dukat and Albazino underground mines (on April Communities Policy in 2014, (available at www.polymetalinternational.com), We first launched the new system at our Avlayakan mine, Chief Operating Officer 14 and June 30 respectively). One welder died at our Varvara we have continued to communicate this to our employees followed by Albazino, in Russia. To use all the system mine on 6 October as a result of thermal injury, and one and stakeholders through information boards, our internal capabilities, we increased the internet connection speed driver passed away at our Svetloye mine on 8 October newspaper, and weekly Safety Day meetings. All facilities at each site and hired an employee to continuously as a result of a road accident. There were also 15 non-fatal Group across our operations are also fully insured. monitor our people’s movements. accidents in total across the Group. Of these, one was severe CEO and 14 were minor. This causes us considerable concern. Assessing our risks “A chip is built in to the miner’s headlight, and from this our Our Health and Safety (H&S) system guides us in detecting, system receives data at set intervals, updating the mine Any fatality, accident or injury within our operations is wholly assessing and mitigating risks, safeguarding employee health dispatcher’s screen,” says Sergey Novoselov, Engineer – unacceptable, and we offer our sincere condolences to and workplace safety, and making sure equipment, buildings Occupational and Industrial Safety. “While the chip is the families and friends of the deceased. We pay tribute to and other structures are used safely. It also ensures that small, the implications for our miners’ safety are huge.” their dedication and hard work, and are of course covering Economic supervision measures are carefully controlled, and that we related costs and delivering ongoing financial support to their conduct internal audits effectively. families. In 2017, we will re-double our efforts to return to our HR Directors of operations COO previous record of zero fatalities across all our operations. Director Each year, we identify and assess risks across the Group and create risk maps for all our working processes and While we are encouraged that the overall number of fatalities HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE locations. We then develop detailed programmes to help us has reduced by 1.5 times year-on-year, and that our LTIFR reduce these risks. We follow a Shift Risk Assessment (SRA) decreased by 14% compared to 2015, we will continue to model to raise employee awareness of workplace dangers, dedicate significant resources and implement additional HR manage risks promptly, and control the accuracy of our risk 0.22 managers HSE measures to do all we can to safeguard our employees from assessments. We implement SRA most rigorously in 0.19 14 at operation Director future injury. hazardous operational areas, for example automobile Appendices sites 0.13 transport, mines, and plant and power supply. 8 6 6 4 3 1 2 2 H&S managers Head of 2014 2015 2016 at operation H&S sites ■ Fatalities ■ Severe injuries ■ Minor injuries ■ LTIFR 40 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 41 HEALTH AND SAFETY continued Our health and safety performance Our new safety measures Occupational diseases 2016 is the first year we have recorded diseases because Overview Company statistics In 2016, we implemented several new measures to further There were four cases of occupational diseases and the Company’s history is relatively short (19 years) and our improve safety. We ran a pilot on a new mining method, health difficulties recorded in 2016 (two cases of silicosis, personnel are generally young. We are only now facing the 2016 2015 2014 which involves choosing optimum parameters, increasing one of hearing loss and one of neuropathy of the forearm). challenges of aging employees. In response to these cases, Accidents 19 16 11 the number of backfill systems (rock support), and means All of the employees had been involved in underground we revised our social package, adding a resort treatment – of which fatal 4 6 3 no workers are required to enter the stope. We provided mining with more than 20 years’ experience working in option, and we aim to expand social guarantees further Incidents 3 0 1 training to our underground machine operators on remote hazardous conditions, including cold climate, noise, vibration, in 2017–2018. control operating, which enables them to work safely in dust and hard physical work. Three employees continue Occurrences 46 36 25 hazardous areas. We also mechanised ancillary underground to work with us, and one left the profession. LTIFR1 0.19 0.22 0.13 processes by implementing special-purpose machinery and new materials (timbering, blasting). Contractor statistics Our progress in 2016 Environment 2016 2015 2014 We fully implemented SRA in hazardous production facilities, and automated data collection, processing, and control We said... We did... Accidents 12 4 9 procedures. We engaged internal and external coaches – of which fatal 3 3 1 to train our staff on safe and responsible behaviour in We would ensure we have a rigorous and robust OHSMS Our certification has been reaffirmed following inspection audit. Incidents 0 0 0 hazardous production facilities. And we installed our new in place, certified in excellence by a three-stage external audit Occurrences 50 16 13 positioning system in our underground mines to more by Bureau Veritas. LTIFR 1 0.37 0.12 0.25 accurately track our underground workers. (Read more in our case study on page 41.) Definition of health and safety terms: Accident: an unfortunate event that occurs We would isolate the risk of rock fall in underground environments, We have halved the number of incidents involving rock mass fall. in the course of work, on the way to or from work, or in a Company vehicle, which leads to mental or physical harm. Incident: an event that gives rise to an accident, or has The importance of employee engagement and prevent injuries caused by this risk. the potential to lead to an accident (for example, an unexpected explosion and/or the and training Employees release of dangerous substances). Occurrence: a failure, near miss or dangerous event. LTIFR: Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate per 200,000 hours worked. Training and engaging employees is critical to establishing We would create conditions for our employees that promote We have implemented measures, such as hiring external 1 Any restatement and variances are due to changes in methodology: we now use safe practices. Our human resources team has created safe behaviour, and ensure each employee works in accordance consultants to analyse behaviour, and improving contractors’ 200,000 man-hours rather than one million man-hours for the calculation of LTIFR. an HR management system that defines procedures for with our shift-by-shift risk assessment system. management and relations – we trained contractors, required recruiting and assigning employees with specific skills, compliance with our standards, and engaged with them in safety Analysis and response and providing training to develop skills. We also clarify meetings. We also increased motivation through our revised To help us understand any weaknesses in our safety competence requirements for each relevant job description. payment structure. performance, we always investigate and analyse all Our heads of business units identify training needs, and workplace accidents. We apply the ‘5 Whys?’ principle we train specialists in occupational health and industrial, We would keep on top of safety by applying technology We have implemented this at all sites (it is ongoing at Dukat). to internal investigations, which we undertake in addition electric and fire safety. We also provide refresher and to locate workers in emergency situations. to investigations by state authorities. This process involves special-purpose training. evaluating all possible health and safety risks – from Communities technological and technical liabilities to employees’ In 2016, 10,837 employees (100% of all our workers) We would rigorously analyse monthly risk assessments We have identified two risks – working with electricity and fire. psychological and emotional influences. attended safety courses; 9,100 (84% of total headcount) (MRA) results and devise appropriate and impactful measures We have expanded the number of risks from five to seven, in response to any inefficiencies or weak points revealed. and managed them throughout 2016. underwent mandatory training; 1,069 (10%) received risk After thorough research and analysis, we draw management and safety behaviour training; while 668 (6%) comprehensive conclusions and implement measures were trained on safety culture. We would reduce the level of the most significant risks that cause The dominant risks were rock fall (decreased by 50%), transport to help prevent re-occurrence. We inform all employees injuries, and ensure that monthly injury rates are reduced by accidents (flat), and working at height (flat). and contractors of our findings and incorporate new To engage and motivate employees further, we run contests 10% against average quarterly indicators from the same period. Our LTIFR stays at constant low level. measures into our Company safety action plan. In addition, to improve safety (see our case study on page 41), and we implement all recommendations by state authorities. we reward departments that achieve zero occurrences and incidents. We also publish our ‘safety barometer’ in our We would continue extending our OHSMS to all production We have implemented OHSMS at new production sites (Komar, corporate newspaper, and on information desks and portals. processes and work performed by Polymetal employees and Kapan and Kyzyl). We increased contractor responsibility by Economic by contractors on our premises. requiring suppliers and contractors to continuously assess risks and promote safe behaviour. How we responded to the four workplace fatalities in 2016: Plans for 2017 and beyond Organisational Technical Motivational Our key objectives for 2017 and beyond are as follows: • To install speed control tools in all of our own vehicles • Held quarterly meetings on safety • Equipped all mining fleet with safety • Increased operators’ pay for use of • To use our CRM system and expand the number of risks and those of our contractors with contractors elements (protective shields, cabins, remote control • To continue replacing more manual work with speed control) • To continue safety training for all our employees at all • Revised individual instruction cards • Linked drivers’ pay to speed equipment in underground mining to improve safety our operations, provided by our newly trained coaches Appendices as well as technological maps • Developed and implemented performance • To improve existing visualisation of hazards and implement • To update our OHSMS in terms of allocating • Trained employees on risk management standard for • Promoted use of protective glasses it at our new mines to prevent employees entering responsibilities and KPIs to managers to promote determination and safety culture geo-mechanical conditions • Held monthly safety and key risks dangerous areas safety leadership • Intensified incidents reporting • Prohibited use of open-fire heaters events on particular topics • Improved visualisation • Optimised mining technology • Promoted the Company’s ‘Golden • Installed automated system for medical rules for safety’ testing at our Dukat mine 42 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 43 Communities Supporting Overview local communities We work very closely with communities where we operate, to make sure Environment our activities have a positive impact and support local development. Employees Communities Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material aspects do we follow? Group CEO, PR Director, Technical Employees, national government, Expand the range of community • Local communities • Formal agreements with indigenous Council, subsidiary managing UN Global Compact, Group Code local government, specialist partnership agreements, improve • Public policy people and local communities directors working with heads of of Conduct, Policy on Social government agencies, local the quality of life for communities, • Investment • Grievance mechanisms for impacts Finance, Communications Investment, Community Relationship communities, indigenous peoples’ improve communication and • Development and impact of on society Management System groups and other NGOs cooperation with communities, infrastructure investments • Rights of indigenous people promote sports and cultural activities • Resettlement Appendices 44 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc sustainability report 2016 45 Communities Our commitment to social investment Our approach: meaningful Feedback mechanism Overview In 2016, we invested more than US$5 million in local engagement and investment communities. Over the past five years, our investment has reached a total of US$24.9 million, focusing particularly on Every single one of our sites and facilities provides projects involving healthcare and education, infrastructure, employment opportunities for local people. As well as paying sport and lifestyle, culture and creative potential, Indigenous regional taxes, we invest in local communities – funding Minorities of the North (IMN), and environmental protection. Stakeholder education, health, culture and infrastructure. We also work We also made charitable donations worth US$68 thousand. to minimise any negative impact of our business on society, aiming to incorporate local community requests, for example In addition to financial, we make ‘in-kind’ donations. at all stages of planning and development. In 2016, our in-kind investments included humanitarian aid to reindeer herders, with donations including food, fuel, Environment We have dedicated teams overseeing our community lubricants, firewood and medicines; delivery of food and Enquiry/Proposal investment and engagement programmes. And each time medicine to remote communities and indigenous minorities we invest in a new mining site or project, as a priority we in the Magadan, Khabarovsk and Chukotka territories; and assess social and economic risks and impacts that our construction and maintenance of roads in remote areas. activities may have at local and regional level. We develop Email Annual results long-term strategies and engage with local communities, meetings institutions, authorities and organisations to ensure we deliver SOCIAL INVESTMENTS IN 2016 We believe that as our maximum value to local people. (%) Feedback Regular business grows, so does our Telephone boxes on meetings responsibility to the local We have implemented our Community Engagement System ■ Sport 39 information with local population (CES) at all our subsidiaries, which helps us to manage ■ Healthcare and education 31 stands communities where we operate. Employees local investments and keep track of our regular community ■ Culture 15 We want communities to see us interactions. Local people can stay up-to-date with our ■ Infrastructure 9 as a positive addition, and to activities, and it gives us good opportunities to consult with US$5.1m ■ IMN 4 them, listen to their needs, and respond to any concerns. ■ Environment 1 recognise us as a responsive In fact, as a result of our ongoing community engagement Company that is genuinely over several years, by the end of 2016 we had a total of Communications 25 community cooperation agreements (including newly department concerned with their well-being integrated for Kapan) covering most of the areas where we operate. Yulia Pivovarova Involving employees in our charity activities Public Relations Director We comply with international standards We involve our employees across our sites – including new Communities We follow international standards and conventions on operations – in our charity initiatives. In 2016, for example, Feedback community relations, such as the UN Declaration on the 1,300 employees participated in 18 charity events. We also registration Rights of Indigenous Peoples and the UN Global Compact. structured our corporate volunteering activities and conducted And we have developed our in-house standards and policies information campaigns about them. Group in line with international best practice. CEO In 2016, we developed our new Community Engagement Standard as a part of CES. We have implemented this Addressing at several sites, and by 2018 it will become Group-wide, enquiries covering all of our sites. This will ensure a universal approach to all our community engagement. Answer/Explanation Economic Deputy CEO Public and for communities government The new Standard complements our Corporate Code of relations and information director Conduct, which sets out how we expect our employees to conduct themselves towards others, including local Email Annual results communities and authorities. The Standard also meetings accompanies our Social and Charity Investments Policy, and other key procedures. Regular meetings Telephone Media Head Head Human rights with local of internal of external population communications communications In 2016, we adopted our new policy on human rights, which reaffirms our commitment to respecting human Appendices rights and preserving the cultural heritage of the indigenous communities in the areas where we operate. We will implement this throughout 2017. During the year, there were no recorded violations of the rights of minority groups. Communication teams in our operations 46 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 47 Communities continued Responding to community needs Key social investment Overview Our Board of Directors and Management team review our annual community investments and targets to ensure they deliver meaningful change for communities. We also discuss Number of Investments Top projects projects (US$ ‘000) community needs and decide investment priorities with local stakeholders. We communicate about our activities Healthcare and education through our Community Engagement System (CES), and encourage local stakeholders to give us their feedback. Local Over 60 US$1,563 1. Kindergarten for 180 children in Zharminsky District communities in remote areas are important, and we regularly projects (Kyzyl project) organise field trips and face-to-face consultations with them. 2. D  elivering medical care to remote areas of the Khabarovsk Territory In 2016, we received 270 enquiries from local communities, Environment 3. P  urchasing a couveuse for the central district hospital mostly relating to employment opportunities, development in Okhotsk plans, impacts on quality of life, and requests for support for Making a difference cultural, sporting and environmental initiatives. During the year, we held 32 meetings, public gatherings and hearings to the community of Kyzyl Infrastructure for local community members and indigenous people. We also organised 15 site visits for members of the public After we acquired the Kyzyl project in 2014, we signed Over 20 US$461 1. Building bridges in the Chukotka region and community representatives. social and economic collaboration agreements with local projects 2. V  illage lighting project in Khabarovsk Territory authorities – and we have reaffirmed these agreements 3. Public park in Krasnoturyinsk We began a dialogue with the community of Kapan, our every year since then. newly acquired mine in Armenia. This involved identifying community stakeholders and introducing our CES to the Together, we aim to improve life for the local community. Employees local community. We created communication channels and We have bought an ambulance and a school bus, provided all stakeholders with access to these channels, repaired water pipelines, helped renovate and equip including employees, local residents, public organisations an outpatient clinic, a youth centre, park, school, Sports and even a wrestling gym. and authorities. As with our other operations, all stakeholders 35 projects US$2,000 1. Repairing roof of the children’s sports school are now able to reach us easily and are guaranteed to Our largest contribution has been renovating the in Omsukchan receive a detailed response within two weeks. community’s only daycare centre, which had been out 2. Repairing the swimming pool in Amursk – the only local pool in which infants can swim At Kyzyl, we follow our resettlement action plan and stay in of action for 20 years as it needed a major overhaul. contact with former inhabitants who left the village in 2015. Today, the centre cares for the emotional well-being 3. Arrangement of a protective net on and educational and social development of 180 children. Krasnoturyinsk’s stadium In 2016, we had no new resettlements. ”I’m not worried when I‘m at work because I can leave Communities my kids here,” says local resident Savina Makulbaeva. “It’s reassuring to know that I can work and they will be Culture safe and sound.” Over 40 US$751 1. Repairing the cultural centre in Vorontsovka settlement projects 2. Equipping the sculpture and ceramics workshop in Amursk 3. R  epairing/replacing stage and lighting equipment in the leisure and folk arts centre in Omsukchan Economic Indigenous minorities of the north (IMN) Over 50 US$208 1. Implanting microchips in reindeers for the census projects in Khabarovsk Territory 2. R  epairing the reindeer herders’ staging area in Magadan Oblast, and constructing the staging area in Chukotka 3. Purchasing tools for the IMN culture workshop in Khabarovsk Territory Environment Appendices Over 15 US$39 1. Equipping the environment section of the Amur River projects Nature Museum with interactive points 2. ‘Healthy Environment’ community engagement programme expanded at Ayano-Maysky district of Khabarovsk Territory 3. Trash Carnival drawing attention to waste and pollution by featuring costumes made of waste materials 48 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 49 Communities continued Assessing the impact of our Our progress in 2016 Overview social projects and operations We said... We did... Designated departments at each of our operations regularly collect data relating to our social projects. They conduct We would develop, sign and implement a comprehensive We have started the process and already implemented the policy community polls, and hold annual performance review community policy. in Kapan. In 2017–2018, we will continue roll-out to develop meetings with stakeholders to evaluate the social and a Group-wide policy. economic performance of our projects. This helps us respond flexibly to changing situations, adjust investments, and eliminate any possibility of funds being inappropriately We would identify any additional stakeholders, establish After acquiring the Kapan mine, we analysed our stakeholder stakeholder relations, and assess stakeholder needs. groups and opened communication channels to engage with diverted. They also provide local communities with the each of them. opportunity to participate directly in the development and monitoring of our social programmes. Environment We would implement a stakeholder feedback system and We began integrating our Kapan stakeholders into our feedback In 2016, we conducted community polls in eight districts carry out regular surveys in our new business areas. system. Now all stakeholders can easily reach the Company and Tomatoes in the Cold get a response to their questions/concerns. and met to discuss various issues over the course of 32 meetings. Our assessments showed several positive Back in 2013, we launched our Healthy Environment We have identified stakeholders at our newly acquired Komar site, and no negative impacts from our operations. Positive Concerns Everyone project in the Khabarovsk Territory. and already carried out three meetings with the community. impacts included tax payments, support of infrastructure Following its success, we extended this to four and auxiliary industries, environmental protection and other regions where Polymetal operates. In 2016, We would increase the efficiency of social investments by We have developed activity plans based on community feedback ecological projects, regional population increase due almost 11 thousand people participated in more than engaging local communities in cooperative projects and social to engage local people, enabling them to participate in various to the industrial growth, local employment opportunities, 50 project activities. partnership programmes. activities and competitions. and social investment and community support. In fact, we received more than 80 letters from community For example, in the Magadan Region we introduced Employees groups expressing gratitude for our efforts in addressing We would enhance the quality of our social programme We have conducted comprehensive social programme monitoring our ‘Tomatoes in the Cold’ initiative. Thirty-five boarding monitoring – in 2016, we intend to hold six meetings with local in two areas, and will hold a further one in March 2017 (due to social issues. school children – 80% of whom belong to Indigenous residents in our new regions of operation and receive their logistical challenges in the remote area). We will also begin Minorities of the North – participated in the activity, feedback on implemented social programmes. monitoring in two areas of Kapan and Komar in 2017, where we It gives us great satisfaction that in 2016 we constructed and decided to grow tomatoes despite harsh weather have recently signed community cooperation agreements. or upgraded 51 socially significant institutions (kindergartens, conditions. Our employees helped the kids by schools, health centres, sport and culture centres) in host constructing a greenhouse, and checking the soil for communities in new and remote areas, providing targeted We would extend the coverage of our social project assessment We have conducted monitoring in nine areas, reaching more safety and fertility. Together, we managed to produce to 650 people. than 600 people. In 2017, we will continue to increase coverage, assistance to vulnerable people, including children from 167kg of tomatoes. poor and disadvantaged families and the elderly. attracting more participants as we begin monitoring in several new territories. As a result of this initiative, the children have become Communities skilled at growing plants, which is unusual in such a remote area. Their understanding of healthy eating and We would expand our Healthy Environment project to four We extended our Healthy Environment programme to four new new areas and involve 4,500 people. regions where we operate, including Kazakhstan. In 2016, almost the environment has increased, and for the first time, 11,000 local people participated in programme events. tomatoes are now included in their school’s daily menu. “In Evensk, constructing a shift camp is easier than We would develop the scope of our stakeholder engagement We expanded the scope by implementing our Community constructing a greenhouse,” explains Vladimir Bloshkin, by improving our corporate website. Engagement System at our newly acquired Kapan mine. Managing Director, Omolon Gold Mining Company, who was the first to support this project. “But it’s important to support our children’s goals – all the more so as resources are our speciality.” Plans for 2017 and beyond Economic Looking ahead, our objectives for 2017 and beyond are as follows: • To continue implementing our Community Engagement Standard at all sites, identify any additional stakeholders, establish stakeholder relations, assess their needs, implement a stakeholder feedback system, and carry out regular surveys in our new areas of operation • To carry out at least three meetings with local residents in our new regions of operation, and receive their feedback on implemented social programmes Appendices • To systemise our charity activities and update our Social and Charitable Donations Policy 50 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 51 economic creating Overview economic value The long-term sustainability of our business depends upon economic success. A strong financial performance also helps improve local economies and livelihoods in the Environment communities where we operate. Employees Communities Economic Who is responsible? What guidelines Stakeholders Priorities Material aspects do we follow? Group CEO, Polymetal trading Employees, government, local Increase community investments, • Economic performance and procurement teams, operations UN Global Compact, UK Corporate communities, indigenous peoples’ maintain all relevant tax payments, • Market presence managing directors, heads of Governance Code, Group Code groups and other NGOs, suppliers create shareholder value • Procurement practices Finance, Communications, of Conduct and contractors • Indirect economic impact Operations, HR at the mine sites • Product responsibility Appendices 52 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc sustainability report 2016 53 Economic We actively recruit from local communities, creating Overview Our approach: improving employment opportunities at our major operational sites. In 2016, 96.5% of our employees were local nationals livelihoods and economic growth (Russian, Armenian and Kazakh, depending on the location of the site). This is higher than in 2015 (94.9%), and shows Our business model is focused on the delivery of long-term a year-on-year increase in local employment since we value for shareholders, employees, partners and other started keeping records in 2014. stakeholders. Supply chain But our economic impact is so much more. We contribute In 2016, we moved all our procurement to a new, businessto regional economic progress by paying national and to-business e-procurement system. This has allowed us to local taxes. When we develop our operations, for example expand our list of contractors and make our procurement by investing in upgrades and improvements, we employ Environment system more transparent and effective. We conduct audits many local people, helping to improve their quality of life. to ensure we work only with ethical suppliers. In 2016, we And wherever possible, we find local or regional suppliers audited 3,744 companies (potential contractors) and rejected to buy from – this helps to further boost local economies, partnerships with 262 of them as they did not fit our principles as well as minimise the impact of supply transportation of corporate governance and corruption policies. We also on the environment. placed 130 on a blacklist. delivered by sea during the navigation season, and we As well as delivering value are dependent on regional suppliers. In the Magadan Region, We also make social investments, helping to improve to our shareholders, we have people’s livelihoods and strengthening our relationships Our capital expenditure suppliers – for example those building strong supply chain relationships is also critical, providing plant infrastructure material and equipment – due to the limited transport options available. And at a major positive impact on with local communities. are often large, global manufacturers, which helps us lower Mayskoye, 39% of all procurement came from local suppliers the economic development of risk and cost. Specific site requirements mean that goods in 2016, the highest since operations began there in 2011. Employees We have a positive impact on the regions where we the regions where we operate. operate through the payment of taxes to Russian, and services are sometimes procured centrally, and we use Trading Platforms software to enable us to find the best Voluntary Social investments We are helping to improve lives Armenian and Kazakhstan state and local authorities. supplier solutions. In 2016, we improved purchase control In addition to contributing to sustainable development through our investment in In 2016 alone, our tax payments across the Group amounted by tracking the status of each tender process. This helps through our core business, tax payments, local employment to US$272 million, compared to US$172 million in 2015. us to distribute work to procurement teams within the and local suppliers, we also contribute directly to our host local communities, facilities These payments include mandatory contributions to state Group in the most effective way. communities through our voluntary social investment. and infrastructure. we also social funds, including pension funds of the Russian This is reflected in the priorities and focus areas outlined Federation, Armenia and Kazakhstan. In the last reporting support local, regional and year, we did not incur any significant fines or non-monetary Wherever we can, we engage local and regional suppliers, in the Communities section of this report. helping to stimulate regional and national supply chains national economies through sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. and economies. On average, around 48% of our supplier In the 2016 financial year, our voluntary social investment tax transparency, hiring purchases in Russia comes from the regions where we came to US$5 million. You can read more about our Communities In 2016, for the first time we also issued a separate report operate. We have maintained this rate for the past five commitment to making meaningful social investments local employees and using on payments to governments by Polymetal International plc consecutive years. In Kazakhstan and Armenia, local in the regions where we operate on pages 47–48]. local suppliers. and its subsidiary undertakings. This report covers the year suppliers represent 90% and 30% of our procurement ending 31 December 2015. portfolio respectively. Product responsibility Maxim Nazimok Since 1998, we have not received any significant fines The report is required by the UK’s Report on Payments The remoteness of many of our sites – and their extreme for non-compliance with laws and regulations relating Chief Financial Officer to Governments Regulations 2014 (as amended in weather conditions – mean that our relations with regional to the use and provision of products and services. December 2015). These regulations are in line with EU suppliers are essential. In the more remote areas such as Accounting Directive 2013/34/EU. They apply to large the Omolon, Okhotsk and Amursk hubs, all equipment is extractive companies whose securities are publicly listed on a UK-regulated stock market – companies that Economic are involved in the exploration, prospection, discovery, development and extraction of minerals, oil, natural gas Economic value distribution1 deposits or other materials. This report is also intended to (US$m) satisfy the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency 2016 2015 2014 Rules of the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority. Revenue 1,583 1,441 1,690 Local employment Cash operating costs (excluding depreciation, labour costs and mining tax) 470 405 587 Employing locally has many benefits – it helps to strengthen Wages and salaries; other payments and benefits for employees 222 203 248 ties between our business and communities where we Payments to capital providers 64 56 39 operate. It lowers our costs and environmental impact, Payments to shareholders 179 216 173 by not having to ‘fly in and fly out’ as many employees Appendices from other areas. It means employees – even before day Taxes (excluding payroll taxes included in labour costs) one – are already dedicated to the well-being of the local – Income tax and excess profit tax 169 55 72 community. And it helps us to increase our positive impact – Taxes, other than income tax 11 12 22 on local economies. – Mining tax 82 97 110 – Social payments 10 8 9 Undistributed economic value retained 376 390 430 1 Any restatements and variances are due to changes in methodology and ensure consistent estimation across current and previous year values. 54 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 55 Independent limited assurance report to the shareholders of polymetal international plc Introduction To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or Reporting and measurement methodologies Limited assurance conclusion Overview We have been engaged by management of Polymetal assume responsibility to anyone other than management of There are no globally recognised and established practices Based on the procedures we have performed and International plc (hereinafter – the “Company”) to provide the Company for our work or this report except where terms for evaluating and measuring the Selected Information. The the evidence we have obtained: limited assurance on the Selected Information described are expressly agreed between us in writing and our prior range of different, but acceptable, techniques can result in • nothing has come to our attention that causes us below and included in the Sustainability Report for the consent in writing is obtained. materially different reporting outcomes that may affect to believe that the Selected Information for the year year ended 31 December 2016 (hereinafter – the comparability with other organisations. The reporting criteria ended 31 December 2016 has not been prepared, “Sustainability Report”). Professional standards applied used as a basis of the Company’s sustainability reporting in all material respects, in accordance with the and level of assurance should therefore be read in conjunction with the Selected requirements of GRI G4; and Selected Information We performed a limited assurance engagement in Information and associated statements reported on the We assessed the qualitative and quantitative information accordance with International Standard on Assurance Company’s website1. • nothing has come to our attention that causes us to that is disclosed in the Sustainability Report and included Engagements 3000 (Revised) ‘Assurance Engagements believe that the Selected Information does not meet in the Tables of the Global Reporting Initiative for standard other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial the Core requirements in accordance with GRI G4. Environment disclosures in environmental, workforce, safety and socioInformation’’, issued by the International Auditing and economic areas in the reporting scope of the Sustainability Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance Report (hereinafter – the “Selected Information”). The scope engagement is substantially less in scope than a of our assurance procedures was limited to Selected reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the Information for year ended 31 December 2016. risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in Reporting Criteria response to the assessed risks. We assessed the Selected Information using G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Our Independence and Quality Control Initiative (GRI) (hereinafter – “GRI G4”). We believe that these We have complied with the independence and other reporting criteria are appropriate given the purpose of our ethical requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Employees limited assurance engagement. Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which is founded on fundamental Polymetal International plc responsibilities principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence Management of the Company is responsible for: and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour, • designing, implementing and maintaining internal together with the ethical requirements of the Auditor’s controls over information relevant to the preparation Professional Ethics Code and Auditor’s Independence of the Selected Information that is free from material Rules that are relevant to our assurance procedures over misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; Selected Information in the Russian Federation. • establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 the Selected Information; and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality Communities • measuring and reporting the Selected Information control including documented policies and procedures based on the Reporting Criteria; and regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. • accuracy, completeness and fair presentation of the Selected Information. Work done We are required to plan and perform our work in order to Our responsibilities consider the risk of material misstatement of the Selected We are responsible for: Information. In doing so, we: • planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited • made enquiries of the Company’s management, including assurance about whether the Selected Information is free the Sustainability Reporting (SR) team and those with from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; Economic responsibility for SR management and group SR reporting; • forming an independent conclusion, based on the • conducted interviews of personnel responsible for procedures we have performed and the evidence we sustainability reporting data collection (interviews were have obtained; and held in Saint Petersburg); • reporting our conclusion to the management of • performed analysis of the relevant policies and basic the Company. reporting principles, gaining an understanding and This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared evaluating the design of the key structures, systems, solely for the management of the Company in accordance processes and controls for managing, recording and with the agreement between us, to assist management reporting the Selected Information; in reporting on the Company’s sustainability performance • performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis Appendices and activities. We permit this report to be disclosed in of the Selected Information to check that data had been the Company’s Sustainability Report for the year ended appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; and 31 December 2016, to assist management in responding to their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent • reviewed the Selected Information for compliance of the assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. disclosures with the requirements of GRI G4. 1 The maintenance and integrity of the Company’s website is the responsibility of management; the work carried out by us does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when presented on the Company’s website. 56 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 57 Key sustainability figures Economic Units 2016 2015 energy Units 2016 2015 Overview Revenue US$m 1,583 1,441 Diesel power plant GJ 2,293,803 2,177,000 Cash operating costs (excluding depreciation, labour costs and mining tax) US$m 470 405 Diesel (transport and mobile machinery) GJ 2,001,618 1,875,000 Wages and salaries; other payments and benefits for employees US$m 222 203 Electricity purchased GJ 1,844,458 1,618,000 Payments to capital providers US$m 64 56 Coal GJ 670,278 613,000 Payments to shareholders US$m 179 216 Natural gas GJ 167,126 180,000 Taxes (excluding payroll taxes included in labour costs) Petrol GJ 43,079 41,000 – Income tax and excess profit tax US$m 169 55 Total energy GJ 7,020,362 6,195,602 – Taxes, other than income tax US$m 11 12 – Mining tax US$m 82 97 Water Units 2016 2015 Environment – Social payments US$m 10 8 Ground water thousand m 3 8,284 9,235 Undistributed economic value retained US$m 376 390 Surface water thousand m3 5,779 2,479 External water supply thousand m3 414 Operation Units 2016 2015 Total reused or recycled water thousand m3 12,125 7,670 Stripping Mt 81.8 65.3 Water percent recycled and reused % 84 65 Underground development km 92.2 73.1 Total water discharge thousand m3 11,850 7,486 Ore mined Kt 13,380 12,679 Watercourses thousand m3 8,478 NA Open-pit Kt 9,506 9,626 Collecting ponds thousand m3 3,169 NA Underground Kt 3,874 3,053 Landscape thousand m3 26 NA Employees Ore processed Kt 11,417 10,821 Sewage thousand m3 177 NA Average grade in ore processed (gold equivalent) g/t 4 4.2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water number 0 0 Production Total water withdrawn thousand m 3 14,477 11,713 Gold Koz 890 861 Silver Moz 29.2 32.1 LandS Units 2016 2015 Copper Kt 1.5 0.8 Total managed land area hectares 19,285 14,543 Zinc Kt 2.9 – Land disturbed during year hectares 2,482 1,078 Gold equivalent1 Koz 1,269 1,267 Land reclaimed during year hectares 261 1,516 Sales Total land disturbed and not yet rehabilitated hectares 11,411 8,533 Communities Gold Koz 880 864 Silver Moz 30.7 31.2 Emissions Units 2016 2015 Copper Kt 1.6 1.5 Total Scope 1 & 2 Greenhouse gas emissions t 728,468 672,000 Zinc Kt 2.8 – Scope 1 Greenhouse gas emissions t 268,093 244,000 Gold equivalent2 Koz 1,301 1,278 Scope 2 Greenhouse gas emissions t 460,375 428,000 Sulphur dioxide t 847 614 Principal consumables Units 2016 2015 Oxides of nitrogen t 1,608 1,361 Quicklime t 55,270 21,718 Carbon monoxide t 2,153 2,153 Grinding body t 16,964 15,303 Inorganic dust (solid particles) t 4,565 4,619 Economic Sodium cyanide t 8,814 8,495 Ozone depleting (CFC-11 equivalents) substances emitted t 0 0 Concrete t 6,710 7,479 Perhydrol t 6,597 6,870 Process wastes Units 2016 2015 Flotation reagents t 3,244 1,823 Waste rock t 63,116,390 59,338,000 Soda t 1,124 1,093 Tailings t 10,625,666 10,495,000 Caustic soda t 720 621 Hazardous t 10,610 15,000 Flocculant t 324 513 Non-hazardous t 73,963,349 69,843,000 Zinc powder t 318 359 Percentage of waste reused of total waste generated % 20 19 Total process wastes t 73,973,958 69,878,000 Appendices Notes 1 Based on 1:80 Ag/Au, 5:1 Cu/Au and 2:1 Zn/Au conversion ratios. 2 Based on actual realised prices. Environmental expenditures Units 2016 2015 Total environmental expenditures US$ thousand 14,371 5,100 58 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 59 Key sustainability figures continued Biodiversity Units 2016 2015 Ethics Units 2016 2015 Overview Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species Code of conduct violations number 5 4 with habitats in areas affected by operations number 1 0 Cases of corruption number 4 4 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas number 0 0 Product Responsibility 2016 2015 Social Units 2016 2015 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data US$ thousand 0 0 Total workforce as of 31 December number 11,261 9,238 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Average headcount number 10,862 9,292 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services US$ thousand 0 0 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements number 88 85 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services US$ thousand 0 0 Environment Turnover rate % 5.5 8.3 Shift workers % 53 51 Community Investment 2016 2015 Workforce Diversity Units 2016 2015 Sport US$ thousand 2,000 1,309 Percentage of female employees % 21 22 Healthcare and education US$ thousand 1,563 1,255 Percentage of female managers % 22 23 Culture and art US$ thousand 751 735 Percentage of female qualified personnel % 42 44 Infrastructure of social importance US$ thousand 461 200 Total young personnel (under 30) number 2,566 2,239 IMN support US$ thousand 208 108 Female young personnel (under 30) number 613 NA Environment US$ thousand 40 Charitable donations US$ thousand 68 Employees Male young personnel (under 30) number 1,953 NA Percentage of young personnel (under 30) % 24 25 Number of partnership agreements number 25 21 Disabled personnel number 8 8 Total value of financial contributions to political parties, politicians, and political action committees US$ thousand 0 0 Taken parental leave number 296 NA Total community investment US$ thousand 5,023 3,606 Male employees on parental leave % 1 1 Female employees on parental leave % 99 99 Communication 2016 2015 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave % 100 100 Employees enquiries number 1,269 814 Responded employees enquiries number 1,264 814 Training Units 2016 2015 Communities enquiries number 270 100 Communities Trained personnel number 8,891 8,111 Public meetings and gatherings number 32 26 Percentage of employees trained in-house % 57 54 Site visits by external stakeholders number 15 13 Percentage of employees trained by external services % 43 46 Average number of training hours per employee (per year) number 60 63 Compliance 2016 2015 Significant fines US$ thousand 0 0 Safety Units 2016 2015 Non-monetary sanctions US$ thousand 0 0 Polymetal Cases brought number 0 0 Accidents number 19 16 Fatalities number 4 6 Economic Incidents number 3 0 Occurrences number 46 36 LTIFR rate 0.19 0.22 Contractors Accidents number 12 4 Fatalities number 3 3 Incidents number 0 0 Occurrences number 50 16 LTIFR rate 0.37 0.12 Appendices Health Units 2016 2015 Occupational diseases and health difficulties number 4 0 60 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 61 GRI G4 content index All indicators included in the appendix ‘GRI G4 Content Index’ have undergone external certification by an independent auditor Overview (see the Independent Limited Assurance Report on the previous page). GRI G4 General standard disclosures continued General standard disclosures Scope* Pages/notes GRI G4 General standard disclosures Governance General standard disclosures Scope Pages/notes G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organisation 1 p. 12–14 Strategy and Analysis G4-35 Process for delegating authority 1 p. 10–14 G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1 p. 2–3 G4-36 Executive-level positions 1 p. 12, 16–17, 20, 22, 30, 32, 38, 40, 44, 46, 52, 54 G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 1 p. 14, 19 G4-37 Consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body 1 p. 10–11 Organisation Profile Environment G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body 1 p. 13 G4-3 Report the name of the organisation 1 Cover G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 1 p. 13 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services 1 p. 4, 8–9 G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and 1 Annual Report 2016 G4-5 Report the location of the organisation’s headquarters 1 p. 6–7 its committees http://www. polymetalinternational.com/ G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of 1 p. 6–7 investors-and-media/annualcountries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically reports.aspx?sc_lang=en; relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Website www.polymetal.ru/ G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form 1 Annual Report, p. 180 about-us/corporate-governance. aspx?sc_lang=ru-RU G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, 1 p. 6–7, 16–17 and types of customers and beneficiaries) G4-42 Highest governance body’s role in setting purpose, values, and strategy 1 p. 13–14 G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of risks 1 p. 13–14 Employees G4-9 Report the scale of the organisation 3 p. 4–7 G4-10 Report the total number of employees by employment contract and gender 3 p. 33–34 G4-49 Highest governance body’s role in evaluating economic, environmental and 1 p. 13–14 social performance G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2 p. 36 G4-51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives 1 Annual Report 2016 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain 1 p. 8, 17, 55 G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s 1 p. 2–3, 6–7, 19 Ethics and Integrity size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-56 Organisation's values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 1 p. 4, 10–11, 15 G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 1 www.polymetalinternational.com G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical 1 p. 47 by the organisation or unlawful behaviour G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, 1 p. 11 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses G4-16 List membership of associations (such as industry associations) and national 1 p. 11 GRI G4 specific standard disclosures Communities or international advocacy organisations Identified material aspects and boundaries Category GRI G4 Code Topic Scope* Pages/notes G4-17 List all entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements 1 p. 65 Economic or equivalent documents Annual Report 2016, p.131 Economic performance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 54 G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 1 Inside front cover, 10–11, 18 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1 p. 54–55 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 1 p. 18 Market presence G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 34, 47–48, 54–55 G4-20 Report the material Aspect Boundary within the organisation 1 p. 18, 65 G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage to local minimum wage 3 p. 34 G4-21 Report the material Aspect Boundary outside the organisation 1 p. 18, 42, 65 at significant locations of operation G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports 1 In the footnotes on p. 26 G4-EC6 Employees hired from the local community at significant 3 p. 6–7 Economic and the reasons for such restatements and the GRI table locations of operation G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope 1 p. 18 Indirect economic impacts G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 47–48, 54–55 and Aspect Boundaries G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments 1 p. 48 Stakeholder engagement Procurement practices G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 23, 55 G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation 1 p. 16–17, 20, 23, 30, 32, 38, 44, 52 G4-EC9 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on local suppliers 2 p. 55 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 1 p. 16–17, 20, 23, 30, 32, 38, 44, 52 at significant locations of operation G4-26 Report the organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement 1 p. 16–17, 22–23, 30, 32–33, 40, Environment 46–47, 52–55 Materials G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2, 4 p. 24 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 1 p. 10, 18 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 4 p. 57 Report Profile Appendices G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 2 p. 25 G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 1 Inside front cover Energy G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 26 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 1 March 2016 G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation 41 p. 26 G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial etc.) 1 Annual reporting cycle G4-EN5 Energy intensity 41 p. 26 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 Inside front cover G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 22 p. 26 G4-32 GRI content index 1 p. 61–64 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 2 p. 26 G4-33 External assurance 1 p. 56 1 The data for 2015 excludes Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP. * See Reportable segments on page 66. 2 The data for 2015 and 2016 excludes Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP. * See Reportable segments on page 66. 62 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 63 GRI G4 content index continued Overview GRI G4 specific standard disclosures continued GRI G4 specific standard disclosures continued Category GRI G4 Code Topic Scope* Pages/notes Category GRI G4 Code Topic Scope* Pages/notes Water G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1, 2 p. 24 Training and education G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 5 p. 35 G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 2 p. 24 G4-LA9 Average hours of training by subject 5 p. 35, 42 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 1 p. 58 G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance 6 p. 35 and career development reviews G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 2 p. 24 Diversity and equal G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1, 3 p. 33 Biodiversity G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1, 2 p. 28 opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown 1, 3 p. 34, 59 G4-EN11 Operations in protected areas or areas of high biodiversity 1 p. 28 of employees Environment G4-EN12 Significant impacts on biodiversity 1 p. 28 Labour practices G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 5 p. 47 grievance mechanisms G4-MM1 Amount of land disturbed or rehabilitated 2 p. 29 G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, 5 p. 36 and resolved Emissions G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 27 G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 21 p. 26–27 Human rights and policies G4-EN16 Indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 21 p. 26–27 Non-discrimination G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 33 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2 1 p. 27 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective 1 p. 33 actions taken G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 42 p. 26 Freedom of association G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 36 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 2 p. 58 and collective bargaining G4-HR4 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 1 p. 36 Effluents and waste G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1, 2 p. 24 Employees Indigenous rights G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 46 G4-EN22 Total water discharge 2 p. 24 G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of 1 p. 46 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 2 p. 25 indigenous peoples G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 1 p. 25 G4-MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to 1 p. 47 indigenous peoples’ territories and formal agreements made G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste 2 p. 25 deemed hazardous Society G4-MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges 2 p. 25 Local communities G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 46–47 Environmental G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 22–23 G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community 1 p. 6–7, 48–49 compliance engagement, impact assessments, and development G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 1 p. 60 of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance programmes G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative 1 None Communities Overall G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 2 p. 22–23 impacts on local communities G4-EN31 Environmental protection expenditures and investments 2 p. 23, 59 Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 33 Supplier environmental G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 23 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies 1 p. 33 assessment and procedures G4-EN32 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 1 p. 23, 55 Environmental grievance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 47 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 1 p. 33 mechanisms Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 46 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts 1 p. 60 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number 1 p. 60 Social of non-monetary sanctions Labour Practices and Decent Work Grievance mechanisms G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 47 for impacts on society G4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, 1 p. 49 Economic Employment G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 3 p. 32–33 addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover 3 p. 34 Resettlement G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 49 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, 3 p. 34 G4-MM9 Sites where resettlement took place, the number of households 1 p. 49 by gender resettled in each, and how their livelihoods were affected in Labour/management G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 36 the process relations Closure planning G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 29 G4-MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding 1 p. 36 one week’s duration G4-MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans 1 p. 29 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 1 p. 36 Product Responsibility Occupational health G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 40–41 and safety Compliance G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 1 p. 60 G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and number 1 p. 42 Appendices of work-related fatalities G4-PR9 Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 1 p. 60 the provision and use of products and services 1 The data for 2015 excludes Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP and Svetloye LLC. * See Reportable segments on page 66. 2 The data 2015 and 2016 is presented for eight mature operating mines (not including Svetloye LLC, Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP, Orion Minerals LLC and Kapan Mining and Processing Company CJSC). * See Reportable segments on page 66. 64 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 65 Other information Reportable segments Reportable segment Company name Scopes 1 2 3 4 5 6 Polymetal Group Voro CJSC Gold of Northern Urals Okhotsk Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company LLC Okhotsk Svetloye LLC Dukat CJSC Magadan Silver Omolon Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC Varvara JSC Varvarinskoye Varvara Orion Minerals LLC (Komar) Amursk/Albazino Albazino Resources Ltd Amursk/Albazino Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC Mayskoye Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC Kyzyl Bakyrchik Mining Venture LLP Kapan Kapan Mining and Processing Company CJSC Omolon Polymetal Underground Development LLC Polymetal offices Polymetal Management JSC Polymetal offices Polymetal Engineering JSC Polymetal offices Polymetal Trading Ltd Following the acquisitions of Kapan (28 April 2016) and Komar (August 1, 2016) data for these assets is presented for 8 and 5 months respectively. Abbreviations Units of measurement CIS Commonwealth of Independent States g/t gram per tonne eq equivalent GJ gigajoules (one billion joules) GE gold equivalent TJ terajoules (one trillion joules) IMN Indigenous Minorities of the North km kilometres NGO non-governmental organisation Koz thousand ounces PGM platinum group metal Kt thousand tonnes POX pressure oxidation Ktpa thousand tonnes per annum m metres Moz million ounces Mt million tonnes Mtpa million tonnes per annum MWh megawatt-hour Oz or oz troy ounce (31.1035 g) t tonne (1,000 kg) tpd tonnes per day This report is printed on paper which is FSC certified (the standards for well-managed forests, considering environment, social and economic issues). Designed and produced by Instinctif Partners www.instinctif.com 66 Polymetal International plc Sustainability Report 2016 Polymetal International plc The Esplanade St Helier Jersey JE4 9WG Channel Islands Registered No. 106196 www.polymetalinternational.com
