Whatever the situation, whoever the opponent, today, success in business is almost impossible without collaboration. You need to work with someone who knows and understands you, someone who listens to what you really need and with you, defines realistic objectives and the ways to reach them. Someone who will share with your knowledge, practices, risks, and results. Discover the collaborative business Experience, discover INDEX, a partner you can count on day after day, a partner who is committed to helping you achieve faster, better and more sustainable results, and puts it on paper. Human Rights Human rights are relevant to the economic, social, and environmental aspects of corporate activity. Human rights such as the right to non-discrimination are relevant to the social aspect and the environmental aspects of corporate activity. Corporations impact on human rights have increased over recent decades. The human rights capacity development project of Index Power & Energy Ltd is a support towards building the institutional strength of the government and allied commissions, and establishing it as an effective, efficient and credible policy capable of fulfilling its entire mandate. Measures Taken:  Human rights research and support in policy development.  We ensure personal safety of our employees at workplace, provides them with every basic need they deserve and our company policy  Give support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  Implemented in partnership with the NHRC and achieving institutional development  Monitoring implementation of state obligations to respect protection and the fulfillment of the rights of every citizen of society Outcomes:  The right to liberty and security of an individual person  The right to an adequate standard of living, the right to education, the right to health, and other economic, social, and cultural rights  The right to freedom of thought, conscience, and religion Healthcare An obligation to do well is the calling of a good heart that beats for humanity. Healthcare programs and charities of Index Power & Energy Ltd is the umbrella under which most of the societal ‘Not For Profit’ initiatives are carried out through different activities and initiatives. In recent years, Index Power & Energy Ltd as an organization involved in the activities of human healthcare and witnessed the difficulties faced by the less privileged to even access basic healthcare due to lack of resources in many places of the country. Measures Taken:  Campaign through different emerging adolescent, child, and maternity healthcare awareness workshops by collaborating with government organization in Bangladesh and International NGOs.  Index Power & Energy Ltd has pledged a substantial part of its wealth to utilize it for improving the healthcare delivery of the poor in the distant part of the country.  We targeted the most remote and ultra-poor rural part of the country by addressing the contamination of serious diseases like Arsenic, HIV/STD, Diarrhea, etc. and help preventing them.  Establishing Early Disease Detection Centers (ECDCs) and Cancer Care Programs, free for public for a healthier society.  Creating assistance services for the handicapped  Supporting programs of social well-being and solidarity. Outcomes:  Our Campaigns contributes in decreasing the national mortality rates specially the death rate of mothers in the time of giving birth. Besides, our contribution helps in raising the awareness of diseases among adolescent and children.  The rate of death and illness is decreased in the distant part because of the healthcare delivery in those places.  Because of ECDCs, the local doctors take preventive measures against the viral diseases in those areas.  Assistance to handicapped leads to the self-employment. Addressing Issues of Poverty Reduction Poverty entails more than the lack of income and productive resources to ensure sustainable livelihoods. Index Power & Energy Ltd. identifies poverty eradication as an ethical, social, political, and economic imperative of mankind and called on governments to address the root causes of poverty, provide for basic needs for all and ensure that the poor have access to productive resources, including credit, education and training. It is strongly believed by us that, a social perspective on development requires addressing poverty in all its dimensions. Measures Taken:  We organize campaign to eradicate illiteracy and save farming land and greenery.  We help the government organizations and NGOs who works for helping poor people to get their basic needs.  We organize public campaigns to address the issue of poverty and speed up the implementation of Sustainable Development Goal. Outcomes:  By contributing in the eradication of illiteracy, we ensure skilled citizens.  We provide basic needs to the poor & deprived and help them increasing their living standard.  Our campaigns increase the awareness of poverty among people living around our industrial zone. Addressing Emerging Environmental Issues Bangladesh is experiencing serious environmental degradation. In many respects, the situation has reached crisis proportions. There are examples showing that the goals of environmental protection and economic growth can be complementary. Index Power & Energy Ltd has identified that, there are several factors that make Bangladesh particularly vulnerable to environmental degradation. The fragile ecology, delicate flora and fauna, wetness of land, high density of population, reliance on foreign capital for industrialization, poverty of the masses are few such factors. Measures Taken:  We start various projects to reduce carbon foot prints for the well-being of the society as well as the nation.  We organize campaign for sanitation and clean drinking water.  We celebrate World Environment Day with the youth of our country. The slogan of our campaign was “Reduce Pollution As You Can” last year.  We start eco-tourism campaign & blue flag program all over the country.  We start pollution prevention campaign in the rural areas of our country.  We start tree plantation program in our country in the Tree Plantation Week this year. Outcomes:  Our carbon footprint projects ensure that our environment becomes healthier and greener.  By increasing awareness for sanitation and clean drinking water, we ensure sound health for the citizens of Bangladesh  By pollution prevention program we make people aware about the raising alarm of climate change. Social Integration All the members of Index Power & Energy Ltd participate in dialogue to achieve and maintain peaceful social relation as a dynamic process of social integration. According to our view, social integration focused on the need to move forward to a safe, stable and justified society by mending the conditions of social integration such as social fragmentation, exclusion and polarization. Measures Taken:  We arrange social meetings in various places like school, college, and various religious places such as mosques, temples, pagodas etc.  We arrange debate competitions among the students of school and college level.  We arrange cultural events in various places in our country.  We arrange sports events in the national level. Outcomes:  Our social meetings in religious places helps people knowing each other and the bond between them getting stronger as they help each other overcome their problems.  Because of the debate competitions, we know about the problems around us and take measures to solve those problems.  As we arrange cultural and sports events it helps to introduce our culture and our potential in the sports events in the world. Investing in Education and Training for growth and employment Providing quality education to all students is vital to Bangladesh’s future. Index Power & Energy Ltd. helps by taking a strategic approach to corporate social responsibility (CSR). The quality of education has a direct impact on companies specially in finding adequately skilled employees. Through CSR, businesses can contribute to reversing this trend and building an education system that equips every student to be a responsible and productive citizen. The Index Power & Energy Ltd always played the crucial role to improve education and training systems across the country gradually. Over the last couple of financial periods, this fund of Index Power & Energy Ltd has enabled key actions to support the Education & Training Work Program and Strategic Framework in line with the emphasis on human capital recommended by the company’s CSR Strategy. The Index Power & Energy Ltd has been a major funder of lifelong learning in its last two programming periods; that is focusing on young people, low skilled and older workers who has been employed after having benefited from the Fund. Measures Taken:  Index Power & Energy Ltd. helps to Improve access of quality education for students nationwide  Invest in the financial literacy training program within the workplaces  Mentoring at-risk inner-city youth for building the workforce of the future.  Providing various opportunities for students and value for businesses.  Expanding educational opportunities for low-income students  Collaborating with leadership programs to identify influential learners and grow their leadership skills. Outcomes:  Educated individuals are highly profitable for the country as they contribute to support welfare policies  Contribute to building an education system that equips every student to be a responsible and productive citizen  Pursue a healthy lifestyle and have an appreciation for prosperous life.  High education attainment leads to more employment for the country. Voluntary Social Investment Index Power & Energy Ltd. voluntarily contributes to the development and well-being of the communities living close to the areas in which we operate. We strive to ensure that we satisfy the needs expressed by the community through our social investment projects. Index Power & Energy Ltd. presents itself as a reasonable source of capital for social enterprises, complementing government initiatives. We seek to meet the expectations identified in the communities through this commitment, always with a focus on long-term benefits for the communities so that they can acquire their own self-development tools. We are one of the front liners to participate in the national socio-economic development growth which is an untold story . We took part shoulder to shoulder of millions of rural people in their smiles & cries. Measures Taken: Voluntary social investment initiatives that represent a return for the company in the form of our presence being accepted in the community, access to professional training in the community that can be use in hiring employees:  Contribution of monetary investment that we spent on social investment projects  We are the reasonable source of capital for charities and social enterprises, complementing government initiatives  Undertake at least 10 social investment project annually. Outcomes: These are the contributions the company makes to the communities for any impact caused by its activities, and are identified by means of environmental, social or health impact assessments. Such contributions can either take the form of cash donations or the implementation of social programs, remediation projects, etc.  These projects are intended to raise awareness regarding the care and protection of the environment and promote care for biodiversity.  Supports the development of projects relating to the dissemination of culture  Contribute to improving the healthcare conditions and quality of life of the local communities Anti-Corruption Activities The elimination of corruption is a very deliberate goal. It is therefore declared in the government’s statement of policy. Index Power & Energy Ltd. are always ready for legislative & executive steps against corruption because we believe fight against corruption cannot be fought through empty sound bites. Our activities:  We promote anti-corruption policy in our corporate culture  We conduct corruption risk assessment every year  We implement specific anti-corruption policies inside and outside the organization  We conduct anti-corruption compliance training in every 3 months. Cooperative Services Index Power & Energy Ltd recognized the importance of cooperatives in the peoplecentered approach to development. The concept assumes in utilization and development of the potential and contribution of cooperatives for the attainment of social development goals, in particular the eradication of poverty, the generation of full and productive employment, and the enhancement of social integration. Measures Taken:  Introduces cooperative services to reduce poverty and increase economic and social progress  Generate Employment with the help of cooperatives  Continuously bringing together socially integrate people of the country at one place with the aim of achieving goals on human rights.  Arranging national fairs and seminars with the help of governmental organizations. Outcomes:  Cooperatives, as self-help organizations, contribute to the eradication of poverty through the economic and social progress by stimulating the economies and enhancing the social fabric of the communities in which they operate.  Cooperative services help to create, improve and protect the income and employment opportunities by creating business enterprises that enable them to participate in production, profit-sharing, cost-saving or risk-taking activities.  Cooperatives promote social integration and cohesion in the face of inequalities in social capabilities by empowering and giving voice to the poor as well as marginalized groups and by promoting the organization of state government and alliances. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) Index Power & Energy Ltd. meet the expectations identified in the communities, based on criteria such as combating poverty and exclusion, fighting disease, helping the most vulnerable groups, and promoting education, culture and sport. The main function of an enterprise is to create value through producing goods and services that society demands, thereby generating profit for its owners and shareholders as well as welfare for society, particularly through an ongoing process of job creation. Undertakes initiatives and projects centered around Social Energy which stand as a bridging point between citizens' needs and the social investment principles of the company. Beyond that, Index Power & Energy Ltd has intake a process in place to integrate social, environmental, ethical human rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and core strategy in close cooperation with their stakeholders. The aim to the view is:  To support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights  To identify, prevent and mitigate possible adverse impacts which Index Power & Energy Ltd. may have on society afterwards. By making these contributions we are able to work towards achieving universal education, eradicating poverty and lowering infant mortality rates in those areas where Index Power & Energy Ltd. operates  Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility  Explicit recognition of Human rights and ethical considerations in addition to social, environmental and consumer considerations.  To maximize the creation of shared value, which means to create returns on investment for the company's shareholders at the same time as ensuring benefits for the company's other stakeholders; Sports We are proud sponsor of countries famous Clubs to encourage the youth.  Bangladesh National Women Cricket Team  Mohammedan Hockey Team.  Mohammedan Women Cricket Team.  Mohammedan Chess Team.  National Kabadi Federation.  Dhaka Mariners Club.
