Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: April 27, 2017 To: April 27, 2018 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Thursday, April 27, 2017 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that aamra technologies limited (ATL) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sharful Alam Chief Operating Officer Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Our Businesses support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: We make sure that our business is not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals : • Our people are our most important asset. We expect all employees to accord their colleagues respect and to observe the highest standards of collegiality. In keeping with those values, the Company has long been committed to maintaining a work environment that is free of discrimination, including harassment, on the basis of any legally protected status. The Company will not tolerate any form of unlawful harassment against any employee by anyone, including other employees, vendors or clients. All employees, officers, and directors must avoid any behavior or conduct that could reasonably be interpreted as unlawful harassment. All employees, officers and directors are also expected to make it known promptly, through the avenues identified, whenever they experience or witness offensive behavior. • We respect all cultures, traditions and customs of employees working at ATL • The path of result attainment is important to us hence; we practice our business using the highest standards of conduct. • The Company expects compliance with its standard of integrity throughout the organization and will not tolerate employees who achieve results at the cost of violation of law or the Codes of conduct. • ATL and its employees are bound by the law. Compliance with all applicable laws and regulations must never be compromised. Additionally, employees shall adhere to internal rules and regulations as they apply in a given situation. • We require our partners to have practice principles that adhere to Human Rights policies. Implementation: • Grievance mechanism • Awareness raising or training of employees on Human Rights • Consultation with stakeholders and affected parties • Our HR team is always available and open to discussion with employees regarding Human Rights issues and our employees are encouraged to discuss any relevant issues with the HR department or senior management. Measurement of outcomes • Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to Human Rights are conducted if reported • Periodic review of results by senior management  Violation of Human Rights policies will result in disciplinary actions, including termination of employment. Labour Principles Principle 3: Our business upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: We do not have and strongly discourage forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: We do not have any form of child labour in our organization and we discourage it strongly. Principle 6: We eliminate the discrimination of employees in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals • Our policy prohibits all unwelcome conduct, whether verbal, physical or visual, that is based upon a person's protected status under law, such as sex. race, ancestry, religion, caste, national origin, age, disability, medical condition, marital status, veteran status, citizenship status, sexual orientation or other protected group status, or upon the protected status of the person's relatives, friends or associates. It includes epithets, slurs, negative stereotyping or intimidating acts that are based on a person's protected status and written or graphic material circulated or posted within the Company that shows hostility toward a person because of his or her status. It also includes written or graphic materials exhibited in workspaces. • We do not practice the use of child labour in our organization and we strongly discourage it. • No employee can be discriminated for their protected status. • It is ATL’s practice to provide Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) as per the laws and regulations of the country. • ATL administers its personnel policies, programs, and practices in a nondiscriminatory manner in all aspects of the employment relationship, including recruitment, hiring, work assignment, promotion, transfer, termination, wage and salary administration, and selection for training. • Managers and supervisors are responsible for implementing and administering this policy, for maintaining a work environment free from unlawful discrimination, and for promptly identifying and resolving any problem area regarding EEO. Implementation • Suggestion box, call center or grievance mechanisms. • Awareness programs conducted raising or training employees on labor rights and policies. • Health and safety of all employees is ensured through provision of safety gears, safety instructions, trainings on job etc. In addition to providing EEO, it is also the ATL’s practice to undertake special efforts to:  Develop and support educational programs and recruiting sources and practices.  Establish company training and developmental efforts, practices, and programs that support diversity in the work force.  Foster a work environment free from sexual, racial, or other harassment(s).  Emphasize management responsibility in these matters at every level of the organization. Measurement of outcomes  Individuals who believe they have observed or been subjected to prohibited discrimination should immediately report the incident to their supervisors, higher management, or the Human Resources Department.  Individuals will not be subjected to harassment, intimidation, discrimination, or retaliation for exercising any of the rights protected by this policy and the various  EEO policies.  Violation of anti-corruption policy may result in disciplinary actions, including termination of employment. Environmental Principles: Principle 7: Our business supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals:  We have written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks  We have policies requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the environmental principles Implementation: MINIMUM USAGE OF ELECTRICITY:  Use energy savings lights  While leaving the cabin / board-room switch off all the lights, ACs, and power connections  The main switch should be off after 08.00PM  During day time use minimum electric light MINIUM USAGE OF PAPERS:  Try to avoid hard-copy paper print  Send e-invoice to clients rather than hard copy  Correspond through e-mail rather than hard-copy letter  Reduced paper billing, consumption of printing and photocopying, introduced e-collaterals instead of printed proposals & agreements and use e-greetings and e-thank you cards KEEPING OFFICE PREMISES CLEAN  In order to keep the office neat & clean please use waste paper basket The desks and floors are cleaned by the cleaner every morning before starting the office hour ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY SOLUTIONS  Our office has been 60% paperless office since the past year. We have taken specific care in choosing the environment friendly technologies like automation of all day to day operations, selling Eco friendly products (ETP) etc. The machineries and the process we use for the production are all environmental friendly Measurement of outcomes: • Periodic review of results by senior management • External audits of environmental performance Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Our business works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals  Assessment of risk of corruption and bribery in ATL’s industry of operation  We have written company policy of zero‐tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion  We have protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery Implementation:  BRIBERY, KICKBACKS AND REBATES: Bribery in any form, commercial or political, is forbidden in all Company business dealings. No Company funds may be used, either directly or indirectly, for any bribe, kickback or other unlawful payment anywhere in the world or under any circumstances.  PAYMENTS TO DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN OFFICIALS: Employees, officers and directors must comply with all laws prohibiting improper payments to domestic and foreign officials. The organization prohibits an offer, payment, promise of payment or authorization of the payment of any money or gift to a foreign official, foreign political party, official of a foreign political party or candidate for political office to influence any act or decision of such person or party to obtain or retain business. The organization also prohibits a payment to any person with the intention that all or a portion of that payment will be offered or given, directly or indirectly, to any such political person for any such purpose.  GIFTS AND ENTERTAINMENT: Business gifts and entertainment are customary courtesies designed to build goodwill among business partners. These courtesies include such things as meals and beverages, tickets to sporting or cultural events, discounts not available to the general public, travel, accommodation and other merchandise or services No employee, officer or director should take unfair advantage of anyone through illegal conduct, manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts or any other unfair-dealing practice. Measurement of outcomes:  Internal audits to ensure consistency with anti‐corruption commitment, including periodic review by senior management  Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery take place regularly.  External audits of anti‐corruption programmes.  Strict rules apply when the Company does business with governmental agencies and officials, whether in Bangladesh or in other countries. Because of the sensitive nature of these relationships, employees must talk with their supervisor and before offering or making any gifts or hospitality to governmental employees.  Violation of anti-corruption policy may result in disciplinary actions, including termination of employment.
