Progress Report 2016 www.gi-de.com 2 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2016 Statement of Continued Support About Giesecke+Devrient Statement of Continued Support We have participated in the UN Global ComWe are continuing to work towards our goal pact since 2010 and are fully committed to its of increasing the proportion of women principles on human rights, labor standards, in management positions. Our efforts also environmental protection, and fighting include strategic succession planning corruption. Doing business in a responsible measures, HR policy tailored to different life and sustainable way remains central to our stages, and upskilling our employees to corporate philosophy. In our new corporate equip them for the challenges of a digitized structure, we continue to pursue our sustainworkplace. We have implemented a certiability activities across the Group. At the fied environmental and occupational health same time, the subgroup parent companies and safety management system at all our can set their own priorities, enabling them major production sites. The three Currency to respond in the best way possible to specific Technology production facilities have also customer requirements. introduced an energy management system and are ISO 50001 certified. Our business We are publishing our progress report in partners are carefully selected and audited conjunction with the G+D annual report. to ensure sustainability in the supply chain. This reflects our belief that day-to-day business operations and responsible governIn publishing our sixth progress report, ance are inextricably linked. This progress we are also renewing our commitment report summarizes our activities and to the UN Global Compact for another year. achievements in the areas covered by the UN Global Compact during the 2016 fiscal year. Ralf Wintergerst Chairman of the Management Board 3 About Giesecke+Devrient Founded in 1852, Giesecke+Devrient (G+D) is a family-owned company with global operations that is headquartered in Munich. The technology group operates in 32 countries through 72 subsidiaries, joint ventures, and associated companies. At the end of 2016, G+D had approximately 11,300 employees. The company generated total sales of 2.1 billion euros in the 2016 fiscal year. G+D is a global leader in banknote and In order to further extend G+D’s success with security solutions for an efficient and secure product sales in rapidly growing markets cash cycle (Giesecke+Devrient Currency and to respond promptly to changing market Technology). G+D also supplies banks, network conditions, the operational units will be operators, public transportation providers, given greater independence and autonomy and increasingly also other companies with starting in mid-2017. To achieve this, the end-to-end solutions comprising hardware, G+D Group is being divided into four legally software, and services for mobile security applidistinct operating companies: Currency cations (Giesecke+Devrient Mobile Security). Technology, Mobile Security, Veridos, and Veridos GmbH, a joint venture between G+D secunet. and Bundesdruckerei, Berlin, supplies highly secure travel documents, ID systems, and As an innovative, customer-focused tech­ healthcare cards. Via secunet AG, G+D also nology company, G+D is heavily reliant offers its customers IT security solutions and on research and development to safeguard high-security IT systems. its success. R&D spending totaled over 140 million euros in 2016. G+D holds some 7,600 patents and patent applications worldwide. 4 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2016 Our Responsibility Our Responsibility Giesecke+Devrient (G+D) has been participating in the UN Global Compact, the world’s biggest and most important initiative for responsible corporate governance, since 2010. G+D is fully committed to its principles on human rights, labor standards, environmental protection, and fighting corruption. We take responsibility for the social impact of our business activities and are mindful of the requirements around achieving sustainable operations across our supply chain. Our sixth progress report documents the measures we put in place to ensure responsible corporate governance during the 2016 fiscal year. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact set their own priorities, enabling them to www.unglobalcompact.org and our commitrespond in the best way possible to specific ment to responsible corporate governance customer requirements. In addition, we are together provide the framework for our planning a review of our materiality matrix corporate social responsibility (CSR) strategy. for the holding company and the subgroups We focus on three key action areas here: a in 2017. future-oriented HR policy, resource-efficient and safe site operation, and fair and safe We demonstrate our sustainability standbusiness practices. In our new corporate struc­ards not only in our annual progress ture, we continue to pursue our sustainreport, but also through our participation ability activities across the Group. At the same in the EcoVadis global online initiative. 73 time, the subgroup parent companies can www.ecovadis.org EcoVadis operates the world’s biggest platform specializing in supplier CSR ratings for global supply chains. We subject ourselves to an extensive sustainability assessment of our corporate governance activities as part of this initiative. In November 2016, we again received a Gold Standard rating after the annual evaluation, scoring 73 out of 100 points. G+D thus belongs to the top tier of businesses assessed by EcoVadis. Indicators collected across the Group provide the foundation for the documentation submitted. These indicators help us manage out of 100 points our sustainability activities, monitor targets, EcoVadis Gold Standard and identify areas where there is room for for Giesecke+Devrient improvement. 5 Responsibility To Employees Being a leader in all our markets is central to our strategic agenda. Innovation and quality assurance are thus among our most important endeavors. Today and in the future, we need qualified and motivated employees around the globe. Our declared aim is therefore clear: G+D provides an environment that motivates its employees to achieve their best and enables them to grow professionally and personally within the organization. G+D also promotes diversity and believes fessional development. We reach out to the A new round of the global Top Talent proit is beneficial and enriching to the company. skilled employees of tomorrow at an early gram was launched in 2016, with eight emThe same applies to the health of our emstage, via recruitment fairs, for example, or ployees from six countries being selected; ployees. Specifically, this means developing through Germany’s nationwide “Girls’ Day,” it finishes in April 2017. G+D also remains comexisting employees and at the same time www.girls-day.de which seeks to interest girls mitted to targeted promotion of suitable attracting well-qualified young talent and in technology-based career options. “Girls’ candidates in 2017. management staff. We seek to achieve Day” is the biggest career guidance project this through strategic succession planning for female high school students worldwide. measures, HR policy tailored to different We attract new talent and job market enDevelopment for Different life stages, and new, modern ways of worktrants via professional training opportunities, Life Stages ing in response to increasing digitization of dual and master’s study programs – predomthe workplace that simultaneously recognize inantly in technical subjects – an 18-month In view of the challenges arising from demothe needs of our employees. international trainee program, and direct graphic change, we have a particular responentry into the workforce. sibility to support our people in maintaining their health, motivation, and performance Ongoing Qualification Our global talent management program levels. Our response here takes the form of and Training identifies and develops employees who staff development tailored to different life demonstrate the potential to take on bigger stages, which enables an individual and approOur employees have access to a wide-ranging projects and greater management respon­ priate work / life balance. This includes training program and can pursue their career sibility. In addition to the centrally managed occupational health measures, management through individual development plans, which Top Talent program, there are also dedicated awareness training, the intergenerational cover specialist skills, project leadership, and talent pools for the EMEA (Europe, the transfer of expertise, and reintegration supmanagement positions. At the management Middle East, and Africa), Asia-Pacific, and port after extended periods of sick leave. level, we focus on strategic succession planNorth / South America regions. The benefits In 2016, specialist staff received dedicated ning by way of appropriate HR instruments. of this system include the ability to train training to help professionalize the necessary In addition, we aim to upskill our employees our own talented young employees and take transfer of expertise to a new generation of so they are even better equipped for the account of cultural factors in career planning, employees. In addition, we carried out a pilot challenges of a digitized workplace. This inespecially in the international markets that project at the Munich site on psychological volves targeted training and ongoing proare becoming increasingly important for G+D. risks in the workplace. The aim is to identify 6 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2016 Our Responsibility Women in Management Roles Equal opportunities for women and having a higher proportion of women in manageFemale Staff ment and key positions are important goals Worldwide for G+D as we seek to achieve greater diversity throughout the company. By mid-2017, we want 10 percent of managers in the top 6.5 tier below the Management Board at G+D Germany to be women. Our target for the second management tier is 20 percent. This also reflects the requirement under German law to define a female quota for managepercent ment roles. A third of our Supervisory Board 16.7 women in executive is already made up of women. We aim to inmanagement, top tier below crease the proportion of women at the execuManagement Board tive and global management level to 15 percent worldwide. percent We will seek to achieve these objectives by women in the global filling vacant posts with suitable female canmanagement team, didates and providing targeted professio­nal second management tier support for women within the organization. We take all aspects of management ability into consideration when selecting candidates and while recruiting staff in general. Half of our global Top Talent program in 2016 was comprised of women. The participants 2016 in our current trainee program are exclusively women. G+D shares insights with other companies on the genderdax platform www.genderdax.de, an initiative supported by the German government. This platform focuses on gender and diversity issues, which are addressed in detail at conferences and workshops. Participants in the initiative are drawn from both industry and academia. A good work / life balance and a familyfriendly corporate culture and management style are also key drivers of employee health and assess work-related psychological stress, staff. Leveraging the diversity of our people and satisfaction. We provide a range of with measures then being developed in diaand actively countering discrimination are options, from mobile working and telecomlog with staff and management to improve essential to our long-term success in exmuting to in-house childcare facilities and conditions. The 2016 “berufundfamilie” tremely fast-moving markets. G+D therefore assistance for employees with relatives needwww.beruf-und-familie.de re-audit (carried regards a diverse workforce as a significant ing care. We also offer flexible working time out at the highest audit level) confirmed competitive advantage. As a signatory to the models and job sharing. Almost 10 percent that an HR policy geared towards different German government’s Diversity Charter of the jobs at G+D in Germany are now partlife stages is embedded in the corporate www.charta-der-vielfalt.de, which is designed time positions. structure at G+D. “berufundfamilie” is a to promote respect and combat prejudice, strategic management instrument used by we embrace these principles in training sesbusinesses and institutions to align their sions, workshops, and in the workplace. Responsible Management HR policy with family needs and life stages. Our three-pronged diversity management In times of major change, our managers face concept goes even further, aiming to create complex challenges every day. We support Diversity as a Competitive Advantage conditions in which our employees can perthem in developing their leadership potenform to the very best of their ability regardless tial, thereby enabling them to give employees Alongside offering good career development of gender, age, or cultural origin. Diversity appropriate guidance and set an example. and progression opportunities, we aim to was also applied as a basic criterion during Our leadership initiative has established recognize and promote the diversity of our the selection of trainees and top talents. a Group-wide management philosophy that 7 promotes a sense of identity, while leveragResponsibility future, every company will thus be respon­ ing employees’ specific strengths, and a sible for practical implementation of its own value-based leadership culture. Building on To the activities and objectives. the first training session, a series of workshops entitled “Leading the Way to Success” Environment We will switch to the revised ISO 14001:2015 and associated feedback workshops were standard as part of the recertification audit launched in 2016. In addition, training was in 2018. offered around boosting management skills Responsible use of resources and protection in change processes. of our climate and environment are core Our aim is to ensure that standards are met elements of G+D’s CSR policy. Our long-term across the Group while also taking account of aims are to ensure that our entire supply the specific requirements of the subgroup Meeting Standards chain is sustainable and to continue reducing companies and identifying more ways of miniour ecological footprint. All our major promizing the environmental impact of our As a global company, we have also made duction sites have an ISO 14001 environmental operations. We measure our activities against a commitment to uphold fundamental labor management system in place. The three centrally defined sustainability indicators, standards based on the principles of the Currency Technology production facilities in which we capture at the 22 largest production International Labor Organization (ILO). These Louisenthal, Königstein, and Leipzig have sites. These indicators are based on the are: freedom of association, non-use of also introduced an energy management sysinternationally recognized Global Reporting forced or child labor, equal opportunities for tem and are ISO 50001 certified. As part of Initiative (GRI) www.globalreporting.org all employees, and a safe working environthe company’s new structure, we are moving and will be gradually expanded. Via a particiment. All major production locations have from the previous certifications at the Group patory process, the GRI develops guidelines been certified according to the international level and working to develop independent for the creation of sustainability reports by OHSAS 18001 health and safety standard management systems for the subgroup commajor corporations, SMEs, governments, since mid-2015. panies and the holding company. In the and NGOs. Transparent Greenhouse Gas Reporting Our climate protection activities are underpinned by a comprehensive emissions control Number of Employees policy. We report our greenhouse gas emisInvolved in a sions in line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. This is the most widely used international Recordable Injury calculation method for greenhouse gas emissions. As the world’s most extensive climate protection ranking, the Carbon Disclosure Proj0.80 ect (CDP) www.cdp.net again confirmed our high level of transparency in 2016. We intend to continue reducing our energy consumption at our sites through the deployment of innovative technology. The Louisenthal paper mill www.louisenthal.com, for instance, uses renewable energy obtained from a dedicated hydropower system for the production of injury rate banknote paper. In the course of upgrading per hundred employees our headquarters in Munich, the entire site in 2016 will be equipped with LED lighting by 2018. Floor lamps will be fitted with daylight sensors 0.81 and movement sensors. These changes should cut the amount of power used for lighting by more than 65 percent. We want to motivate our staff to actively contribute to reducing G+D’s ecological footprint. We support this involvement with regular online training and a range of injury rate activities aimed at raising awareness, such per hundred employees as awarding prizes for outstanding susin 2015 tainability measures initiated by employees. In 2016, the Louisenthal paper mill received the G+D Award in the “Best Sustainability Measure” category for the phased establishment of a heat recycling network at the site. 8 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2016 Our Responsibility Waste heat from the production process is recycled and used for building climate control. Conserving resources is a crucial factor in the Direct CO2 Emissions and operation of our sites, and sustainability is Emissions from Purchased 64.6 also a priority when it comes to our products. Examples include banknote paper that is Energy (Scope 1 and 2) typically manufactured from cotton comber noil – a by-product of the textile industry that can also be derived from organically grown cotton if the customer prefers. For cashless payments, G+D can supply card bodies made of renewable materials. We can also provide SIM cards in various form factors metric tons of CO2 per million euros that use less material, as well as offering of sales in 2016 more environmentally friendly alternatives to the standard materials used. After production, the lifecycle of a SIM can be ex68.0 tended by means of over-the-air updates to prolong its technical service life. Last year, we amended our absolute goal for reducing CO2 emissions between the base year, 2010, and 2016 to minus 5 percent. In actual fact, by 2016 we succeeded in reducing direct greenhouse gas emissions from our own facilities and indirect emissions from metric tons purchased energy by 9 percent (energy of CO2 per million euros requirement / sales). In 2017, we will adapt our of sales in 2015 climate protection strategy to the new corporate structure and establish the reduction goal for the years ahead. Responsibility in the first place. Employees take part in Many of our security technology products extensive e-learning programs on compliancecontain metals that are extracted from ore. To Customers related topics. The participation rate is almost The mining of these materials repeatedly 100 percent across the Group. raises human rights issues. Accordingly, we and Suppliers have introduced systematic reporting to International standards and legal requireensure responsible sourcing of these minerals. ments also oblige G+D to check the integrity The contents of materials supplied, such G+D has an effective, well-functioning comof its business partners, both before comas those used in the production of SIM cards, pliance management system (CMS) in place mencing a new business relationship and also are recorded and checked by means of a for combating risks including antitrust violaat regular intervals during an existing partstandardized process at G+D, thus creating tions, bribery, and corruption. This was cernership. Our business partners are required the transparency required within our own tified by an initial external audit carried out to undergo an extensive evaluation process supply chain. Our procedure complies with by the Banknote Ethics Initiative (BnEI) and expressly commit to following proper the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act, www.bnei.com in 2014, and confirmed again business and information practices. a US federal law that includes provisions to in 2016. In addition, our CMS was assessed regulate cooperation with raw materials in line with Assurance Standard IDW PS 980 companies in developing countries. In addiand is currently being adapted to the future Supply Chain Sustainability tion, in 2017 we will be preparing a G+D corporate structure. statement on addressing human trafficking We apply the same high standards to our supand forced labor in our supply chain. Our declaration of compliance principles conpliers as we do to ourselves. Suppliers underThis declaration will meet the requirements solidates all of the Group’s guidelines and go a selection process that covers a range of of the UK’s Modern Slavery Act, which regulations and gives our employees and criteria, including quality, environmental, stipulates that organizations must draw up business partners an overview of the specific and workplace safety standards at production an annual statement on slavery and human measures we take to ensure compliance with sites, plus compliance and CSR aspects. We trafficking. internal rules and legal requirements. We use check that suppliers are complying with our prevention and staff awareness strategies to requirements by carrying out regular audits, actively avoid compliance breaches occurring which also include CSR issues. 9 Transparent greenhouse gas reporting: Responsibility To Society Our long-term aim is to conThe not-for-profit Giesecke & Devrient Foundation www.gi-de-stiftung.org is the vehicle for our corporate citizenship activities. tinue reducing Established in 2010, the Foundation supports projects devoted to education, culture, and intercultural exchange. Particular focuses our ecological include an international program that invites young people from all over the world to Germany, organized in association with the footprint. Goethe Institute. This program aims to promote intercultural skills and peaceful coexistence for the next generation. It was expanded in 2016 to include an alumni program. The Foundation also supports the Museum of the Printing Arts www.druckkunst-museum.de in Leipzig, the city in which G+D was founded. Finally, our employees have the opportunity to take part in a volunteering program and get involved in projects selected by the Foundation. 10 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2016 G+D’s CSR Program G+D’s CSR Program Focus /Activity Progress / Outlook Status / Goal GC Principles1 CSRS Materiality analysis Focus on following action areas, based on online survey Three key CSR action areas; of selected internal and external stakeholders in 2014: review with regard to holding resource-efficient and safe site operation; future-oriented company and subgroup HR policy; fair and safe business practices companies scheduled for 2017 Employee Awareness G+D Award with Group-wide prize for innovation, technology, and 12 / 2016; 7, 8, 9 “Best Sustainability Measure” sustainability measures; 2016 “Best Sustainability Measure” annual category awarded for establishment of a heat recycling network at the Louisenthal site (production of banknote paper and foils), use of waste heat from production process for building climate control Reporting UN Global Compact Sixth report as per UN Global Compact requirements, Ongoing progress report covering progress in 2016; combined with G+D annual report Participation in EcoVadis Gold Standard rating in the annual evaluation (11 / 2016) Ongoing, CSR assessment platform of G+D’s activities and supporting documentation relating annual rating to the environment, working conditions, human rights, fair business practices, and a sustainable supply chain (improvement to 73 out of 100 possible points) Action Area: Employees Future-oriented HR policy Diversity management Phased expansion of selected activities relating to age, 1, 2, 6 gender, and cultural diversity Internal Diversity Day as part of Diversity Charter program. 09 / 2016 1, 2, 6 Theme: Megatrends in the Workplace – Diversity is a Must. Measures relating Internal series of events on recruiting and retaining young Ongoing 1, 6 to demographic change talent, specialist staff, and managers for G+D Introduction of dual master’s study program Ongoing 1, 6 Training for specialist staff in transferring expertise Ongoing 1, 6 to improve knowledge management Measures relating Female quota defined for G+D Germany: Mid-2017 1, 2, 6 to gender / equal 10% of managers in top tier below Management Board; opportunities for women 20% in second management tier Participation in events held by social research institute Ongoing 1, 2, 6 ISF Munich addressing “Women in the digital workplace of the future – scenarios for research and development”; mentoring program for female staff; career counseling for women under 30; continuation of gender-sensitive approach to assessing potential in talent management and recruiting 11 Focus /Activity Progress / Outlook Status / Goal GC Principles1 Measures relating Signatory of Diversity Charter Ongoing 1, 2, 6 to cultural diversity (German business initiative to promote diversity in companies and institutions); integration of Charter content into training Online training in virtual soft skills and virtual leadership – Ongoing 1, 6 optimization of virtual global cooperation in mixed teams Global talent management Internal program for systematic identification and 01 / 2016: new round of 1, 2, 6 development of high-potential employees global Top Talent program Group Graduate Program International Group Graduate Program for five trainees 11 / 2016 to 05 / 2018 1, 2, 6 Leadership initiative Series of training sessions and workshops for all managers Ongoing 1, 2, 6 in Germany to establish a Group-wide management philosophy and value-based leadership culture Encouraging a healthy work / Fifth “berufundfamilie” re-audit in accordance with Certificate confirmed 6 life / caregiving balance follow-up procedure (highest audit level), with inclusion on October 31, 2016 of the Leipzig printing site in the audit; confirmation that the operational measures adopted or updated are embedded in HR policy and are being rolled out in Leipzig Health management GmbH: expansion of workplace medical services and Certification of all major 6 and promotion occupational health scheme; extension of risk assessment to sites to OHSAS 18001; include psychological stress involving a pilot project with re-audit of the around 280 employees in Q4 2016, ergonomics advisers, berufundfamilie certificate continuing education program: ergonomics, back exercises, in October 2016 non-smokers (2016), inclusion of health management as an objective in the framework for the “berufundfamilie” audit Reintegration management GmbH: program for reintegration management (after sick Ongoing since 2014 program leave) in accordance with legal regulations; establishment of relevant process. Objective: development of preventative healthcare measures; training of reintegration team as Certified Disability Management Professionals (CDMP) Workplace 2020 Modernization of office / working environment and Ongoing from 2016 consolidation of all satellite sites at the main Munich location. Further increase workplace flexibility, expand team structures, and embed this approach more strongly in corporate culture. Taking account of psychological stress when planning office space. Consider other ways of boosting employer attractiveness as part of Workplace 2020. Action Area: Environment Resource-efficient and safe site operation Sustainability management Central standards combined with decentralized responsibility: Centralized management 7, 9 system for planning and practical implementation of activities and objectives to of standards; implementation implementing sustainability be handled by the subgroups, founded on centrally defined will be the responsibility of measures sustainability indicators in line with GRI standard (energy, the subgroups in the future CO2 emissions, water, effluents, waste, workplace accidents, work days lost, etc.); information gathered across Group using SoFi software tool Group-wide certification Group-wide certified environmental and health and safety Management systems 7, 8, 9 to ISO 14001 management system at all relevant production sites to be decentralized: and OHSAS 18001 certification in subgroups and self-certification of holding company ISO 50001 certification Certified energy management system for paper mills Ongoing 7, 8, 9 in Louisenthal and Königstein and at the Leipzig printing site 12 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2016 G+D’s CSR Program Focus /Activity Progress / Outlook Status / Goal GC Principles1 Corporate carbon footprint Generate CCF 2016 for relevant production locations Annual; 7, 8 (CCF) (Q2 2017). Greenhouse gas emissions reported in line with in 2017, adapt climate Greenhouse Gas Protocol. protection strategy Reduction in emissions by 9% (between 2010 and 2016), to new corporate structure thus meeting the revised reduction goal of 5% (energy requirement / sales) Product carbon footprint: product-related CO2 footprint for cards manufactured at four different sites Conserving resources Louisenthal (Germany) paper mill / banknote paper Ongoing 9 in production production: phased development of heat recycling network, and site operation using waste heat from the production process for building (selected examples) climate control, own hydroelectric system generates 11% of site’s electricity from hydropower Munich: taking sustainability into account during extensive upgrading work (e.g. switching to LED lighting; energy saving: approx. 68%) Dulles, Virginia (US): patenting of cell phone holder made of waste from the production of SIM card bodies EU Energy Efficiency Implementation at all European locations and perforOngoing Directive mance of energy audits at sites without ISO 50001 certification; Mobile Security sites: five energy audits completed in 2016 Environmentally friendly Development / supply of environmentally friendly products, Ongoing 9 products e.g. card bodies made of renewable materials; SIM cards in various form factors that use less material; banknote paper using cotton comber noil as raw material, occurring as textile industry by-product – derived from organically grown cotton on customer request Dialog with stakeholders Participation in various climate protection schemes, Ongoing 8 on environment and climate such as Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), and other initiatives, protection / initiatives e.g. member of the German Global Compact Network’s Peer Learning Group in conjunction with WWF/CDP; climate reporting partner of Deutsche Telekom; joined Munich climate pact in 2016; energy efficiency networks initiative; two trainees attended “energy scout” course offered by Chamber of Trade and Commerce Informing employees E-learning on occupational health and safety / fire safety 2017: e-learning on environ10 and raising awareness for Munich site, easy-teach sustainability film; participation ment and health and safety; in Germany-wide Sustainability Action Days in 2016 internal Sustainability Action Days planned Action Area: Compliance /anti-corruption Fair and safe business practices Group-wide Code of Conduct Code of Conduct for all employees and business partners; Ongoing 1 – 10 incorporates UN Global Compact, ILO core employment standards, UN Declaration of Human Rights, OHSAS 18001; compliance monitored by Corporate Auditing Declaration of Consolidation of all existing guidelines and internal Ongoing 1 – 10 compliance principles regulations for employees and business partners Employee awareness / International roll-out of compliance training as refresher for Ongoing 10 preventive measures all staff; focusing on conflicts of interest and gifts and invitations, plus antitrust law for all managers and selected employees; Preventive measures: regular information sharing with local compliance officers at subsidiaries and on-site compliance monitoring. 13 Focus /Activity Progress / Outlook Status / Goal GC Principles1 Statement on the Statement on how G+D addresses human trafficking To be prepared in 2017 1 – 6, 10 Modern Slavery Act and forced labor in the supply chain in accordance with the requirements of this British law Review of compliance Further development of Group-wide risk assessment CMS audit scheduled 1 – 10 management system (CMS) procedure to ensure risk-based activity monitoring for mid-2017 Banknote Ethics Initiative G+D a founding member; accredited full member since Ongoing 1 – 10 (BnEI) November 2014 following audit by independent auditor; verified again in letter of confirmation in 2016 Business partner evaluation Group-wide guideline on selecting and evaluating business Ongoing 1 – 6, 10 partners; high level of compliance confirmed in CMS audit in line with Assurance Standard 980 of the German Institute of Public Auditors Sustainable Supply Chain Supplier assessment via Results of G+D compliance management system audit Ongoing 1 – 10 business partner evaluation in line with Assurance Standard 980 of the German Institute of Public Auditors show the majority of suppliers have been assessed as part of Group-wide business partner evaluation Bill of material (BOM) check Expansion of product environmental management system Ongoing 1 – 10 for G+D suppliers BOMcheck (online database) to record and check contents of materials supplied, including conflict minerals in accordance with Dodd-Frank Act; online training for relevant employees worldwide Corporate Citizenship Giesecke & Devrient Particular focuses include Museum of the Printing Arts Ongoing Foundation in Leipzig, an international development program for young people from Africa in partnership with the Goethe Institute, initiation of an alumni program, various other projects Corporate volunteering Volunteering program (launched in 2012) involving social Ongoing program projects, such as excursions with refugees, construction work; participation in My Finance Coach project designed to teach schoolchildren how to manage money responsibly 1 See table “10 Principles of the UN Global Compact” 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 02 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 04 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 05 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 06 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 07 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 08 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 09 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Giesecke & Devrient GmbH Corporate Communications Corporate Social Responsibility Prinzregentenstrasse 159 P.O. Box 80 07 29 81607 Munich Germany P +49 89 4119-13 86 F +49 89 4119-12 08 csr @gi-de.com www.gi-de.com /responsibility
