2016 Annual Review | Accelerating Patient Impact Contents CEO Letter 1 Our Business 11 Performance 11 Transforming Delivery of High Quality Products 19 Global Business 22 Pfizer Essential Health 23 Pfizer Innovative Health 27 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 32 Governance and Ethics 38 Environment, Health and Safety 40 Manufacturing, Quality and Supply Chain 44 Corporate and Shareholder Information 47 Our People 49 Culture 49 Board of Directors 55 Executive Leadership Team 59 Scientific Innovation 66 Consumer Healthcare 66 Oncology 68 Rare Disease 72 Vaccines 74 Biosimilars 79 Pipeline 82 Clinical Trials 84 Partnerships 86 Using the Power of Technology and Innovative Science to Advance Patient Care 86 Peer Collaboration 90 Industry Collaboration 92 Third-Party Collaboration 95 Public Health Impact 101 Bringing Resources to Bear to Improve Global Health 101 Partnering to Tackle Non-Communicable Diseases 106 Access to Medicines 118 Healthy Aging 123 Accelerating Patient Engagement 128 About this Review 131 Global Reporting Frameworks 134 2016 Annual Review Contents Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO CEO Letter 2016: Advancing Our Strategy In 2016, we made significant progress in the execution of our strategy and the achievement of our mission to become the premier biopharmaceutical company in the industry by the end of this decade. It was a strong year with continued operational growth and ongoing progress in developing high-value medicines and vaccines. To Our Shareholders Six years ago, we put in place a long-term strategy to position Pfizer for a return to topline growth. The strategy is anchored on four imperatives that have guided our actions at every level of the organization. 2016 marked a year of solid execution with substantial contributions across every part of the enterprise. We ended the year by achieving our second consecutive year of operational revenue growth after overcoming more than $23 billion in brand patent expiries between the years of 2011-2016. We received five product approvals, achieved six regulatory submissions and advanced 39 compounds in our pipeline. Each of our commercial businesses grew operationally, we advanced several initiatives that expanded access to our medicines and vaccines, and further embedded a strong culture of ownership and accountability across the organization. This performance would not have been possible without the exceptional execution and commitment of Pfizer’s approximately 96,500 employees (as of Dec. 31, 2016). Pfizer colleagues take their work personally – they understand the essential importance of what we do and act with a sense of urgency in their service to patients and all of Pfizer’s stakeholders. They inspire confidence through their high competence, deep experience and compassion for patients and caregivers. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 1 Advancing Our Strategy 2016 Milestones 5 6 39 product approvals regulatory compounds in our submissions pipeline advanced Research & Development Manufacturing 96 63 assets in our current product sites worldwide pipeline (as of January 31, 2017) Global Footprint across 96,500 46 employees (as of December 31,2016) countries Revenue $52.824bn 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 2 Bringing Therapies to Patients t hat Significantly Improve Their Lives Pfizer Innovative Health Pfizer Essential Health Strong revenue growth in 2016 and a A strong portfolio and a presence o  ver differentiated and diverse group o  f products 125 countries Oncology Anti-infectives Building a strong capacity 80 assets in our global in immuno-oncology through portfolio, the largest in partnerships with Merck the industry KGaA and IBM Vaccines Biosimilars 2 regulatory milestones 3 marketed products and received from the EMA and 14 biosimilars in the pipeline the FDA for vaccines to prevent meningococcal disease 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 3 Accelerating Patient Impact 250m doses of Prevenar 13 ® delivered to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, protecting infants in 45 low-income nations 120m+ doses of the antibiotic Zithromax ® donated to support the International Trachoma Initiative and fight the world’s leading cause of preventable blindness 250,000+ patients in the U.S. obtained their medicines for free or at substantial discount through Pfizer RxPathways® Underpinned by our StrongOwnership Culture Annual global OWNIT! Day  Colleague Resource Groups Held fourth annual global OWNIT! Day in (CRGs) April 2016 as colleagues took time to reflect Are open to all colleagues and help and celebrate Pfizer's OWNIT! culture, with drive diversity and inclusion (D&I) a core focus on accountability. throughout our business. Global Health Fellows program (GHF) Is an international corporate volunteer program where Pfizer colleagues use their health and business expertise to promote access, quality, outcomes and efficiency of health services for people in need. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 4 A Year of Achievement in Biomedical R&D Pfizer’s overall strategy is anchored on innovation – developing new medicines and vaccines, managing the lifecycles of all the products in our portfolio to significantly improve the lives of patients and generating returns that attract further investment. We focus our research and development in these areas: • Biosimilars • Inflammation and Immunology • Metabolic Disease and Cardiovascular Risks • Neuroscience • Oncology • Rare Diseases • Vaccines Over the last six years, we have worked to shape the quality of the assets in our pipeline by sharpening our focus on these core research areas that give us the best promise of scientific and commercial success. We have a rich mix of assets that we are working to advance over the next few years. Our current product pipeline (as of January 31, 2017) has 96 assets. More than two-thirds represent therapies with new mechanisms of action. Many of our R&D pipeline’s new molecular entities are aimed at cancer. A deeper understanding of the genetic basis of cancer and new insights into the microenvironment of tumors has resulted in promising new cancer targets and subtypes being defined. We are committed to discovering and developing meaningful therapies that improve the lives of cancer patients worldwide. Our pipeline covers a range of cancers, including kidney, breast, prostate, lung and blood cancers, and includes biologics, chemicals, immunotherapies, gene therapies and biosimilars. In 2016, we achieved several regulatory milestones. Our breakthrough oncology product Ibrance®, which was approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in the U.S. in 2015 for the initial treatment of the most common form of advanced breast cancer, received a new U.S. indication for recurrent disease. Ibrance also was approved in 2016 by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for both initial and recurrent disease. There are 77 ongoing or completed collaborative Ibrance studies with investigators, 43 of which are in breast cancer and 34 in non-breast tumors including pancreatic and head and neck cancers. Xalkori®, our treatment for non-small cell lung cancer, was approved by the FDA for a certain type of lung cancer known as ROS-1. Two therapies in development for cancer were accepted for regulatory review in 2016. Inotuzumab for acute lymphoblastic leukemia is now in registration in the EU, and avelumab for metastatic Merkel cell carcinoma is being reviewed in the U.S. and EU. With our partner Merck KGaA we are building a strong capacity in immuno-oncology, an approach to treatment that rallies the body’s natural defenses and that was a theory just a decade ago. We currently have 30 avelumab clinical programs in the clinic and in 2016, we launched four “first in patient” studies and now have eleven immuno-oncology entries in the clinic. Pfizer is now well positioned to capitalize on what many believe will be the future of cancer treatment – immuno-oncology agents combined with more conventional therapies. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 5 The past year saw positive news in biosimilars, where we hold a leadership position, thanks to longstanding capabilities in cell-line development, high-quality biologics manufacturing and supply, and global marketing. In 2016, we launched Inflectra®, a biosimilar for Remicade® in the U.S. It’s the first biosimilar monoclonal antibody therapy to be approved by the FDA and will treat difficult conditions including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), Crohn’s disease, plaque psoriasis and ulcerative colitis (UC). We currently have 14 biosimilars in the pipeline, which are expected to compete in a global market that may grow to $17 – 20 billion over the next five to 10 years. Pfizer is developing new therapies for improving the quality of life of people who live with debilitating conditions such as RA, lupus, psoriatic arthritis and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) – including UC. Our expertise in Janus kinase inhibitors (JAK), which interfere with the inflammation process in autoimmune diseases, is enabling us to advance several other potential anti-inflammatory therapies beyond our marketed product Xeljanz®. We anticipate initiating approximately six JAK studies in 2017. Today, more people benefit from vaccines to prevent infectious diseases than ever before. Pfizer has a rich history in vaccine research and development, and in 2016 we continued to improve and expand our portfolio of potentially life-saving vaccines. The European Commission approved an expanded indication for our Nimenrix™ vaccine making it the first and only conjugate vaccine in the EU for immunizing infants six weeks of age and older against invasive meningococcal disease caused by a certain group of bacteria. In addition, our Meningococcal Group B (MenB) vaccine, Trumenba®, was approved by the FDA for a new two-dose schedule that should help prevent MenB in healthy adolescents and young adults. We also continued to advance our Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus) and Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) vaccine candidates, designed to prevent widespread and increasingly drug-resistant infections. In each therapeutic area, we have a rigorous process for evaluating and advancing projects if they provide value to patients based on their emerging clinical profile and the market landscape. In 2016, we ended the global development program for bococizumab, a therapy designed for those without options in their control of low-density lipoprotein or LDL (“bad”) cholesterol. After careful consideration of the emerging clinical data, we determined that it would not likely provide value to patients, physicians or shareholders. Collaborations Enhance Pipeline Assets Collaboration is an important element of Pfizer’s overall discovery and early development process. In 2016, we received breakthrough therapy designation from the FDA for a hemophilia gene therapy being developed in partnership with SPARK Therapeutics, Inc. We also acquired Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc., a privately held biotechnology company based in Chapel Hill, N.C., focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases including Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) and Friedreich’s ataxia (FA). Through this acquisition we acquired a number of novel assets, key technology and manufacturing capabilities that position Pfizer to be a leader in this promising area of research that has the potential to be game-changing. We advanced our collaboration with Merck & Co. on ertugliflozin, which is in a new class of treatments for type 2 diabetes, the world’s most prevalent type. We expect regulatory action in 2017. Through our partnership with Eli Lilly & Co., we have initiated six new phase 3 trials to continue the development of tanezumab, a novel potential treatment option for chronic, debilitating pain in patients with osteoarthritis, lower back pain and cancer. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 6 We also entered into several research collaborations and business relationships. They include collaborations with Biolnvent International AB to develop antibodies targeting tumor-associated myeloid cells and Western Oncolytics to advance their novel oncolytic vaccinia virus, WO-12, adding another novel technology platform to our cancer vaccine efforts, as well as a relationship with IBM where we will utilize IBM Watson for Drug Discovery to help accelerate research in immuno-oncology by identifying potential new targets and combination therapies. Solid Execution Driving Strong Financial Performance 2016 marked another year of operational revenue growth and strong financial performance on behalf of our shareholders. We returned $12.3 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, and sustained our eight-year record of increasing our dividends. Since embarking on our current strategy in 2011, we have returned nearly $90 billion to our shareholders through share repurchases of approximately $50 billion and dividends of approximately $40 billion, and the price of Pfizer shares has increased approximately 79 percent, (Dec. 31, 2010 to Jan. 27, 2017), in line with the S&P 500 (+~80 percent). In 2016, we concluded an extensive assessment of our commercial businesses – Pfizer Essential Health and Pfizer Innovative Health. We concluded that shareholders would benefit best from our continuing to operate these two businesses within Pfizer, taking advantage of our operational strength and financial flexibility. In 2016, Pfizer Innovative Health achieved strong revenue growth due to the performance of a differentiated and diverse group of new and older products. Eliquis®, which is co-promoted with Bristol-Myers Squibb, is now cardiologists’ top prescribed oral anticoagulant in 12 countries. Ibrance®, for certain types of breast cancer, is now launched in over 50 nations, and now, approximately one out of two adults over age 65 in the U.S. has been vaccinated with Prevnar 13®. Products including Xeljanz®, Lyrica® and Chantix® had solid growth. In 2016, regulators in the U.S. and EU removed the boxed warning in the U.S. and the black triangle in the EU from product labels for Chantix®/ Champix®, our smoking cessation therapy. These actions were based on EAGLES, the largest smoking cessation clinical trial of its kind. We expect this revision will help many more individuals to discuss quitting smoking with health care providers. Additionally Pfizer’s Consumer Healthcare business continued its leadership through brands like Advil®, Robitussin® and Centrum®. The business was further strengthened with the addition of new products, including Eucrisa™ for mild to moderate atopic dermatitis and Xtandi® for men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer, from the Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Medivation, Inc. acquisitions. Pfizer Essential Health established market leading positions in sterile injectables with more than 250 products, biosimilars with three marketed products and the industry’s largest anti-infectives portfolio with approximately 80 assets globally. The anti-infectives portfolio was further bolstered through the acquisition of AstraZeneca’s small molecule anti-infectives portfolio primarily outside of the U.S. The Essential Health business also includes many of Pfizer’s long-established products such as Lipitor® and Celebrex®. In 2016, a 10-year study of over 24,000 osteoarthritis or rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with or at a high risk for cardiovascular disease and who required daily treatment with nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), did not experience a greater cardiovascular risk when treated with Celebrex® as compared to patients receiving prescription doses of ibuprofen and naproxen. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 7 Pfizer Essential Health has built an attractive financial profile, a strong portfolio and a presence in more than 125 countries. In 2016, the business broke ground for a new Global Biotechnology Center in Hangzhou, China. In 2016, business development, which included the Medivation, Inc., Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and AstraZeneca small-molecule anti-infectives acquisitions, continued to be an important lever for accelerating our strategy despite the fact that we decided not to move forward with the Allergan plc transaction due to actions by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. Working to Improve Global Health & Earn Respect At our core, we discover, develop and deliver vaccines and therapies that help people live healthier lives. We believe all individuals deserve access to quality health care and we have an important role to play in positively impacting global health by making our therapies more accessible. In the past year, we: • Delivered our 250 millionth dose of Prevenar 13® to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, protecting infants in 45 low-income nations. We also expanded our assistance program for large-scale humanitarian crises. • Continued, for the 19th year, our deep involvement in the International Trachoma Initiative, donating more than 120 million doses of the antibiotic Zithromax®, which is highly effective against trachoma, the world’s leading cause of preventable blindness. • Improved our U.S. prescription access program, known as Pfizer RxPathways®, helping more than 250,000 patients obtain their medicines for free or at substantial discount. • Supported a global call to action to strengthen public health systems and combat a rising tide of antimicrobial resistance. We pledged, along with 13 industry partners, to work to expand the range of new anti-infectives and vaccines, and to do all we can to ensure their proper use. • Established a Naloxone Access initiative in the U.S. to help address the opioid abuse epidemic by donating one million doses of naloxone and awarding educational grants totaling USD $1 million to five states to fund educational initiatives focused on increasing public awareness of the risks of opioid addiction. • Launched, with 22 other partners, “Access Accelerated”– a pioneering approach to aiding lower and middle-income countries facing a fast-rising tide of chronic disease, including cancer and heart disease. • Joined the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI), which is an important step to better address emerging global infectious disease threats. CEPI will work to develop vaccines before there is an epidemic. We are also connecting with members of the public to help them navigate health care decision-making through programs such as Get Old, which focuses on healthy aging, and Get Healthy Stay Healthy, now expanding from the U.S. to major markets overseas. We also made further progress in reaching our 2020 environmental sustainability goals related to greenhouse gas, waste and water reductions. In 2016, we launched a new goal focused on reducing our environmental footprint with key suppliers and strategic research partners. All of these initiatives are fundamental to our efforts to build public trust and support our commitment to significantly improve patients’ lives through the therapies we develop. Earning public trust also requires our continued dedication to approaching everything we do with integrity. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 8 Our longstanding commitment to integrity continued in 2016 with the implementation of a company-wide campaign, “integrity is…” to reinforce a culture of compliance, integrity and accountability throughout the organization. We launched a series of workshops for managers to foster a deeper understanding of potential emerging risk areas and advance their leadership skills. Workshops were held in over 40 markets across the globe including Latin America, Eastern and Western Europe, Africa and the Middle East (AfME) and Asia Pacific (APAC). Earning greater respect from society is core to demonstrating the value of what we do for society. We know that understanding can enhance respect and believe that if more people understand what it takes to bring a new medicine to patients and our commitment to this purpose, we will create a better environment for discovering treatments today and in the future. This belief provided the impetus for launching our first corporate advertising initiative in 10 years. The campaign tells the story of our drive to discover and develop needed treatments and cures that improve patients’ lives. The ad features Pfizer scientists from our La Jolla research center. All of these initiatives, along with our core values, including integrity, quality and community, are aimed at demonstrating the value of what we do and ultimately, creating a more positive environment for biomedical innovation. Culture – Our Foundation for Achieving Strong Results A company’s culture is essential to its sustainability. Over the last several years, we have diligently worked to embed a culture of ownership across the company that we describe as our OWNIT! Culture. It gives us the confidence, ability and resilience to adapt to change and thrive in the face of challenges. It is the foundation for our strong performance. Our culture is built upon having a diverse workforce that has wide-ranging capabilities and talents that enable us to address the world’s most important medical needs. In 2016, our leaders demonstrated their strong commitment to embracing diversity in their thinking and actions through frequent face-to-face engagements and discussions about inclusion with colleagues. During the year, we also focused much of our communications with colleagues on accountability – to engender greater role clarity, improve decision-making and innovation, and encourage the straight talk that often uncovers opportunities. 2016 also saw a substantial improvement in colleagues’ opinion on the question, “Is it difficult to get things done?” in our annual colleague engagement survey. Colleagues told us they feel positive about the company and our OWNIT! Culture that is creating the drive, passion, dedication and personal accountability required to build a strong sustainable business. 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 9 Building on Our Momentum 2016 was a year of significant progress across each of our strategic imperatives. We have advanced the pipeline and transformed our approach to R&D, launched multiple products addressing patients’ unmet medical needs, wisely invested our capital to drive growth, worked to expand access to our medicines and vaccines, and prioritized our time and resources to create a strong and sustainable culture. Thank you for your continued confidence and support of the work we do every day to help make patients’ lives better. Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO We encourage you to read our 2016 Financial Report, which includes our financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2016, 2016 Annual Review CEO Letter 10 Our Business Performance FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE THREE-YEAR SUMMARY AS OF AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 311 % Change Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2016 2015 2014 16/15 15/14 Revenues $52,824 $48,851 $49,605 8 (2) Cost of Sales 12,329 9,648 9,577 28 1 Selling, informational and administrative expenses 14,837 14,809 14,097 – 5 Research and development expenses 7,872 7,690 8,393 2 (8) Restructuring charges and certain acquisition-related costs 1,724 1,152 250 50 * Income from continuing operations2 7,229 6,975 9,119 4 (24) Discontinued operations – net of tax 17 11 48 49 (77) 2016 Annual Review Our Business 11 % Change Millions (Except Per Common Share Data) 2016 2015 2014 16/15 15/14 Net income attributable to Pfizer Inc.2 7,215 6,960 9,135 4 (24) Diluted earnings per common share attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders2 1.17 1.11 1.42 5 (22) Weighted-average shares – diluted2 6,159 6,257 6,424 (2) (3) Number of common shares outstanding 6,070 6,175 6,291 (2) (2) Total assets3, 4 171,615 167,381 167,473 3 – Total long-term obligations3, 4, 5 80,660 72,985 74,265 11 (2) Total Pfizer Inc. shareholders’ equity 59,544 64,720 71,301 (8) (9) Shareholders’ equity per common share 9.81 10.48 11.33 (6) (8) Net cash provided by operating activities 15,901 14,688 17,084 8 (14) Property, plant and equipment additions 1,823 1,397 1,199 30 17 Purchases of common stock 5,000 6,160 5,000 19 23 Cash dividends paid 7,317 6,940 6,609 5 5 1.  016 reflects the acquisition of Medivation, Inc. on September 28, 2016 and the acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, 2 Inc. on June 24, 2016. 2015 and 2016 reflect the acquisition of Hospira, Inc. on September 3, 2015. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–Note 2A. Acquisitions, Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale, Licensing Agreements, Research and Development and Collaborative Arrangements, Equity-Method Investments and Cost-Method Investment: Acquisitions in our 2016 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2. 2016 reflects the adoption of a new accounting standard, as of January 1, 2016, requiring excess tax benefits or deficiencies for share-based compensation to be recognized as a component of the Provision for taxes on income. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–Note 1B. Adoption of New Accounting Standards in our 2016 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 3. A ll amounts reflect the retrospective adoption of a new accounting standard as of January 1, 2016 that changed the presentation of debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability as a direct deduction from the carrying value of the associated debt, consistent with the presentation of a debt discount. For additional information, see Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements–Note 1B. Adoption of New Accounting Standards in our 2016 Financial Report, which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 4. A ll amounts reflect the adoption of an accounting standard that requires all deferred tax assets and liabilities to be classified as noncurrent in the balance sheet. 5. Defined as Long-term debt, Pension benefit obligations, net, Postretirement benefit obligations, net, Noncurrent deferred tax liabilities, Other taxes payable and Other noncurrent liabilities. Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) and A-1+ by Standard & Poor's (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody's (Outlook: Stable) and AA by S&P (Outlook:Stable). Moody's and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. A security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and the rating is subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating organization. Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. * Calculation not meaningful  etailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2016 Financial Report, D which is filed as Exhibit 13 to our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 12 Key Performance Indicators Access to Medicines We currently have 46 active programs3 for launched medicines in markets that have a gross domestic product (GDP) per capita less than Portugal. This covers 29 countries. Of these, 15 programs cover multiple therapies while the rest are product specific. In total, these cover 64 different products in our portfolio. Global programs and commercial 2013 12 transactions to increase access to medicines in emerging markets1 2014 14 2015 19 2016 18 Top 21 global burdens of disease 2013 17 addressed by products and pipeline2 2014 18 2015 18 2016 19 2016 Annual Review Our Business 13 Top Ten Medicines and Vaccines by Revenues in 2016 1 Prevnar 13®/Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal 13-valent $5,718 million conjugate vaccine [diphtheria crm(197) protein]) 2 Lyrica® (pregabalin) $4,966 million 3 Enbrel® (etanercept) outside the U.S. and Canada $2,909 million 4 Ibrance® (palbociclib) $2,135 million 5 Lipitor® (atorvastatin) $1,758 million 6 Eliquis® (apixaban)* $1,713 million 7 Viagra® (sildenafil citrate) $1,564 million 8 Sutent® (sunitinib malate) $1,095 million 9 Premarin® Family (conjugated estrogens) $1,017 million 10 Norvasc® (amlodipine besylate) $962 million * Includes Pfizer’s share of the global revenues for Eliquis® (apixaban). Eliquis® is co-marketed by Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb. For more information on any of these medicines and vaccines, visit: Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products Colleagues Injuries Per 100 Colleagues* 2013 0.53 2014 0.53 Total injury rate in 2016 2015 0.48 compared to 2015 -20% 2016 0.38 * Hospira, Inc. injury data has been included. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 14 Progress on Our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Goals4 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions* 2012 2.13 Total scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions in million metric tons CO2EQ 2013 2.03 2014 1.98 -20% 2015 1.97 2016 1.92 2020 Goals vs 2012 (baseline) * GHG emissions in 2016 were 3 percent lower than in 2015. Waste Disposed* 2012 132 Total hazardous and non-hazardous waste in thousand metric tons 2013 125 2014 127 -15% 2015 128 2016 110 2020 Goals vs 2012 (baseline) * Total waste disposed in 2016 was 14 percent lower than in 2015. Water Withdrawal 2012 20.6 Excluding non-contact cooling water in million cubic meters 2013 19.4 2014 18.5 -5% 2015 18.2 2016 18.6 2020 Goals vs 2012 (baseline) * Total water withdrawal (excluding non-contact cooling water) in 2016 was 2% higher than in 2015. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 15 Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goal5 Percent of key suppliers supporting Pfizer’s supplier code of conduct and aligning with Pfizer Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI) principles 79% 2016 Baseline: Supporting Pfizer's Supplier Code of Conduct 35% 2016 Baseline: Aligning to PSCI Principles 100% 2020 Goals vs. Baseline Percent of key suppliers managing their environmental impacts 76% 2016 Baseline 100% 2020 Goals vs. Baseline Percent of key suppliers with reduction goals for GHG, waste disposal and water withdrawal instituted 51% 2016 Baseline 90% 2020 Goals vs. Baseline KPI Footnotes 1. P rogram/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, multilateral organization, non-governmental organization, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. 2. A s defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight, and self-inflicted injuries. 3. T he number of patient access programs with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. 4. A pplies to facilities within Pfizer's operational control as compared with a 2012 baseline including Hospira. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. The 2012–2015 GHG data was independently verified to the limited assurance level. The verification of the 2016 GHG data is expected to be accomplished in 2017. Water withdrawal in 2016 included an operational change from using non-contact cooling water to city water at a site. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. 5. Hospira key suppliers not included. Supplier code of conduct and PSCI principle data to be confirmed with relevant key suppliers in 2017. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 16 Performance and Financial Guidance1 Revenues 2016 Guidance2 (in billions) $52.0 – $53.0 2016 Actual 2017 Guidance3 $52.8 $52.0 – $54.0 Adjusted cost of sales4 2016 Guidance2 (as a percentage of revenues) 21.5% – 22.0% 2016 Actual 2017 Guidance3 22.0% 20.0% – 21.0% Adjusted SI&A expenses4 2016 Guidance2 (in billions) $14.2 – $14.7 2016 Actual 2017 Guidance3 $14.7 $13.7 – $14.7 Adjusted R&D expenses4 2016 Guidance2 (in billions) $7.8 – $8.1 2016 Actual 2017 Guidance3 $7.8 $7.5 – $8.0 Adjusted other (income)/deductions4 2016 Guidance2 (In millions) Approx. $600 of income 2016 Actual 2017 Guidance3 $729 of income Approx. $100 of deductions Effective tax rate on adjusted income4 2016 Guidance2 2016 Guidance2 Approx. 24.0% 2016 Actual 2017 Guidance3 23.0% Approx. 23.0% 2016 Annual Review Our Business 17 Adjusted diluted EPS4 2016 Guidance2 $2.38 – $2.43 2016 Actual $2.40 2017 Guidance3 $2.50 – $2.60 1. P lease refer to Pfizer's 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the sections captioned Risk Factors and ForwardLooking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results, for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements, including our 2017 Financial Guidance, included in this Annual Review. Pfizer does not provide guidance for GAAP Reported financial measures (other than Revenues) or a reconciliation of forward-looking non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP Reported financial measures on a forward-looking basis because it is unable to predict with reasonable certainty the ultimate outcome of pending litigation, unusual gains and losses, acquisition-related expenses and potential future asset impairments without unreasonable effort. These items are uncertain, depend on various factors, and could have a material impact on GAAP Reported results for the guidance period. 2. Our 2016 financial guidance reflected: a. Did not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of October 2, 2016, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. b. E xchange rates that assumed a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect through the third quarter of 2016 and the mid-October 2016 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. c. For Revenues, the anticipated negative impact of $1.8 billion due to recent and expected generic competition for certain products that have recently lost or were anticipated to soon lose patent protection. d. Our November 1, 2016 announced decision to discontinue development of bococizumab. As a result, 2016 financial guidance for Adjusted R&D expenses was negatively impacted by $0.3 billion and 2016 financial guidance for Adjusted diluted EPS was negatively impacted by $0.04. This represented the estimated net impact of expected close down costs of approximately $400 million for these activities less spending no longer required for the trials. e. For Revenues, the anticipated negative impact of $1.4 billion as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2015, including $0.8 billion due to the estimated significant negative currency impact related to Venezuela. The anticipated negative impact on adjusted diluted EPS resulting from unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates compared to foreign exchange rates from 2015 was anticipated to be approximately $0.20, including $0.08 due to the estimated significant negative currency impact related to Venezuela. f. For adjusted diluted EPS, assumed diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of approximately 6.2 billion shares. 3. T he 2017 financial guidance was issued in January 2017 and reflects: a. T he disposition of the Hospira Infusion Systems (HIS) net assets in February 2017, which contributed $1.2 billion of revenues and $0.03 of adjusted diluted EPS in 2016. b. Does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2016, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions, except for the disposition of HIS in February 2017. c. E xchange rates assumed are as of mid-January 2017. d. For Revenues, reflects an anticipated negative impact of $2.4 billion due to recent and expected generic and biosimilar competition for certain products that have recently lost or are anticipated to soon lose patent protection. e. The anticipated negative impact of $0.9 billion on Revenue and $0.05 on adjusted diluted EPS as a result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar compared to foreign exchange rates from 2016. f. For adjusted diluted EPS, assumes diluted weighted-average shares outstanding of ~6.1 billion shares, which reflects our $5.0 billion accelerated share repurchase agreement announced in February 2017, which is expected to more than offset potential dilution related to employee compensation programs. 4. Adjusted Income and its components and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS) are defined as reported U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) net income(5) and its components and reported diluted EPS(5) excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items (some of which may recur, such as restructuring or legal charges, but which management does not believe are reflective of ongoing core operations). Adjusted Cost of Sales, Adjusted Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A), Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted Other (Income)/Deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and therefore components of, the overall Adjusted income measure. As described under Adjusted Income in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, management uses Adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. Because Adjusted income is an important internal measurement for Pfizer, management believes that investors' understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this performance measure. Pfizer reports Adjusted income, and certain components of Adjusted income, in order to portray the results of major operations – the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale of prescription medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare (OTC) products – prior to considering certain income statement elements. Reconciliations of certain U.S. GAAP Reported to Non-GAAP Adjusted information for 2016 are provided in the Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016. The Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are Non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, are limited in their usefulness to investors. Because of their non-standardized definitions, Adjusted income and its components (unlike U.S.GAAP net income and its components) and Adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP diluted EPS) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and Adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 5. Reported Net Income in accordance with U.S. GAAP is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. in accordance with U.S. GAAP and Reported Diluted EPS is defined as reported diluted EPS attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 18 Transforming Delivery of High Quality Products Accelerating the impact our medicines and vaccines can have for patients means not only developing the right products, but also producing and delivering quality products quickly and efficiently. In recent years, Pfizer has made significant advances in our manufacturing and supply chain. In 2016, we enabled even more efficient product delivery by applying the latest technologies and innovative partnerships to our manufacturing processes and supply chain. Customizing Manufacturing to Speed Medicine to Patients Partnerships allow Pfizer to create manufacturing systems that meet the needs of today’s patient Not long ago, the biopharmaceutical industry relied almost entirely on a complex process that demanded dedicated manufacturing facilities to manufacture large quantities of products. In light of the growing focus on precision medicine, the industry is now shifting toward lower-volume products. Recognizing this emerging trend, Pfizer joined with partner GEA and G-CON Manufacturing to create a first-of-its-kind manufacturing system known as the Portable, Continuous, Miniature and Modular (PCMM) system, which will give Pfizer increased flexibility and speed of production. The system is designed so Pfizer can quickly deliver customized quantities of drugs, using the same equipment for development, clinical trials and commercial manufacturing. WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Our Business 19 The miniaturized production facility is efficient– taking up less than 70 percent of the space of a traditional facility – and portable, meaning it can be transported to virtually any location in the world, assembled quickly and mobilized to produce what patients need on site. The system can also transform powders into uncoated tablets in minutes, a process that could take days or weeks with previous technology. In 2016, Pfizer’s PCMM prototype at our facility in Groton, Conn., became fully operational to manufacture clinical supplies. We also started construction of a commercial PCMM in Freiburg, Germany, which is planned to come online in early 2018. With PCMM, Pfizer and its partners are leading the way toward smaller, more flexible platform technologies, with the potential to transform the future of pharmaceutical development and manufacturing. Increasing the Efficiency of Pfizer’s Supply Chain Innovation and intelligence are the backbone of Pfizer The supply chain is the engine that ensures each step of the pharmaceutical process – from raw material acquisition to the demand signal from the customer to manufacture and patient use – is effective and efficient. Few innovations have had such a dramatic impact on our supply chain as the Highly Orchestrated Supply Network (HOSuN). Introduced in 2015, HOSuN fuses our global physical supply chain with a global information supply chain, enabling complete visibility into the status of products at all times. This, in turn, makes our management of the supply process more efficient. Through HOSuN, we can also use predictive analytics to anticipate future demand patterns, as well as supply and delivery needs. This knowledge is crucial for the efficient production and distribution of biologic and vaccine products, for example, which can often take nine to 15 months to manufacture. HOSuN allows us to immediately identify demand – from anywhere in the world – and quickly alert the best production facility to manufacture the product to meet that demand and ensure it is delivered on time. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 20 Adopting New Technology to Advance Biotechnology in China A state-of-the-art facility in Asia allows us to better serve patients around the world In 2016, Pfizer broke ground on a Global Biotechnology Center in the Hangzhou Economic Development Area (HEDA) of China. The goal of the Center is to enable local production of high-quality, affordable biosimilar medicines that will benefit patients in China and throughout the world. The facility, which is expected to be fully operational in 2018, will be built in half the time of traditional centers, and is designed to have less carbon dioxide emissions, and water and energy usage as compared to traditional facilities. This Global Biotechnology Center, created by GE Healthcare, will feature GE’s technology in a KUBio® modular facility. This disposable, single-use bioreactor (SUB) platform technology is designed to enable Pfizer to increase speed of delivery to patients and provide manufacturing flexibility, while costing between 25 and 50 percent less than traditional facilities. Similar SUB technology is being installed in the Andover, Mass., clinical manufacturing facility and at the Grange Castle, Ireland site. This innovative facility – Pfizer’s third biotechnology center globally and the first in Asia – will provide world-class biologic medicines to patients in need. The adoption of this technology enables Pfizer to create a fully integrated development and manufacturing platform for monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Learn more about the innovative features of our Andover facility. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 21 Our Business Global Businesses At Pfizer, our purpose is to bring innovative medicines and vaccines to patients to significantly improve their lives. To ensure we are in the best position to fulfill this commitment, we constantly evaluate how we conduct our commercial enterprise to maximize value for our shareholders. Remaining One Company to Maximize Our Patient Impact After an extensive evaluation in 2016, we decided to continue the operation of Pfizer Essential Health (PEH) and Pfizer Innovative Health (PIH) as two distinct businesses within Pfizer. We believe this is the best structure to deliver on our purpose and drive value for our shareholders at this time. Having two independent businesses under the Pfizer umbrella allows us to better respond to constantly shifting market dynamics and the distinct requirements of each business’ portfolio, while also simplifying our organizational structure and allowing the company to best serve patient needs. Pfizer Essential Health Pfizer Innovative Health Pfizer Essential Health – formerly Pfizer Innovative Health includes known as the Global Established six business groups – Consumer Pharma business – is a leader in Healthcare, Inflammation & non-viral anti-infectives, biosimilars Immunology, Internal Medicine and sterile injectable medicines. (neuroscience and pain, and cardiovascular and metabolic), Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines. DISCOVER MORE DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Our Business 22 Our Business Pfizer Essential Health Pfizer Essential Health (PEH) – formerly known as the Global Established Pharma business – is a leader in non-viral antiinfectives, biosimilars and sterile injectable medicines. In emerging markets, the PEH portfolio of affordable, well-known branded medicines makes it a critical partner in the global public health community. PEH is focused on four core categories with different market dynamics: 125+ • Biosimilars – includes recombinant and monoclonal antibodies primarily in inflammation, oncology and supportive care, with three products commercialized and marketed in multiple countries. The biosimilars GLOBAL REACH IN pipeline is progressing and consists of 14 distinct Pfizer and legacy Hospira, Inc. biosimilar molecules in various 125+ COUNTRIES stages of development. • Global Brands in developed countries – includes legacy Pfizer brands, partnerships in developed markets, branded generics and products that have recently lost or are approaching loss of marketing exclusivity. • Sterile Injectables – consists of an industry leading portfolio of more than 220 injectable medicines and surgiceutical products to support all areas of hospital care. • Emerging Markets – consists of portfolios and partnerships where the quality of our brands provides significant value to patients and health care professionals. 600+ PEH has strategies to capture growth over the next few years through innovation in our core product categories and commercial model. VAST PORTFOLIO Our dedicated R&D organization, combined with our focus on “open OF MORE THAN science” to acquire new molecules developed outside of Pfizer, will enable us to further accelerate our ability to address the health 600 MEDICINES care needs of patients and physicians. Over the last two years, we significantly enhanced the PEH portfolio through a variety of business development transactions including with the acquisition of Hospira, Inc., InnoPharma Inc., and AstraZeneca PLC’s small molecule anti-infectives portfolio. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 23 Driving Progress in the Biosimilars Market Biosimilars have the potential to improve patient care by expanding access to highquality, effective, targeted treatment across multiple serious and chronic diseases. Pfizer is committed to advancing biosimilars in markets around the world, helping to create a sustainable, competitive marketplace and generate cost savings and efficiencies for health care systems. By investing in the development and commercialization of biosimilars, we are able to help expand and accelerate access of these critical treatments to patients and physicians. As the leading global biosimilars company, we currently have three marketed biosimilars as part of our acquisition of Hospira, Inc. in September 2015 – Inflectra® (infliximab-dyyb), Retacrit® (epoetin zeta) and Nivestim® (filgrastim) – available to patients in several markets. Inflectra, which is marketed under other brand names in some countries, has over 111,000 patient years of experience and is approved in more than 70 countries. Our robust biosimilars pipeline consists of eight distinct molecules in mid-to-late stage development, and six in early-stage development. Three of our late-stage pipeline products have reported positive top-line data from pivotal Phase 3 studies, and full data readouts are anticipated in 2017 – 2018. Our Mid-to-Late Stage Biosimilars Portfolio: Working to develop potential biosimilars in key therapeutic areas, including: Inflammation Supportive Care • Adalimumab • Filgrastim • Infliximab • Pegfilgrastim Oncology • Bevacizumab • Rituximab • Epotein alfa (oncology and anemia • Trastuzumab due to end-stage renal disease) Over the past year, we have also worked to advance the United States (U.S.) biosimilars marketplace. Following U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval earlier in the year, Pfizer initiated wholesaler shipment of Inflectra, the first monoclonal antibody (mAb) biosimilar to be both approved and launched in the U.S. Inflectra was approved by the FDA in November 2016. To offer support to patients and providers in the U.S., Pfizer launched the Pfizer enCompass Program™, a comprehensive reimbursement and patient support program for biosimilars. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 24 Expanding our Legacy and Leadership in Anti-Infectives Since the discovery of penicillin in the 1940s, Pfizer has been actively engaged in the research and development of innovative medicines, policies and educational programs designed to address the evolving needs of patients and physicians in the area of infectious disease. • Today, Pfizer provides health care providers and patients access to the most comprehensive portfolio of anti-infective medicines in the industry. We currently commercialize more than 120 antimicrobial agents used in the treatment of bacterial, fungal, viral and parasitic infections. This includes more than 75 anti-bacterial agents offering physicians a broad array of options for the treatment of infections including those caused by potentially life-threatening methicillinresistant staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infections and multi-drug resistant Gram-negative bacteria, commonly associated with serious hospital infections. • Pfizer sponsors the largest global antimicrobial resistance (AMR) surveillance program in the world providing critical data regarding antibiotic resistance patterns that enable physicians and health care providers to make the most appropriate treatment choices for their patients. Pfizer surveillance programs have provided valuable data in over 69 countries and, since 2004, have served as the primary sources for 128 scientific publications. • In early 2016, Pfizer was a primary negotiator and signatory of the Declaration on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance, a global call to action drafted and signed by more than 100 companies and 13 trade associations encouraging greater industry and government collaboration to address the issue of antimicrobial resistance. As a follow up to the AMR Declaration, Pfizer and 13 industry partners unveiled the “Industry Roadmap to Combat Antimicrobial Resistance,” a comprehensive plan of action that lays out four key commitments we pledge to deliver by 2020. The Industry Roadmap was announced during the United Nations General Assembly meetings in September 2016. Acquisition of AstraZeneca PLC small molecule anti-infective business In December 2016, Pfizer completed the acquisition of AstraZeneca PLC’s small molecule anti-infective business, primarily outside the U.S., including the commercialization rights and development rights in certain markets to the newly approved EU drug Zavicefta™ (ceftazidime-avibactam), the marketed agents Merrem™/Meronem™ (meropenem) and Zinforo™ (ceftaroline fosamil), and the clinical development assets aztreonam-avibactam (ATM-AVI) and ceftaroline-avibactam (CXL). Zavicefta specifically addresses certain multi-drug resistant Gram-negative infections, including those resistant to carbapenem antibiotics, one of the largest threats to global health in the field of infectious disease. We believe our industry leading portfolio, global footprint and extensive medical and commercial expertise in this therapeutic area will enable us to meaningfully improve health outcomes by accelerating patient access to important medicines, and thereby help drive further growth across the PEH business. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 25 Providing Innovative and High-Quality Sterile Injectables to Patients In September 2015, Pfizer acquired Hospira, Inc. to create a leading provider of global sterile injectables that now encompasses one of the broadest and most diverse portfolios of important, difficult-to-manufacture and life-saving sterile injectable medicines in the industry. Pfizer’s extensive product portfolio, expertise and resources combined with Hospira, Inc.’s robust portfolio of off-patent sterile injectable drugs and various drug delivery systems uniquely position us to make a deep and meaningful impact on patients. Pfizer Injectables is a leading supplier of high-quality, difficult-tomanufacture injectable pharmaceutical and surgical products. $6bn OUR PORTFOLIO OF MORE THAN ~50% PFIZER PRODUCTS ACCOUNT 220 PRODUCTS ACCOUNTS FOR FOR NEARLY 50 PERCENT OF ALL APPROXIMATELY $6 BILLION IN STERILE INJECTABLE PRODUCTS ANNUAL REVENUE ADMINISTERED IN U.S. HOSPITALS Our PEH Global Brands continue to be a major growth driver in both developed and emerging markets. We believe our longstanding commitment to the manufacture of high-quality medicines and supply reliability represents a significant competitive advantage for us in terms of brand equity in local markets across the globe, particularly when compared to other generic manufacturers. Advancing Global Public Health Many PEH medicines can be found on the World Health Organization's essential medicines list and are widely used in global public health programs that help patients in need across the developing world. Thanks to a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, in 2016 we were able to help broaden access to Pfizer's long-acting injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), for women most in need living in some of the world’s poorest countries. Further Resources Our expanding access Our partnerships around to Sayana Press the globe DISCOVER MORE DISCOVER MORE Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goals 5 and 17. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 26 Our Business Pfizer Innovative Health Pfizer Innovative Health (PIH) includes six business groups – Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine (neuroscience and pain, and cardiovascular and metabolic), Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines. Each business group is committed to improving health with our innovative products from prevention to treatment to wellness – at every stage of life in communities across the globe. Our Emerging Markets group is focused on increasing access to Pfizer’s innovative portfolio of medicines to people across developing countries in Latin America, Asia, Africa and the Middle East. And, our Patient and Health Impact group develops solutions for increased patient access, demonstrates the value of our innovations and ensures broader business model innovation. With our renewed mission and bold structure designed to amplify each group’s strengths, PIH is positioned to lead change for health care around the world. We’re not just discovering new medicines – we are driving the future of health care. Consumer Healthcare Pfizer is among the largest over-the-counter (OTC) health care companies in the world. Our brands are sold across more than 90 countries and help people take charge of their own health and wellness. Our trusted brands include Advil®, Caltrate®, Centrum®, ChapStick®, Emergen-C®, Preparation H®, Nexium® 24HR, Robitussin® and ThermaCare®. By leveraging insights gleaned from consumer research, concept testing and product research, as well as by working closely with our retail partners, the Consumer Healthcare business is delivering products and solutions that anticipate consumers’ needs and fit their lifestyles. One example of our insights-driven approach in action is the introduction of Centrum VitaMints® as a new option for consumers who wanted an easy-to-take multivitamin that works with on-the-go lifestyles. We’re also taking a broad view of how our expertise and innovation can benefit even more consumers, as we look to expand our impact beyond the $250 billion OTC market to the much broader $2.5 trillion health and wellness market and bring new, innovative solutions to consumers around the world. Learn more about our Consumer Healthcare products and how they are driving health and wellness. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 27 Inflammation & Immunology (I&I) Pfizer is a global leader in developing medicines to help people with chronic immune and inflammatory diseases, and we leverage our long-standing scientific heritage to address the root causes of these conditions. We have a vast portfolio that includes new molecular entities under investigation in rheumatology, dermatology and gastrointestinal diseases. Our inline portfolio includes Xeljanz/Xeljanz® XR (tofacitinib citrate) for patients with rheumatoid arthritis and Enbrel® (etanercept) outside the U.S. and Canada for patients suffering from conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis and psoriasis. In December of 2016, the United States (U.S.) Food & Drug Administration (FDA) approved Eucrisa™ (crisaborole) ointment, two percent, for the treatment of mild-tomoderate atopic dermatitis in adults and children two years of age and older. Eucrisa, which came to Pfizer through our acquisition of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc., is a novel non-steroidal topical phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE-4) inhibitor and is the first prescription treatment for atopic dermatitis to receive FDA approval in more than a decade. Neuroscience & Pain Neurodegenerative diseases and their accompanying psychiatric symptoms are among the most devastating disorders, often robbing patients of their dignity, awareness and ability to conduct life’s most basic daily activities. By most estimates, neurologic diseases account for more disability and cost than any other disease category. Whether through the slow loss of memory and self in Alzheimer’s disease, the crippling loss of motor function in Parkinson’s disease or the change in mood and motivation that often accompanies these conditions, nervous system disorders present an enormous scientific and social challenge. The brain is a complex organ with discreet and unique neuronal THE BRAIN IS structures. It is the root of our consciousness, emotions, language, THE ROOT OF OUR memory and movement, making it a scientific puzzle researchers are still struggling to put together. In recent years, scientists have CONSCIOUSNESS, uncovered new insights on the brain thanks to the decoding of the EMOTIONS, human genome, greater understanding of brain physiology, the LANGUAGE, application of a systems and circuitry approach, and more precise MEMORY, AND imaging technologies. MOVEMENT, MAKING IT A Time is of the essence as an aging population will only increase the burden of neurodegenerative diseases.1 More than 10 million SCIENTIFIC PUZZLE people worldwide are already living with Parkinson’s disease, while RESEARCHERS ARE another 46 million have Alzheimer’s or related dementias. 2, 3 STRUGGLING TO By midcentury, these figures could triple. 4, 5 PUT TOGETHER Learn more about our how we are partnering to advance outcomes in a number of neurological conditions. Learn more about how we are re-thinking treatment procedures for neurological disorders. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 28 We continue to address the needs of patients living with different types of chronic pain – through our treatment portfolio and pipeline, and via innovative educational programs. Pfizer and Eli Lilly and Company are currently studying tanezumab, an investigational nerve growth factor antibody, for the treatment of pain in patients with osteoarthritis, chronic low back pain and cancer pain. There are currently six Phase 3 studies in approximately 7,000 patients ongoing. This year, Pfizer launched a pilot in Brazil and Mexico for a wearable device, called BeLive, which helps patients on Lyrica® (pregabalin) to better understand their chronic pain condition. The pilot program confirmed patients’ willingness to record their pain and associated symptoms on wearable wrist devices synchronized with their smartphones and demonstrated physician receptivity to wearable patient diaries rather than using paper diaries. We also conducted the Community Health Perspectives survey in collaboration with the American Diabetes Association and supported by the National Medical Association to uncover barriers and gaps in the diagnosis and management of diabetic nerve pain among African Americans and Hispanic Americans. By shining a light on the disparities, our goals were awareness and education among people with diabetes experiencing symptoms of diabetic nerve pain and to encourage them to speak with a health care provider. Cardiovascular & Metabolic Diseases For more than 50 years, Pfizer has led the way in redefining the management of cardiovascular risk by bringing much-needed treatments to patients. Today, Pfizer is focused on investigating potential cardiovascular disease therapies that treat both the metabolic abnormalities that increase the likelihood of cardiovascular disease and the heart itself by trying to alter the way it responds to the abnormal metabolic state. This includes more targeted potential therapies, as well as possible therapies that are a combination of two or more drugs, which could bring additional benefits to patients. Our early discovery efforts focus on emerging areas of cardiovascular research such as control of eating disorders, type 2 diabetes/muscle uptake of glucose and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease/non-alcoholic steatohepatitis. Pfizer has a robust pipeline that includes ertugliflozin, a SGLT-2 inhibitor being developed in collaboration with Merck & Co., Inc. for the treatment of type 2 diabetes as a monotherapy and in a fixed-dose combination with Merck's leading oral therapy Januvia® (sitagliptin). Learn more about Pfizer’s partnerships to tackle non-communicable diseases like cardiovascular disease and diabetes. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 29 Oncology As a leader in oncology, Pfizer is speeding cures and breakthrough medicines to patients, Pfizer is helping to redefine life with cancer. We have a strong oncology portfolio, including Ibrance® (palbociclib), Xtandi® (enzalutamide), and Xalkori® (crizotinib), as well as investigational assets utomilumab, lorlatinib, inotuzumab, avelumab (being developed in collaboration with Merck KGaA) and talazoparib. In 2016, we continued our scientific and regulatory momentum in oncology. Pfizer’s Ibrance, which received initial FDA approval in early 2015 and expanded approval in early 2016, obtained approval from the European Medicines Agency in late 2016 for the treatment of women with HR+/HER2-locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The approval for Ibrance is to be used in combination with an aromatase inhibitor and also covers the use of Ibrance in combination with fulvestrant in women who have received prior endocrine therapy. In March 2016, the Xalkori supplemental new drug application was approved by the FDA, granting it an additional indication for the treatment of patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) whose tumors are ROS1-positive. Additionally, August 2016 marked the fifth anniversary of the FDA approval of Xalkori, which was the first treatment approved for patients with metastatic NSCLC whose tumors are anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-positive as detected by an FDA-approved test. In addition, Xtandi demonstrated an improvement in radiographic progression in studies in patients with metastatic prostate cancer compared to patients treated with bicalutamide. We are also exploring expanded clinical applications for Xtandi, including in triple-negative breast cancer. Learn more about these milestones and how our oncology portfolio is accelerating patient impact. Learn more about our partnerships to advance immuno-oncology development. Rare Disease Rare Disease represents an important opportunity to apply Pfizer’s knowledge and expertise to help make a significant impact on addressing patients’ unmet medical needs. Pfizer has a dedicated research unit focusing on rare diseases and a global portfolio of medicines with a number of disease areas of focus including hematology, neuroscience and inherited metabolic disorders. We innovate every day through innovative strategic collaborations with academic researchers, patients and other companies that take advantage of our large global footprint. Learn more about Pfizer's Rare Disease portfolio and how we empower patients, engage communities in our clinical development programs and support programs that heighten disease awareness and meet the needs of patient families. Learn more about how Pfizer is harnessing the power of technology and innovation to advance care in rare disease. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 30 Vaccines Pfizer is dedicated to developing innovative vaccines for unmet medical needs throughout all stages of life and across all geographies. Our portfolio includes Prevnar/Prevenar 13® (pneumococcal 13-valent conjugate vaccine [diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) for pneumococcal disease, as well as Nimenrix™ (meningococcal serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y conjugate vaccine), Mencevax™ (meningococcal polysaccharide serogroups A, C, Y and W-135 vaccine), Neisvac-C™ (meningococcal group C-TT conjugate vaccine, adsorbed) and Trumenba® (Meningococcal Group B Vaccine) for meningococcal meningitis, and FSME-Immun™ for tick-borne encephalitis (TBE). In our vaccines pipeline, we are evaluating several investigational therapies with a focus on healthcare-acquired infections and maternal health. In 2016, the U.S. indication for Prevnar 13 was expanded to include adults 18 through 49 years of age, in addition to the already approved indication for adults 50 years and older, for active immunization for the prevention of pneumonia and invasive disease caused by 13 Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F). Prevnar 13 is also approved for children 6 weeks through 17 years of age (prior to the 18th birthday) for the prevention of invasive disease caused by the 13 strains of S. pneumoniae in the vaccine, and for children 6 weeks through 5 years (prior to the 6th birthday) for the prevention of ear infections caused by 7 of the 13 strains in the vaccine. In addition to providing product donations when appropriate, Pfizer also announced a major expansion of its humanitarian assistance program, enabling broader access to Prevenar 13 in humanitarian emergency settings, by offering it at the lowest prevailing price (currently $3.05 per dose). In addition, given the acute need, we indicated we will donate all sales proceeds for the first year of this program to humanitarian groups undertaking the difficult work of reaching vulnerable populations facing humanitarian emergencies. Learn more about our vaccines portfolio and how it is accelerating patient impact. References 1.  iccoli T, Partridge L. Ageing as a risk factor for disease. Curr Biol. 2012 Sep 11;22(17):R741-52. doi: 10.1016/j. N cub.2012.07.024. 2. Parkinson’s Disease Foundation. Available on http://www.pdf.org/en/parkinson_statistics. Accessed on August 1, 2016. 3. World Alzheimer Report 2015: The Global Impact of Dementia. Alzheimer’s Disease International (ADI), London. 4. Blennow K, de Leon MJ, Zetterberg H. Alzheimer disease. Lancet. 2006;368(9533):387–403. Waring SC, Rosenberg RN. Genome-wide association studies in Alzheimer disease. Arch Neurol. 2008; 65(3):329–34. Available on http://www.who.int/medicines/areas/priority_medicines/BP6_11Alzheimer.pdf Accessed on March 10, 2015. 5. Dorsey ER, Constantinescu R, Thompson JP, et al. Projected number of people with Parkinson disease in the most populous nations, 2005 through 2030. Neurology. 2007 Jan 30;68(5):384-6. Epub 2006 Nov 2. Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goals 5 and 17. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 31 Our Business Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) In September 2015, a new era of global development began when the United Nations (UN) officially launched its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to transform our world and “leave no one behind” by 2030. The UN has called for broad-based support of the SDGs, including active involvement by the private sector. To make a significant and sustainable impact, the public and private sectors, as well as civil society stakeholders, are seeking to align activities and work together. Pfizer is committed to helping facilitate industry engagement and aligning our corporate objectives to accelerate impact for healthy individuals and patients across the globe. At Pfizer, our purpose – to bring innovative therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives – forms the basis of our commitment to all 17 of the SDGs, particularly Goal 3 – delivering Good Health and Well-Being. Every day, we use our knowledge, expertise and resources to find new ways to positively impact public health, which in turn advances other global development objectives. We call this approach to global health Entrepreneurship for Good, and we are committed to using it to help achieve the SDGs. Throughout this report, you’ll see the SDG icons to highlight the work we are doing across Pfizer to meet these achievements by 2030. To learn more about all 17 SDGs, please visit the UN website. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 32 Partnering to Achieve the UN SDGs WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE Supporting Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Our Business 33 The Sustainable Development Goals that We Are Tackling While Pfizer is committed to helping achieve all 17 SDGs, the ones listed below are closely aligned to our mission as an R&D-based biopharmaceutical company: Goal 3 Good Health and Well-Being We promote holistic solutions to meet the health needs of the underserved while investing in the well-being of the global community. Goal 5 Gender Equality We seek to empower and mobilize women around the world through partnerships aimed at ensuring access to quality health care, including newborn immunizations and family planning services. Goal 6 Clean Water and Sanitation Through public-private partnerships like the International Trachoma Initiative, as well as efforts to responsibly manage our water consumption and disposal, we aim to advance public health by improving water supply, sanitation and hygiene. Goal 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure We catalyze scientific innovation through cutting-edge research initiatives and unique, results-driven partnerships in order to deliver novel medicines, vaccines and know-how to individuals around the world. Goal 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities We promote healthy behavior for people of all ages in urban environments through programs to reduce pollution, promote agefriendly policies and improve health services for those most in need. Goal 12 Responsible Consumption and Production Throughout the lifecycle of our products, we are working toward reducing our carbon footprint and increasing energy efficiency, decreasing dependence on limited resources and reducing waste. Goal 17 Partnerships for the Goals Through innovative partnerships, including collaborations with non-governmental organizations (NGOs), governments, foundations, social entrepreneurs and colleagues, we seek to fuel creative approaches that accelerate progress and improve health care. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 34 Our Priority, Goal 3: Good Health and Well-Being For Pfizer, SDG 3: Good Health and Well-Being, is inextricably linked to our belief that every individual deserves to lead a long, healthy and productive life. Good health is fundamental to advancing all of the 17 SDGs, each of which directly benefits from or contributes to advances in public health. Pfizer is exploring ways to build commercially sustainable, socially responsible business models that address areas of significant public health need in developed, middle-income and developing countries. And by partnering with socially responsible entrepreneurs, we are working collectively to advance progress toward health targets identified by the UN as critical to achieving SDG 3. Progress Made toward Transforming Good Health and Well-being by 2030 Target by 2030 Progress Target 3.1 By 2030, reduce the We support a program with the 2020 MicroClinic in Kenya to global maternal mortality ratio to implement evidenced-based interventions that decrease maternal less than 70 per 100,000 live births. and neonatal mortality and improve access to antenatal and postnatal services, including access to a skilled birth attendant. Target 3.2 By 2030, end preventable Since 2014, the Pfizer Foundation* has supported a program with deaths of newborns and children Save the Children to improve access to childhood immunizations and under five years of age, with all family planning services for women in Malawi. The initiative provides countries aiming to reduce neonatal vital newborn services like immunization, along with access to mortality to at least as low as information and services in family planning for post-partum women. 12 per 1,000 live births and Through this program we have reached over 290,000 children with under-five mortality to at least health and nutrition services while working with the local Ministry as low as 25 per 1,000 live births. of Health to address barriers to integrating family planning services. Target 3.3 By 2030, end the Pfizer has entered into collaborations to expand scientific research epidemics of AIDS, tuberculosis, with the Medicines for Malaria Venture (MMV), the Drugs for malaria and neglected tropical Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi), and the World Health diseases, and combat hepatitis, Organization Special Programme for Research and Training in water-borne diseases and other Tropical Diseases (WHO-TDR). These organizations have access communicable diseases. to our library of chemical entities and are screening them for compounds that can serve as catalysts to develop new drugs that target malaria and other tropical diseases. Target 3.5 Strengthen the We are working to help combat the development of abuse-deterrent prevention and treatment of opioids and we are committed to the manufacturing of naloxone, a substance abuse, including prescription medicine indicated for complete or partial reversal of narcotic drug abuse and harmful acute opioid over dosage. Pfizer has launched the Pfizer Naloxone use of alcohol. Access Program, a multifaceted initiative that addresses the prevention, treatment and effective response to the issue of opioid overdose. As part of the program, Pfizer will provide, free of charge, up to 1 million doses of naloxone between 2017 and 2020 to Direct Relief, a not-for-profit agency independent of Pfizer and licensed to distribute medicines to charitable and community clinics in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Pfizer is also providing $1 million in charitable grants across five states to fund initiatives focused on increasing public awareness of the risks of opioid addiction. Learn more about the Pfizer Naloxone Access Program. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 35 Target by 2030 Progress Target 3.7 By 2030, ensure universal Since 2014, the Pfizer Foundation* has awarded $12 million as part access to sexual and reproductive of its Women and Children’s Health portfolio to address barriers to health care services, including for accessing health care, including: family planning, information and • Working with PACE (the Program for Accessible Health Communication education, and the integration of and Education), the affiliate of Population Services International (PSI) in reproductive health into national Uganda, this program is specifically aimed at young women and adolescent girls. It has been designed to gain a better understanding of the health strategies and programs. market, to overcome barriers to access and to respond to young people’s sexual and reproductive needs in a meaningful and engaging way. The program also increases access to family planning information and products, as well as other reproductive health services, including HIV testing and treatment for sexually transmitted infections. • A project with the U.S. Fund for UNICEF to expand use of mobile health platforms to improve immunization delivery and health outcomes for children in their first 1,000 days of life in Uganda. • An initiative with CARE to improve the family planning counseling and clinical skills of health care providers and integrate these services into routine immunization delivery, while reducing misconceptions about family planning in under-served communities in Benin. A collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation to help broaden access to Pfizer's long-acting injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), for women most in need in some of the world’s poorest countries. Learn more about this collaboration. Target 3a Strengthen the The China Tobacco Control Partnership, with funding support from implementation of the WHO Pfizer, is providing grants and expert support to five cities that aim Framework Convention on to lessen the use of tobacco, so that smoking is no longer the norm. Tobacco Control in all countries, • Each grantee city will work toward adopting comprehensive smoke-free as appropriate. policies, educate the public on harms of tobacco use and secondhand smoke, and deliver targeted tobacco-control programs that decrease smoking, reduce exposure to secondhand smoke and encourage smokers to quit. • Via city-wide public legislation, indoor smoke-free policy implementation, training workshops, tobacco control-themed health events, large-scale World No Tobacco Day events, cessation competitions and other activities, the partnership has resulted in: –– Protection of 64.6 million people from secondhand smoke exposure where Smoke-Free Public Places policies were adopted –– Delivery of health education to 2.12 million people via 622 health education events –– Adoption of 214 smoke-free policies in businesses. * The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 36 Communicating Our Progress toward the Sustainable Development Goals To underscore the importance of industry engagement with these goals, Pfizer sought to raise public awareness about the SDGs this year. We started close to home, wrapping our New York City global headquarters building – located two blocks from UN Headquarters – with key messages and icons in partnership with the UN Foundation. Through this effort, diplomats, tourists and native New Yorkers alike were introduced to the SDGs and Pfizer's commitment to help achieve them. Pfizer Highlights Support of UN Global Goals WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE We then took the SDGs on the road. We developed an interactive booth that shared information on the goals and amplified Pfizer’s support at key conferences, including: Devex World (Washington, D.C.), Mashable Social Good Summit (New York, N.Y.) and Cleveland Clinic Medical Innovation Summit (Cleveland, Ohio). We intend to continue our awareness raising activities outside the United States in 2017. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 37 Our Business Governance and Ethics At Pfizer, we understand that good governance is essential to the success of our business and we conduct ourselves accordingly. Board of Directors Pfizer's Board of Directors is committed to protecting and enhancing shareholder value. The Board is responsible for oversight of management, including the overall strategic direction of the company, and for the company's policies on governance, executive compensation and compliance. Read more about our Board of Directors. Read more about our Corporate Governance. Ethical Sales and Marketing We are committed to promoting our products responsibly, educating patients and providers about their appropriate use, and reporting about our business practices in a fashion that promotes transparency. Read more about our Ethical Sales and Marketing. Direct-to-Consumer Advertising in the United States Our strict internal standards, going beyond compliance with the law, have been developed to ensure that the information we share with patients is scientifically sound, balanced, easy to understand and helpful in encouraging them to consult with a health care professional. Read more about our Direct-to-Consumer Advertising. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 38 Compliance We believe that compliance with all applicable laws is integral to our ability to serve society. We train colleagues extensively in compliance and have an organizational structure designed to ensure good oversight of our colleagues, vendors and business partners. Read more about our Compliance. Disclosing Payment to Health Care Professionals We do not pay health care professionals for prescribing our medicines or as an inducement for promoting our products. We believe it is appropriate and ethical to fairly compensate health care professionals for work they do on our behalf. Read more about our Disclosing Payment to Health Care Professionals. Human Rights Pfizer supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We were an early signatory to the United Nation (UN) Global Compact – a document that asks companies to embrace universal principles and to partner with the UN – that endorses 10 principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Read more about our Human Rights. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 39 Our Business Environment, Health and Safety At Pfizer, we believe that a sustainable future is essential to ensuring the health and well-being of our colleagues, the people who use our products and the communities we touch. By striving for environmental sustainability across all aspects of our organization, we aim to add additional value to society and our business by mitigating climate change and its impact, minimizing the environmental impact of our products and managing water resources. Our environmental sustainability goals focus on three areas that are core to our business: reducing carbon emissions, increasing water efficiency and looking for innovative ways to minimize waste. While these goals were established for our internal operations, we also recognize the need to drive sustainability performance across our extended environmental footprint. Therefore, in 2016 we implemented additional environmental sustainability public goals for a subset of our suppliers meeting certain criteria. We recognize there is growing interest from governmental and hospital procurement organizations, retailers and pharmacies, investors, advocacy groups, our colleagues and other stakeholders for Pfizer to provide information on our sustainability programs and the environmental impacts of products. Establishing clear commitments in these areas supports Pfizer’s ability to respond to these interests and also helps make a positive difference through the reduction of carbon emissions, waste and water use in our operations. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 40 Tracking Our 2020 Environmental Sustainability Goals Pfizer has had two successful Greenhouse Gas (GHG) reduction goals which resulted in reductions of GHG emissions by roughly half from 2000 to 2014. We are working hard to meet our third GHG reduction goal to reduce emissions 20 percent further by 2020 from a 2012 baseline. This latest goal has been recognized as a Science Based Target by an initiative led by the Carbon Disclosure Project, the United Nations Global Compact, the World Resources Institute and the World Wildlife Fund. Compared with a 2012 baseline, by the end of 2020 Pfizer has the goal to reduce: • Greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent • The amount of waste disposed by 15 percent • Water withdrawal by five percent (excluding non-contact cooling water) The majority of our internal environmental footprint is from our larger manufacturing and research and development facilities, and these facilities have local goals for greenhouse gases, waste and water that are supported by three-to-five year environmental sustainability master plans which feed into our global goals. In addition, colleagues at all our sites, supported by our Global Environmental, Health and Safety and Global Engineering experts are encouraged to identify ways to discover, develop, manufacture and supply our products in a more energy efficient and less resource intensive manner and are recognized by the Company for their efforts. Overall, these efforts allowed us to make further progress in 2016 towards our 2020 environmental sustainability goals (refer to Key Performance Indicators). Creating Supply Chain Environmental Sustainability Goals As part of our commitment to the sustainability of our supply chain, Pfizer has set the goal that by the end of 2020: • 100 percent of key suppliers support Pfizer's supplier code of conduct and align with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative principles • 100 percent of key suppliers manage their environmental impacts through effective sustainability programs • 90 percent of key suppliers institute reduction goals for greenhouse gas emissions, waste disposal and water withdrawal 2016 Annual Review Our Business 41 Pfizer has many thousands of suppliers ranging from general commodities to specialized active pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturers. In 2016, as a starting point for our goal, we identified 124 key suppliers according to these criteria: 1. Major contributors to our external environmental footprint 2. Strategic collaborators with worldwide research and development 3. Anticipate continued supply partnership for at least the next three years These suppliers were asked to complete an environmental sustainability program maturity survey. The analysis of the data from the 2016 baseline year will help determine where support is needed to advance supplier sustainability programs and bring environmental improvement and efficiency to Pfizer’s supply chain. In addition, Pfizer expects all suppliers to adhere to Pfizer’s supplier code of conduct and align with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative principles. Environmental Protection in the Manufacture, Use and Disposal of Our Medicines Supply Chain Pfizer recognizes the need to ensure that the development, manufacture and disposal of our medicines do not adversely affect human health or the environment. Following program changes in 2015, we advanced our long-standing Supplier EHS Review Program, and in 2016 increased supplier reviews at elevated risk suppliers in locations such as India and China, where the country EHS infrastructure continues to develop. Our efforts to address areas of potential environment and safety concerns in the manufacturing supply chain and with research and development suppliers will continue in 2017. Pfizer recognizes that through partnership with other companies and trade associations we can potentially make an even bigger difference. Working with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative (PSCI), Pfizer is sharing our knowledge and technical expertise with a broad pharmaceutical supplier base and next year will provide training in areas such as Green Chemistry and managing pharmaceutical ingredients in manufacturing. As a signatory to the Industry Roadmap for Progress on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance, Pfizer is committed to the pharmaceutical industry’s effort to support measures to reduce the environmental impact of the production of antibiotics. Pfizer is working with other Roadmap signatory companies to establish science-driven, risk-based targets for discharge concentrations for antibiotics and agree on a common framework for managing antibiotic wastewater discharge. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 42 Disposal of Unwanted Medicines We are aware of stakeholder concerns associated with improper disposal of expired or unwanted prescription and non-prescription medicines, such as the potential for misuse and potential environmental risks. We are actively engaged with our trade associations and other organizations to identify and take action to reduce improper disposal of expired or unwanted prescription and non-prescription medicines, and thus lessen the potential for diversion, reduce the chance for improper use of medication and help protect our water. The Pfizer Responsible Disposal Advisor website provides U.S. institutions and health care professionals with a dedicated online resource containing recommended disposal practices for all Pfizer products. “What Pfizer does to minimize the environmental impact of our business is of significant importance to our patients, colleagues and all stakeholders. Supply of medicines depends on our operations being sustainable, resilient and cost effective. In shaping our environmental policies and in understanding environmental risks, we welcome our stakeholder’s views as we seek to do what is right for our company, our patients, our environment and the communities in which we operate.” Steve Brooks Vice President, Pfizer Global Environment, Health and Safety Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goal 12. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 43 Our Business Manufacturing, Quality and Supply Chain Pfizer’s global manufacturing and supply operation brings innovative therapies to the patients who need them. Pfizer combines a global footprint – 63 manufacturing sites around the world under Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) – with technologically advanced production and cutting-edge tracking of supply to accelerate patient access. PGS colleagues are dedicated to getting medicines to patients and work closely with our research and development (R&D) partners to develop and deliver quality products that significantly improve patients' lives. Expanding Biotechnology In 2016, we announced our plans to invest approximately $350 million in the development of a state-of-the-art Global Biotechnology Center at a ground-breaking ceremony in the Hangzhou Economic Development Area (HEDA) in southeastern China. This will be Pfizer’s third biotechnology center globally and the first in Asia, and is expected to be completed in 2018. The Global Biotechnology Center will include an advanced, modular facility, created by our partner GE Healthcare, based on flexible, single-use bio-manufacturing technology that offers accelerated speed of construction and enhanced environmental standards. The modular facility is particularly notable for its ability to increase speed-to-market and manufacturing flexibility, making it easier to develop and transfer products – at costs expected to be between 25 and 50 percent of equivalent traditional facilities. Additionally, the time it will take to build this facility is greatly shortened; just 18 months compared to three years for a conventional facility. Further, in keeping with Pfizer’s Green Journey and commitment to environmental sustainability, the center is designed to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, water and energy usage as compared to traditional facilities. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 44 Developing a State-of-the-Art Biologics Clinical Manufacturing Facility In 2016, Pfizer broke ground on a new biologics clinical manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts. Expanding the company’s presence in the state, Pfizer will invest more than $200 million in the development of the 175,000-square foot, state-of-the-art facility that will help enable the production of high-quality, complex biologics and vaccines. The new building is expected to be operational by January 2019 and is expected to employ approximately 75 new employees to support clinical manufacturing. Pfizer’s Andover campus currently includes seven buildings housing laboratories, clinical and commercial manufacturing suites, and support areas. It also includes a multi-product manufacturing facility, which allows clinical and commercial products to be manufactured simultaneously, supporting a range of Pfizer product supply. Accelerating the Supply Chain Through our Highly Orchestrated Supply Network (HOSuN) approach, we have developed a supply chain that is directly sensitive to patient needs and can speed our response to those needs. Enhanced with technological advances, we are able to track movement of product throughout the entire supply chain. Learn more about how HOSuN is accelerating patient impact and driving speed to delivery. In a year, Pfizer manufactured, packaged and distributed more than 74 billion units of product that helped patients in 129 countries around the world. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 45 Global Supply Chain In a year, Pfizer manufactured, packaged and distributed more than 74bn units across 125+ countries Over Over 67bn 2bn solid oral doses injectables Over Over 135m 4bn vaccines doses of other medicines Note: some figures have been rounded for simplicity. Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goals 9 and 12. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 46 Our Business Corporate and Shareholder Information Stock Listing The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Our stock is also traded on various United States regional stock exchanges. Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar Computershare P.O. Box 30170 College Station, TX 77842-3170 Telephone: 1-800-733-9393 Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 Internet: www.computershare.com/investor Shareholder Services and Programs Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar, Computershare, with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock transfer matters, and for information on the following services and programs: • Computershare Investment Program –– Direct purchase of Pfizer stock –– Dividend reinvestment –– Automatic monthly or bi-monthly investments • Book-entry share ownership • Direct deposit of dividends 2016 Annual Review Our Business 47 Political Action Committee (PAC) To review our most recent PAC and corporate political contributions report, go online at www.pfizer.com/pac. Helplines Patients, customers and health care professionals who have questions about any of our products should call 1-800-438-1985. Patients in the U.S. who need help getting access to their Pfizer medicines should contact Pfizer RxPathways®. The program provides eligible patients with a range of support services including insurance counseling, co-pay help, providing Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings, and more. Pfizer RxPathways is a joint program of Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation™. Visit www.PfizerRxPathways.com or call 1-844-989-PATH (7284) to learn more. Additional Information You can find more information about Pfizer online: • Website: www.pfizer.com • Twitter: www.twitter.com/Pfizer • Facebook: www.facebook.com/Pfizer • LinkedIn: www.linkedin.com/company/pfizer This Annual Review is produced by Pfizer's Corporate Affairs group. Unless otherwise noted herein, the trademarks, logos and service marks appearing in the Annual Review, whether or not appearing with the trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc. or its affiliates. KUBio® is a trademark of GE Healthcare Bioprocess R&D AB. Remicade® is a trademark of Janssen Biotech, Inc. Januvia® is a trademark of Merck Sharpe & Dohme Corp. Forward-Looking Information This Annual Review includes forward-looking statements about, among other things, our anticipated future operating and financial performance, business plans and prospects, and products and product candidates that are subject to substantial risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements. Please refer to Pfizer's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, and Pfizer's subsequent reports on Form 10-Q, including the sections thereof captioned “Risk Factors” and “Forward-Looking Information and Factors That May Affect Future Results,” as well as Pfizer's subsequent reports on Form 8-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. These reports are available on our website at www.pfizer.com and on the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's (SEC) website at www.sec.gov. The forward-looking statements in this Annual Review speak only as of the original date of this Annual Review and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any of these statements, except as required by law or the rules and regulations of the SEC. 2016 Annual Review Our Business 48 Our People Culture Pfizer's OWNIT! culture empowers all colleagues to be accountable, to foster innovative thinking, to be ready for change and to build collaborative relationships that drive positive business results. We believe our OWNIT! culture also positions Pfizer for long-term success and ensures the growth and development of colleagues. “Our OWNIT! culture fosters colleagues’ accountability to deliver on their commitments that ultimately have a deep and meaningful impact on the lives of the patients that we serve. Our colleagues are encouraged to think innovatively and to leverage their collective experience on behalf of patients.” Pamela Puryear Ph.D., Senior Vice President and Chief Talent Officer, Pfizer 2016 Annual Review Our People 49 Global OWNIT! Day: Celebrating Our Colleagues and Our Culture Pfizer held its fourth annual global OWNIT! Day in April 2016. Throughout the company and around the world, colleagues took time to reflect and celebrate Pfizer's OWNIT! culture, with a core focus on accountability. Fostering a Culture of Diversity and Inclusion Pfizer’s Colleague Resource Groups (CRGs) are open to all colleagues and help drive diversity and inclusion (D&I) throughout our business. CRGs sponsor various activities, including local health fairs in underserved communities, meaningful work opportunities for high school students with developmental and intellectual disabilities, helping veterans find employment, advocacy on behalf of the LGBT community and furthering education. Our CRG groups and membership continue to grow: • 94 CRGs globally focused on providing professional networking and developmental opportunities to members and driving business results on behalf of patients. • 10,885 Pfizer colleague members. • In 2016, the Disability CRG at Pfizer's Andover, Mass. site piloted a program with local high schools to bring students with intellectual and developmental disabilities to work in part-time jobs alongside Pfizer colleagues. • The Latino CRGs hosted community health fairs in Latino communities that featured free health screenings and educational sessions. • Several CRGs gave science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) informational sessions to students in their communities. • The Italy CRG commissioned an artist to paint a mural celebrating diversity on a building. 2016 Annual Review Our People 50 The 2016 Hero Awards: Showcasing Employee Impact in Emerging Markets The Hero Awards is Pfizer's internal, global awards program that honors colleagues who embody an entrepreneurial spirit and who go above and beyond to bring innovative ideas to life. This year’s awards generated more than 100 submissions that showed the true breadth of how we are accelerating patient impact across emerging markets. • We are inspired by all of our submissions that underscore how Pfizer is making a meaningful impact in emerging markets. Some examples of our top 2016 submissions include: –– Project ECHO – Effort to Demonstrate and Resolve Real World Access Challenges in Indian Breast Cancer Treatment Landscape: Project ECHO addresses a critical unmet need to elevate awareness of breast cancer screening and early diagnosis in India. Through Project ECHO, Pfizer partnered with NGOs (non-governmental organizations) to conduct awareness and screening camps in Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Assam and Chhattisgarh. –– Adding Prevenar 13® to the National Immunization Program (NIP) in Iraq and Lebanon: Despite a challenging environment in Iraq and Lebanon, the Pfizer vaccines team challenged the status quo and utilized all cross-functional Pfizer capabilities to ensure children in these areas will have access to Prevenar 13 on its National Immunization Program (NIP). –– Saudi Arabia “Hemophilia Home Care” Project: Pfizer launched the “Hemophilia Home Care” project, which provides clinical care for hemophilia patients in their homes by offering visits with trained nurses. These nurses distribute treatment to patients, while also training patients and caregivers on how to administer the medication. To implement the program, the Pfizer hemophilia team worked closely with hematologists and home therapy advisers to ensure hemophilia patients adhered to prophylaxis treatment protocol. Ensuring the Safety of Our Colleagues At Pfizer, we have a corporate imperative to protect our employees’ health and safety, the environment and the communities in which we operate. We leverage our OWNIT! Culture as we strive toward a workplace free of injury and illness. We have developed an Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) onboarding process that accelerates the integration of new companies into Pfizer. This process helps ensure long-term sustained safety improvements and a healthy, resilient and high-performing workforce. In 2016, our EHS integration activities were focused on our newest employees from Hospira, Inc., Medivation, Inc. and Anacor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2016 Annual Review Our People 51 “As part of our integration with Pfizer, over 4,000 colleagues from legacy Hospira India were introduced to Pfizer's deep commitment to creating a healthy and safe culture at work, in the community and in the environment. I am delighted to see all of our colleagues across our manufacturing and R&D sites in India take pride and be enthusiastically engaged in initiatives that achieve Pfizer’s global Environment, Health & Safety standards. The collaborative effort of our global and India teams is helping to accelerate the implementation of these policies.” Srini Srinivasan Managing Director, Pfizer Global Supply and R&D, India Providing Employees with Hands-on Global Experience while Addressing Local Health Challenges Every year, we offer select colleagues and teams the opportunity to be paired with international development organizations to strengthen health services and build health care capacity for people in developing and emerging communities around the world. The Global Health Fellows program (GHF) is an international corporate volunteer program where Pfizer colleagues use their health and business expertise to promote access, quality, outcomes and efficiency of health services for people in need. Since 2003, more than 300 Pfizer colleagues have participated in the GHF program in more than 40 countries to address pressing global health challenges, such as limited access to care, lack of education and low immunization rates. During deployment, each Fellow works closely with a non-governmental organization (NGO) partner’s local office to help strengthen service delivery and operations for that particular organization, while also gaining new perspectives on global health challenges. By embedding our skilled colleagues in these high-need areas, we are directly impacting patients and gathering invaluable insights to drive future innovation and progress within Pfizer. In 2016, Pfizer had nine Global Health Fellows who partnered with a variety of organizations in areas with the greatest unmet need, including: • Population Services Khmer (PSK): From April through August, Rebecca served as a GHF with Population Services Khmer, the local affiliate of Population Services International (PSI), in Phnom Penh, Cambodia. PSI is a global health network across more than 50 countries dedicated to improving the health of people in the developing world by focusing on serious challenges like a lack of family planning, HIV and AIDS, barriers to maternal health, and the greatest threats to children under five, including malaria, diarrhea, pneumonia and malnutrition. While volunteering, Rebecca conducted a regional marketing assessment of PSI Asia’s social franchise models, analyzed universal health care coverage schemes and led training workshops. • Yayasan Sayangi Tunas Cilik (Save the Children’s local affiliate in Indonesia): From April through July, Kristin served as a GHF with Yayasan Sayangi Tunas Cilik, the local affiliate of Save the Children (STC), in Jakarta, Indonesia. While volunteering for STC, Kristin focused on STC’s advocacy and awareness program to promote equitable access to newborn immunizations for vulnerable children. • IntraHealth International: Francisco served as a GHF with IntraHealth International in Delhi, India from April through September to develop a three-to five-year business plan for mSakhi, an interactive smart phone app that supports frontline health workers in delivering health care services to rural mothers and their families, and helps them recognize maternal and neonatal danger signs. 2016 Annual Review Our People 52 “During my four month fellowship in Jakarta, I learned that more than 60 percent of the 18 million infants who don’t receive routine immunizations every year live here in Indonesia and nine other countries. This makes my work with partner organization Save the Children, which promotes access to newborn immunization for vulnerable children, even more meaningful.” Kristin Global Health Fellow, Pfizer Global Policy and International Public Affairs In 2016, six Global Health Teams (GHT), consisting of three or four colleagues, were deployed to South Africa and India for a three-week intensive program. In May, Pfizer deployed 11 colleagues from around the world to Johannesburg, South Africa, where they worked directly with NGOs on projects to help advance their organizational capacity and accelerate impact in communities. In this deployment, three teams were assigned to the Cancer Association of South Africa (CANSA), Population Services International and the Unjani Clinic. In October, 10 Pfizer colleagues participated in the GHT program in Mumbai, India. Colleagues were assigned to ARMMAN, Doctors for You and V CARE Foundation. Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goals 3,5,9 and 17. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Our People 53 2016 Annual Review Our People 54 Our People Board of Directors Dennis A. Ausiello, M.D. Lead Independent Director, Age: 71 Director, Center for Assessment Technology and Continuous Health (CATCH). Physician-in-Chief, Emeritus at Massachusetts General Hospital and Chief of Medicine at Massachusetts General Hospital from 1996 until April 2013. Jackson Distinguished Professor of Clinical Medicine at Harvard Medical School. President of the Association of American Physicians in 2006. Member, National Academy of Medicine and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Director of Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc., Seres Therapeutics, Inc. and TARIS BioMedical LLC. Pfizer Director since 2006. Member of our Science and Technology Committee and Lead Independent Director. Ronald E. Blaylock Age: 57 Founder, Managing Partner of GenNx360 Capital Partners, a private equity firm focused on investing in industrial and business services companies in the U.S. middle market, since 2006. Prior to launching GenNx360 Capital Partners, Mr. Blaylock founded and managed Blaylock & Company, an investment banking firm. He has also held senior management positions at UBS, PaineWebber Group, and Citicorp. Director of CarMax, Inc., Radio One, Inc. and W.R. Berkley, Inc., an insurance holding company. Director of Syncreon U.S., a for-profit private company. Member of the Board of Trustees of Carnegie Hall. Member of the Board of Overseers of New York University Stern School of Business. Member of the Board of Trustees of Prep for Prep, a not-for-profit organization. Pfizer Director since 2017. Member of our Corporate Governance and Science and Technology Committees. W. Don Cornwell Age: 69 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Granite Broadcasting Corporation from 1988 until his retirement in August 2009, and served as Vice Chairman of the Board until December 2009. Director of American International Group, Inc. and Avon Products, Inc. Director of the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation. Director of the Wallace Foundation from 2002 until 2012 and previously served as a Director of CVS Caremark (including two years as Chair of its Compensation Committee) for over 10 years. Trustee of Big Brothers Big Sisters of New York City. Pfizer Director since 1997. Member of our Audit, Compensation, Regulatory and Compliance, and Science and Technology Committees. 2016 Annual Review Our People 55 Joseph J. Echevarria Age: 60 Chief Executive Officer of Deloitte LLP (Deloitte), a global provider of professional services, from 2011 until his retirement in 2014. During his 36-year tenure with Deloitte, he served in various leadership roles, including Deputy Managing Partner, Southeast Region Audit Managing Partner, and U.S. Managing Partner and Chief Operating Officer. Director of The Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, Unum Group, a provider of financial protection benefits, and Xerox Corporation. Member of the President’s Export Council and former Member of the Presidential Commission on Election Administration. Chair Emeritus of My Brother’s Keeper Alliance. Member of the Board of Trustees of the University of Miami. Pfizer Director since 2015. Member of our Audit, Corporate Governance, and Science and Technology Committees. Frances D. Fergusson, Ph.D. Age: 72 President Emeritus of Vassar College since 2006 and President from 1986 to 2006. Served on the Mayo Clinic Board for 14 years, the last four years as its Chairman, and as President of the Board of Overseers of Harvard University from 2007 through 2008. Director of Wyeth from 2005 until 2009. Director of Mattel, Inc. A Trustee of The J. Paul Getty Trust (executive committee), Director of the Second Stage Theatre, Vice Chair of the Board of The John and Mable Ringling Museum of Art Foundation, Inc. Pfizer Director since 2009. Chair of our Regulatory and Compliance Committee and member of our Corporate Governance and Science and Technology Committees. Helen H. Hobbs, M.D. Age: 64 Investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute since 2002. Professor of Internal Medicine and Molecular Genetics, and Director of the McDermott Center for Human Growth and Development at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center. Member of the American Society for Clinical Investigation and the Association of American Physicians. Elected to the National Academy of Medicine in 2004, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2006, and the National Academy of Sciences in 2007. Received both the Clinical Research Prize (2005) and Distinguished Scientist Award (2007) from the American Heart Association. In 2012, received the inaugural International Society of Atherosclerosis Prize and, in 2015, received both the Pearl Meister Greengard Award and the Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences. In 2016, received the Passano Award and the Gill Award. Pfizer Director since 2011. Chair of our Science and Technology Committee and member of our Corporate Governance and Regulatory and Compliance Committees. 2016 Annual Review Our People 56 James M. Kilts Age: 69 Founding Partner, Centerview Capital, a private equity firm, since 2006. Vice Chairman, The Procter & Gamble Company, from 2005 to 2006. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, The Gillette Company, from 2001 to 2005 and President, The Gillette Company, from 2003 to 2005. President and Chief Executive Officer, Nabisco Group Holdings Corporation, from 1998 until its acquisition in 2000. Non-Executive Director of the Board of Nielsen Holdings PLC, Chairman of the Board of Nielsen Holdings PLC (from January 2011 until December 2013) and Chairman of the Nielsen Company B.V. (from 2009 until 2014). Executive Chairman of the Board of Conyers Park Acquisition Corporation (a special purpose acquisition company and an affiliate of Centerview Capital). Director of MetLife, Inc., and Unifi Inc. (a textile manufacturing company). Chairman of Big Heart Pet Brands until March 2015 and Director of Meadwestvaco Corporation until April 2014. Life Trustee of Knox College and Trustee of the University of Chicago, a member of the Board of Overseers of Weill Cornell Medicine, and Founder and Co-Chair, Steering Committee, of the Kilts Center for Marketing at the University of Chicago Booth School of Business. Pfizer Director since 2007. Member of our Compensation and Science and Technology Committees. Shantanu Narayen Age: 53 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director (Chairman since February 2017) of Adobe Systems Incorporated, a producer of creative and digital marketing software. Prior to his appointment as CEO in December 2007, held various leadership roles at Adobe, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Worldwide Products, and Senior Vice President of Worldwide Product Development. Director of Dell Inc. from 2009 until October 2013 and Director of Metavante Technologies Inc. from 2007 until 2009. President of the Board of Adobe Foundation, which funds philanthropic initiatives around the world. Pfizer Director since 2013. Member of our Compensation, Regulatory and Compliance, and Science and Technology Committees. Suzanne Nora Johnson Age: 59 Retired Vice Chairman, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., since 2007. During her 21-year tenure with Goldman Sachs, served in various leadership roles, including Chair of the Global Markets Institute, Head of Global Research, and Head of Global Health Care. Director of American International Group, Inc., Intuit Inc. and Visa Inc. Vice Chair, Board of Trustees of The Brookings Institution, Co-Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Carnegie Institution of Washington; Co-Chair of the Board of Trustees of the University of Southern California; and Member of the Global Agenda Council on the Future of Financial and Monetary Systems for the World Economic Forum. Pfizer Director since 2007. Chair of our Audit Committee and member of our Regulatory and Compliance, and Science and Technology Committees. 2016 Annual Review Our People 57 Ian C. Read, Age: 63 Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Pfizer since December 2011. President and Chief Executive Officer from December 2010. Previously, he served as Senior Vice President and Group President of the Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses, which he led from 2006 through December 2010. In that role, he oversaw five global business units – Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets. Mr. Read began his career with Pfizer in 1978 as an operational auditor. He worked in Latin America through 1995, holding positions including Chief Financial Officer, Pfizer Mexico, and Country Manager, Pfizer Brazil. In 1996, he was appointed President of Pfizer’s International Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Latin America and Canada. He became Executive Vice President, Europe, in 2000, was named a Corporate Vice President in 2001, and assumed responsibility for Canada, in addition to Europe, in 2002. Mr. Read later became accountable for operations in both the Africa/Middle East region and Latin America as well. Director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation. Mr. Read also serves on the Boards of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and the Partnership of New York City. Pfizer Director since December 2010. Stephen W. Sanger Age: 71 Chairman of General Mills, Inc., a packaged food producer and distributor, from 1995 until his retirement in 2008 and its Chief Executive Officer from 1995 to 2007. Former Chairman of the Grocery Manufacturers of America. Recipient of the Woodrow Wilson Award for Public Service in 2009. Chaired the Fiscal Policy Committee of the Business Roundtable and served as a director of Catalyst. Director of Wells Fargo & Company (Chairman since October 2016). Director of Target Corporation from 1996 until 2013. Pfizer Director since 2009. Chair of our Corporate Governance Committee and member of our Audit and Science and Technology Committees. James C. Smith Age: 57 President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of Thomson Reuters Corporation, a provider of intelligent information for businesses and professionals, since January 2012 and its Chief Operating Officer from September 2011 to December 2011. Chief Executive Officer, Thomson Reuters Professional Division, from 2008 to 2011. Prior to the acquisition of Reuters Group PLC by The Thomson Corporation (Thomson) in 2008, served as Chief Operating Officer of Thomson, and as President and Chief Executive Officer of Thomson Learning's Academic and Reference Group. Member of the International Business Council of the World Economic Forum, the International Advisory Boards of British American Business and the Atlantic Council. Pfizer Director since 2014. Chair of our Compensation Committee and member of our Audit and Science and Technology Committees. 2016 Annual Review Our People 58 Our People Executive Leadership Team Ian C. Read Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Ian C. Read leads Pfizer, one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies, which brings therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. These include medicines, vaccines and many of the world’s best-known consumer health care products. Prior to being named Chairman of the Board in 2011, and Chief Executive Officer in December 2010, he served as Senior Vice President and Group President of the Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses, which he led from 2006 through December 2010. In that role, he oversaw five global business units–Primary Care, Specialty Care, Oncology, Established Products and Emerging Markets. Mr. Read began his career with Pfizer in 1978 as an operational auditor. He worked in Latin America through 1995, holding positions including Chief Financial Officer, Pfizer Mexico, and Country Manager, Pfizer Brazil. In 1996, he was appointed President of Pfizer’s International Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Latin America and Canada. He became Executive Vice President, Europe, in 2000, was named a Corporate Vice President in 2001, and assumed responsibility for Canada, in addition to Europe, in 2002. Mr. Read later became accountable for operations in both the Africa/Middle East region and Latin America as well. Ian is a Director of Kimberly-Clark Corporation. He also serves on the Boards of Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations (IFPMA) and the Partnership of New York City. Ian received his B.Sc. in chemical engineering from London University Imperial College in 1974 and earned his Chartered Accountants certification from the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales. Albert Bourla, DVM,Ph.D. Group President, Pfizer Innovative Health Albert Bourla is the group president of Pfizer Innovative Health at Pfizer Inc., one of the world’s premier innovative biopharmaceutical companies. Pfizer Innovative Health includes six business groups: Consumer Healthcare, Inflammation & Immunology, Internal Medicine (neuroscience and pain, and cardiovascular and metabolic), Oncology, Rare Disease and Vaccines. Each business group is committed to improving health with our innovative products from prevention to treatment to wellness – at every stage of life in communities across the globe. It also includes the Patient and Health Impact group, which is focused on developing solutions for increased patient access, demonstrating the value of our innovations, and ensuring broader business model innovation. Albert has almost 25 years of experience with Pfizer and has held a number of senior global positions across a range of markets and disciplines. Before assuming his current role, Albert was the group president of Pfizer’s Global Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer Healthcare Business. Previously, he was president and general manager of Pfizer’s Established Products Business, where he led the development and implementation of strategies and tactics related to Pfizer’s off-patent portfolio (including legacy brands and generics). 2016 Annual Review Our People 59 Albert joined Pfizer’s Animal Health Division in 1993 as technical director of Greece. He held positions of increasing responsibility across Europe before moving to Pfizer Global Headquarters in New York in 2001 to assume the role of U.S. group marketing director for Animal Health. In 2004, he became vice president of Business Development and New Products Marketing; supervising Pfizer Animal Health global licensing and acquisition activities, as well as the unit’s R&D portfolio. In 2006, he was appointed area president of Europe, Africa and Middle East and in 2009, he assumed additional responsibilities for Asia and Pacific. Albert is a Doctor of Veterinary Medicine and holds a Ph.D. in the Biotechnology of Reproduction from the Veterinary School of Aristotle University. Albert is a member of the following boards: the Pfizer Foundation, which promotes access to quality health care and the Biotechnology Innovation Organization (Bio), the world's largest biotechnology trade association. Frank D'Amelio Executive Vice President, Business Operations and Chief Financial Officer Frank D’Amelio is the executive vice president, business operations and chief financial officer of Pfizer, responsible for finance, business development and business operations, including IT, procurement and real estate. Frank led the acquisition and integration of Medivation, Inc., Anacor Pharmaceuticals Inc., Hospira Inc., King Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Wyeth, as well as the split-off of Pfizer’s animal health business, Zoetis, and the sale of its nutrition business to Nestle and its Capsugel business to KKR. Before joining the company in September 2007, he was senior executive vice president of integration and chief administrative officer of Alcatel-Lucent, responsible for the integration of the Alcatel-Lucent merger as well as procurement, real estate, IT and supply chain. Prior to the merger of Alcatel and Lucent Technologies in 2006, Frank was the chief operating officer of Lucent Technologies. In 2001, he was appointed executive vice president and chief financial officer of Lucent, where he helped lead the company through one of the most challenging periods in the telecom industry’s history and returned the company to profitability. When Lucent was spun off from AT&T in 1996, Frank helped create the new company financially as the chief financial officer of Lucent’s Network Systems Business and was a critical member of the team that met with investors around the world during Lucent’s initial public offering. In 1999, he was appointed the Group President of Lucent’s Switching Solutions Business Unit, where he led Lucent’s multibillion-dollar, global Switching, Access and Application Software businesses. Born and raised in New Jersey, Frank earned his M.B.A. in Finance from St. John’s University and his B.A. in Accounting from St. Peter’s College. He started his career in 1979 at Bell Labs, holding a variety of financial, accounting and general management positions, and moved within AT&T, holding a series of positions with increasing responsibility. In 2005, 2006, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2016, Frank was ranked among America’s top CFOs by Institutional Investor magazine. In 2002, he was recognized by Treasury & Risk Magazine as one of America’s Top CFOs. He currently serves on the Board of Directors of Zoetis, Inc. and Humana, Inc. and is chair of the Humana Audit Committee; and the Independent College Fund of New Jersey. 2016 Annual Review Our People 60 Mikael Dolsten, M.D., Ph.D. President, Worldwide Research and Development Mikael Dolsten is focused on advancing the company’s scientific leadership in small molecule medicines, biotherapeutics and vaccines. He is a member of the company’s Portfolio Strategy and Investment Committee, which governs major pipeline investments and strategic end-to-end R&D priorities. He leads the Worldwide Research and Development (WRD) organization at Pfizer, which is responsible for research at the company, including development of all compounds through proof of concept, and provides safety, regulatory and clinical operation support to the entire R&D pipeline. The WRD group contains all Pfizer research units, including Oncology, Inflammation & Immunology, Vaccines, Cardiovascular & Metabolic Disease, Neuroscience, Rare Disease, as well as the Centers for Therapeutic Innovation (CTI) and the biotech unit, Rinat. Mikael also has worldwide responsibility for Pfizer’s groups in safety, regulatory and external R&D innovation, in addition to science-based teams in pharmaceutical sciences, drug safety R&D, and large and small molecule discovery and development. Prior to joining Pfizer in 2009, Mikael was President of Wyeth Research, where he led scientists across the U.S., Europe and Asia. Mikael earned his Ph.D. in tumor immunology and M.D. from the University of Lund in Sweden, where he was appointed Adjunct Professor in Tumor Immunology. He is a fellow of the New York Academy of Medicine. Mikael serves on the Science and Regulatory Executive Committee of The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA) and the PhRMA Foundation Board of Directors. He is a member of the Board of Karyopharm Therapeutics Inc. and an industry member of the GovernmentUniversity-Industry Research Roundtable (GUIRR) Council. In addition, Mikael serves as the chairman of the Translational Advisory Board of the venture capital firm, AppleTree Partners. Mikael is a named inventor on several patents and has published approximately 150 articles in international journals, with particular contributions in areas such as molecular cell biology, immunology and oncology. Chuck Hill Executive Vice President, Worldwide Human Resources As chief human resources officer, Chuck Hill is responsible for all enterprise human resource strategies with a key focus on driving the company’s OWNIT! culture. Chuck joined Pfizer’s human resources team in 1987, supporting the Pharmaceutical Sales Force. Since then, he has held a number of roles including HR director of Pfizer’s Global Manufacturing facility in Groton, Connecticut; vice president HR, corporate finance; and senior vice president HR, Worldwide Biopharmaceuticals Businesses. Prior to joining Pfizer, Chuck served for eight years in the United States Air Force as an instructor fighter pilot and flight commander. Chuck is the executive sponsor of the Pfizer Colleague Council, Veterans in Pfizer, which works to maximize the unique role veterans and active military personnel play in driving workplace and marketplace outcomes. Chuck holds a B.A. in business from Rutgers University and an M.S. in Systems Management from the University of Southern California. Chuck and his wife, Cathy, have two children and live in Connecticut. 2016 Annual Review Our People 61 Rady Johnson Executive Vice President, Chief Compliance and Risk Officer Rady Johnson has overall responsibility for Pfizer’s corporate compliance programs and reports to the chief executive officer. Rady has been with Pfizer since 1994 and has served in a number of leadership positions, including as associate general counsel for the Specialty Care Business Unit and as head of the global product and regulatory law practice group. Prior to joining the company, Rady was a member of Hogan & Hartson, LLP’s food and drug law practice group based in Washington D.C., and also worked as a certified public accountant (CPA) and senior auditor for Arthur Anderson & Co. Rady graduated from the University of Richmond and Georgetown University Law Center. Doug Lankler Executive Vice President and General Counsel Doug Lankler joined Pfizer in 1999 and currently serves as general counsel. Prior to being named general counsel, Doug was Pfizer's chief compliance and risk officer, a role he assumed in 2006. Prior to joining the company, Doug was with the United States Department of Justice as an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Southern District of New York. Doug was a recipient of the United States Attorney General's Distinguished Service Award. Doug graduated from the State University of New York at Albany and Cornell Law School. He and his wife, Jill, have three children and reside in Larchmont, N.Y. Freda C. Lewis-Hall, M.D., DFAPA Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer Freda Lewis-Hall serves as Pfizer’s chief medical officer and leads Pfizer Medical, the division responsible for the safe, effective and appropriate use of Pfizer medicines and vaccines around the world. Besides providing sciencegrounded medical information to prescribers and patients, Pfizer Medical is also responsible for the company’s office of patient affairs, its centers of excellence on pediatric care, clinical trial diversity and healthy aging, its enterprise benefit-risk communications, and its worldwide compassionate access program. Before joining Pfizer in 2009, Freda held senior leadership positions in medical affairs and product development with Vertex, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Pharmacia and Eli Lilly and Company. Prior to joining the biopharmaceutical industry, she served as vice chairperson and associate professor in the Department of Psychiatry at Howard University College of Medicine and was an advisor to the National Institute of Mental Health. She graduated from Johns Hopkins and earned her medical doctorate at Howard University College of Medicine. She launched her medical career as a practicing physician and then focused her academic research on the effects of health care disparities and the impact of mental illness on families and communities. Freda is a Distinguished Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association. She is a frequent speaker on issues such as improving patient safety and outcomes and reducing stigma and health care disparities. She appears regularly on health-related television programs in major global markets, including CBSsyndicated shows such as The Doctors and Dr. Phil. She also shares health and medical information through GetHealthyStayHealthy.com. 2016 Annual Review Our People 62 Freda was the inaugural Chair of the NIH’s Cures Acceleration Network Review Board. She currently serves on the boards of Tenet Healthcare Corporation, Save the Children, Harvard Medical School and the Patient Centered Outcomes Research Institute. She is a director of the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and a member of the Advisory Council for the NIH’s National Center for Advancing Translational Science. Kirsten Lund-Jurgensen, Ph.D. Executive Vice President and President, Pfizer Global Supply Kirsten was named executive vice president and president, Pfizer Global Supply (PGS) in December 2016 and is responsible for Pfizer’s internal and external supply network. Kirsten's pharmaceutical industry career spans 30 years, the last 17 with Pfizer, after joining the company from SmithKline Beecham in 1999 as vice president, global supply chain management, Pharmaceuticals. At SmithKline Beecham (Germany, Australia and the U.S.), Kirsten held several operational and functional roles, including site leader of consumer and pharmaceutical plants; vice president, global strategic planning; and vice president, contractor management, Europe. Kirsten was named vice president, supply chain management for all Pfizer global businesses in 2000. She then led the Patented Products Operating Unit (Manufacturing Sites in Europe and Singapore) 2008-2009, and the Primary Care and Oncology Operating Unit (Manufacturing Sites in Europe, Singapore, Canada) 2009-2012. Kirsten was named vice president, Product Portfolio Management for Primary Care, Established Products and Oncology in 2012. Kirsten was appointed as product portfolio management lead and PGS lead for Vaccines, Oncology and Consumer in 2014 and subsequently vice president, Innovative Health Product Portfolio Management and Consumer Operations. Kirsten has been a member of the PGS Leadership Team since 2000, and was the PGS lead on several of Pfizer’s Business Leadership Teams (Pfizer Consumer, Primary Care, Specialty Care, Established Products and Pfizer Innovative Health) driving collaboration between global supply and commercial teams. Kirsten has chaired Pfizer’s Environmental Sustainability Council since 2009 and was elected to the Pfizer Foundation Board in 2008. Kirsten is a pharmacist from Kiel University in Germany and holds a Ph.D. in Pharmaceutical Biology from Freiburg University in Germany. 2016 Annual Review Our People 63 Rod MacKenzie, Ph.D. Executive Vice President, Chief Development Officer Rod MacKenzie is responsible for the development and advancement of Pfizer’s pipeline of medicines in several therapeutic areas, including metabolic disease and cardiovascular risks, inflammation and immunology, neuroscience, oncology and rare disease. He serves on the Portfolio Strategy and Investment Committee, which focuses on maximizing the return on R&D investment across the Pfizer portfolio. Rod joined Pfizer in Sandwich, U.K. as a research scientist and conducted medicinal chemistry research in the cardiovascular, gastroenterology, sexual health, urology, allergy and respiratory diseases. Rod is the co-inventor of Enablex™ (darifenacin) and represents Pfizer on the Board of Directors for ViiV Healthcare Limited, a global specialist HIV company established by GlaxoSmithKline and Pfizer to deliver advances in treatment and care for people living with HIV. Rod graduated from the University of Glasgow with a 1st Class Honors degree in chemistry and completed his Ph.D. at Imperial College, London. He was awarded a NATO Postdoctoral Research Fellowship and spent two years at Columbia University, New York, working in the area of molecular recognition with Professor W.C. Still. Laurie J. Olson Executive Vice President, Strategy, Portfolio and Commercial Operations Laurie Olson is responsible for overseeing the shaping of Pfizer’s longer-term strategy, supporting the execution of Pfizer’s commercial objectives and providing portfolio advisory functions to guide R&D investment decisions. Laurie is a member of the Portfolio Strategy Investment Committee, which oversees decisions regarding enterprise portfolio investment and advancement. Laurie joined Pfizer in 1987 as an analyst in the company’s marketing research organization. In addition to her daily responsibilities, she is the executive sponsor of Pfizer’s global Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Colleague Council and serves on the company’s worldwide Diversity Leadership Council. Laurie earned a B.S. degree in economics from the State University of New York at Stony Brook and an M.B.A. in marketing from Hofstra University. 2016 Annual Review Our People 64 Sally Susman Executive Vice President, Corporate Affairs Sally Susman is executive vice president, Corporate Affairs for Pfizer. She chairs Pfizer’s Political Action Committee and is vice chair of the Pfizer Foundation. Sally directs Pfizer’s global communications and its public affairs activities, including high-level relations with the governments of all nations in which the Company has operations or markets products. Sally also heads the firm’s corporate responsibility group and plays a key role in shaping the company’s policy initiatives. Before joining Pfizer in 2007, Sally held roles at Estee Lauder Companies and the American Express Company. Earlier in her career, she spent eight years in government service focused on international trade issues. Sally serves on the following boards: WPP plc, a world leader in advertising and marketing based in the U.K., and The International Rescue Committee. John Young Group President, Pfizer Essential Health John Young has more than 25 years of experience with Pfizer and has held a number of senior global positions across the organization. A scientist by training, he began his Pfizer career in the U.K. as a trainee sales representative and held various positions in sales and marketing before taking the role of Australia country manager, and, later, U.K. country manager. Following these experiences, he assumed the role of regional president, Europe, Canada, Australia and New Zealand for the Primary Care Business Unit. He was later appointed president and general manager of the Primary Care Business, where he led both the commercial organization and clinical development of medicines in key disease areas including cardiovascular disease, diabetes and pain. John is a member of the Boards of EFPIA (European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations), the NCUSCR (National Committee for U.S. China Relations), and has been a member of the U.K. Government bioscience working group, the MISG (Ministerial Industry Strategy Group), since 2008. John holds a B.Sc. in biological science from Glasgow University and an M.B.A. from Strathclyde Graduate Business School. He is married with three daughters. 2016 Annual Review Our People 65 Scientific Innovation Consumer Healthcare Innovation, inspired by deep consumer insights, underpins the health and wellness solutions we bring to consumers around the world. Whether developing a better way to treat pain, improve nutrition, or enhance vitality and appearance, we look to our consumers to guide the work we do to improve their lives with high-quality, trusted brands. Using Open Innovation and Venture Design to Accelerate Innovation in Health and Wellness In 2016, we forged a partnership with frog, a global design and strategy firm, to launch the Design Collaborative, an initiative to develop new health and wellness solutions for consumers in the areas of improved sleep, stress management, energy, aging, better breathing and nutrition. The Design Collaborative is an example of Venture Design, which is an approach to leveraging design methodologies for near-to mid-term scalable business impact through the creation of new product ecosystems, services and businesses. It allows us to build on our own efforts to develop new, innovative ways for consumers to achieve better health and wellness by tapping into the creativity and thinking taking place in the world around us. In addition, we partnered with tech learning company Galvanize, Inc. to launch a health and wellness innovation program, which provided support for 20 start-up companies developing potential solutions to help people sleep, eat and manage their stress better. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 66 Innovating Our Portfolio Consumer needs and preferences evolve continuously and we stay attuned to ensure our brands keep pace. This year, for example, we launched ChapStick® DUO, an innovative product and package designed to delight teens, a new niche market for our lip care business. To land on the final product, we conducted extensive testing with nearly 2,700 consumers and developed almost 300 concept sketches and packaging prototypes. Leveraging what we learned, we developed a dual-sided detachable lip balm that can be purchased as a single unit or double-pack flavor combination – a true innovation for our 125-year-old brand. Using Real-World Insights to Evolve Our Products Our passion for understanding consumer behavior is not limited to the laboratory. We extend our quest to understand how consumers use or would like to use our products through our Consumer Home, built within our research facility in Richmond, Virginia. An actual home within our research facility, the Consumer Home enables us to observe consumer behavior in real time and in a real-life environment. Our scientists and researchers study consumers as they go about household activities, looking at everything from where they store a medicine and their first instinct when they have a cold, to what happens when they wake up in the middle of the night and need a pain reliever. We assess how factors like package design affect their work in the kitchen. By using sensors and state-of-the-art recording devices, we capture authentic reactions to various healthrelated scenarios so that we can learn about both their routines and emotions, and leverage these learnings to evolve our products. In the end, our Consumer Home helps us design and market products that truly hit “home.” Consumer Healthcare WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 67 Scientific Innovation Oncology Few words in health care can have such a devastating impact on patients and their families as “cancer.” That motivates us to bring innovative treatments to the forefront and drives us to harness the power of the latest in targeted treatments for our oncology patients. Introducing a New Class of Cancer Treatments in Europe Pfizer’s Ibrance® (palbociclib) received approval from the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in late 2016, >45,000 for the treatment of women with hormone receptorSINCE LAUNCH, positive (HR+), human epidermal growth factor receptor MORE THAN 45,000 2-negative (HER2-) locally advanced or metastatic breast PATIENTS HAVE cancer. The approval is for Ibrance to be used in combination BEEN PRESCRIBED with an aromatase inhibitor and also covers the use of Ibrance in combination with fulvestrant in women who IBRANCE IN THE U.S. have received prior endocrine therapy. This milestone follows the initial approval of Ibrance from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2015 and its expanded approval in early 2016. Ibrance is the first CDK 4/6 inhibitor approved in either the United States (U.S.) or Europe, representing a new class of treatments for breast cancer. It is also the first new medicine approved in the first-line setting in nearly a decade for the treatment of women in Europe with this type of metastatic breast cancer. Women with HR+/HER2metastatic breast cancer represent about 60 percent of all metastatic breast cancer cases. The 10th Annual Prix Galien USA Awards in New York honored Pfizer and Ibrance in 2016 with the prestigious “Best Pharmaceutical Product” Award. Prix Galien USA recognizes exceptional pharmaceutical innovations that have improved health around the globe, and Pfizer’s metastatic breast cancer medicine took the top prize in a category of 22 products. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 68 Providing Holistic Support to Women with Breast Cancer >$35m Many patients with metastatic breast cancer have needs that extend well beyond the hospital treatment room. The Seeding Progress And Resources for the Cancer Community: Metastatic Breast Cancer SINCE 2014, PFIZER Challenge (SPARC), an initiative launched by the Union for International HAS PROVIDED Cancer Control (UICC) in partnership with Pfizer, has awarded grants to MORE THAN $35 20 organizations in 18 countries around the globe who are addressing MILLION TO UNIQUE unmet needs for this patient community. Pfizer continued its support BREAST CANCER of SPARC in 2016, which included such diverse programs as creating RESEARCH FUNDING a support group for rural women living with breast cancer in Rwanda, developing an online community for metastatic patients in Mexico and PARTNERSHIPS training nurses to educate metastatic breast cancer patients in Bulgaria. Advancing the Science for Men with Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer This year, the FDA approved a supplemental New Drug Application (sNDA) to update the U.S. product labeling for Xtandi® (enzalutamide) capsules to include new clinical data from its TERRAIN study. As published in The Lancet Oncology, the data demonstrated a statistically significant increase in radiographic progression-free survival in patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) who were treated with bicalutamide (Hazard Ratio 0.44; 95% Confidence Interval, 0.34-0.57; p<0.0001). Importantly, the safety profile of enzalutamide was shown to be consistent with results of earlier enzalutamide trials. We are also exploring potential expanded clinical applications for the drug, including in triple-negative prostate cancer. Increasing Treatment Options for People with ROS1-Positive Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer The positive news for Pfizer’s oncology portfolio continued in 2016, with the FDA and EMA granting approval for Xalkori® (crizotinib) for the treatment of patients with ROS1-positive metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Xalkori is the first and only approved biomarker-driven therapy for ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC in both the U.S. and the EU. Additional marketing applications for the ROS1-positive NSCLC indication are planned or currently in review in select countries worldwide. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 69 Reshaping the Field of Oncology This year, Pfizer also accelerated its work in immuno-oncology (IO), the use of the immune system to treat cancer. Immunotherapies are designed to harness the natural ability of the immune system to fight cancer and are different from other approaches like radiation or chemotherapy. They work on the immune system throughout the body, helping it to recognize cancer cells and potentially produce a response. We believe the full promise of IO has yet to be discovered. Despite groundbreaking progress in IO, current treatments only help a small population of patients. Therefore, at Pfizer, we are working rapidly in the search for novel technologies to identify solutions across multiple cancer types. • We currently have 11 IO compounds in the clinic and we are evaluating them as both monotherapies and as combination treatments. • Our avelumab program with Merck KGaA now has 30 studies ongoing, nine of which are in Phase 3, including two each in lung, gastric and ovarian cancers, and one each in bladder, renal cell carcinoma and locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN). • This year, we received FDA Priority Review and EMA validation of our regulatory submissions for avelumab in Merkel cell carcinoma, based on Phase 2 data. • We are leading checkpoint inhibitor registration-enabling Phase 3 studies in ovarian cancer as part of our avelumab program. • Four of our Phase 3 studies in the avelumab program are for combination with chemotherapy; two for ovarian cancer, one for bladder cancer and one for locally advanced SCCHN. • We have initiated combination studies of avelumab with immunotherapies, targeted therapies and chemotherapy, including: 4-1BB across various types of tumors, Xalkori and lorlatinib in non-small cell lung cancer, Inlyta® (axitinib) in first-line treatment of renal cell carcinoma, and studies with chemotherapy in ovarian, bladder and head and neck cancers. • In addition to avelumab, we have studies underway with many other agents in our portfolio including: –– OX-40 is being studied as a single agent, in combination with 4-1BB and with avelumab in various tumor types. –– PTK7 is being studied in Phase 1b and combination studies with avelumab expected to commence in 2017. –– Our IDO1 inhibitor is also in Phase 1 and we expect combination studies to start in 2017. –– Our clinical allogeneic CAR T cell program with Cellectis and Servier is on track, with recruitment in the United Kingdom ongoing. Collaborating to Spur Progress We know that cancer is a disease that no one should fight alone. By working collaboratively with academic institutions, individual researchers, cooperative research groups, governments and licensing partners, Pfizer strives to cure or control cancer with its breakthrough medicines. In 2016, we entered into many significant partnerships. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 70 Directly Engaging with the Cancer Community Our work to advance the science of cancer is augmented by our support for outreach programs that connect directly with cancer patients and caregivers. Hearing firsthand the needs of these patients and their families and caregivers deepens our understanding of how best to serve them and enables us to accelerate those programs and treatments that deliver positive impact. Pfizer also works directly with advocates to ensure the patient perspective is incorporated into therapy management tools we develop for our products. For example, we held patient advocacy advisory boards in 2015 and 2016 to better understand the unmet needs of acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) patients and caregivers and their treatment priorities. Based on feedback that newly diagnosed patients needed a “first-aid kit” to better understand their disease, we partnered with Patient Power in Europe to develop two acute leukemia video “health centers” that include 88 videos featuring experts explaining AML and ALL. A subsequent version of the hub, to be launched in 2017, will augment the video library with perspectives from both patients and caregivers. Patient Power Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia and Acute Myeloid Leukemia video health centers: • Includes 88 videos featuring interviews with 14 international key opinion leaders in five languages • Received more than 65,000 views across various channels (Patient Power website, Oncology Tube and YouTube) • Featured a Twitter handle (@PatientPower) that became the second most influential Twitter account in ALL during the Summer of 2016 • Patient Power in Europe was recognized in the 2016 awards, winning Gold in Communique 2016, EVCOM 2016 and PMEA 2016 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 71 Scientific Innovation Rare Disease Pfizer is working to accelerate the development of effective therapies for patients affected by rare diseases, which are often debilitating conditions with exceptionally low prevalence. We are positioned to use our global resources to help address the challenges of living with a rare disease and develop new medicines for those in need, through community partnerships, research and development, robust patient support and educational initiatives. Accelerating our Gene Therapy Leadership “The field of gene therapy research has made tremendous strides in recent years. We believe that gene therapy may hold the promise of bringing true disease modification for patients suffering from devastating diseases, and we hope to see this promise come to fruition – through new and existing in-house capabilities and potential partnership opportunities – in the years to come.” Mikael Dolsten M.D., Ph.D., President of Pfizer Worldwide Research and Development Gene therapy holds tremendous promise to potentially deliver highly specialized, transformative therapies to patients in areas of high unmet medical need, particularly in rare, monogenic diseases with loss of function. Recognizing the promise of gene therapy, Pfizer has been making investments in this arena for the past several years, seeking to bring together the foremost expertise in recombinant Adeno-Associated Virus (rAAV) vector design and development through partnerships, deepening our existing in-house knowledge of disease biology, and expanding upon our strong expertise in complex biologic medicine manufacturing and analytical capabilities. Pfizer amplified this commitment in 2016 by acquiring Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc., a biotechnology company based in Chapel Hill, N.C., focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare diseases related to neuromuscular conditions. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 72 Bamboo’s portfolio includes potential best-in-class rAAV-based gene therapies that will complement Pfizer’s rare disease and gene therapy portfolios in two priority areas: neuromuscular, with a pre-clinical asset for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), and central nervous system, with pre-clinical assets for Friedreich’s ataxia and Canavan disease, and a Phase 1 asset for giant axonal neuropathy. Bamboo’s approximately 11,000-square foot, fully staffed and operational manufacturing facility has experience producing Phase 1/2 materials using a superior suspension, cell-based production platform that increases scalability, efficiency and purity. This helps enable the DMD program and other projects requiring large amounts of rAAV. The facility, previously known as the University of North Carolina Vector Core facility, has served as a qualified supplier of rAAV vectors for several health care companies and academic institutions. The acquisition of Bamboo has significantly progressed Pfizer’s ability to develop and bring to market potentially life-changing treatments for patients in need. Learn more about how Pfizer are using the power of technology and innovative science to advance patient care. Our collaboration with Spark Therapeutics, Inc. a fully integrated gene therapy company dedicated to challenging the inevitability of genetic disease, regarding investigational therapy SPK-9001, a potentially transformative treatment for hemophilia B that incorporates a bio-engineered rAAV vector, has seen encouraging progress in 2016. The companies have announced positive initial data from the first nine participants in a Phase 1/2 clinical trial evaluating SPK-9001. In July, SPK-9001 received breakthrough designation from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA), which is intended to expedite the development and FDA review of drugs to treat a serious or life-threatening disease or condition. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 73 Scientific Innovation Vaccines Every day, we work toward a healthier world by taking on bacterial, viral and infectious diseases that threaten people around the globe. We do this by inventing, developing and championing vaccines, which provide essential health benefits to people of all ages; in other words, Pfizer helps people be “Ready for Life.” We are also progressing and shaping the future of vaccines through investment in research and development (R&D), technology and expanding access to those in need. Expanding Pneumococcal Protection In 2016, Prevnar 13® (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]) – known as Prevenar 13 outside the United States (U.S.) – became the only pneumococcal vaccine approved in the U.S. for patients six weeks of age through adulthood when it received U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval for an expanded age indication to include adults 18 through 49 years of age. This builds on the already approved indications for adults 50 years and older for active immunization for the prevention of pneumonia and invasive disease caused by 13 Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae) serotypes (1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F). Prevnar 13 is also approved for children six weeks through 17 years of age (prior to the 18th birthday) for the prevention of invasive disease caused by the 13 strains of S. pneumoniae in the vaccine, and for children six weeks through five years (prior to the sixth birthday) for the prevention of ear infections caused by seven of the 13 strains in the vaccine. Pfizer also received approval from the Chinese Food and Drug Administration (CFDA) to market Prevenar 13 in China for the prevention of invasive diseases (including bacteremic pneumonia, meningitis, septicemia and bacteremia) caused by S. Pneumoniae serotypes 1, 3, 4, 5, 6A, 6B, 7F, 9V, 14, 18C, 19A, 19F and 23F in infants and children aged six weeks to 15 months. S. Pneumoniae is the most common cause of invasive disease as well as pneumonia and upper respiratory tract infections. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 74 In Turkey, Prevenar 13 was officially recommended and funded by the Turkish Ministry of Health, as part of the recently launched National Adult Immunization Program, for the prevention of pneumococcal diseases of adults over 65 years of age and aged 18-64 with comorbid diseases. This funding builds on the successful pediatric National Immunization Program and is expected to help protect over 15 million eligible adults in Turkey. Prevenar 13’s reach is truly global, approved for infants and young children in more than 150 countries, and for adults aged 50 years and older in more than 100 countries. Manufacturing and delivering world-class vaccines is complex. For example, one dose of Prevenar 13 requires 580 manufacturing steps, over 1,700 employees, 678 quality tests, 400 different raw materials, and more than two-and-a-half years to manufacture from start to finish. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 75 Prevnar 13’s Global Reach Approved for young children and infants in 150+ countries Approved for adults 50yrs+ in 100+ countries One dose of Prevenar 13 requires: 400 580 different raw materials manufacturing steps 678 1,700 quality tests employees 21/2+ years to manufacture from start to finish According to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), there has been a 99 percent reduction of invasive pneumococcal disease of the vaccine type among children under five years of age, following the addition of Prevnar 13 to the routine pediatric immunization program in the U.S., compared to the previous base. Learn more about what Pfizer is doing to promote access to Prevenar 13 around the world. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 76 Accelerating Protection against Meningococcal Disease Our meningococcal vaccines portfolio is built with vaccines that help protect against the five most common disease-causing serogroups – A, C, W-135, Y and B (approvals varying by country). An important update for the dosing of Trumenba® (Meningococcal Group B Vaccine), the first meningitis B vaccine approved in the U.S., was recommended by the CDC Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) in 2016, offering guidance to health care providers administering Trumenba. Trumenba helps to prevent meningococcal group B disease, also known as MenB, in healthy adolescents and young adults, as well as those at increased risk for the disease. This new recommendation enables flexible vaccination dosing intervals depending on one’s risk of exposure to MenB, which makes it easier for health care providers to help protect individuals from this uncommon but life-threatening disease. Additionally, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) accepted the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for Trumenba for review. The acceptance marks the beginning of the regulatory review process for this vaccine in the European Union (EU). In 2016, the European Commission (EC) approved an expanded indication for Nimenrix™ (meningococcal group A, C, W-135 and Y, or MenACWY, conjugate vaccine) for active immunization against invasive meningococcal disease (IMD) caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y in infants as early as six weeks of age. Nimenrix is now the first and only MenACWY conjugate vaccine in the European Union (EU) that can be administered from six weeks of age with no upper age limit. With this approval, Nimenrix now has the broadest age indication of any conjugate vaccine in Europe against invasive meningococcal disease caused by Neisseria meningitidis serogroups A, C, W-135 and Y. Finding Solutions for Health Care-Associated Infections There is an urgent global health need for a vaccine that could protect pregnant women and their infants against group B Streptococcus (GBS) infection, a leading cause of a serious neonatal blood infection (sepsis), pneumonia and meningitis. In many cases, GBS bacteria are passed from mother to baby during labor and birth. In an effort to protect these newborns and their mothers, Pfizer was awarded a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2016 to support its Phase 1/2 clinical trial of Pfizer’s vaccine candidate against GBS infection, particularly in developing countries where prophylactic administration of antibiotics is not routine. The investigational vaccine would protect newborns via maternal immunization. About one out of every four pregnant women carries group B Streptococcus bacteria, which can be passed from mother to baby during labor and birth Pfizer is also investigating a vaccine that targets the two main disease-causing toxins produced by Clostridium difficile (C. difficile), a hospital-acquired infection that causes watery diarrhea, fever, loss of appetite, nausea and abdominal pain. In severe cases, it causes hospitalization and death. The FDA granted Fast Track designation to our investigational C. difficile vaccine candidate, and we have initiated a Phase 2 clinical trial to investigate the candidate’s safety, immunogenicity and tolerability in healthy older adults. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 77 Similarly, Pfizer is investigating a vaccine candidate for Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), a type of bacteria that about 30 percent of people carry in their noses. Most of the time, S. aureus, or staph, does not cause any harm; however, it may lead to infections. In health care settings, these infections can be serious or fatal. Clinical presentations range from benign carriage and superficial skin and soft-tissue infections to life-threatening deepwound and organ/space infections, prosthesis-related infections, bacteremia and sepsis. Our S. aureus vaccine candidate received a Fast Track designation in 2014 with a Phase 2b clinical trial underway. Research and development does not stop at the walls of our research facilities; partnerships play a critical role in driving our mission to protect people across all stages of life. We have long-standing global collaborations with leading academic institutions and investigators in diverse areas, including with Tufts University for Cytomegalovirus (CMV) structural biology, the CDC for meningitis B surveillance, Vanderbilt University for S. aureus immunopathology, and Drexel University for C. difficile epidemiology. Innovating Vaccines for the Future We are helping to usher in a new era of vaccine innovation with a focus on investigational vaccines that have the potential to help prevent hospital-acquired infections such as S. aureus and C. difficile, investigating maternal immunization with research in group B Streptococcus and respiratory syncytial virus, and investigating the potential of cancer vaccines with vaccine-based immunotherapy regimen and oncoloytics-based immunotherapy regimen. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 78 Scientific Innovation Biosimilars The availability of high-quality, biosimilar medicines is expected to play a key role in the future of health care, as they have the potential to expand access to important treatments, provide affordable additional options and help address the evolving needs of patients, physicians and payers. Given the complexity of the development and commercialization of biosimilars, we believe Pfizer’s capabilities – which reflect a strong heritage in the development, manufacturing and commercialization of biologic medicines – position us to succeed as the global leader in the biosimilars marketplace. What are biologics and biosimilars? A biologic medicine is derived from living organisms that are manufactured through highly complex and stringently controlled biotechnology processes; these medicines have become the standard of care for many serious and chronic diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis and cancer. Biosimilars are highly similar to a reference biologic, with no clinically meaningful differences in terms of the safety, purity and potency of the product. A biosimilar is not to be confused with a generic medicine; biosimilars are inherently different due to their molecular size and structure. Importantly, biosimilars have higher research and development costs and risks, and are more complex to manufacture and monitor than small molecule generics. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 79 Delivering Excellence in the Development and Manufacturing of Biosimilars Biosimilar development requires significant expertise to ensure that it is highly similar to the reference biologic drug with only minor differences in the clinically inactive components. State-of-the-art analytical tools and clinical studies are used to ensure each biosimilar matches the reference biologic with a high degree of similarity. This level of control and surveillance is essential because biosimilars and biologics are highly complex molecules created from living cells and any change to the processing conditions – no matter how small – can affect the fundamental properties of the end product. Pfizer has a long-standing legacy of developing and manufacturing biologics globally for more than 30 years, and nearly 10 years of experience developing and commercializing biosimilars outside the United States. We harness this expertise to continuously improve the process while maintaining a quality product. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 80 How a Biosimilar is Developed A Step-by-Step Process: 1 2 3 Cell line creation The process begins with The DNA sequence is inserted The gene instructs the cell to establishing the reference into a specific cell type reproduce the desired protein biologic's protein structure through reverse engineering 4 5 Upscaling Cells are generally grown After the cells produce in cultured bioreactors the target biologic molecule, suspended in a nutrient-rich, the molecules are often 6 7 liquid environment released into this environment 3 liter flask 12 liter vat Purification Purification through Purification through filtration chromatography to ensure that only the medicine is sent on to be 8 packaged for use Final Product After purification, the completed biosimilar protein is formulated and packaged 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 81 Scientific Innovation Pipeline Pfizer is advancing disruptive science and accelerating breakthrough therapies with the goal of delivering transformative medicines and vaccines and the development of potential cures to patients in need. Our pipeline is focused on areas where we believe we can make a significant contribution to patients. As of January 31, 2017, Pfizer’s pipeline from Phase 1 to registration is comprised of 96 investigational therapies. Learn more about how our pipeline is driving our Global Businesses and find out how Pfizer is collaborating with peers, industry and third parties to fill our pipeline with potential therapies that meet the needs of patients today. Pfizer Pipeline as of January 31, 2017 Discovery 35 20 34 7 96 projects Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Registration Total 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 82 How Does Mark Noe Discover New Medicines WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE Hemophilia Feature WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 83 Scientific Innovation Clinical Trials Clinical trials are the link between investigational medicines and vaccines and the discovery of therapies that impact patients who need them. Pfizer is accelerating innovation in clinical trials by finding ways to make the process more effective and efficient – improving interactions with patients, developing complementary partnerships, and breaking new ground in the use of technology. Partnering to Accelerate Progress Pfizer has a long history of partnership with academic research institutions and peer companies in the development of medicines and vaccines. We are now extending these partnerships through collaborations with leaders in the technology field. Currently, Pfizer and IBM are working on potentially groundbreaking research that strives to change the way neurological diseases are treated, using connected devices, real-time data capture and advanced data analysis. In the area of Parkinson’s disease, through sensors, mobile devices and advanced machine learning capabilities, we are looking for new ways to track a host of valuable patient data – measuring everything from mobility to sleep patterns – all in real time. This has the potential to help us obtain a better understanding of a patient’s disease progression and medication response to potentially inform treatment decisions and clinical trial design. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 84 Infusing the Patient Perspective into Clinical Trials While there is always a focus on the “what” of developing and validating potential treatments, Pfizer is increasing our engagement with patients and advocates as we develop our individual drug development programs to ensure equal attention to the ultimate “why” – the patients in need. These intensive conversations about patients' daily routines, their activities, which study endpoints matter most to them, and how they can best manage the complexity of participation in the clinical trial, help us build a more effective clinical trial study design process, and is becoming a systemic and routine approach to our development programs. One example of this engagement is our real-world study simulations. In these simulations, we bring together all the participants – the investigators, the study coordinators and the patients – to test out the actual clinical trial experience in a real-world setting. This accelerates our ability to deliver highly effective clinical trials and lets us better measure not only how our tools are working, but also the human experience with the potential therapy or vaccine in our clinical trials. Embracing Mobile and Digital with mClinical In 2015, Pfizer’s mClinical Initiatives introduced a range of digital and mobile tools intended to streamline the patient experience in clinical trials, from recruitment through screening and consent to ongoing engagement and tracking. In 2016, we fully embraced mobile as the program expanded to improve the patient experience and experimented with novel ways of capturing data for clinical research. Pfizer's mClinical tools were utilized by 20 study teams in 2016 and some studies utilizing these tools experienced a reduction in protocol deviations, which can improve Pfizer’s ability to capture high-quality clinical trial data. Sensors and wearables captured data, iPads facilitated electronic informed consent, and apps for patients’ own devices provided appointment tracking and medication reminders – and these were just some of the tools brought to the forefront in Pfizer’s clinical trials in 2016. Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) goal 3. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Scientific Innovation 85 Partnerships Using the Power of Technology and Innovative Science to Advance Patient Care We accelerate patient care by applying our experience, creative thinking and the latest innovations in health care to our drug development process. There have been great strides made recently in treating the most difficult and debilitating health conditions people face. Yet, there is still much work to be done if we are going to find truly effective therapies for these conditions. At Pfizer, we work to make our drug development process more efficient by collaborating with unique partners and exploring new pathways that harness technology and emerging science. At the core of this work is the belief that collaboration – across organizations, industries and even therapeutic areas – is essential to driving measurable progress and revolutionizing care. WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 86 Leading a Transformative Approach to Precision Medicine Working with IBM Health Watson fuels our immuno-oncology research One of the major recent advances in the battle against cancer has been immunooncology, which uses the body’s immune system to fight the disease. The future of immuno-oncology may lie in combining therapies and tailoring them to unique tumor characteristics. Yet, the number of potential therapy combinations is almost impossible to quantify, let alone test. Therefore, one of the great challenges in immuno-oncology is to find ways to narrow the field of focus so we can more efficiently identify effective combinations. To accelerate our work in this space, Pfizer is working with IBM Health Watson. “ “At Pfizer, we are entering a new frontier in data innovation in which we are investing in a range of new technologies and digital solutions to help us dynamically mine both internal and external data sources to find new connections in science, as well as help us better understand how diseases progress and how they could potentially be treated. Applying the power of cognitive computing to an area that is a core part of our DNA – discovering new medicines – is helping Pfizer to learn how we can most efficiently discover those immuno-oncology therapies that have the best chance of successful outcomes for patients.” Laurie Olson Executive Vice President, Strategy, Portfolio and Commercial Operations, Pfizer Learn more about our oncology portfolio. IBM and Pfizer to Accelerate Immunooncology Research with Watson for Drug Discovery WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 87 “Connecting” with Parkinson’s Disease Patients to Improve Therapies Parkinson's disease affects seven to 10 million people across the globe At Pfizer, we believe advancing patient outcomes also includes improving how and when treatments are delivered. Understanding how a patient copes with their disease every day can potentially shed light on how care providers might enhance that patient’s treatment, leading to tangible impacts on their health. This is particularly true for a neurological disease like Parkinson’s disease, which requires ongoing adjustments to treatment depending on the progression of the disease and the patient’s response. Currently, monitoring of a Parkinson’s patient’s symptoms is limited to what a doctor is able to personally observe in a clinic or the information a patient or caregiver records in a diary. To address this gap, in 2016, Pfizer and IBM announced a first-of-its-kind research collaboration to employ leading-edge remote monitoring tools aimed at sparking an entirely new – and more complete – approach to how clinicians deliver care to patients suffering from Parkinson’s disease. “We have an opportunity to potentially redefine how we think about patient outcomes and 24/7 monitoring, by combining Pfizer’s scientific, medical and regulatory expertise with IBM’s ability to analyze and interpret complex data in innovative ways. The key to our success will be to deliver a reliable, scalable system of measurement and analysis that would help inform our clinical programs across important areas of unmet medical need, potentially helping us to get better therapies to patients, faster.” Mikael Dolsten M.D., Ph.D., President of Pfizer Worldwide Research and Development Through a state-of-the-art system of sensors, mobile devices and computer analysis, we are looking to give real-time, around-the-clock symptom information to clinicians and researchers. This will give a complete view of a patient’s well-being by measuring a variety of health indicators, such as how they move, think, reason and sleep, as well as provide insight into daily activities such as grooming, dressing and eating. The goal of this innovative approach is to better understand a patient’s disease progression and their response to medication. In turn, this has the potential to help improve treatment decisions as well as clinical trial designs, while also speeding the development of new therapeutic options for patients and potentially helping them arrive at disease management sooner. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 88 Blazing the Trail in Gene Therapy Gene therapy has the potential to lead to transformative breakthroughs for patients suffering from devastating rare diseases Not long ago, the idea of treating a disease at its genetic source seemed like science fiction. Today, gene therapy is a growing area of medical research, focused on developing specialized treatments that address the root of diseases caused by genetic mutations. At Pfizer, we recognized the opportunity for gene therapy to have a potentially enormous impact on patients and we are committed to building a strong capability in this field. We have begun doing this through strategic partnerships, deepening our existing in-house knowledge of disease biology and expanding upon our strong expertise in complex biologic medicine manufacturing and analytics capabilities. To accelerate our impact in this important field, in 2016, we acquired Bamboo Therapeutics, Inc., a biotechnology company focused on developing gene therapies for the potential treatment of patients with certain rare neuromuscular conditions and rare diseases affecting the central nervous system. Bamboo’s fully staffed and operational clinical manufacturing facility gives us significant and immediate access to their experience and the capacity to produce key gene therapy candidates for clinical evaluation. The addition of Bamboo’s capabilities to our own furthers our ability to develop and bring to market potentially life-changing treatments for patients with rare diseases that have few available treatment options. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 89 Partnerships Peer Collaboration There is vast scientific knowledge beyond our walls and collaboration with external experts is a key driver of innovation at Pfizer. There is also a rich and highly networked health ecosystem where multiple organizations are focused on one goal: discover new therapies for patients, as fast as we can. At Pfizer, we collaborate to accelerate the pace at which good scientific ideas can become promising therapies, building on or complementing our own in-house knowledge. We also work to advance unique models of collaboration with creativity, flexibility and openness to deliver innovation quickly regardless of where the talent and resources live. This includes working with foundations, patients, government, payers, health care professionals, academia, consortiums and competitors in the biopharma industry. Advancing Immuno-Oncology Research “We know cancer is not a single disease and we cannot do this alone. Our approach to immuno-oncology is never a 'one-size-fits-all' approach and we continue to seek out smart, rational combinations and collaborations to help patients in need of treatments for difficultto-treat cancers.” Chris Boshoff M.D., Ph.D., Senior Vice President, Immuno-Oncology, Early Development and Translational Oncology, Pfizer 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 90 At Pfizer, we are transforming our approach to cancer treatment through the development of targeted immunotherapies that represent the next generation of potential cancer treatments. These efforts are fueled by collaborations with innovative companies in the oncology and immunotherapy fields, including: A development collaboration with Western Oncolytics Ltd. to advance its novel oncolytic vaccinia virus, WO-12, which has been engineered to infect and kill cancer cells while sparing healthy cells, in addition to enhancing the immune response to a patient's tumors. This collaboration to develop an oncolytic virus to potentially be used in combination with immunomodulators adds another novel technology platform to Pfizer’s cancer vaccine efforts and provides an additional tool to bolster our immuno-oncology portfolio. A partnership with MacroGenics, Inc., focused on the development of an advanced, bispecific Dual-Affinity Re-Targeting (DART®) antibody therapeutic candidate. In 2016, Pfizer dosed the first patient in the Phase 1 clinical study of PF-06671008, a DART developed by Pfizer and MacroGenics that targets P-cadherin and CD3. Increased levels of the protein P-cadherin have been reported in various tumors, including breast, ovarian, endometrial, colorectal and pancreatic cancers, and is correlated with poor survival. A strategic collaboration with iTeos Therapeutics SA to develop therapeutics targeting the tumor immune environment. This year, the first patient was dosed in the Phase 1 dose-escalation study of PF-06840003 (EOS200271), which is being conducted in people with brain cancer (malignant gliomas). A collaborative partnership with and investment in IGNITE Immunotherapy Inc., a new company focused on oncolytic virus vaccine design, discovery and development. This targeted and proprietary next-generation intravenous oncolytic (cancer cell killing) virus vaccine development is focused on potentially enhancing the immunologic responses to an individual's cancer. IGNITE is developing a robust and proprietary discovery platform, Oncolytic Vaccine Evolution, to potentially discover novel viruses for use in its cancer vaccine products. A Cooperative Research and Development Agreement (CRADA) with the National Cancer Institute (NCI) to work alongside the NCI’s Center for Cancer Research. Pfizer and the NCI will conduct preclinical and clinical trials to evaluate three investigational immunotherapy agents. Pfizer has a similar partnership with MD Anderson Cancer Center to evaluate investigational immunotherapy agents in solid tumors and hematological malignancies. These agents include Pfizer’s proprietary immunotherapy agonistic monoclonal antibodies targeting OX40 (CD134; also known as PF-04518600); utomilumab (also known as PF-05082566), targeting the 4-1BB protein receptor (CD137, a member of the tumor necrosis family); and avelumab, a fully human anti-PD-L1 IgG1 monoclonal antibody (also known as PF-06834635 and MSB0010718C), which is being developed through an alliance between Merck KGaA and Pfizer. Learn more about our work in oncology. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 91 Partnerships Industry Collaboration The search for novel solutions to unmet health needs drives our scientific development and motivates us to forge unique partnerships. This includes looking beyond traditional health care companies to consider partnerships more broadly. These out-of-the-box collaborations bring together expert thinking from complementary sources to shine light on new perspectives and stimulate progress. Leading the Way in Digital Medicine “It is inspiring to have the opportunity to leverage cutting-edge technologies in the development of new therapies and monitoring tools that have the potential – through early intervention – to prevent or delay the emergence of clinical symptoms.” Claire Leurent Clinical Lead, Neuroscience Research Unit, Pfizer The effects of Alzheimer's disease are devastating for patients, families and communities as loved ones drift away. The current annual worldwide cost of Alzheimer's disease is estimated at $315 billion and, with aging populations, this social burden is only expected to increase. Alzheimer's is often first detected when memory issues start to interfere with daily tasks. But what if we were able to detect a person's risk of developing the disease years before the first clinical symptoms arise? At Pfizer, we are looking at whether there are other, less obvious aspects of cognition, beyond memory, that may be affected by Alzheimer's. To that end, we are collaborating with Akili Interactive Labs, Inc., to test a new tool that would detect signals, or cognitive changes, that might not be recognized in daily life. Akili’s cognitive measurement platform, AD Screen, is delivered in a video game interface designed to measure the capacity of individuals to handle cognitive interference (including distractions and interruptions), which can impact their ability to pay attention. The participants play the dual challenge of attending to the drivingsimulation task while also addressing the shape-color targeting task. Akili's proprietary algorithms adjust the complexity of the tasks in response to each user’s skill level, deploying real-time, adaptive cognitive challenges in a constantly changing environment. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 92 Our study of 97 healthy adults over the age of 60 included participants with or without brain amyloid (a known risk factor for Alzheimer’s) on Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scans. As the participants played the iPad-based technology over a 28-day period, we monitored the data remotely to determine how well the different groups could multitask and how their abilities improved. The initial goal of this initiative is to assess whether the technology could serve as a cognitive digital biomarker for the risk of developing the disease, which could provide for a diagnostic alternative to more expensive and less accessible tests, accelerating the identification of disease symptoms and getting patients on treatment sooner. It could also enable clinical trial execution and therapy advancement for populations at risk of developing the disease. Generating Patient Insights Our collaboration with 23andMe, Inc., a leading personal genetics company, on genomewide association studies, includes studies to better understand depression, dysmenorrhea and the genetic heterogeneity of lupus and inflammatory bowel disease. Through efforts such as this, we believe we are poised to potentially usher in a new era of patient care defined by targeted research methods and ultimately better patient outcomes. Results to date of our collaboration include the identification of certain novel genetic loci thought to be linked to the risk of major depression, as well as the identification of a potential genetic variant associated with dysmenorrhea, a form of severe menstrual cramps. Leveraging Technology to Demonstrate Agility in Patient Care Currently, Pfizer and IBM Corp. are working on research that strives to change the way neurological diseases are treated, using connected health technology, real-time data capture and advanced data analysis. In the area of Parkinson’s disease, through sensors, mobile devices and advanced machine learning capabilities, we are looking for new ways to track a host of valuable patient data – measuring everything from mobility to sleep patterns – all in real time. This may help us not only to re-think our treatment procedures, but also to develop more effective decision systems. Learn more about Technology and Innovation. Learn more about our clinical trials. Learn more about our neuroscience and pain portfolio. Seeking to Create Industry-Leading Standards As part of Pfizer’s efforts to lead the industry, we are partnering with other companies to create and develop what we hope will be industry-standard research technologies. Our collaboration with Research Triangle Park, N.C.-based DILIsym Services, Inc., has led to the development of a novel, mathematical modeling tool to potentially predict liver disease progression in patients by simulating non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) and its improvement with treatment. Pfizer is currently advancing three investigational candidates for non-alcoholic steatohepatitis, which is an advanced stage of NAFLD, in Phase 1 studies. Our research into this area is part of our 50-year long commitment to treating cardiovascular and metabolic diseases. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 93 Our collaboration with Cambridge, Mass.-based Draper seeks to build preclinical microphysiological systems, specifically liver, vascular and gastrointestinal “organs-on-achip” models, which aim to recapitulate human tissues, allowing researchers to measure tissue function more accurately and more quickly than in traditional preclinical models. This technology could help us better predict clinical outcomes and to more efficiently bridge the translation gap – from in vitro to in vivo and from preclinical to clinical – and, ultimately, to more quickly bring new medicines to patients who need them. Providing Access to Over-the-Counter Medicines In Mexico, we are partnering with a Mexican-based retailer to offer low-count Advil® tablets (twoand four-count packages). The low-count packages, available in more than 14,000 retail locations, have increased the reach and distribution nationwide. Through this partnership, we are able to offer the medicine to consumers who need it at an affordable out-of-pocket cost. Learn more about our Consumer Healthcare products. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 94 Partnerships Third-Party Collaboration Innovation is one of Pfizer’s core values and is central to our business. We add value to health care through our research – taking risks and often making substantial investments – and through our meaningful and deep partnerships with third-party groups. These research collaborations allow us to find new ways to potentially prevent and treat diseases, and provide access to and awareness of under-recognized diseases. Joining Forces to Accelerate Access to Rare Disease Medicines At Pfizer, we are actively collaborating with patient advocacy groups, academic investigators and other industry partners. By working together in innovative and strategic ways, we hope to make a difference in the lives of patients, families and caregivers affected by rare diseases. One example is Pfizer's support of the World Federation of Hemophilia (WFH) Twinning Program, which facilitates collaborative partnerships between an organization in the developing world and one in a developed country, enabling the “twins” to share information and provide care and support for those living with or managing a bleeding disorder. The program focuses on developing twins in two key areas: partnerships between medical professionals through the Hemophilia Treatment Center Twins, designed to improve diagnosis and treatment, and partnerships between patient advocates through the Hemophilia Organization Twins, which consist of patient groups that drive awareness and support advocacy initiatives. In 2016, Pfizer proudly marked our 15th anniversary of support. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 95 Global Reach of WFH Twinning Program Since the program's inception: 212 111 919 partnerships countries years of collective twinning 1 2 3 Program achievements: partnerships Improved diagnosis Trainings for health Outreach initiatives and treatment care professionals 4 5 Resource sharing Advocacy activities to strengthen patient organizations Another example related to rare diseases is an exclusive license agreement with King’s College London for the development of a series of adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene therapy vectors. Of the various technical approaches to deliver a therapeutic gene, the use of viral vectors is the most common approach currently in commercial development, and of the different viral vectors available, AAV is most frequently used. As part of the collaboration, Pfizer will support additional research to further development of the AAV vector platform and its application in gene therapy. This research is designed to apply insights into the basic understanding of the virus to help overcome the challenges of production for clinical use. Raising Awareness and Bringing Treatment for TTR-FAP Patients in Brazil Pfizer is also committed to working closely with many governments to address countryspecific health concerns. Transthyretin familial amyloid polyneuropathy (TTR-FAP) is a rare neurological disorder that can rapidly become debilitating. If a patient suffering from TTR-FAP does not receive disease-modifying treatment, they typically require assistance with walking five-to-six years after initial symptoms manifest. As TTR-FAP symptoms progress, patients are often unable to care for themselves, and may become bedridden or require hospitalization. When left untreated, people with TTR-FAP die within 10 years of symptom onset, on average. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 96 Brazil is home to many people of Portuguese and Japanese ancestries, and TTR-FAP is more common among families of this descent. Given the high prevalence estimates of TTR-FAP in Brazil, the Brazil Ministry of Health has designated TTR-FAP as a top priority in rare diseases, highlighting the need for treatment advances. In November 2016, Brazilian authorities granted regulatory approval to Pfizer’s Vyndaqel® (tafamidis) for the treatment of earlyand intermediate-stage TTR-FAP. Vyndaqel is designed to slow the formation of abnormal TTR proteins and subsequent amyloid deposits that can be present in nerves and other organs, resulting in neurodegeneration and loss of normal function. Vyndaqel is also approved in the European Union, Japan, Mexico, Argentina, Israel and South Korea. In addition, to raise awareness of TTR-FAP, Pfizer Brazil launched a campaign in 2016 targeting levels of Brazilian society in partnership with the Brazilian Academy of Neurology. With Pfizer’s support, many celebrities, including sports anchors, presenters, singers and famous soccer players like Marcos Evangelista de Morais (known as Cafu), were engaged in the cause to “pause FAP.” These celebrities were asked to “pause” their social media activity and use the #pausanapaf hashtag to draw attention to the condition and engage others in elevating the issue. Learn more about our work in rare diseases. Leading the Fight Against NCDs Pfizer is collaborating to address leading public health challenges including smoking, cancer, cardiovascular disease and diabetes through unique partnerships. HelpAge International and Pfizer have worked together since 2012 to prevent and reduce the impact of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) among older people in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Over the last three years, HelpAge has developed a tool to gather data on the health of older persons and the quality, affordability and accessibility of their health services. The initiative, which has been implemented in eight countries in Africa, Latin American and Asia, includes efforts in Tanzania and Uganda to build intergenerational links that improve health among all ages. The recent development of a digital approach to data collection, analysis and reporting will enable HelpAge to collect and access better quality data in real time, so insights can better inform health program and policy development. Additional technology components that further support the expansion and integration of this work include an online training program for systematic implementation of the tool and a new website that supports and promotes online collaboration among the HelpAge network of organizations, external partners and stakeholders. NCDs like cancer and heart disease kill 38 million people every year – three quarters of whom are in lowand middle-income countries. Long committed to turning this around, Pfizer is now boosting our efforts by joining 21 of our industry peers and advocacy partners to create a coalition called Access Accelerated. Learn more about Access Accelerated. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 97 All of these initiatives stress the need to raise awareness and support for healthy life choices, such as increased access to nutritious food and the reduction of health risk behaviors to prevent NCDs. They also encourage collaboration with health providers at local and national levels to improve prevention, early diagnosis, follow-up and treatment of NCDs, and help improve data collection and analyses to better inform programs and policies. The initiative also continues to build a body of data and knowledge around the health of older people, as well as effective program and policy interventions that address UN Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) 3 specifically SDG 3.4 (NCDs), SDG 3.8 (Universal Health Coverage) and/or SDG 3.c (Health Workers). HelpAge is advancing its healthy aging work to a new level with the implementation of an initiative called “Collaborating for Health.” This program includes an effort to co-design health programs and implement policy advocacy through a systematic process to develop health solutions with and for older people – keeping in line with the World Health Organization's framework of “people-centered care.” This innovative approach to community collaboration will draw on the strengths of older people’s groups, building the capacity of older people in collaboration with key stakeholders – ranging from Ministries of Health and other NGOs to health clinic directors, community health care workers and home-based caregivers. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 98 Pfizer and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world's largest humanitarian network, have joined together on a project to leverage our respective expertise and resources in three areas: to further disseminate the IFRC's 4HealthyHabits tools for NCD prevention, to develop and test evidence-based tools to support healthy aging at the community level, and to advocate jointly for NCD prevention and control and for healthy aging. Find out more about 4HealthyHabits. Learn more about how we are fighting against NCDs. Creating Unique Approaches to R&D through Visiting Scientist Program This year, Pfizer entered into a multi-year arrangement with the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel – one of the world's top-ranking multidisciplinary research institutions – and its technology transfer company, Yeda Research and Development Co., Ltd. Pfizer is supporting the newly established Institute for Medicinal Chemistry (IMC) in the Nancy and Stephen Grand Israel National Center for Personalized Medicine (G-INCPM) on the Weizmann Institute campus by placing a Pfizer medicinal chemist (rotating on an approximately yearly basis) at the Institute to assist with advancing target selection and high-throughput screening, as well as leading development campaigns for programs that enter the IMC. Building a Large-Scale, Blood-Profiling Atlas for Oncology Patients In 2016, we launched a “Blood-Profiling Atlas Initiative” where we collaborated with a variety of partners to create an open database for liquid biopsies to potentially accelerate blood-profiling diagnostic technologies. Advancing Care for Patients through Targeted and Innovative Collaborations Immuno-oncology (IO) has been fueled by numerous clinical trial successes in recent years and has already transformed traditional approaches to cancer treatment. As our understanding advances and IO therapies are implemented into routine treatments for cancer, many challenges and complexities remain. Pfizer is collaborating with Friends of Cancer Research and EMD Serono to lead the IO working group – the first and only group of its kind – and bring together more than 30 leaders in the community to address policy issues in order to accelerate the delivery of IO treatments to patients. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 99 Improving Access to Immunization and Family Planning Services Through a collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, we are helping to broaden access to Pfizer's long-acting injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), for women most in need in some of the world’s poorest countries. Learn more about this collaboration. Through our participation with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, for pneumococcal vaccines, Pfizer has committed to supply up to 740 million low-cost doses of critical vaccines to countries that carry a significant burden of pneumococcal disease through 2025. Learn more about this collaboration and our work in vaccines. Pfizer is proud of our ongoing partnership with Gavi to help immunize an additional 300 million of the world’s poorest children against life-threatening diseases by 2020, potentially preventing more than five million premature deaths. This partnership means many millions of infants have an increased chance of reaching their fifth birthday. Spreading Awareness for Vaccinations across Generations Pfizer forged a partnership with Generations United Inc., to elevate global awareness of vaccinations across all generations. Together, we are working to accelerate patient impact in the prevention of disease, providing tools and resources, such as discussion guides, to encourage intergenerational conversations about getting vaccinated. Learn more about this collaboration. 2016 Annual Review Partnerships 100 Public Health Impact Bringing Resources to Bear to Improve Global Health At Pfizer, we believe our business and societal missions are the same: Ensuring all individuals everywhere have access to quality medicines, vaccines and health care, and the opportunity to lead healthy lives. Every day, we strive to use our full resources – our people, products and funding – to find new ways to positively impact the health of people around the world and across their lifespan. Historically, the private sector has focused on traditional philanthropic approaches of large-scale cash and product donations to address global health needs. However, against the backdrop of a dramatically changing world, companies like Pfizer are also changing their approach to global health. We now aim to build on our current footprint of programs with new approaches and solutions that reflect the unique needs of each community – and ultimately accelerate the impact we can have on the health of all people around the world. To achieve these goals, we must reach patients who are in need faster and build sustainable infrastructure – while being careful not to compromise quality or safety. We also know efficiency must be balanced with evidence of effectiveness. As such, we work with our partners to take a measured approach, using our analytics and research resources to collect outcomes data before launching at scale. Nearly all of our initiatives to improve global health begin as pilot programs; only after careful evaluation of effectiveness and consideration of local nuances do we expand our programs to serve a broader population. WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 101 As one of the world’s leading pharmaceutical companies, we see it as our responsibility to leverage all of our resources – financial, medical, scientific, colleague – to achieve the speed-to-impact that is required in today’s environment. Advancing the Health of Women and Children in the Developing World Empowering and educating women is vital to global health The Pfizer Foundation’s* Global Health Innovation Grants aim to improve health delivery and support social innovation with a direct focus on improving health care access and quality for women. These grants address key barriers to health care access that women face. A key component in achieving these objectives is the support of women entrepreneurs with financing and technical assistance to allow them to grow their businesses and improve the health delivery, access and quality for women. ayzh is a social venture in India that provides appropriate health products to improve women’s health (reproductive, maternal, newborn, child and adolescent) in low resource settings. ayzh’s core product is a $3 Clean Birth Kit, which provides women essential components recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO) for a safe and hygienic birth. Pfizer’s support has helped ayzh to expand its services in India, including hosting empowerment camps to directly engage approximately 1,000 pregnant women to-date on the elements of a healthy and hygienic birth. Additionally, our program will help fund the creation of two additional manufacturing and distribution hubs, which employ local women, and is expected to impact the lives of 18,000 mothers and babies through the project period. Jacaranda Health provides affordable, high-quality maternity services to underserved women in Kenya through a network of maternity hospitals and by building partnerships with hospitals and clinics. Jacaranda’s work focuses on improving the critical capacity and skills gaps that can be an impediment to quality care. Pfizer’s support allowed Jacaranda to pilot an innovative approach to sustaining and retaining critical emergency obstetric and newborn care skills in government hospitals. The program trains midwives in government hospitals in evidence-based emergency obstetrics and newborn care, and trains volunteer nurses as peer educators who will provide ongoing education for the maternity nurses. One Family Health, a primary health care chain in Rwanda, delivers quality, affordable primary care through a franchise clinic model, each led by nurse entrepreneurs. The clinics are led by nurses who receive financial support, business training and technical assistance to help improve their impact in the community. Pfizer’s support has helped One Family Health to add five new clinics in 2016 and reach an additional 191,000 patients. Additionally, we have supported critical improvements to the business and finance training curriculum that the nurse entrepreneurs receive. Pfizer is committed to helping broaden access to our long-acting injectable contraceptive for women most in need of contraceptive options in some of the world’s poorest countries. Through collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, we were able to provide this contraceptive for one dollar (U.S.) per dose to qualified purchasers. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 102 A consortium of public-private sector donors and aid organizations have played an important role in helping reach these women, by supporting country introductions and the delivery of our long-acting injectable contraceptive to health facilities and communitybased distribution networks. Since the product’s launch in 2014, over six million doses have been shipped to 20 developing countries.i Learn more about the work Pfizer is doing to help expand access to contraceptives in the Access to Medicines and Third-Party Collaborations sections. i Data on file at Pfizer Inc. “ “Through a lot of hard work and constructive ongoing collaborations, we have made great progress in making this long-acting injectable contraceptive available as an option to hundreds of thousands of women living in sub-Saharan Africa and we are looking to expand our collaborations to other countries in 2017. We hope to continue the momentum achieved to date, enabling us to further help provide access to a range of options for family-planning needs of women win the developing world.” John Young President, Pfizer Essential Health Creating a Blueprint for Disease Elimination Morocco is the second country in the world to achieve a trachoma-free designation, following Oman in 2012 After more than six decades of fighting the spread of trachoma in Morocco, on November 14, 2016, the WHO acknowledged that the Moroccan government has eliminated the world’s leading infectious cause of blindness as a public health problem. Pfizer's antibiotic donation, in partnership with the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI), as well as the implementation of the WHO-recommended SAFE strategy (Surgery to treat the blinding stage of the disease, known as trichiasis, Antibiotics to clear infection, Facial cleanliness, Environmental improvement including better access to water and sanitation to help reduce transmission), played pivotal roles in accelerating Morocco’s ability to reach this milestone. Nearly a decade ago, Pfizer made the decision to support the ITI in its bold goal to eliminate trachoma. Founded in 1998 with a grant from Pfizer and the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, the ITI, of the Task Force for Global Health, an independent not-forprofit, aims to meet the WHO’s call to eliminate trachoma by 2020. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 103 “It's an integrated approach. And we're always looking across all the countries for examples of innovation and entrepreneurship, where hygiene promotion, production of soap, sanitation, school-based programs, and so on, are being used in different and innovative ways in order to reach more people.” Paul Emerson Ph.D., Program Director, International Trachoma Initiative (ITI) Key to expedited progress against the goal of total elimination is collaboration, and the ability to create an environment in which this debilitating disease can be successfully and sustainably eliminated as a public health problem. Alongside a variety of partners representing governments, global health agencies, academia and advocacy objectives, Pfizer is taking a holistic approach – not only providing financial resources and medicine donation, but also making the best use of all of the company’s resources to help build health care capacity, offer community support, and create a strong and stable health care foundation for communities in need. Since the partnership was formed, this initiative has treated more than 100 million people in 36 countries. The watershed milestone of elimination of trachoma in Morocco is a true demonstration of how social entrepreneurship and partnership can work together to speed improvement of the health of individuals worldwide. It is our hope that this holistic approach can serve as a blueprint for the elimination of other deadly diseases in the future. “If you define a social entrepreneur as someone who is taking the initiative, trying to innovate, being persistent in order to solve a social issue, then I think that the trachoma elimination program is built on these individuals.” Julie Jenson Director Corporate Responsibility, Pfizer 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 104 Responding to a Global Need through Expansion of a Humanitarian Assistance Program It is our responsibility to support countries in need via comprehensive humanitarian assistance Pfizer colleagues around the world work collaboratively with governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), civil service organizations, health care providers and payers to enable prevention and treatment of diseases by making medicines and vaccines available to as many people as possible. We use our resources to create and offer tiered pricing strategies and humanitarian assistance in lowand middle-income countries with great need. This year, Pfizer expanded its humanitarian assistance program to enable broader access to a vaccine used to protect infants, young children and adults against a disease caused by a certain type of bacteria. In humanitarian emergency settings, Pfizer is offering its new multi-dose vial of this vaccine at what will be the lowest prevailing global price. Further, given the acute need for aid on the ground, Pfizer will donate all sales proceeds for the first year of this program to humanitarian groups undertaking the difficult work of reaching vulnerable populations in emergency settings. Learn more about how we are using scientific innovation to maximize our humanitarian assistance abilities. “Pfizer is proud of the significant impact that our vaccines and our partnerships with many humanitarian organizations have had on public health across the globe. Only by putting the needs of refugees at the center, can we all work collaboratively to help prevent disease in some of the world’s most vulnerable populations.” Susan Silbermann President and General Manager, Pfizer Vaccines Additionally, Pfizer donates a variety of products to assist with humanitarian emergencies, including essential health and over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. For example, in response to Hurricane Matthew in Haiti, Pfizer donated antibiotics and sterile injectable medicines to various NGOs providing near-immediate health care to affected populations. Through our work with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, we have pledged to supply 740 million doses of one of our critical vaccines through 2025 to infants at an affordable price in the world’s poorest countries with a significant burden of disease. These types of partnerships help Pfizer speed access to lifesaving medicines and critical vaccines to communities most in need. * The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 105 Public Health Impact Partnering to Tackle Non-Communicable Diseases Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) are the leading cause of death and disease globally. To tackle these global killers, we must go beyond treatment to drive better prevention and more efficient detection. Over the last few years, there has been a significant increase in the burden of NCDs in many underdeveloped countries. As quality of life has improved in these areas, the prevalence of infectious diseases has declined; however, there has been a rapid increase in the level of NCDs. The four most common NCDs, which include cardiovascular disease, cancer, chronic lung disease and diabetes, now result in more than 30 million deaths annually. To reduce the burden of these difficult-to-treat conditions and accelerate patient outcomes, we must take a holistic approach that addresses prevention, diagnosis and treatment. This integrated approach includes multi-stakeholder partnerships, which are particularly important since many NCDs – including cancer – are caused by both genetic and environmental factors. Establishing partnerships with organizations aligned around a common goal of diminishing the impact of NCDs allows us to leverage resources and expertise in creative ways that speed progress to impact patients. In 2016, Pfizer had more than 30 programs in development to address NCDs – some that focus on specific diseases like cancer and cardiovascular disease, and others that address gaps in health care systems that affect populations heavily impacted by NCDs. WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 106 In September 2015, the United Nations (UN) announced 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as targets for positive and essential change around the world, including a target to reduce by one-third premature mortality due to NCDs by 2030. Learn more about how Pfizer is driving progress against the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. HelpAge International and Pfizer have worked together since 2012 to prevent and reduce the impact of NCDs among older people in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Learn more about Pfizer’s work in Healthy Aging. “Older people have unique health needs that are often overlooked by health systems across the globe. Without data, their needs are neither addressed nor prioritized. Pfizer and HelpAge are directly addressing the health issues faced by older people and systematically building a body of critical evidence to support healthy aging.” Kate Bunting CEO HelpAge USA – the U.S. affiliate of HelpAge International Pfizer and the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC), the world's largest humanitarian network, are working together in three areas: to further disseminate the IFRC's 4HealthyHabits tools for NCD prevention; to develop and test evidence-based tools to support healthy aging at the community level; and to advocate jointly for NCD prevention and control. NCDs like cancer and heart disease kill 38 million people every year – three quarters of whom are in lowand middle-income countries. Long committed to turning this around, Pfizer is now boosting our efforts by joining 21 of our industry peers and advocacy partners to create a coalition called Access Accelerated. Learn more about Access Accelerated. Joining Forces for Tobacco Control and Smoking Cessation in Asia With approximately 300 million smokers, and 1 million smoking related deaths each year, China is at the epicenter of the global tobacco health crisis To aim to prevent the spread of the smoking epidemic in China, Pfizer supports the Georgia State University Research Foundation’s efforts to advance the implementation of tobacco control policies in five cities (Chengdu, Chongqing, Xi’an, Xiamen and Wuhan) in China. The Tobacco Free Cities program works to develop public policy that will aim to prevent the initiation of smoking, promote quitting and eliminate exposure to second-hand smoke. The initiative also seeks to change social norms around tobacco use and to reduce its burden in these five large and influential cities, which have a combined population of almost 70 million. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 107 Tobacco Free Cities Between April 2015 and November 2016, Tobacco Free Cities resulted in: 64.6m people protected from secondhand smoke exposure where Smoke-Free Public Places policies were adopted 2.12m people educated via 622 health education events 214m smoke-free policies adopted in businesses View more information on Tobacco Free Cities and our support of Georgia State University's efforts in China. Arming Providers with the Tools to Prevent and Treat Heart Disease Health care providers are on the front lines of the fight against NCDs Although the end user of many of Pfizer's products is often a patient, it is critical to address the needs of physicians, especially when tackling NCDs. The health care provider is on the front lines of patient care and can play a critical role in diagnosing and treating NCDs, as well as educating patients to prevent their onset. To respond to the needs of physicians in the area of heart disease, Pfizer is collaborating with the American College of Cardiology (ACC) on its largest ever global cardiovascular education program. Announced on World Heart Day and building on the success of the ACC’s cardiovascular disease prevention program pilot in China, Pfizer and the ACC will expand the program to reach doctors in Russia, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, the United Arab Emirates, Mexico, Argentina, Indonesia, Vietnam and Malaysia, and support additional programming in China. Participants will have access to a three-part webinar series on cardiovascular disease prevention, including primary prevention, secondary prevention for patients who have experienced an acute event and prevention for patients with multiple risk factors. A series of post-webinar follow ups will be conducted with the same group of physicians to assess behavioral changes. The pilot program in China was launched in January 2016, and featured cardiovascular disease educational webinars that reached more than 350 hospitals and delivered a public awareness campaign, including social media engagement and educational messages via the WeChat social media platform (reaching more than 1.8 million people). With the expansion of the program to additional countries, Pfizer and the ACC are expected to reach thousands of people, with the hope of accelerating the success of the pilot to improve cardiovascular patient outcomes and reduce the impact of heart disease globally. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 108 In 2016 and looking to 2017, Pfizer is exploring areas where Pfizer Essential Health (PEH) medicines can tackle NCDs. In partnership with Pfizer Corporate Responsibility and working with an international, non-government organization (NGO), we are initiating cardiovascular capacity development programs in Vietnam and Myanmar to improve access to care in under-served communities. Addressing the Growing Global Burden of Cancer Breast and cervical cancers are among the leading causes of morbidity and mortality for women living in less developed regions As with many other diseases, cancer imposes a particularly heavy burden on poor, marginalized and rural communities due to the additional barriers they face in accessing education, screening and treatment. In the coming decade, the impact of cancer is expected to be disproportionately felt by those living in underdeveloped countries – both in terms of new cancer cases and in overall mortality. Women in underdeveloped countries often face significant barriers to quality care, including long travel distances to receive oncology care services, a shortage of trained professionals, poor equipment and lack of information around screening and diagnosis. While many governments, NGOs and entrepreneurs have taken measures aimed at addressing barriers to quality health care, we believe that Pfizer and the private sector as a whole can also play an important role in helping to accelerate progress through innovative partnerships and collaborations that catalyze innovation, advance policy and strengthen health infrastructure. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 109 A Story Half Told: A Call-to-Action to Expand the Conversation to Include Metastatic Breast Cancer Breast Cancer: A Story Half Told is an initiative by Pfizer in partnership with advocates and health care professionals that aims to elevate public understanding of metastatic breast cancer, dispel misperceptions, combat stigma and expand the breast cancer conversation to be more inclusive of metastatic breast cancer. In 2015 and 2016, we rolled out a series of photo essays of women living with metastatic breast cancer, chronicled by well-known photographers. Esther Garza: Read her story Beth Fairchild: Read her story Carol Miele: Read her story Accelerating the Fight against Breast Cancer through Community Empowerment Pfizer and the Union for International Cancer Control (UICC) joined forces to create the Seeding Progress and Resources for the Cancer Community (SPARC) Grants, an initiative aimed at empowering advocacy groups, hospital networks, support groups and other organizations worldwide as they initiate projects to close the gap in information, support, awareness and policy between metastatic breast cancer and early-stage breast cancer, as well as help reduce the number of women diagnosed at the metastatic stage of breast cancer. In 2016, 20 competitively-selected organizations were granted funding to implement novel and sustainable projects across 18 countries. Each organization is tailoring its activities to the needs of patients in specific countries or regions, creating diverse programming that takes a much-needed hyper-local and grassroots approach to driving impact for breast cancer patients. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 110 SPARC MBC Challenge In 2016: 3,000 217 22 patients reached events held languages Find out more about the 20 organizations that received a grant in 2016: Africa Nigeria Health & Psychological Trust Centre (Breast Cancer Navigation and Palliative Programme) Establish a one-on-one support service, where unemployed community health workers and retired midwives are trained on professional palliative care for advanced breast cancer patients. Nigeria University Of Nigeria, Enugu Address gaps in care through easier access to palliative care services and multidisciplinary management to ensure better quality of life and increased treatment compliance. Rwanda Inshuti Mu Buzima (PIH-Rwanda) Establish metastatic breast cancer association by training designated staff to foster patient self-empowerment, as well as ownership of the disease. Uganda Uganda Women's Cancer Support Organisation Identify challenges in meeting the needs of metastatic breast cancer patients, improve awareness of their clinical and psychological needs and take steps to address those needs through tools and services. Zambia Global Women's Health Fund – Zambia Identify quality-of-life concerns among women diagnosed with stage III/IV or recurrent breast cancer. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 111 Americas Brazil Instituto Oncoguia Create a national peer-reviewed support network to empower women living with metastatic breast cancer. Brazil Federação Brasiliera de Instituições Filantrópicas de Apoio à Saùde da Mama Expand access to metastatic breast cancer treatment for patients in the public health system. Colombia Instituto para la Evaluación de la Calidad y Atención en Salud (IECAS) Reduce existing barriers of access to online health information for women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer and their families and caregivers. Haiti Project Medishare for Haiti Implement a public awareness campaign focused on metastatic breast cancer by effectively addressing misunderstandings and barriers to treatment. Mexico Asociacion Mexicana Contra el Cancer de mama A.C. (Creating Spaces for Patient Voices) Support an online portal for metastatic breast cancer patients to access information about their condition and available treatments options. Asia Malaysia National Cancer Society of Malaysia (ABC in Malaysia) Spread awareness and provide local support for metastatic breast cancer patients. Thailand Suandok Breast Cancer Network Aim to provide patients with metastatic breast cancer multidisciplinary care and support, a challenge due to the lack of oncologists in the country. India Narikeldaha Prayas Conduct a study to uncover the challenges for patients with metastatic breast cancer that prevent them from having a pain-free quality of life in a rural village setting. Australia Australia Palliative Care Australia Provide information on palliative care and empower women living with metastatic breast cancer to make their own, informed care choices. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 112 Europe Bulgaria Association of Cancer Patients and Friends APOZ Work with nurses and oncologists to ensure patients have an understanding of their role in the treatment process. Greece Women for Oncology-Hellas (Hellenic Alliance for Metastatic Breast Cancer) Provide metastatic breast cancer patients with valuable resources from a first-of-its-kind team of oncology professionals. Israel Israel Cancer Association (ICA) Expand ICA’s support groups for women to include Arabic and Russian-speaking groups. Portugal Associação Mama Help (Mama Help-Advanced) Provide information for women with advanced breast cancer, a huge unmet need. Spain Federación de Mujeres con Cáncer de Mama (FECMA) Aim to understand the specific needs of patients and the key elements of care to develop tailored approaches. Turkey Kanserle Dans Dernegi Address the isolation of women diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer and the lack of understanding surrounding the disease. Learn more about the SPARC winners. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 113 Scaling Up Breast Cancer Care Capabilities around the Globe Pfizer, through the Pfizer Foundation,* addresses health care gaps to improve health systems for individuals in need in lowand middle-income countries (LMICs). Within its NCD care pillar, the Pfizer Foundation has launched a program portfolio aimed specifically at improving equitable access to oncology care and services globally, with a particular focus on addressing women’s cancers. Strategies to improve oncology care for women include strengthening health care infrastructure through health care worker training and technical assistance, and improving access to information, diagnostics and care through community outreach and mobilization. Strategies for Improving Access to Breast Cancer Care in LMICs In 2016, the Pfizer Foundation supported projects to improve breast cancer care in four emerging markets: Peru, Brazil, Rwanda and Kenya. Together, these programs explore opportunities to integrate breast cancer outreach, early screening and diagnosis into existing primary care systems with a link to oncology treatment facilities, thereby expanding access to quality oncology care services to thousands of individuals who need them. Peru (PATH) Since 2011, the international nonprofit PATH has collaborated with Peruvian partners to implement a community-based breast cancer program in the northern region of La Libertad. The program has established a feasible, evidence-based approach to early detection at the community level, and linked it to triage and diagnostic services at the network level. With the Pfizer Foundation’s support, PATH is scaling up this program to reach 115,000 additional women and demonstrate that the model is replicable and sustainable. Specifically, the Foundation’s grant will help support building health care worker capacity, training doctors and midwives in quality clinical breast exams including ultrasound and fine-needle aspiration biopsy and training volunteers as patient navigators. * The Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 114 Brazil (Susan G. Komen) Breast cancer is the highest cause of cancer mortality and morbidity among women in Brazil. With the Pfizer Foundation’s support, Susan G. Komen is implementing a program to improve breast cancer care in Brazil by integrating patient support, early detection and timely diagnosis into existing primary care services. More specifically, the program aims to reduce time between screening, diagnosis and start of treatment by implementing the One-Day Clinic approach that has been proven effective in other Brazilian states; improving the quality of screening exams with specialized training for radiologists, physicists and medical technologists on quality of mammography; and providing patient support in navigating the system and understanding patient rights, including the access to a help line. The Pfizer Foundation’s grant will also help support a multi-phase program that seeks to align Brazil’s national cancer control policies at the city and state levels and help facilitate a more-efficient path for women as they seek and receive care. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 115 Rwanda (Partners In Health) Despite rising rates of breast cancer diagnosis in Rwanda, women in the country face significant barriers to care. Butaro Cancer Center of Excellence (BCCOE) is one of the few facilities in the country where women with breast cancer can be diagnosed and treated. With this in mind, Partners in Health is working with the Rwandan Ministry of Health (MoH) toward the goal of improving accessibility of treatment for breast cancer patients, while also documenting and disseminating lessons learned to inform future efforts to decentralize breast cancer diagnosis and treatment, accelerating the number of women who receive proper cancer care. The Pfizer Foundation’s grant will help allow Partners In Health to implement new, national clinical protocols for breast cancer diagnosis and treatment, including a comprehensive social support package. It will also help Partners In Health launch a government-certified, longitudinal oncology nurse training, which includes nurses from referral hospitals completing a three month curriculum. Together with the Rwandan MoH, Partners In Health will produce a report analyzing the impact of providing comprehensive care based on breast cancer patient outcomes data. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 116 Kenya (AMPATH) Breast and cervical cancer are the leading cancers impacting women in Nairobi, Kenya. The Pfizer Foundation’s grant will support a two-year program by the AMPATH Oncology Institute to build capacity and enable quicker identification, triage and care of patients through a variety of approaches. The program will create tele-medicine and tele-pathology centers, develop a certificate-training curriculum for health care providers in oncology and expand a mobile screening unit to include breast screening. AMPATH also plans to train community health workers in clinical breast exam techniques and referral protocols, and improve data collection and sharing by establishing a cancer registry. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 117 Public Health Impact Access to Medicines Pfizer believes that all individuals deserve access to quality health care and the opportunity to lead healthy lives. We combine creative commercial strategies with philanthropic approaches to create a sustainable and meaningful impact on global health. Going Beyond Prescription Assistance In the United States (U.S.), Pfizer RxPathways® empowers patients in need by connecting them to assistance programs so they can get access to Pfizer medicines prescribed by their doctor. This year, in response to the growing complexity of today’s health care reimbursement environment in the U.S., Pfizer enhanced Pfizer RxPathways so patients can now consult with a Pfizer Medicine Access Counselor who will connect them to the full range of Pfizer assistance programs and resources. Patients can visit www.PfizerRxPathways.com or dial the toll-free number 1-844-989-PATH (7284) to speak with one of Pfizer’s Medicine Access Counselors. The counselors are specially trained to work with each patient to understand their unique situation and guide them to the Pfizer programs or resources that can best help them. Our programs include: • Pfizer Savings Program1 – Pfizer medicines at a savings through pharmacies, regardless of income • Pfizer Insurance Support – Clarification on insurance coverage and reimbursement options for certain medicines • Pfizer Patient Assistance Program2 –Free Pfizer medicines to eligible patients through their doctor’s office, at home or via a co-pay card3 • Free Medicine through Health Centers and Hospitals – Free medicines for eligible, uninsured patients through select health centers and hospitals4 • Treatment-Specific Patient Medicine Support Hubs – Comprehensive support services for specific oncology and specialty medicines • Brand Co-Pay Cards – Assistance for eligible patients with their co-pay costs5 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 118 Medicine Access Counselors will also connect patients to industry programs and resources, such as: • Partnership for Prescription Assistance – Offers a gateway for patients to more than 475 private and public assistance programs • Rx Outreach – A non-profit charitable organization that provides eligible patients with access to more than 500 medications at an affordable cost • NeedyMeds – A non-profit information resource dedicated to helping people locate assistance programs to help them afford their medications and other health care costs In 2016 alone, we helped more than 250,000 patients receive over 1.5 million Pfizer prescriptions for free or at a savings.6 Working to Eliminate Trachoma in Developing Countries Founded in 1998 with a grant from Pfizer and the Edna McConnell Clark Foundation, the International Trachoma Initiative (ITI) aims to meet the World Health Organization's (WHO) call to eliminate trachoma, the world’s leading infectious cause of blindness, by 2020. Since the partnership was formed, this initiative has treated more than 100 million people in 36 countries. Pfizer, through ITI, has donated more than 600 million doses of the antibiotic Zithromax® (azithromycin) for the treatment of trachoma. In 2016 alone, Pfizer donated and shipped more than 120 million doses. On November 14, 2016, the WHO validated that the Moroccan government has eliminated trachoma as a public health problem, making it the second country in the world to achieve this designation after Oman in 2012. Pfizer’s donation of Zithromax, in partnership with ITI, as well as the implementation of the WHO-recommended SAFE strategy (Surgery to treat the blinding stage of the disease, known as trichiasis, Antibiotics to clear infection, Facial cleanliness, Environmental improvement including better access to water and sanitation to help reduce transmission), played pivotal roles in accelerating Morocco’s ability to reach this milestone. Learn more about how we are working to improve global health. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 119 Responding to a Global Need through Humanitarian Assistance Program Expansion Pfizer colleagues around the world work collaboratively with governments, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), civil service organizations, health care providers, and payers to enable prevention and treatment of diseases by making medicines and vaccines available to as many people as possible. This includes tiered pricing strategies and humanitarian assistance in lowand middle-income countries who need it the most. This year, Pfizer announced a major expansion of our humanitarian assistance program, enabling broader access to its vaccine, Prevenar 13® (Pneumococcal 13-valent Conjugate Vaccine [Diphtheria CRM197 Protein]). In humanitarian emergency settings, Pfizer is offering the new multi-dose vial (MDV) of Prevenar 13 at what will be the lowest prevailing price (currently $3.05 per dose). Further, given the acute need for aid on the ground, Pfizer will donate all sales proceeds for the first year of this program to humanitarian groups undertaking the difficult work of reaching vulnerable populations in emergency settings. Through our work with Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, we have also pledged to supply 740 million doses of Prevenar 13 through to 2025 to infants at an affordable price in the world’s poorest countries with significant burden of disease. Additionally, Pfizer donates a variety of products to assist with humanitarian emergencies, including essential health and over-the-counter (OTC) medicines. For example, in response to Hurricane Matthew and a cholera outbreak in Haiti, Pfizer donated antibiotics and sterile injectable medicines to various NGOs providing health care to affected populations. Addressing Public Health Emergencies To address the growing Zika epidemic in 2016, Pfizer and the Pfizer Foundation7 worked closely with global health organizations and local authorities to provide resources in support of prevention, monitoring and surveillance efforts surrounding Zika in the continental U.S., Puerto Rico and Latin America. The Pfizer Foundation donated $4.1 million through grant funding to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Foundation, Population Services International and the Pan-American Health Organization, as well as to the Florida Department of Health and the Texas Department of State Health Services. Pfizer’s contribution included an in-kind donation of up to 170,000 doses of our long-acting contraceptive product to the CDC Foundation’s Zika Contraception Access Network (Z-CAN) initiative in Puerto Rico. Expanding Access to Cancer Care in Lowand Middle-Income Countries Two years ago, Pfizer began a new collaboration with The Max Foundation, launching a pilot procedure to handle requests for Sutent® (sunitinib malate) for uninsured and underinsured cancer patients living in lower-income economies outside of the U.S. where significant access hurdles exist. Since the program’s initiation, 49 patients with renal cell carcinoma and gastrointestinal stromal tumor – living in nine low-income or lower-middleincome countries – have been able to access ongoing treatment for free through the program. Pfizer is continuing to work with The Max Foundation to find ways to get our products to cancer patients who need them in lower-income economies. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 120 Diflucan Partnership Program Since 2000, the Diflucan® (fluconazole) Partnership Program has helped to treat two fungal opportunistic infections, acute cryptococcal meningitis and esophageal candidiasis, in individuals living with HIV/AIDS in lowand middle-income countries with a high prevalence of HIV. Advancing the Health of Women and Children The Pfizer Foundation supports innovative programs to improve access to immunization and family planning, including programs that integrate the delivery of immunizations and family planning services in an effort to address barriers and improve access to care for women and children in the developing world. Since 2014, the Pfizer Foundation has provided $12 million to advance this work with partners across Asia and Africa. Beyond our Pfizer Foundation work, we’ve been making strides as a company in this area as well. Through a Pfizer Inc. collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the Children’s Investment Fund Foundation, we are helping broaden access to Pfizer's long-acting injectable contraceptive, Sayana® Press (medroxyprogesterone acetate), for women most in need of contraceptive options in some of the world’s poorest countries. Through this collaboration and the support of a public-private sector consortium, we were able to provide Sayana Press for one U.S. dollar per dose to qualified purchasers. Since the product’s launch in 2014, over six million doses of Sayana Press have been shipped to 20 developing countries.7 Sayana Press is approved for administration by self-injection in nearly 20 countries in both the developed and developing worlds. Examples of women’s and children’s health initiatives the Pfizer Foundation has supported include: • An innovative project in Uganda and Ethiopia with the International Rescue Committee to improve last-mile access to, and utilization of, immunization and family planning. The project integrates these services at health facilities, equips health care workers with a simple mHealth data platform to identify children that miss immunizations, and includes individually tailored color-coded health calendar tools to track the five critical health service milestones during the preand post-natal periods. • An initiative in Kenya with World Vision to help improve health outcomes for mothers and their children by training health care workers to address a comprehensive set of health interventions at immunization visits and engaging families and community leaders on the important role women's health plays in community and family health. A key element of this work is engagement with men in the community to increase their knowledge on the importance of healthy birth spacing and immunization. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 121 Expanding Health Care Infrastructure in Underserved Communities An individual’s ability to access quality health care is often limited where infrastructure is weak or non-existent. By supporting collaborative and entrepreneurial approaches that aim to build and improve health infrastructure, we are giving organizations and individuals the skills and resources they need to drive better global health outcomes. In 2016, the Pfizer Foundation provided funding and technical assistance to 20 organizations in Africa, Asia and Latin America through Global Health Innovation Grants (GHIG), a program that helps increase health access and foster local innovation. The Pfizer Foundation's Global Health portfolio has grown to 30+ projects spanning 25+ partners and 15+ countries, impacting more than 3 million patients. Disclaimers 1.  he Pfizer Savings Program is not health insurance. For a complete list of participating pharmacies, click here or call T the toll-free number 1-866-989-PATH (7284). There are no membership fees to participate in this program. Estimated savings range from 36 percent to 75 percent, and depend on such factors as the particular drug purchased, amount purchased and the pharmacy where purchased. 2. T he Pfizer Patient Assistance Program is a joint program of Pfizer Inc. and the Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation™. The Pfizer Patient Assistance Foundation is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. 3. Co-Pay Assistance provided through the Pfizer Patient Assistance Program is not health insurance. For a complete list of participating pharmacies, call 1-844-989-PATH (7284). No membership fees apply. Patients who participate in any federal or state programs, such as Medicaid or Medicare, are not eligible for co-pay assistance. However, these patients may be eligible to receive their medicine for free through the Pfizer Patient Assistance Program. Terms and conditions apply. 4. Product availability varies by institution and eligibility. 5. Terms and conditions apply. 6. Data on file. Pfizer Inc., New York, NY. 7. T he Pfizer Foundation is a charitable organization established by Pfizer Inc. It is a separate legal entity from Pfizer Inc. with distinct legal restrictions. Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goals 3, 5, 6, 9 and 17. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 122 Public Health Impact Healthy Aging At Pfizer, we are committed to helping people age well so they can live a healthy and full life at every step and at any age along the journey. We are accelerating progress against this goal through a wide variety of efforts – forging unique partnerships around the world, creating tools to help raise awareness and measure impact, and supporting the urban environments in which more people are increasingly growing up and growing older. Changing the Way America Ages By 2030, one in five people in the United States (U.S.) is expected to be over the age of 65. As a result, people of all ages are evaluating what life will look like in their later years, and looking for information and tools to help them lead healthier lives. This year, Pfizer challenged people across the U.S. to develop the next big idea in healthy aging through a unique partnership with crowdfunding platform Indiegogo. As part of this initiative, we leveraged roughly 400,000 individuals who are part of the Pfizer Get Old community and Indiegogo’s vast pool of entrepreneurs to submit and vote on innovative products or services that support healthy living as we age. The best idea came from a team at Alchemi Labs and they received $50,000 in funding and had the opportunity to meet with Pfizer experts to help bring the idea from concept to reality. Launching 'Get Old' in Latin America In Latin America, we launched the Get Old healthy-aging campaign to inspire people to have positive attitudes about aging. Aging without Shame, in Brazil, and Aging with Pride, in other Latin America countries, aim to break the stigma associated with aging and motivate people to live their best possible lives. • In Brazil, the initiative had extensive reach, garnering more than 150,000 Facebook fans, 51,000 website page views, six million video impressions and more than 500 media articles published by local press • In Latin America, the campaign achieved more than 22 million impressions through traditional and social media, a video “¿Viejo Quién?” received more than 100,000 views, and there were 18 articles written by a Chilean Pfizer geriatrician and 119 articles published across markets 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 123 People over 60 are expected to account for more than 25 percent of the population in Latin America by 2050. “We want to further a regional movement by which people understand that each stage of life is a new opportunity to make old dreams come true and build new goals.” Guillermo Azuero Pfizer Essential Health Regional President for Latin America Pfizer’s Senior Intern Paul Critchlow, a recently retired 70-year old professional with a 30+ year career in journalism, government and finance, joined Pfizer over the summer as our “Senior Intern.” Paul was one of approximately two dozen interns in the Corporate Affairs division and worked on several projects, including developing Get Old guest blog posts and collaborating on a video series the interns produced, titled “Senior vs. Senior.” Through this experience, Paul and the collegiate interns broke down generational barriers in the workplace and realized how much millennials and baby boomers could learn from each other. Senior Vs. Senior WATCH TO DISCOVER MORE Continuing Pfizer’s Center of Excellence on Ageing Pfizer’s Center of Excellence on Active and Healthy Ageing is responsible for enhancing our ability to address the challenges and opportunities associated with an aging society by supporting a life-course approach to health, including developing partnerships with external groups to advance this agenda, as well as addressing life-course needs within the development of Pfizer’s drugs, vaccines and products. Colleagues representing a variety of functions from diverse geographies are voluntary members of the center which serves as a knowledge hub through which best practices are shared, and insights on healthy aging are generated. These scientific and medical findings are shared within Pfizer as well as with external partners. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 124 Showcasing the Value of Vaccinations across Generations – #bandAGEofhonor Children are not the only ones who can benefit from vaccinations against preventable diseases; it is critical that individuals across generations receive the vaccinations appropriate for each stage of life. We know that many people – especially those in the second half of their lives – are unaware of the importance of receiving potentially life-saving vaccinations. In response to this, Pfizer forged a partnership with Generations United to elevate global awareness of vaccinations across all generations. Together, we are working to accelerate patient impact in the prevention of disease, providing tools and resources, such as discussion guides, to encourage intergenerational conversations about getting vaccinated. To ensure messaging for the campaign resonated with key age demographics, Generations United worked with the The Gerontological Society of America and the American Academy of Pediatrics to conduct focus group sessions and distribute resources to their constituents. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 125 29.7m readers via media outlets including The Boston Globe, MarketWatch, Reuters and Next Avenue 2.4m listeners on the Diane Rehm Show ~2.5m 181,000 Twitter and Facebook international Twitter audiences audiences ~2.3m 60,500 hashtag impressions newsletter subscribers 50,000 international readers To learn more, please visit: www.bandAGEofhonor.org 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 126 Creating Age-Friendly Cities – Progress in Ireland Pfizer is helping support age-friendly cities with community-based programs across the world, including in Ireland. Age-Friendly Ireland continues to work on fostering a sustainable network of age-friendly towns (currently 22) across Ireland. To enable towns to become age-friendly, the program has successfully created a toolkit and an appendix of templates and examples of age-friendly town methodologies. A related suite of videos describes the age-friendly enabling process and how it has been used successfully. Other efforts in 2016 focused on encouraging older adults to take lead roles in enhancing their communities, creating an “Age Impact Assessment” tool/ checklist appropriate for the Irish environment, and promoting the benefits of a multi-stakeholder approach in municipal planning. In 2017, the role currently fulfilled by Age-Friendly Ireland in supporting the now national Age-Friendly Cities and Counties Programme will transition to a local government-hosted shared service. Our work in this area supports the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Goal 3. Find out more on page 34. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 127 Public Health Impact Accelerating Patient Engagement Engaging Our Patients and the Community We continue to evolve the way we engage with our patients, caregivers and the health care community around the world. Through various public health initiatives we are working to bridge significant health gaps in patient education and care by arming people with trusted information and tools that enable them to take a more active role in their health care. Expanding to a Global Audience Since 2011, Pfizer's Chief Medical Officer Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall's appearances on popular television shows, including The Doctors and Dr. Phil, together with health information offered through the Get Healthy Stay Healthy website, has connected millions of Americans with medical expertise and resources to empower them to take control of their health. In 2016, we expanded the Get Healthy Stay Healthy program to reach a global audience, starting with a pilot in China. The pilot included a Pfizer-sponsored Get Healthy Stay Healthy page on Xinhua.net, the most influential news portal in China, which reaches almost 60 million people daily. In addition, Dr. Lewis-Hall appeared in digital videos with local medical experts to discuss locally relevant health conditions and actions viewers can take to improve their health. To launch the China Get Healthy Stay Healthy program, Dr. Lewis-Hall, together with two Chinese cardiovascular experts, gave health information to Chinese patients on cholesterol management and drug adherence, two widespread issues in the country. She shared that cholesterol management is one of the most important factors, alongside adherence improvement, to preventing cardiovascular disease and stroke. The program will continue to expand with pilots rolling out in Australia and India in 2017, each to include Get Healthy Stay Healthy websites tailored to the specific health care needs in those countries. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 128 “ “By taking the Get Healthy Stay Healthy program global, we have the opportunity to connect millions, possibly billions, of additional patients to reliable and practical health information, especially in markets where this information is not readily accessible. We are committed to helping as many people as we can get healthy and stay healthy.” Freda Lewis-Hall M.D., DFAPA Executive Vice President and Chief Medical Officer, Pfizer Transforming Cardiovascular Disease Care in China In China, cardiovascular disease is a public health burden, largely due to its prevalence among the aging population. In 2010, an estimated 8.1 million individuals in China were affected by coronary heart disease. The growing number of individuals affected by cardiovascular disease is predicted to increase to 22.6 million by 2030. The China Government's 2020 Objectives for Improving Patient Care in the Aging Population are to: • Increase average life expectancy for all Chinese citizens by one year • Decrease stroke mortality by five percent • Promote cardiovascular diagnosis and improve living standard for the broader population To address the challenges that patients with cardiovascular disease in China face, Pfizer is working with organizations in the public and private sectors on educational initiatives, policy activities and large-scale pilot programs. One example is a dyslipidemia management initiative called KEEP (Key Cardiovascular Risk Factor Education and Extension Program). Dyslipidemia is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease and this program works to provide real-world evidence and advocacy for the enhancement of national policies that support comprehensive lipid screening and management in community clinics. As part of KEEP, we are providing grants to support widespread public education, health care practitioner training and patient education across China. We are also working to encourage the government to support the incorporation of cholesterol management into national policy. By providing details of a study that underscores the disease burden, developing easy-to-implement tools and conducting feasibility pilots, we are building a strong body of evidence to support this policy goal. To date, there have been three pilot initiatives in priority cities including Beijing (an estimated 27,000 patients), Hangzhou (an estimated 27,000 patients) and Shenzhen (an estimated 15,000 patients). Each of these pilots implemented a program to train general practitioners on risk factors and guidelines for dyslipidemia management in cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease to help speed diagnosis and guideline-based treatment to reduce disease progression. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 129 Successful Beijing Pilot Program Yields Significant Results in the Community • Launched in 35 community centers and trained 500 community health service providers • Evaluated and comprehensively managed 27,660 high cardiovascular-risk patients on risk factors according to guidelines • Introduced comprehensive management approaches, including the Clinical Decision Support System clinical pathway, key performance indicators and customized training, which largely reduced repeated work for community doctors and increased standard treatment rate KEEP is supported by the Pfizer Medical team in China through grants from Pfizer Independent Grants for Learning and Change (IGLC) and spearheaded by the International Health Exchange and Cooperating Committee of the China National Health and Family Planning Commission, formerly known as Ministry of Health. Providing Real Solutions for Patients in China A second program being supported by Pfizer IGLC in order to help reduce cardiovascular disease in China is called Improving Care for Cardiovascular Disease in China (CCC). It is based on an initiative developed originally in the United States by the American Heart Association called Get with the Guidelines and is being spearheaded in China by the Chinese Society of Cardiology. There is a gap between guideline recommendations for treatment of acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and application of these recommendations in clinical practice in China. CCC is a novel quality-enhancement registry that uses data collection, performance management and rapid optimization techniques to help health care providers bridge this gap and accelerate the proper treatment of ACS patients. Care is tracked in the registry from admission through hospital discharge, performance measures are used to ensure guideline-based care, and patients are provided with cardiovascular education and supportive materials. The program has been well received by cardiologists and hospitals and has been implemented in 150 major hospitals across mainland China. Keeping Cholesterol Top-of-Mind with Chinese Patients and Public Pfizer has committed to support cardiovascular diseases control and prevention programs in China and will continue to work toward bending the mortality curve of cardiovascular diseases in cooperation with health authorities, medical communities and media. Since 2014, the China Public Health Media Education Program (CHEER), supported by Pfizer IGLC and jointly initiated by China National Health and Family Planning Commission (the former Ministry of Health), China Health Education Center and China Journalists Association, has built a bridge across government, health care professionals, media, people with cardiovascular diseases and the public, in order to raise public awareness of cholesterol management. The CHEER program has been successfully conducted in 11 provinces, reaching nearly 300 million people. Based on its success and contribution to public education and health, the CHEER program was recognized as a best practice of health education at the 9th Global Conference of Health Promotion in Shanghai. 2016 Annual Review Public Health Impact 130 About this Review This integrated Annual Review evaluates Pfizer’s holistic performance over the course of 2016 from a financial, social and environmental perspective. It demonstrates the integral relationship between our responsibilities as an enterprise and our core business strategies and their execution. We produce this review to give all of our stakeholders an overall picture of how we are doing and the progress we are making. This year, we have chosen to highlight how we, as a company, are accelerating patient impact in a complex and dynamic health care environment. Through creative commercial strategies and an evolving approach to philanthropy, we aim to have a meaningful and tangible impact on the health of individuals around the world. To achieve these outcomes, we embrace agility and continually adapt our business to the evolving needs of the marketplace, our stakeholders and patients. Scope of Reporting This review covers Pfizer's worldwide business and provides information on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2016. It describes key dimensions of both financial and non-financial performance. It also describes critical challenges in society – from expanding access to health care to our environmental impact – and our strategies for addressing them. 2016 Annual Review About this Review 131 Corporate Responsibility Materiality The content of this report is based on two key factors – its importance to stakeholders and its potential to influence business strategy. Our Corporate Responsibility team works with colleagues across the organization and engages with external stakeholders to help identify the critical issues we need to focus on in order to meet our commercial goals and society's expectations. These include the following specific, non-financial, corporate responsibility material issues: • Access to Medicines • Environment (sustainability) • Culture and Employee Engagement/Retention • United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) • Quality Manufacturing and Supply Chain • Governance and Ethics Stakeholder Engagement We greatly value our stakeholders' perspectives, and all Pfizer units globally and locally engage with stakeholders on relevant issues throughout the year. We continue to explore new ways of engaging with a broad range of stakeholders to better understand the evolving reporting environment and determine how key non-financial indicators are impacting our financial performance. In 2016, we advanced our efforts to organize, validate and streamline data supporting certain non-financial indicators and expect to continue to do so in 2017. Corporate Responsibility Management This review was developed by a core group of Pfizer colleagues representing each business unit and other key functions. The core group is managed by Pfizer's Corporate Affairs department, whose leader is a member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the CEO. Pfizer's commitment to society is embedded in our business strategy and vision, and our business units and functional groups share the commitment to integrate such values in our daily work. The Corporate Responsibility team sets the strategic direction for meeting our commitment to society and supports the integration and implementation of programs and non-financial reporting throughout the company. The team is also responsible for Pfizer's flagship global health social investment programs and for providing annual updates to Pfizer's Board of Directors on progress in achieving corporate responsibility goals and non-financial reporting. 2016 Annual Review About this Review 132 Improving Our Access to Medicines Offerings The Access to Medicine Index (ATMi) analyzes the top 20 research-based pharmaceutical companies on how they make essential medicines, vaccines and diagnostics accessible in lowand middle-income countries. ATMi was launched in 2008 by the Access to Medicine Foundation (AMF), a Dutch-based international non-profit organization, and urges companies to adopt recommended best practices to ensure global access to medicines. The 2016 Index used a framework of 83 metrics to measure company performance relating to 51 high-burden diseases in 107 countries. The framework is reviewed every two years, with reference to the Expert Review Committee of independent experts including the World Health Organization (WHO), governments, patient organizations, the industry, academia and investors. The Index evaluates four strategic pillars – commitments, transparency, performance and innovation – across seven core technical areas: 1) general access to medicine management; 2) market influence and compliance; 3) research and development; 4) pricing, manufacturing and distribution; 5) patients and licensing; 6) capacity building; and 7) and product donations. In 2016, Pfizer ranked 14 among the top 20 pharmaceutical companies – increasing our position from 16 in 2014. Several factors contributed to our higher score on the 2016 Index including structured donation programs, nearly doubling the size of our pipeline through research and development efforts, widespread enhancements of pricing, manufacturing and distribution efforts, and a strong approach to building supply chains. Global Reporting Frameworks Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including adherence to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks. These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We have relied on elements of each framework in developing this year's annual review while adhering to none in its entirety. As you’ll see, we include a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information across Pfizer's web-based resources. We also take into account elements of other Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) indices and sustainability indicators – in particular, the Access to Medicines Index and the UN Global Goals (also known as the Sustainable Development Goals). Throughout this report, you’ll see the Global Goals icons near various efforts to highlight the work we are doing across Pfizer to meet these achievements by 2030. Read more about our Corporate and Shareholder Information, including Forward-Looking Statements. 2016 Annual Review About this Review 133 Global Reporting Frameworks Pfizer continues to evaluate our approach to non-financial reporting, including adherence to several existing, globally recognized external frameworks. These include the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) and the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We have relied on elements of each framework in developing this year's Annual Review while adhering to none in its entirety. We have included a GRI Reference Table in this Annual Review as a reference tool to help readers more readily locate relevant information across Pfizer's web-based resources. We also take into account elements of other Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) indices and sustainability indicators, in particular the Access to Medicines Index and the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 2016 Annual Review Global Reporting Frameworks 134 GRI reference table GRI Description Reference Alignment with Indicator the UN SDGs1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 CEO / Chair Statement CEO Letter ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Company name Pfizer Inc. G4-4 Company brand, products CEO Letter and services G4-5 Location of headquarters New York, New York (U.S.) G4-6 Main countries of operation Global Commercial Businesses G4-8 Markets served Our Business (e.g. sectors, customers) G4-9 Scale of company CEO Letter (e.g. employees, sales) G4-10 Employee profile Pfizer Careers Goal 8 G4-12 Description of company Our Business supply chain G4-14 Precautionary Pfizer manages and reports approach / principle on our risks and impacts in consideration of the precautionary principle. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in About This Review financial statements G4-18 Process for defining About This Review report content G4-19 Material issues / About This Review aspects identified G4-23 Significant changes Pfizer footprint and in scope / boundaries capabilities grew with the acquisition of AstraZeneca's anti-infectives portfolio, Bamboo Therapeutics, BIND Therapeutics, and Medivation, Inc. which are included in the 2016 Annual Review. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Stakeholders engaged CEO Letter G4-26 Approach to Partnerships stakeholder engagement 2016 Annual Review Global Reporting Frameworks 135 GRI Description Reference Alignment with Indicator the UN SDGs1 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period About This Review G4-29 Date of previous report See Previous Annual Review G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Review G4-31 Reporting contact point Chris Gray, Senior Director, Corporate Responsibility G4-32 In accordance option chosen GRI Reference Table GOVERNANCE G4-34 Governance structure Governance and Ethics G4-37 Governance and Corporate Governance FAQs Goal 16 stakeholder engagement G4-38 Composition of the Board Board of Directors Goals 5, 16 G4-39 Chair of the Board Board of Directors Goal 16 G4-40 Nomination of Board The Pfizer Board: Goal 5, 16 Members Board Policies G4-41 Conflict of interest and The Pfizer Board: Goal 16 the Board Board Policies ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Values, principles and codes Pfizer Compliance Goal 16 ECONOMIC DMA Disclosures on SDGs Management Approach G4-EC1 Direct economic value Transforming Delivery of Goals 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 High Quality Products G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments Bringing Resources to Bear Goals 2, 5, 7, 9, 11 and services to Improve Global Health G4-EC9 Local supplier spending Transforming Delivery of Goal 12 High Quality Products ENVIRONMENTAL DMA Disclosures on Environment, Health Management Approach and Safety G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal Environment, Health Goal 6 by source and Safety G4-EN23 Total waste Environment, Health Goals 3, 6, 12 and Safety G4-EN27 Mitigation of product impacts Environment, Health Goals 6, 8, 12, 13, and Safety 14, 15 G4-EN33 Supply chain Environment, Health environmental impacts and Safety 2016 Annual Review Global Reporting Frameworks 136 GRI Description Reference Alignment with Indicator the UN SDGs1 SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK DMA Disclosures on Culture Management Approach G4-LA6 Injuries and work Culture Goals 3, 8 related fatalities G4-LA9 Employee training Culture Goals 4, 5, 8 G4-LA10 Employee skills and learning Culture Goal 8 SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS DMA Disclosures on Governance and Ethics Management Approach G4-HR2 Human rights training Human Rights Statement G4-HR3 Discrimination Culture Goals 5, 8, 16 SOCIAL: SOCIETY DMA Disclosures on Governance and Ethics Management Approach G4-SO1 Local community engagement Public Health Impact G4-SO2 Impacts on local communities Public Health Impact Goals 1, 2 G4-SO3 Anti-corruption risk Practical Ethical Sales Goal 16 and Marketing G4-SO6 Political contributions Corporate and Shareholder Goal 16 Information SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY DMA Disclosures on Product Stewardship Management Approach How We Conduct Clinical Trials G4-PR1 Health and safety impacts Manufacturing and of products Supply Chain G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction Access to Medicines G4-PR8 Customer privacy breaches Clinical Trials Goal 16 The product information provided in this document is intended only for residents of the United States. The products discussed herein may have different product labeling in different countries. © 2017 Pfizer Inc. All rights reserved 2016 Annual Review Global Reporting Frameworks 137
