United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress 2016 Our first report, covering activities during the 2016 calendar year. Anthesis (UK) Ltd Communication on Progress 3 Chief Executive’s statement of continued support 4 About Anthesis 5 Our services and thought leadership 6 Partnerships 8 Section 1: Human rights 13 Section 2: Labor 20 Section 3: Environment 25 Section 4: Anti-corruption 30 Our 2017 plan 31 Contact us Contents 2 “Upholding issues relating to social and environmental sustainability is core to our business, and the UNGC’s principles could not be more relevant to Anthesis. We consider our impact through influence as our most significant contribution to the principles.” Chief Executive’s statement of continued support It’s a pleasure to present to you our admirable social, environmental and both through the direct day-tofirst United Nations Global Compact financial management activities that day operations of Anthesis, and (UNGC) Communication on Progress have already been taking place across the work we do with some of the report. Our commitment to the the companies which have come world’s leading organizations. ten principles – covering human together to form the Anthesis Group. If you are interested to know rights, labor, environment and antiWe are committed to continuing more, please get in touch with us corruption – is stronger than ever, this consolidation process into one by emailing: both in terms of our direct impact on coherent and consistent approach, these areas, and our impact through and are keen to share our progress sustainability@anthesisgroup.com influence, as we work with some of with key stakeholders through this the world’s biggest organizations to and future, communications. Yours sincerely, support their achievement of social 2016 was a year of significant and environmental change to build development for our UK sustainability sustainability and resilience into their plans – amid substantial UK and own operations. global business growth. Our headline Our work to promote the UNGC achievements included establishing pillars goes far beyond the direct our learning and development size of our organization through the ‘Emergen’ program, achieving ISO Stuart McLachlan sustainability projects we deliver for 14001 certification across five of our Chief Executive Officer our clients. The future looks bright as UK offices, and becoming signatories we continue to grow as a business of the UNGC. We are proud of the and expand our impact by working considerable progress we made in with our clients on world class, 2016, and have summarized progress groundbreaking projects – some relevant to the principles of the UNGC of which you will read about in this in the following sections of the report. report. This year, we are focusing our For context, we are an SME with just Communication on Progress on over 100 people in our UK business, Anthesis (UK) Ltd, and hope to extend and an additional ~100 across the our scope of UNGC commitments globe, that together, form the to the global Anthesis Group in the Anthesis Group. It has been less coming years. In this report, we than four years since Anthesis began summarize the actions we took in trading, and we are making sound 2016 and plan to take in future to put progress towards consolidating the the 10 UNGC principles into practice – 3 About Anthesis Anthesis is a specialist global We bring together expertise from countries around the world and have offices in sustainability services and the UK, Ireland, US, Canada, Germany, solutions provider founded on the Sweden, Finland, Middle East, China and belief that sustainable business the Philippines. We have a track record of pioneering new approaches to sustainability. practices are at the heart of longterm commercial success. We specialize in working with both local public and private sector clients and large, We develop value-driven sustainability global corporations. Anthesis has clients strategy which is underpinned by technical across industry sectors, including corporate experience and delivered by innovative, multinationals like Cisco, Tesco and RB, and collaborative teams across the world. We not we have worked with many Global 500, only develop solutions for clients, but act as S&P500 and FTSE350 companies. Building a delivery partner too. productive, lasting relationships with clients is at the heart of our approach. We combine the reach of big consultancies with the deep expertise of our practice Anthesis (UK) Ltd, part of the group, have leaders from across the globe. been members of the UNGC since July 2016. Structure of team, Our impact through governance and sponsorship influence In our UK business, we have a sustainability The services we offer to organizations span team who are responsible for designing the breadth of the 10 UNGC principles and and overseeing the delivery of our we have chosen to showcase one case sustainability program. This team includes a study for each of the four issue areas of the ‘Sustainability Champion’ in each UK office UNGC. However, our positive impact through who is responsible for maintaining the influence is not limited to those we work environmental management system (EMS) with, and we widen our net of influence by in their location and contributes to the plan producing and sharing thought leadership of the program, as well as a Manager to lead materials (more overleaf). the program, and a Director to sponsor the initiatives. The Champions and Manager meet monthly to discuss progress, and engage the Director and CEO as required, at least once quarterly. Examples of successful initiatives led by this group are given throughout this Communication on Progress. 4 Our services Advisory + communications Energy Software + systems Product + supply chain Transaction + corporate services Our thought leadership We are privileged to have such talented employees who are world leading experts in their respective areas. We want to share our knowledge, experiences and insights because we understand this is key to the resilience of Anthesis. Outside of our core business, we carry out thought leadership activities, including: Regular content production on Sponsoring events, hosting round our website, available for free, tables and speaking at events such as blogs, short guides and and conferences, both to share videos (we provide a taster of our insights and support the these in the following sections). continuation of such collaboration forums. Contributions to external Membership of a number publications, and guest or of professional forums and collaborative blogs on the collaboration networks, through Anthesis website. which we can actively contribute to the agenda across sustainability issues. 5 Environmental In the UK, Industries Commission we support Providing the technology and services that deliver and work in environmental performance across the economy in a costpartnership with: effective manner. Low Carbon South West Carbon Trust Contributing to and benefiting from a more sustainable future Contributing to and benefiting from a more sustainable future Our global through carbon reduction, resource efficiency strategies through carbon reduction, resource efficiency strategies team founded and commercialising low carbon technologies. and commercializing low carbon technologies. and host: Social Stock Exchange The Crowd Working to create an efficient In 2017, we will be sponsoring buyers’ and sellers’ marketplace The Crowd Forum events, a for impact investors and social monthly dose of inspiration impact businesses. for people working in large organizations who are connecting their businesses with society. Read more page 24 UK Green Building Business In The Council Community Working to radically improve Working together with other the sustainability of the built members to tackle a wide range environment. of issues that are essential to building a fairer society and a more sustainable future. 6 United Nations Global Compact – Communication on Progress How we uphold 2016 the ten Ourprinciples first report, ofcovering the UNGC activities For each during of the fourthe issue2016 areas of the UNGC, and the principles which sit calendar year. beneath then, we present a summary of how we are directly implementing these principles through our day-today operations at Anthesis, as well as our work with clients (i.e. our impact through influence). 7 UNGC Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and UNGC Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Section 1: Human Rights 8 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Our commitment Anthesis’ commitment is laid out As well, our public interest disclosure in our 2016 sustainability policy, (whistleblowing) and anti-bribery and championed by our CEO, explicitly: corruption policy guides our practice in relation to human rights. “We will uphold human We encourage a culture of open discussion so that employees feel rights in our business they can raise issues or concerns and encourage our value as they arise, and complement this with an anonymous annual chain to do the same.” colleague survey, first developed and implemented in 2016. Our We strive to uphold human rights HR function, along with senior in accordance with the Universal management, are responsible for Declaration of Human Rights and updating policies, reviewing progress aim to implement responsible action towards implementing them, and according to the Guiding Principles monitoring any breaches which for Business introduced by the UN may occur. In regards to our value Human Rights Council in 2011. We chain, we have a responsibility to also support and follow the UK understand and influence the human Government’s leadership in rolling out rights processes of both our suppliers guidance for business to integrate and clients. human rights. Our commitment to progress in the The nature of Anthesis’ services area of upholding human rights, both and products is grounded in within our own operations and in environmental, business and social our supply chain, is reflected in our responsibility, and our sustainability 2017 commitment to consolidating policy, published on our website, our sustainable procurement policy, summarizes the principles at the core providing awareness training for of our approach. colleagues, and to undertaking a human rights impact assessment. “We encourage a culture of open discussion so that employees feel they can raise issues or concerns as they arise” 9 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Actions to uphold our commitment Progress in 2016 2017 commitments We finalized and communicated our We commit to undertaking a second internal approach to human rights colleague survey in 2017 and using and ethical trading principles, after the findings to further improve our consultation with colleagues, within practices in relation to human rights our new 2016 colleague handbook. Our and other areas. sustainability policy, public interest disclosure (whistleblowing) policy and anti-bribery and corruption policy are all contained within this handbook. We finalized our standard employee We commit to finalizing and publishing contract template which includes our our sustainable procurement policy to anti-bribery and corruption policy. standardize our approach to sourcing across the global business. In 2016 we implemented our first We commit to delivering awareness colleague survey which collected training for employees regarding feedback anonymously across all human rights and sustainable areas of the organization and gave procurement. employees a mechanism to raise issues (see highlight). No grievances were raised related to We commit to supporting our suppliers human rights or any other issue areas and partners to make suitable in 2016. choices in line with our sustainable procurement policy. We commit to undertaking a human rights impact assessment within our business. 10 Our direct impact: human rights Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Making a difference: our first global colleague survey We had a strong, 76% response rate to our first global colleague survey. The results showed that our employees value the following areas most: vision and purpose; leadership; collaboration and teamwork; and work/life balance. Overall, employees felt that their job makes a difference and they enjoy working in the field of sustainability. They also felt that Anthesis peers are supportive of one another, and individuals feel encouraged to share their ideas. Some improvement areas were identified: feeling more connected to colleagues globally; efficiencies in systems and processes; more job-related training; and better understanding of our own internal sustainability program. In response to this feedback, we launched new global knowledge sharing systems, processes and forums; created a new colleague training and development program; and increased our focus on internal sustainability campaigns, communications and reach. This survey was further supported by a cultural review undertaken across the UK business, designed to deepen our understanding of differences in working practices across diverse teams, and to help promote tolerance and appreciation of cultural differences. The results were shared with the relevant practice areas and were greatly appreciated as a learning tool and a forum for sharing viewpoints. “The results showed that our employees value the following areas most: vision and purpose; leadership; collaboration and teamwork; and work/life balance” 11 Impact through influence: human rights Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Spotlight on... Thought leadership Responsible sourcing in the Anthesis content taster construction sector Anthesis was engaged by Steadmans, a major supplier of steel cladding and roofing, to support them on their journey Blog: Getting a handle on social to achieve BES 6001 Framework Standard value for Responsible Sourcing certification. This would allow Steadmans to assure their customers that they are sourcing their materials responsibly – from social, ethical and environmental perspectives. We provided recommendations to maximize Blog: The scientific revolution: “The challenge with this type their BES 6001 responsible sourcing score, as science-based materiality and well as improvement opportunities beyond of project is finding the right the scope of the standard to formalize aligning with the Sustainable Development Goals advisory partner that instinctively and improve Steadmans’ approach. This included recommendations for processes understands what is needed, and procedures around issues such as procurement practices, supply chains, understands our business, and transport emissions, life cycle assessments, can deliver efficiently against and engagement with local communities. the project brief. Anthesis’ way Steadmans successfully achieved BES Blog: Top tips for world class materiality of working and communicating 6001 Framework Standard for Responsible Sourcing certification, and their score enabled us to execute the project on highlighted that the company is excelling in particular assessment areas. With Anthesis’ time, on budget, and to an excellent support to go beyond the basic scope of BES standard.” 6001 requirements, Steadmans is considering a broader portfolio of business resilience Heinrich Jonker, Quality Systems issues, e.g. upcoming supply chain risks, and Vlog: Supply chain engagement giving their organization a higher level of Manager, SIG Building Solutions differentiation in the marketplace. (Steadmans) 12 UNGC Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; UNGC Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; UNGC Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and UNGC Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Section 2: Labor 13 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Our commitment Anthesis upholds freedom of “We believe in a way of association and effective right to collective bargaining for all our working based on values employees. Our sustainability policy and trust, and in co-creating, states our commitment to “Treat with our employees, a our employees fairly – responsible employment contracts, fair working mutually supportive, agile conditions, opportunities for workforce.” development, equal opportunities, Anthesis employee contract and protecting their health and templates and our colleague safety”. handbook have both been updated We believe that employee and standardized in 2016 to state empowerment and freedom of clearly the right to annual pay association are key drivers of our reviews for all employees, grievance success as a business. We strive to procedures, and policies such as give employees a voice, to develop public disclosure (whistleblowing) skills, and to embrace a transparent and anti-bribery and corruption. and open culture. In particular, Colleague development is supported Anthesis is founded on the basis of by our yearly appraisal process and trust and empowerment for all our by our learning and development employees. (L&D) program, the Emergen Program, which was inaugurated in 2016 All colleagues are engaged on alongside our new L&D function business performance during monthly within the business. We keep meetings chaired by our CEO. All ourselves abreast of best practice in employees are invited to become employee relations and consultation shareholders in the organization, through the support of an external with the result that Anthesis is 72% human resources agency. employee owned. “Treat our employees fairly – responsible employment contracts, fair working conditions, opportunities for development, equal opportunities, and protecting their health and safety” 14 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Our commitment (continued) Anthesis offers all employees the »» A flexible working policy available opportunity to take part in health and to all staff. wellbeing initiatives, including: Our equal opportunities policy »» A tax-free childcare voucher outlines how we endeavor to scheme – an average of 8 eliminate discrimination across all colleagues chose to use this types of diversity. We are committed scheme in 2016. to promoting gender equality across our operations and, in 2016, women »» A tax-free cycle to work scheme made up 60% of our workforce. (and bike storage facilities) – in 2016 an average of 1.5 colleagues chose Anthesis supports the elimination to use the scheme, which was of all forms of forced or compulsory promoted during our safe, green labor in line with the 2015 UK travel week in October 2016. Modern Slavery Act and supports the effective abolition of child labor. »» Free flu vaccines and free eye tests Our commitment to ethical trading – 13 colleagues took up these health in this regard is laid out in our benefits in 2016. sustainability policy. Our anti-bribery »» Two volunteering days annually and corruption policy further supports and a payroll giving scheme – we our commitment to ethical trading were only able to amount 22 principles. hours of support for charitable/ As a developing, purpose-driven community organizations in 2016, business, we believe we have an and had no uptake of the payroll opportunity to advance both our giving scheme, which we are aware own human rights performance is most likely due to no active through our business model and promotion of these initiatives to business culture, and to influence and colleagues; raising awareness guide other businesses through our of these initiatives is a key aim services, community and business for 2017. engagement, and thought leadership. 15 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Actions to uphold our commitment Progress in 2016 We finalized our colleague handbook We created a new role for a Learning after consultation with all colleagues. and Development Manager in 2016, The handbook contains a number of and formed a Human Resources resources which contribute to positive function to support our growing UK labor practices including our grievance business. This team has formalized procedure, an equal opportunities Anthesis’ approach to training policy, a personal harassment policy and, along with Anthesis’ senior and procedure, and a lone working management, this function is policy. responsible for updating polices and monitoring any breaches which may occur. We standardized our employee We were awarded a ‘Certificate of contract template. Contracts clearly Achievement for High Standard outline full terms, working hours, pay Employment Practice’ by our human and benefits, and include our antiresources agency, Peninsula, and are bribery and corruption policy. working with them to continue to refine our practices. We empowered all colleagues to We began a rolling program of develop their skills through our client feedback in 2016 so that we innovative, person-centered, Emergen can better understand our clients’ program designed to develop all opinions of working with us, and make staff to their fullest potential, which improvements to our service delivery launched in 2016 (see highlight). where necessary. We implemented employee forums We expanded the sharing of and discussion groups as part of our knowledge across our global team new CRM and project management through internal webinar sessions on platform, Kimble. the services we provide for clients, including areas such as addressing modern slavery in supply chains. We consulted our colleagues through We have strengthened our employee our annual survey (see highlight induction program and materials, section 1: human rights). including a buddying system to help new employees feel supported. 16 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Actions to uphold our commitment (continued) 2017 commitments We commit to undertaking a policy We commit to undertaking a risk gap analysis with regards to forced and assessment for forced and child labor child labor. within our business operations. We commit to gathering equality We commit to producing a clear metrics with regards to equal pay and career progression map to support all opportunities. colleagues. We commit to launching all modules of We commit to providing a knowledge our colleague training program. sharing platform across the global business. We commit to reviewing our We commit to listening to and employee appraisal system to identify engaging with our colleagues on our opportunities for a more ‘real-time’, sustainability program. active feedback system. We commit to continuing to embed We commit to promoting our our consolidated health and safety health and wellbeing opportunities, policy and processes. particularly annual volunteering days, to increase uptake. 17 Our direct impact: labor Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Emergen program for colleagues and Our Health and Safety achievements clients In April 2016, we launched our new colleague training and development program called the Emergen Program. It is designed to support all Progress in 2016 employees in emerging from where they are to where they want to be Our health and safety (H&S) coordinator, and senior management, are – creating the career they want at Anthesis. As part of this, we launched responsible for ensuring our ongoing compliance. In 2016, we continued to modules on project management, line manager training on appraisals and consolidate the H&S procedures in place across offices into an overarching feedback, Excel training, and an introduction to mindfulness ahead our H&S framework, which manages all aspects of H&S delivery for Anthesis in complete Mindfulness Program scheduled for early 2017. the UK and is structured around the ‘plan, do, check, act’ system. »» 100% of our employees received training in 2016 »» 7 training modules launched, with plans to introduce 15 more during 2017 As part of this, we consolidated training materials for all employees across induction, ergonomics, office and home working employees, and trained/ »» 79% of our project managers received project management training, re-trained a minimum of one employee per office in first aid/fire warden which 75% rated as Good duties. We also conducted H&S office inspections and risk assessments for »» 100% of colleagues who attended Microsoft Excel training rated it as Good all UK offices, and have signed up to an external H&S support agency to or Excellent conduct independent audits of our UK sites during 2017. One particular strand of the Emergen Program is focused solely on our We consolidated emergency response plans for Anthesis in the UK to deal clients, offering them the opportunity to spend time with our world class with terrorist incidents, civil disturbances, explosions and natural disasters. experts to accelerate their sustainability progress and unlock tangible business value from looking at their organization’s operations through a We had zero breaches of our H&S policy or processes, and there were sustainability lens. The focus is on revenue growth, cost cutting, brand three minor work-related injuries which required basic first aid. enhancement, and risk mitigation. It is a unique shared learning opportunity for us and our clients – as we are able to better understand how we We developed a bespoke H&S risk assessment tool to help employees can tailor our services in line with clients’ changing priorities, and our better manage requirements when delivering work for clients. clients are provided with world class expertise garnered from across the Anthesis Group. “100% of colleagues who attended Microsoft Excel training rated it as Good or Excellent” 18 Impact through influence: labor Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Spotlight on... Thought leadership Supporting compliance to Anthesis content taster the UK Modern Slavery Act Our client, a leader in corporate responsibility, identified they needed to publish a Modern Slavery Statement for Blog: Modern slavery – no more each of their UK legal entities to comply hiding places for companies with the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015. They recognized they would need to assess the potential risks of modern slavery and human trafficking in their supply chains, and to review their policies and procedures to ensure these risks were being addressed. Anthesis carried out a four-stage approach: Blog: Revolting fashion and the we undertook a gap analysis of existing Modern Slavery Act documentation to manage customers and suppliers; we then analyzed the company’s expenditure on procurement activities against the Anthesis Supply Chain Risk Framework, to assess which supplier categories might pose a risk of modern slavery, and which might require further Short guide: Modern slavery – investigation. The third stage was to produce our two page guide a summary of the findings in the form of a draft modern slavery policy, and an action plan. Finally, we drafted a robust Modern Slavery Statement that could be supported by the evidence and actions developed throughout the project. Each entity of the organization has now been Blog: Undressing the apparel provided with a recommended action plan, supply chain a modern slavery policy, and a statement that complies with the act, which they can publish and use to communicate with internal and external stakeholder audiences. 19 UNGC Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; UNGC Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and UNGC Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Section 3: Environment 20 Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Our commitment At Anthesis we are committed possible, and WEEE collections to to protecting the environment at enable us to dispose of electronic the highest level. As the services equipment responsibly. To reduce the we deliver are primarily advisory need for travel, we make best use of and software-related, we consider online communication tools to talk ourselves to have a low-risk of with each other, and employ a travel adverse environmental impact. We hierarchy to ensure journeys are made undertake initiatives to promote in the most energy-efficient and greater environmental responsibility safe way. for our clients through developing We have an environmental sustainability-related strategy, management system (EMS) certified as well as our bespoke tools, to ISO 14001:2004 standard by methodologies and other services – Intertek (see highlight). This system such as footprinting and reporting, allows us to proactively identify risk hotspotting (RiskHorizonTM), the environmental aspects of our energy and carbon management, and activities, and to determine those circularity and food waste metrics. which have, or can have, significant Our impact through influence is effects on the environment. extended through our rolling and “Sustainability is at the very heart increasing program of thought We review the scope of the EMS leadership activities. annually, and are committed to of what we do – working with other improving the way we work to reduce The main environmental impacts organizations to develop, manage of our own business are through our negative environmental impact, guided by our detailed internal our office operations and business and promote their social and travel to meet with our clients and targets. We have a colleague with lead responsibility for maintaining the EMS environmental activities. But this colleagues. As part of our day-to(and organizing associated training), day operations, we use resources isn’t just a business strategy; each sparingly, and carefully monitor and and undertake both internallyand externally-led audits. individual at Anthesis is personally manage our use of fuel, electricity and water. We procure office supplies committed to sustainability and responsibly wherever possible, While our environmental measurement and monitoring actively looks for ways to make a including organic fruit/milk supplies, procedures have matured well in the and office stationery made with few years Anthesis has been trading, difference.” recycled content. We have suitable we are committed to extending the waste and recycling measurements in rigor and reach of our program over Stuart McLachlan, CEO place at all of our offices, including a 2017. separate food waste stream where 21 Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Actions to uphold our commitment 78% Progress in 2016 2017 commitments We achieved ISO 14001 certification We commit to reviewing our overall across our UK operations (see sustainability strategy to maximize highlight). impact, governance, and reach. of colleagues commuted via walking or using We consolidated the way we audit We commit to consolidating our good public transport our office-generated waste (at least practice across acquired businesses one week per quarter), so that we can into a single sustainable procurement set reduction targets once we have policy, expenses guidance and collected sufficient data. accompanying awareness training for UK employees. Our UK Sustainability Champions held We commit to producing greenhouse two employee engagement weeks in gas reports from which we can Mixed relation to food waste and green travel benchmark our performance in the UK. recycling Food waste (see highlight). 3.36kg 4.135kg We implemented a scalable system for We commit to reviewing our gathering data on business travel. sustainability reporting options to determine the most effective system Residual for our business. waste We undertook a survey of commuting We commit to fitting smart energy 3.33kg habits. 77% of colleagues responded; meters in the offices where we are of these, 78% used public transport or permitted to do so to give us greater walked, while just 16% travelled by car. visibility on energy use. Average waste per office per week in 2016 We implemented green tariff We commit to supporting our electricity in the offices where we have employees to use their volunteering the flexibility to do so. days on environmental (or other) opportunities. We commit to continuing to expand the scope of our EMS. 22 Our direct impact: environment Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership ISO 14001 certification achieved across five of our UK offices The EMS at our offices in London, Oxford, Manchester, Macclesfield and Tormarton were all certified to ISO 14001:2004 in 2016, providing robust and external verification of the EMS we already had in place. Our system received a ‘mature’ rating (4 out of 5), with a view to being ‘exemplary’ next year (5 out of 5). As part of this system, we have processes across our offices to collect data on waste generation, energy, water and paper use, so that we can manage our environmental impact. We also have a method for collecting business travel data, and have gathered a sample of commuting data too. Furthermore, our detailed internal targets are ensuring we continuously improve these systems, e.g. we plan to refine and re-promote employee guidance to ensure we are able to more accurately track all business travel in 2017. In addition, we carried out two colleague engagement campaigns during 2016, addressing the topics of food waste and safe, green travel. These weeks received fantastic feedback, with each office running in-person activities (some of which engaged office neighbors too), and 38% of colleagues choosing to take part in additional online discussions and photo sharing. Based on this success, we are planning to run engagement campaigns to coincide with World Environment Day and World Mental Health Day in 2017, as well as considering ways we can engage our colleagues who work remotely. In late 2016, Bristol-based energy and carbon management specialist firm Sustain joined the Anthesis Group. Their office is already certified to ISO 14001:2004, and we are looking forward to integrating these two systems in future. “Our system received a ‘mature’ rating (4 out of 5), with a view to being ‘exemplary’ next year (5 out of 5)” 23 Impact through influence: environment Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Spotlight on... Thought leadership Product Sustainability Round Anthesis content taster Table We organize the Product Sustainability Round Table (PSRT), which has been bringing together sustainability experts Blog: Brexit: the implications on from some of the world’s largest and most waste and the circular economy respected organizations for more than 24 years. The PSRT offers a uniquely successful combination of a dedicated think-tank, industry association working group and leading sustainability conferences. Members collaborate to deepen their understanding of issues and trends, share collective Blog: Social innovation: a new experiences and expertise, and strengthen frontier for the war against food their capacity for addressing sustainability waste challenges. The PSRT meets in a collaborative and noncompetitive environment to discuss: »» The major current and emerging issues, trends and opportunities within the Vlog: Cashing in on carbon to product and organizational sustainability make it more visible to your space business »» The relevance of these issues and opportunities for members’ organizations »» The approach being taken by leading organizations to address these issues In 2016, the PSRT covered many hot topics, and also developed the Sustainability Leadership Framework, which helps organizations to embed sustainability into their culture. 24 UNGC Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Section 4: Anti-corruption 25 Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Our commitment We have a zero-tolerance approach We keep records of any gifts offered to bribery and corruption across over a value of £200. We complete the whole of Anthesis and in all the contracts and, where needed, geographies where we work, which non-disclosure agreements before includes in-cash/-kind bribery, we commence work with clients, embezzlement, fraud and extortion. outlining clear pricing (e.g. based on Our anti-bribery and corruption day rates of employees) and other policy is written into every colleague terms of working. contract and forms part of our Our company-wide culture of trust is colleague handbook, which details designed to empower our employees that all those representing Anthesis to voice any concerns they may have must comply with all applicable regarding potential instances of laws, including the UK Bribery corruption. Furthermore, we employ Act 2010. Our policy outlines our a transparent approach to financial commitment to pursue all business performance across the business with in an ethical and honest manner, and regular monthly updates supplied by to communicate the policy to our the CEO at all-colleague meetings. business partners, too. The board has These meetings are recorded for primary responsibility for reviewing people who are unable to attend. the policy, and ensuring that any instances of non-compliance are dealt It is part of our core business to with appropriately. help organizations ensure their own operations are not complicit “We use the principles of the Our business activities are subject in any form of corruption, either to annual external audits and all International Financial Reporting acquisitions are subject to a strict directly, or anywhere in their supply chain. For example, our software Standards to ensure we are due diligence process. We keep tool RiskHorizonTM enables decision evidence of all financial transactions, preparing and publishing high issue weekly cash reports to ensure makers to understand global risks to their businesses better. quality financial statements. visibility over our working capital, and monthly management accounts As we form and maintain business These Standards are recognized and forecasts. We have never been relationships with organizations globally for enhancing financial involved in any legal cases, or other instances, of bribery and corruption. around the world, sometimes in regions with less stable political transparency, accountability and We take special care when giving climates than the UK, we understand gifts and entertainment, such as efficiency.” event hospitality, and never do so to that we need to carry out a formal assessment of potential corruption gain any commercial, contractual, risk areas for our business operations regulatory or personal advantage. in the coming year. 26 Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Actions to uphold our commitment Progress in 2016 2017 commitments We finalized our UK colleague We commit to carrying out an antihandbook, which includes our bribery and corruption risk assessment specific anti-bribery and corruption for relevant colleagues, and to policy (outlined on previous page). In reviewing this annually. addition, we have a whistleblowing (public interest disclosure) policy and process in place to provide wider protection, should any colleagues feel the need to raise other issues of illegality or injustice. We had no breaches of our antiWe commit to provide ongoing bribery and corruption policy, and awareness training for all colleagues no whistleblowing procedures were on the details of our anti-corruption raised. policy. Our financial accounts for 2016 were We commit to establishing a system to reviewed and signed off by external review the effectiveness of our antiauditors; this auditing process involved bribery and corruption policy and to significant focus on measures we setting regular review dates. have in place to mitigate fraud and reduce our risks in relation to currency fluctuation in our global marketplace. 27 Our direct impact: anti-corruption Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Considerable organizational growth in 2016 As well as significant organic growth, Anthesis acquired one new organization in the UK in 2016, Bristol-based energy and carbon management specialists, Sustain (as well as three further acquisitions and strategic alliances as part of the global business). As with all acquisitions, our due diligence processes covered financial and operational aspects. While we have the skills to carry out most of this due diligence internally, we received support from an external auditing firm during the acquisition of Sustain, our largest to date, to validate financial information and help us make the final decision about expanding the Anthesis Group. “As with all acquisitions, our due diligence processes covered financial and operational aspects” 28 Impact through influence: anti-corruption Our commitment Actions to uphold Highlight Spotlight on... Thought leadership Spotlight on... Thought leadership Using RiskHorizonTM for Anthesis content taster horizon scanning ESG risks RiskHorizonTM is a purpose-made tool to help decision makers understand their risks, and possible scenarios, better. It is a groundVlog: Are you ready for what’s breaking, cost-effective and web-based over your RiskHorizonTM? tool spanning millions of data points from more than 40 countries, covering 25 global risks (economic, environmental, technical, social and geo-political). It can support investment officers to undertake sector level environmental, social and governance screenings; risk management professionals Blog and factsheet: The EU to assess risks; supply chain managers to Non-Financial Reporting monitor the supply chain; and C-suite to Directive: getting value from shape long-term strategy by monetizing risks compliance and opportunities. Outputs from RiskHorizonTM are displayed in a dashboard, which allows our clients to: »» Quickly screen the commercial and financial implications of sustainability factors in any investment process Two page guide: RiskHorizonTM »» Reduce transaction costs and time by early identification of potential red flag issues »» Identify outperformance opportunities, to bring identified positive cash flows quicker than anticipated 29 Our 2017 UK plan We have three key themes for 2017: Back to basics – consolidating the metrics we collect in Anthesis in the UK so that we are able to report these more fully in future years. We have a number of detailed targets sitting within this theme. Going global – connecting our UK sustainability plans with our Anthesis teams across the world. Exciting stuff a global Anthesis campaign to engage staff on the issues that really matter to them. It’s an exciting time, and we look forward to communicating our global vision, and the plan to achieve it, in our next Communication on Progress. In the meantime, please look at our website for updates on our progress. 30 Anthesis Unit 12.2.1, The Leathermarket 11-13 Weston Street London SE1 3ER T: +44 (0)1865 250 818 sustainability@anthesisgroup.com www.anthesisgroup.com
