CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Sustainability Report 2016 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE SUMMARY 3 INNOVATION AND AGILITY 26 New technologies 27 4 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT EACH ONE 30 1 ABOUT TIM 03 Taking care of business 31 Taking care of society 53 Taking care of customers 37 Taking care of Our profile 04 the environment 66 Taking care of people 41 A letter from the CEO 05 About this report 06 5 TRANSPARENCY 80 2 COMMITMENT Legal compliance 81 09 Our goals 17 Corporate governance 18 6 GRI 85 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE ABOUT TIM CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE OUR PROFILE G4-3 G4-4 G4-5 G4-6 G4-7 G4-8 G4-9 4G TIM Participações S.A. is a holding company, with shares that benefit both its operations and customers. The Leadership traded on the São Paulo Stock Exchange (B3) and on the company operates in mobile telephony, fixed telephony New York Stock Exchange NYSE. TIM is the only company and data transmission across the Brazilian territory, in the telecommunications industry listed on B3’s “Novo through the subsidiaries TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig. TIM Mercado,” recognized for requiring the highest level of provides the benchmark for ultra-broadband services corporate governance. At the end of 2016, the company with TIM LIVE, covering the metropolitan areas of the secured its position within the select group of companies that integrate the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), as states of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo. 1,255 the only company in the telecommunications industry Based in Rio de Janeiro, the company employs 10.4 cities covered listed in the index for nine consecutive years. In 2014, TIM thousand people in all regions of Brazil, and is at the established the Statutory Audit Committee according to forefront of 4G coverage, reaching 1,255 cities, twice as the Company’s Bylaws, with a view to further improve its many locations compared to the second placed operator. governance processes. Keeping its commitment to a long-term vision and to improving customer experience, TIM invested 29% of its Twice more cities In May 2016, the Board of Directors appointed economist total revenue in infrastructure, which amounted to BRL Stefano De Angelis as the new chairman of TIM Brazil. De 4.5 billion. Angelis’ experience working for the Telecom Italia Group than the 2nd place spans 20 years, formerly serving as CFO (Chief Financial The macroeconomic scenario in 2016 remained relatively Officer) at TIM Brazil (2004 to 2007), Director of Planning challenging, with high unemployment rates and and Control (2007 to 2013) and Commercial Director at contraction of the gross domestic product (GDP). We Telecom Italia S.p.A (2007 to 2013), and chairman of achieved BRL 22.7 billion in gross revenue, with an annual Telecom Argentina between 2013 and 2014. negative variation of 11.7%. Our net equity was BRL 17.2 Only billion while current and non-current loans amounted to telecommunications Controlled by TIM Brasil Serviços e Participações S.A., BRL 1.1 billion and BRL 5.6 billion, respectively. company TIM Participações is a subsidiary of Telecom Italia group, sharing experiences and adopting a policy of good Read more about TIM’s economic performance in the listed on the practices with the parent company to build up synergies Taking care of business section. São Paulo Stock Exchange’s “Novo Mercado” 4 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE A LETTER FROM THE CEO G4-1 I took on the role of chairman of TIM Participações in a its human capital, large investments in technology and challenging moment for both the industry and the country. transparent dialogue with institutions and society. Its Despite this scenario, we have attained very positive mission to broaden access to science, technology and financial and operational results and we look ahead to innovation in the Country is also reflected by the principles a bright future. Without a doubt, TIM remains confident and strategies of Instituto TIM [TIM Institute]. and prepared to take solid steps to keep ruling the industry from on high. TIM remains the only company in the telecommunications industry listed on the São Paulo Stock Exchange (B3)’s TIM’s initiatives are focused on four key pillars – “Novo Mercado,” – which requires the highest level of infrastructure, commercial offer, customer experience and corporate governance –, and is the company listed on B3’s efficiency –, which will guide the entire planning and all Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE) portfolio for the longest actions taken by the company over the next three-year time. As signatories of the Global Compact, we reaffirm period. In short, this means we will continue investing our commitment to adopting its principles in our strategy, heavily in the expansion and modernization of our network culture and daily operations. As such, this report serves as – today, TIM is the leading provider of 4G in cities covered the company’s Communication on Progress regarding the with that technology –, combined with innovative and application of those principles. We also run our business improved offers to ensure the best customer experience. according to the principles set out in the Code of Ethics and Conduct and in the Anti-Corruption Policy. We all know that a large company’s business operation goes beyond strictly economic and financial goals. TIM I would like to thank all of you who have striven to reach reinforces its commitment to sustainable and efficient our goals, particularly our employees and partners. TIM is a management of resources, ongoing development of company made of people working for people. “Our activities are focused on four key pillars – Stefano De Angelis infrastructure, commercial Chief Executive Officer offer, customer experience of TIM Participações and efficiency” 5 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE ABOUT THIS REPORT G4-17 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 G4-32 G4-33 This is TIM’s ninth sustainability report, developed according to the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), version G4, Core option. For the period of 2016 (January 1 to December 31), the reporting of indicators comprises activities of TIM Participações S.A. in Brazil, including its two subsidiaries – TIM Celular S.A. and Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda., fulfilling the company’s commitment to disclose its economic, social and environmental goals and results to society. This report describes the performance of 47 indicators in 2016 and the historical series of the previous two years, where applicable and for comparisons purposes. The last report, relating to 2015 and published in 2016, contained the same number of indicators. The information contained in this publication has been audited by KPMG, based on limited assurance, according to statement on page 92. To learn more about our sustainability initiatives, go to www.tim.com.br/ sustentabilidade. Queries, suggestions or comments on the content of this report can be sent to respsocialcorp@timbrasil.com.br. 6 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Materiality G4-18 G4-19 G4-22 G4-27 The company carried out its first materiality test in 2008, conducted, according to GRI guidelines version G4. As The list below features the eight topics considered and has been working since then to further improve and internal perspectives, the 2014 TIM materiality matrix took material, which are addressed in this report and develop this aspect, which involves identifying critical into account consultations with employees via face-totaken into account when managing sustainability. topics that are essential for managing the company, its face dynamics and online surveys, face to-face interviews corporate strategy and its approach to sustainability. The with senior executives, and analysis of strategic internal • Customer satisfaction and service quality second materiality test was held in 2011. This included the documents (policies and guidelines). The ‘Relations and • Incentives to innovation applied to company’s first stakeholder panel, involving consultations Impacts’ face-to-face dynamics involved the participation products and services with representatives of the main stakeholder groups at TIM of key personnel from 11 areas of the company, primarily (employees, suppliers, commercial partners, customers resulting in the Stakeholder Map, which introduced TIM’s • Transparency and accountability to and public authorities). The material topics compiled stakeholder groups and their impacts on the business. stakeholders in this consultation guided the communication of the From this map, TIM selected stakeholders to participate • Ethical conduct in business company’s progress in social, environmental and economic in the external perspective stage, which included online affairs. In the following year, with the introduction of the consultations with customers, commercial partners and • Digital inclusion Engagement Policy, TIM defined principles for dialogue suppliers, and an interview with a representative of the • Dialogue and communication with with and involvement of its stakeholders. Ministry of Communications. The process also comprised stakeholder groups* the analysis of internal policies and procedures, as well as • Managing electronic products* At the beginning of 2014, a third materiality test was comparative studies with other companies in the industry. • Investment in infrastructure and development of new technologies. In addition to the aspects related to the topics above, the company continued monitoring and reporting other GRI aspects and indicators that are considered relevant to accountability and aligned with its culture of transparency. *For better understanding of material topics, TIM joined “Communication between the company and its stakeholder groups” and “Dialogue with stakeholder groups.” In the topic described as “Managing electronic products,” the term “waste” was substituted with “products.” 7 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Impacts within and outside the company G4-20 G4-21 MATERIAL TOPICS GRI G4 ASPECTS INDICATOR LIMITS LEARN MORE IN Customer Data Privacy Customer satisfaction and quality services Internal and External Taking care of customers Product and Service Labeling Incentives to innovation applied to products and services Energy Internal and External Taking care of the environment Materials Water Effluents and Waste Emissions Taking care of people Procurement Practices Transparency and accountability to stakeholders Internal and External Taking care of society Labor practices and decent work Taking care of the environment Human rights Local communities Biodiversity Indirect economic impacts Compliance Anticompetitive practices Corporate governance Ethical conduct in business Internal and External Anti-corruption Taking care of the environment Public Policies Digital inclusion External Taking care of society Marketing communications Taking care of society Dialogue and communication with stakeholder groups Internal and External Stakeholder engagement Legal compliance Electronic product management Products and Services External Taking care of the environment Investment in infrastructure and development Economic Performance Internal and External Taking care of business of new technologies 8 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE COMMITMENT CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TIM believes its business activities should be aligned with all of its stakeholders’ few featuring four major competitors with nationwide presence and a market share expectations. Its values include recognizing to be a part of a broader common project ranging from 17% to 30%. and collaborating by investing its talent and efforts in each and every action. To secure its position in such a competitive market – as a quality-oriented operator with The company continues pursuing the motto “Evolving is doing things differently,” leverage to compete in high value segments –, the company will follow-up its strategy which guided its institutional campaign to launch TIM’S new logo and marketing towards greater operational and organizational efficiency, infrastructure expansion, positioning in 2016. TIM is are aware of the challenges ahead. The Brazilian mobile refining customer service channels, as well as recovering the postpaid segment, by telephony industry is one of the most competitive in the world, and one of the very adopting a more comprehensive portfolio and the concept of “more for more”. G4-56 Our mission Our values Connecting and caring about each one so CUSTOMER CARE TRANSPARENCY that everyone is able to achieve more. • We ask legitimate questions to find out • We establish clear and true relationships what customers truly want. with everyone. Our vision • We listen carefully and curiously to what • Transparency and integrity in our actions Be the country’s number one choice in customers have to say. build trust. telecommunications services. • Our decision making process takes heavily into account our customers’ experience. • Because we are constantly evolving and innovating in INNOVATION all aspects. • We are proud to have a positive impact on • We innovate by finding new ways to do • Because we fulfill our promises. the lives of our customers. things. • Because we take care of our customers respectfully • We rely on creativity to go further. and efficiently. COMMITMENT • Because we make continuous investments in a competitive and up-to-date infrastructure. • We are accountable. AGILITY • Because we offer user-friendly and quality services and plans. • We recognize we are part of a broader • We do “more”, “better” and “faster” in an • Because we lead the transformations in the industry. common project. increasingly complex and dynamic world. • Because we are sustainable and add value to our • We collaborate by investing our talent and • We plan, decide and execute quickly, making shareholders, customers, collaborators and stakeholders. effort in each and every action. things easier for everyone around us. 10 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Human rights TIM believes that companies must play a major role in basis. This process comprises assessment of impacts, In 2016, TIM attended the Due diligence training on protecting human rights, and had been committed to the integration and action, monitoring, communication and Human Rights organized by Global Compact Working subject long before joining the UN’s Global Compact in reporting, among other steps. TIM also applies the UN Group as well as the Free Conference on Business and 2008. In 2015, the operator reiterated this commitment by Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, also Human Rights for development of public policies on joining the Human Rights Working Group organized by the known as John Ruggie’s Principles, in addition to adopting these subjects in Brazil. As a result of this meeting, Global Compact Network Brazil. German Global Compact Network’s guidebooks . 2 several proposals and motions were approved by the attending companies, which initially identified 15 aspects For TIM, the concept of human rights means respecting TIM adopted the Organizational Capacity Questionnaire with potential impacts on human rights related to the and ensuring non-violation of internationally recognized Assessment Instrument (OCAI) developed by the telecommunication industry. TIM prioritizes actions rights that go beyond the common understanding of German Global Compact Network, carrying out a selftowards four topics: workers’ rights and non-discrimination. On a broader scale, assessment to identify its level of engagement with • Work conditions in the supply chain it also comprises data privacy, internet security, access to human rights issues. information, freedom of speech, among others. • Customer and employee data privacy and On a 1 to 6 scale of engagement, ranging from security Its actions are aligned with internal rules governing the “unaccountable” to “promoter of human rights,” the • Adult content and sexual exploitation of children subject, such as Telecom Italia group’s Human rights policy, company reached the average score of 3.2 in the last and teenagers TIM’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Social Responsibility assessment, held in 2015. One of the weaknesses identified Policy as well as the Policy for Relations with Suppliers in a was the lack of a specific policy on Human Rights. • Discrimination in the workplace and in the TIM Purchasing Process. selection process. In parallel, the Telecom Italia Group launched its Human Internal monitoring and control of respect to human rights Rights Policy in 2016, aimed at addressing the human rights Among the people most vulnerable to these impacts, we is performed through the human rights due diligence issue as a key requirement for all activities carried out by TIM. identified children and adolescents, women, the elderly process, improved by the company on an ongoing Its principles applies to all Telecom Italia Group employees. and people with disabilities. 2 Five steps towards managing human rights impacts of your business and assessing human rights risks and impacts. 11 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE To disseminate this agenda internally, the company NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS 2015 2016 organized meetings with the main areas involved to FILED, PROCESSED AND ADDRESSED THROUGH FORMAL evaluate these potential impacts, review and identify GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 RECEIVED JUSTIFIED RECEIVED JUSTIFIED existing actions (prevention, mitigation, remediation and management), as well as identify gaps and draw Total number of complaints received 0 0 8 4 plans for improvement. Total number of complaints processed 0 0 8 4 TIM also offers a Whistleblower Channel, monitoring and Total number of complaints addressed 0 0 8 4 analyzing grievances reported by internal and external stakeholders. In 2016, eight complaints on human rights Total number of complaints received in the previous 1 0 0 0 were reported. The increase in the number of complaints period and addressed during the reporting period received was due to greater exposure to the channel. After proper analysis, the company identified four justified complaints, and implemented all correction and/or Among the actions to disseminate the subject in the company on a weekly basis, TIM promotes the diversity campaign alignment and feedback measures. G4-HR12 in its internal communication channels. In 2017, a new self-assessment will be carried out using the OCAI questionnaire. 12 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Policies TIM counts on a set of regulatory policies and documents that guide the company’s activities within several internal processes, and according to the rules set out in the Code of Ethics and Conduct. TIM believes that complying with such tools to fulfill the commitments undertaken with its stakeholders translates into responsible management. The full versions of some of the policies highlighted below are available on the investor relations site, at www.ri.tim.com.br. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY POLICY SAFETY AND OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH POLICY Reports our guidelines on matters such as health and safety, Establishes principles to be applied to all our activities diversity, child labor and slave or forced labor, freedom of in Brazil, aimed at promoting continuous performance association and the right to collective bargaining, nonimprovement in safety and occupational health discrimination, psychological and sexual harassment, initiatives, in compliance with applicable laws, working hours and compensation. regulatory authorities, and the guidelines of the Telecom Italia Group, reinforcing TIM’s commitment ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY to preventing occupational diseases and accidents It is aimed at fostering continuous improvement in among its employees in Brazil. environmental performance. This includes compliance with existing legislation, with the requirements of FREE MARKET DEFENSE POLICY regulatory authorities and with the Telecom Italia Group’s This document is aimed at informing employees and guidelines, reinforcing the company’s commitment to workers of the principles concerning fair competition in sustainable development. Brazil. Thus, professionals, in particular those who deal with external stakeholders, are apprised of antitrust legislation CLIMATE CHANGE MANAGEMENT POLICY and of the activities of the authorities responsible for its Comprises principles to be applied to TIM’s activities with application in Brazil, which enables them to identify and the goal of promoting proper and efficient management avoid breaches of laws and standards. of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, complying with the applicable laws, regulatory authorities, and Telecom Italia Group’s guidelines. 13 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTION POLICY MARKETING COMMUNICATION POLICY CONFLICT OF INTEREST MANAGEMENT POLICY This sets forth the guidelines and procedures to be followed Intended to align TIM’s marketing communication This policy was approved by the Board of Directors in 2013, by TIM companies in Brazil with respect to transactions actions and projects with its Purpose and sustainability and sets guidelines to prevent and manage situations with private individuals or companies that are considered principles. This process should be conducted responsibly involving conflicts of interest, in order to avoid or contain related parties. According to law, no special favors may be and transparently, mitigating risks in the company’s impacts that are detrimental to the interests of the granted in these transactions. commercial activities while respecting the selfcompany as well as support and protect the persons regulatory codes of the industry and the legislation, in involved, of whom impeccable, transparent behavior is RELATIONS WITH SUPPLIERS IN A TIM addition to incorporating guidance from recognized and expected. It applies to all TIM employees and to the areas PURCHASING PROCESS respected authorities. involved in managing potential cases of conflicts of interest. In Brazil, TIM adopted measures to establish a more efficient purchasing process aimed at reducing costs CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT POLICY INTANGIBLE ASSET MANAGEMENT POLICY while maintaining quality and excellence, and ensuring Aligned with Telecom Italia Group and inspired by the This policy aims to establish the main guidelines social and environmental responsibility in the goods international COSO framework, this policy is aimed 3 that serve as the basis for an efficient and effective and services acquired. Additionally, purchases should at defining and managing risks homogeneously, in management of intangible assets (those assets that be made within technical specifications, should involve order to build a reliable basis for decision making and are not physical or financial in nature and originate supplier qualification assessments and should be priced planning; assist the company to manage risks, enabling from innovation, organizational practices and human competitively. Similarly, suppliers are expected to the attainment of strategic goals; raise awareness; resources) at TIM Companies in Brazil. behave ethically, respecting freedom of association, the identify threats and opportunities; improve reliability right to collective bargaining and diversity, combating and prevent or minimize social and environmental risks NONPROFIT DONATION POLICY discrimination and harassment, as well as having proper and damages to the company’s reputation. It describes the principles to be followed in case of monitoring and control systems in place. donations to charitable organizations, foundations and ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICY nonprofits. It also aims to regulate the management ENGAGEMENT POLICY Approved by the Board of Directors in 2013, the Antiof donations made by TIM companies, according to This policy is aimed at guiding and encouraging corruption policy includes global anti-bribery rules the Code of Ethics and Conduct, company values, participative relations among employees. It also promotes that prohibit offering, paying, asking for or accepting Organizational model, the anti-corruption policy, the the debate and greater involvement with the company’s advantages or favors of any nature, and guide employees conflict of interest policy, as well as any legal provisions key stakeholder groups, seeking to multiply these actions on how to act in such situations. Learn the mechanisms and internal rules governing the accounting and fiscal in their spheres of influence. to control and apply the policy in Ethics and transparency. aspects related to this topic. 3 COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission) is a non-profit organization established in the United States, dedicated to combat corporate fraud in internal processes and procedures of companies considered to be a global benchmark. 14 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Institutional Partnerships and Participation in Sustainability Indexes G4-15 G4-16 TIM reaffirms its commitment to social, environmental and ethical demands by taking part in various initiatives and global treaties. TIM believes that engaging in this resolutions will not only broaden the visibility of important subjects for society, but will also allow the company to keep pace with the best practices in the market and incorporate more efficient actions to its management. As a signatory of UN’s Global Compact, TIM is engaged in collaborating with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), an important global agenda adopted by the 193 member states of the United Nations, intended to build on the Millennium Development Goals and complete what these did not achieve. The SDGs seek to mobilize global efforts to meet several All countries and stakeholders – governments, TIM actively participates in initiatives conducted by the goals based on a broad set of commitments and targets corporations, academia and civil society – have been telecommunication industry as a member of the National by 2030. According to the United Nations, this agenda is called upon to act in a collaborative partnership to Union of Fixed and Mobile Telecom Companies of Brazil a plan of action for people, planet and prosperity. It also implement this plan. TIM recognizes the importance of (SindiTelebrasil) and the Brazilian Association of Competitive seeks to strengthen universal peace in larger freedom the private sector in the development of sustainability, Telecommunications Service Providers (Telcomp), as well and eradicate poverty in all its forms and dimensions, not only for the search for innovation and impact as the GSM Association. Read more in Public policies. Learn including extreme poverty. mitigation, but also for its influence in its value chain. about the company’s key initiatives below. 15 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE GLOBAL COMPACT COMPANIES FOR THE CLIMATE (EPC) The Global Compact is a United Nations (UN) initiative TIM joined the Companies for Climate (Empresas Pelo Clima, aimed at mobilizing the corporate community to conduct in Portuguese) in 2010. This voluntary initiative – coordinated their business in line with essential and internationally by the Center for Sustainability Studies of Fundação Getúlio accepted values in the areas of human rights, work Vargas (GVces) – is a permanent corporate platform intended relations, environment and anti-corruption. TIM has to mobilize, raise awareness and articulate corporate leaders been a signatory since 2008 and has incorporated the towards management and reduction of GHG emissions, ten principles of the Global Compact in its strategy, climate risk management and the proposition of public culture and daily operations. policies and positive incentives within the context of climate change. Read more in Climate change. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) CDP In 2008, TIM adopted GRI’s international sustainability CDP is a non-governmental organization that has built reporting guidelines, an important tool to assess results the largest global database of corporate information and reflect on actions taken within the three pillars of about climate change, queried by investors, government sustainability (economic, social and environmental), agencies, legislators, the academic community, and identifying gaps and points for improvement. society. The company has answered the CDP questionnaire about its GHG (Greenhouse Gas) emissions and its strategy CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY INDEX (ISE) regarding climate change since 2007. For the 9th year in a row, TIM integrates the Corporate Sustainability Index (in Portuguese, Índice de MSCI GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY INDEX Sustentabilidade Empresarial ISE) created by B3. ISE TIM has been listed in the MSCI ESG (Environmental, was designed as a reference for socially responsible Social and Governance) Research Global sustainability investments. Rated for fomenting good practices and index since June 2015. MSCI (Morgan Stanley Capital encouraging the implementation of new actions each International) is an independent organization with 40 year, the index is composed of shares of companies years of experience in governance assessments and renowned for their commitment to corporate and analyzes of social and environmental indexes for the social sustainability. global investor community, covering more than 5,700 public companies throughout the world. 16 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE OUR GOALS Achieved Not achieved To move forward with its Corporate Social Responsibility program, TIM sets out annual performance goals in specific subjects, based on goals and outcomes recorded in the previous year. The table below displays the performance in 2016 and the targets for 2017. SUBJECT INDICATOR UNIT OF MEASURE 2016 TARGET OUTCOME 2017 TARGET One working day allowed for employees who volunteer Volunteering % 1.5 1.6 1.5 to work in the Citizens Without Borders program. Training (total hours in the classroom + online + on the Training No. of hours Adjusted to 640,3781 692,571 450,0002 job). Training New employees trained in sustainability issues. % 90 91 90 Collection of end-of-life mobile phones, batteries and Environment / Batteries Tons 2 0.963 2 other accessories for recycling. Recycling of waste generated in the offices (recycled Environment / Waste % 25% 21%4 10%5 waste / total waste generated). Environment / Water Reducing water consumption in the offices. % 1% reduction 18% reduction6 1%7 Limit of increase in the mobile network power Energy / Network % 22% 21.7% 12% consumption. Supplier management Suppliers evaluated on sustainability issues. No. of suppliers 200 433 250 1 The 820,000 target had to be adjusted to 640,378 due to budget cuts and staff reorganization. 2016, reducing the installed real estate plant volume (including two call centers that consumed a lot of water given the 2 The 2017 target reduction was due to closure of two call centers (which accounted for a large volume of training hours) high number of employees and operating hours), as well as of water saving measures, such as rainwater collection and and budget cuts. harvesting water from air conditioners. 3 SIM cards discarded by the Distribution and logistics Centers (CDLs) will be taken into account in 2017. 7 Despite the 18% reduction in water consumption in 2016 over 2015, the goal for 2017 was kept at 1%, still deemed a 4 TIM recycled nearly 17 tons of paper with the disposal measure; however, a very high volume of waste was generated challenge due to the office plant resizing, the transfer of the headquarters in Rio de Janeiro to an energy-efficient building with the construction works in the transfer of the headquarters in Rio de Janeiro. certified as LEED Silver, as well as improvement of equipment and expansion of the plant installed in technical areas 5 The amount of recyclable waste generated in offices decreased compared to non-recyclable waste due to several actions of mixed-use buildings (which requires more air conditioning and higher water and energy consumption). The target implemented through printer pool efficiency, including paper reduction (read more in Material and waste management). attainment ratio will be calculated based on the average water consumption of the administrative buildings that remained 6 The 18% reduction was achieved with demobilization of many square meters of administrative offices throughout in operation in December 2016. Learn more in Water. 17 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE CORPORATE TELECOM ITALIA S.P.A. INSTANCES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE 100% GENERAL ASSEMBLY TELECOM ITALIA FINANCE S.A. G4-34 100%* BOARD OF DIRECTORS FISCAL COUNCIL Ownership structure TIM BRASIL SERV. E PART S.A MINORITY SHAREHOLDERS 67% 33% STATUTORY AUDIT COMMITEE TIM PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A COMPENSATION BOARD 100% 100%** RISK & CONTROL BOARD TIM CELULAR S.A. INTELIG STATUTORY BOARD OF OFFICERS * Telecom Italia S.p.A. holds one share of TIM Brasil Serv. e Part. S.A. ** TIM Celular S.A. holds 1 quota of Intelig Telecomunicações Ltda. TIM Participações’ governance structure TIM’s Board of Directors is a joint deliberative body members, of which at least 20% must be independent. coincides with the term of office for members of the responsible for the senior management of the It is up to the members of the Board to choose their Board of Directors, with their indication being allowed company. It consists of at least five and at most 19 president, and no member may accumulate the positions for a maximum period of ten years. The Control and Risk members, who may be elected and removed by the of Chairman and CEO or main executive of the company. Board has five members and the Compensation Board, General Assembly. They serve a term of two years, with three. The Board of Directors chooses all members of re-election permitted. To increase its corporate performance, the Board counts these special committees, and each committee appoints on three specialized committees with defined goals: its chairman/coordinator. The term of office for Control The Board currently comprises ten members, three of Statutory Audit Committee (CAE), Compensation Board and Risk Board and Compensation Board members whom are independent, in compliance with the rules (CR) and Control and Risk Board (CCR). The Statutory will coincide with the term of office for the Board of of the “Novo Mercado” index – where TIM’s shares are Audit Committee currently consists of three independent Directors, i.e. two years, and reelection or dismissal by traded – that establishes the Board must have at least five members, appointed for a two-year term, which the Board is permitted at any time. 18 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE BODY COMPOSITION AND ATTRIBUTIONS TIM’s Board of Directors consists of ten members, three of which are independent, who may be elected and removed by the Board of General Assembly. Board of Directors They serve a term of two years, with re-election permitted. The board is responsible for the overall administration of the company. This permanent committee is composed of at least three and at most five independent members, indicated by the Board of directors for a two-year Statutory term, which will coincide with the term of office for members of the Board of Directors, with their indication being allowed for a maximum period of Audit ten years. Its key attribution is to provide assistance to the Board of Directors in all matters related to internal and external audits, risk exposures, Committee internal control systems as well as drafting and disclosure of financial information. The Audit Committee should disseminate the importance of quality financial statements, corporate ethics and a sound internal control system to mitigate the Organization’s main risk exposures. Consisting of three members appointed by the Board of Directors for a 2-year term, which coincides with the term of office for members of the Board Compensation of Directors, its main attribution is to advise the Board of Directors on all matters related to compensation for Company members, such as drafting Board proposals and reviewing criteria to compensate company directors and senior executives. Comprising up to five members, appointed by the Board of Directors for a two-year term, which will coincide with the term of office for members Control and of the Board of Directors, this committee advises the Board of Directors on matters related to implementation and monitoring of the company’s Risk Board internal controls overall. Other attributions include regular updating of Corporate Governance rules and following-up and overseeing corporate social responsibility affairs. Statutory Comprising at least two and at most twelve members appointed and removed by the Board of Directors. The CEO and other executive officers are Board of Officers selected by the Board of Directors and are responsible for the executive management of the company. Comprising at least three and at most five permanent members, and an equal number of alternates elected by the General Assembly on an annual Fiscal Council basis. Members of the Fiscal council must be independent and enjoy a flawless reputation, according to Law No. 6.404 of December 15, 1976, the company’s Bylaws and the council’s Internal Rules. The body oversees all company management activities. 19 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE The Investor Relations area offers the Fale com RI (Speak The Code of Ethics and Conduct applies to all corporate to IR) channel, enabling submission of recommendations bodies, directors and executives, service providers from all to the Board. The board’s secretary receives and screens TIM companies, as well as employees and anyone doing the information to be analyzed by the Board. Another way business with TIM. to contact the company is the Whistleblower Channel, which aims to receive reports of violations or suspicious It is worth emphasizing that Telecom Italia is a signatory acts of non-compliance and any existing irregularity, and encourages all companies in the group to adhere to from any person, including employees. Complaints are the UN’s Global Compact (with TIM also as signatory), submitted to the company’s Internal Audit department, enforcing this institutional commitment through social then to the responsible areas and subsequently to the and environmental initiatives. Based on the Italian Statutory Audit Committee. legislative Decree 231/01, TIM adopts an organizational model consisting of the Code of Ethics and Conduct, The compensation for members of the Board of Directors the General Principles of Internal Control, Principles of and Executive Board is recorded in the Minutes of the Behavior towards Public Administration and Internal Ordinary and Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of Control documents. All of these documents detail the Organization, held on April 19, 2017 (available at guidelines and establish processes to avoid fraud and www.tim.com.br/ri). The compensation for members corruption. This model also prevents the personal of the Board of Directors is not linked with TIM’s social, responsibility of those committing crimes described in economic and environmental performance. the law from extending to the corporation. It guides an ethical and responsible management that strives to preserve business feasibility and minimize exposure to The Whistleblower Channel risks that may compromise its longevity. aims to receive reports of More information on TIM’s governance model, on the violations or suspicious acts composition of the Board of Directors, as well as the of non-compliance from any Internal Rules of this management body are available at www.tim.com.br/ri. person, including employees. 20 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Risk management Risk management practices at TIM have been evolving and Other risks potentially affecting the implementation consolidating a culture of prevention and identification of of the business strategy include external factors, such opportunities, and serve as a strategic tool to create value as changes in the regulatory environment that lead for the company. The Corporate Risk Management Policy to increased taxes. In the internal environment, the outlines our management model, known as Enterprise main challenges relate to TIM’s ability to expand and Risk Management (ERM). Aligned with the practices maintain the quality of services provided, as well as to adopted by Telecom Italia, it enables identifying and ensure maximum system automation, thus avoiding managing the risks homogeneously within the group’s human errors. Anti-corruption practices are also the companies, classifying risks in four categories: focal point of TIM’s activities, comprising training and guidance on the Anti-corruption Law. Read more in • Strategic: refer to the goals at the highest level, Ethics and transparency. according to the mission • Operational: aimed at the effective and efficient use In the context of opportunities, we realized that the of resources innovations developed at TIM could generate revenue • Communication: related to report reliability, through patents. Since there was no standard procedure including financial information disclosed internally or in place to file patent applications, TIM is reviewing its externally, such as financial statements processes with the relevant areas and reinforcing the • Compliance: are based on compliance with laws and importance of intellectual property as an intangible asset regulations. for the company. TIM carries out a risk assessment on company results and main goals on an annual basis. From that mapping, which Managers also receive annual training on risk involves directors and executive managers, the company management, as part of an effort to increasingly improve defines its risk appetite and tolerance, which are reported and raise our level of awareness about this matter, to the Board of Directors every quarter. If the risk exceeds enhancing the identification of threats and opportunities. the set limit, the company implements an emergency Read more about risk management in the Form 20-F, action plan to monitor, control and evaluate performance. available at www.tim.com.br/ri. 21 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Internal Controls Since 2006, TIM holds certifications under the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx) – a TIM recognizes that, no matter how well designed an internal control system is, it has requirement established for companies listed in the American Depositary Receipts inherited limitations and can only provide reasonable assurance that the company’s (ADRs) and in the New York Stock Exchange –, which attest to its commitment to the goals are being met. To minimize this risk, the company developed its system in a highest degree of corporate governance. way to provide reasonable assurance on the integrity and reliability of financial statements. TIM also follows the criteria established by the “Committee of Sponsoring According to the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley Act, section 404, this certification process requires Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO 2013) in Internal Control-Integrated companies to undergo an annual review held by an independent auditing firm concerning Framework”, which apply to environmental control, risk assessment, control activities, the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting at the end of every fiscal year. information and communication and monitoring. It is aimed at adding more reliability and transparency to the information disclosure process. Ethics and transparency TIM is committed to running its businesses with ethics, TIM rejects and condemns unlawful and improper will comply with internal guidelines. It promotes an professionalism, and transparency and according to behaviors (including acts of corruption of any kind) environment where internal stakeholders can submit law. To reinforce this commitment, the company has aimed at attaining economic goals. Its Anti-Corruption suggestions to improve the anti-corruption control established an Organizational Model based on the Policy is based on the values and principles of the Code and prevention program, and share information they analysis of public or private corporate relations and of Ethics and Conduct and the Conflict of Interest found in the media – including through police/ judicial processes, which are sensitive to all Anti-corruption Policy, and defines the sensitive areas and guidelines to authorities – regarding illegal and/or criminal activities regulations, in particular Federal Law No. 12.846/2013, control such processes. It applies to corporate bodies, that may bring potential risks for the company. which rules on the administrative and civil liability of directors, executives, employees and anyone doing legal entities involved in harmful acts against the public/ business with TIM. The company also offers the Unified Whistleblower private administration, whether national or foreign. Channel, through which internal or external stakeholders Since the creation of its Ethics and Compliance Channel in can report complaints concerning the violation of any This model is an integral part of Telecom Italia Group’s 2015, the company has made progress in disseminating rule or conduct described in TIM’s Code of Ethics and Compliance Program and meets the provisions of the its guidelines and engaging employees with this culture Conduct, such as discrimination, moral and sexual Italian Legislative Decree No. 231/01, the Anti-corruption of compliance, especially with processes involving harassment, human rights, unlawful or illegal behavior, Law, as well as of international regulations on the subject, sensitive subjects, such as the distribution of gifts, conflict of interests, corruption, and fraud, among others. such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the donations and attendance at events. This channel does Users of the channel have their identity preserved and UK Bribery Act. not address reporting of complaints; it is rather intended the information received is treated with confidentiality. to support collaborators and ensure our processes It is available at www.tim.com.br/ri and on TIM’s intranet. 22 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE In 2016, the company formalized two audits framed under legal threats as well as threats to the company’s reputation. corruption. Key facts are confidential. G4-SO5 TIM has made improvements to compliance clauses ONLINE TRAINING (Nº OF PARTICIPANTS) in contracts, and conducts specific training sessions to CODE OF ETHICS AND CONDUCT The Anti-Corruption Program comprises risk assessment reinforce anti-corruption policy guidelines. One example POSITION 2015 2016 activities, which contemplate monitoring and assessment was the course designed to the law firms hired by the of processes involving sensitive subjects, such as the company. There was a need to reinforce the program with acceptance of gifts, donations and sponsorships. In 2016, these stakeholders, especially for conducting activities Directors 51 98% 53 100% TIM invested BRL 19.8 million in sponsorships primarily 4 related to government agencies on behalf of TIM. focused on publicity, such as soccer sponsorships and Managers 348 43% 671 99% institutional networking events. The company also TIM employees also receive online training via intranet and analyzes complaints received in the Whistleblower Channel attend on-site sessions. G4-SO4 and queries from the Ethics and Compliance Channel. In Other 12,155 100% 9,214 96% employees order to improve its contracting process, including the The company continuously monitors compliance with its determination of potential conflicts of interests, TIM also Code of Ethics and Conduct, well as the completion of applies due diligence questionnaires to identify suppliers online training. This is to ensure that all employees are Total 12,554 96% 9,938 96% who may pose any risks to the company. aware of its guidelines, including expected attitudes and non-accepted illegal or improper behavior (including acts This action resulted in the development of our assessment of corruption of any kind). The percentage of completion Additionally, TIM employees receive the ‘Ser e Estar process, improving the identification of risks and mitigating of the course is 96%, divided as follows: Compliance’ [Be Compliant] training, which emphasizes topics such as ethics, anti-corruption, conflict of interests, and the benefits of the Whistleblower Channel. This content may be re-accessed online through the webinar tool. 4 42% of this amount correspond to tax incentives. 23 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Public policies Technologies emerging from the Fourth Industrial these and other institutions are based on international laws Revolution are posing new challenges to society. of corporate governance, on Brazilian and North-American According to the 12th edition of the Global Risks Report, anti-corruption laws, on the Code of Ethics and Conduct as published annually by the World Economic Forum, there well as on internal transparency and efficiency Policies. is an urgent need to search for new models of governance that are capable of establishing rules, regulations and Internationally, TIM also integrates industry associations, other mechanisms to shape the development and such as the GSM Association, which brings together Latin deployment of these innovations . 5 American companies to take part in discussion forums. The company is a corporate partner of the International The study highlights the challenge of achieving balance Telecommunications Society (ITS) and participates in mebetween rapid technological change and the institutions’ etings, events and debates of the International Institute management capacity. While a scenario of overof Communications (IIC). All entities seek to contribute regulation can slow the progress, lack of governance can for the regulation of the industry using a constructive escalate the risks and create uncertainties, especially for and ethical approach towards subjects that involve coninvestors and innovators. nectivity, quality, environment, taxation, among several others issues that affect and/or are affected directly by Public policies play a major role within this context, not telecommunications operators and users of services. only in conducting discussions between the government, companies and society, but also by proposing guidelines In Brazil, the main debate topics in 2016 included the and regulations. TIM actively participates in major debates amendment of the General Telecommunications Law (LGT) conducted by the telecommunication industry as a and the regulation of the Civil Rights Framework for Internet member of the National Union of Fixed and Mobile Telecom Use (in Brazil), with special emphasis on net neutrality. The Companies of Brazil (SindiTelebrasil) and the Brazilian decree set out rules on equal treatment of data packages, Association of Competitive Telecommunications Service exceptional cases of traffic degradation or discrimination, Providers (Telcomp). The activities carried out alongside prioritization of emergency services, among others. 5 Source: The Global Risks Report 2017 – 12th edition, World Economic Forum. Available at: https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-risks-report-2017 24 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE As for the draft amendment to the General draft proper implementation guidelines, while ensuring restricting the implementation of Telecom infrastructure, Telecommunications Law (PLC 79/2016), TIM believes full neutrality through sharing of infrastructure and coverage expansion, competition in the industry, quality that the goals proposed can add legal certainty, deployment in non-competitive areas. of services and customer service. TIM’s activities comprise efficiency and incentives to investments in the industry. participation in public hearings in the National Congress, The revision of this legal framework can leverage the The right-of-way was one of the recurring topics in the in legislative assemblies and city councils, addressing resources needed to expand an industry that is strategic discussions held by the telecommunications industry, due topics such as broadband usage limit, signal jammers, for the Brazilian economy and paramount to society and to disagreements between Federal Government agencies including prison areas, among others. to the country’s development. and the Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovation and Communications with regard to Law 13.116/2015 (Antenna In relation to political-party activities, TIM’s Code of TIM has collaborated with Public policy makers in Law), which establishes general rules for deploying and Ethics and Conduct prohibits any kind of contribution to the efficient allocation of these resources – originally sharing the telecommunications infrastructure. Other politicians, political parties or related institutions. G4-SO6 intended to the Federal government –, with the aim to topics included public safety, high tax burden, laws Internet of Things The Brazilian Social and Economic Development Bank topics were raised through 120 questions, including: (BNDES, in Portuguese) and the Ministry of Science, Technological Offer and Ecosystem Composition; Radio Technology, Innovation and Communications (MCTIC) frequency; Financing and Taxes; Privacy and Security; signed an agreement to initiate the preparation of a Public Demand; Regulation and Role of the State. National Plan on the Internet of Things , for a five6 year term, between 2017 and 2022, to encourage the As part of this digital ecosystem, TIM believes that the proposition of public policies on the subject. telecommunication companies’ contribution to this discussion can go beyond infrastructure projects, by The initial stage comprised a public consultation to society, helping create digital platforms and solutions towards followed by interviews with stakeholders, and development the development of intelligent cities, generating benefits of short-and long-term action plans. Thirteen different for the entire society. 6 Expression based on the English term Internet of Things (IoT). 25 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE INNOVATION AND AGILITY CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE NEW TECHNOLOGIES Innovation and agility are two of TIM’s cornerstones, ecosystems established across the country. Aligning its paramount to thriving in a society driven by technology business goals to the knowledge generated in the external Starting in 2017, our 4G coverage and to operating in an ever-evolving industry. In environment is a major challenge for the company. telecommunications, being at the forefront means having TIM believes in the concept of open innovation, in the will be transmitted also on the a competitive edge. That’s why TIM taps into everyone’s exchange of ideas and in collaborating with external 700 MHz frequency, creativity to achieve more, better and faster in an environment to find innovative market-based solutions. increasingly complex and dynamic world. Thus, TIM seeks to establish its presence in open spaces designed and structured for this purpose. With the aim of fostering this environment of digital a range four times ideas and solutions, TIM counts on the Innovation & To this end, the company established a partnership with Business Development department to orchestrate Fundação Centros de Referência em Tecnologias Inovadoras all of its innovation activities, with support from the (CERTI), based in Florianópolis (Santa Catarina), which has greater Innovation & Technology department. Through TIM been implemented initiatives to foster innovation in the Lab – TIM’s innovation and validation laboratory –, the market for 32 years. The agreement will enable access company also intends to build an ecosystem of partners, to approximately 60 startups developing nationwide including startups, to encourage entrepreneurship and projects in different industries, such as education, health, strengthen the internal environment in the quest of new oil, energy, automotive, among others. In addition to than the current 1,800 MHz business models. Offering cutting-edge equipment and exchanging experiences with entrepreneurs, TIM will also and 2,600 MHz bands. virtualized solutions, the Lab is the perfect environment provide knowledge and guidance on the projects. to test products and services with a focus on improving customer experience. In addition, tests can be conducted Two other partnerships in the same format were signed in armored rooms and radio equipment, eliminating with Itaú Unibanco’s Cubo Coworking space in São Paulo, external and internal interference and ensuring higher which brings together 55 startups, and with Instituto quality results. Gênesis, a project incubator created by the Pontifical Catholic University (PUC) in Rio de Janeiro. Three innovation Besides taking actions internally, TIM recognizes the centers are expected to bring new values and get the importance of being connected to other innovation company on track with the concept of entrepreneurship. 27 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE The Era of Hyperconnectivity Technological progress is leading us to an increasingly demands will no longer be based on historical data but connected world. Although the features available in in real-time references. Products and services need smartphones today go far beyond making phone calls, to be designed to include privacy and data security. the internet of things (IoT) is set to radically change our Within this scenario, telecom operators will also be perception of the world in just a few years from now. challenged to reassess their business model and their methods of interaction with customers. Taking part in From clothes with sensors to connected appliances, the these discussions is crucial for TIM’s business. increased connectivity with the material world will allow transferring information much more efficiently and Since 2013, the company has been structuring an quickly to a larger number of people. Each connected area entirely dedicated to Big Data, for internal use, sensor will generate an even greater amount of data, identifying opportunities to improve its network and treated according to its nature, to manage quality and deliver greater customer experience. provide support to the decision-making process, and for service maintenance purposes, among others. Analysis Other measures include looking for alternatives to apply anonymous data generated by the installed infrastructure. A partnership established in 2016 with the Operations Center of the City Government of Rio TIM recognizes the importance de Janeiro has enabled TIM to use the data provided to of being connected to other monitor the displacement of TIM service users in real time, helping the company make decisions about urban innovation ecosystems mobility and crisis management, among other decisions established across the country. related to urban management. 28 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE New frequency range Academic Working Capital program Starting in 2017, our 4G coverage will be transmitted also broadband, enabling the network to provide high-quality Created by Instituto TIM with the aim to foster on the 700 MHz frequency, a range four times greater than data transmission services using 3G with High Speed technological innovation, the Academic Working the current 1,800 MHz e 2,600 MHz bands, ensuring higher Packet Access HSPA+, which allows reaching up to indoor coverage quality as well as greater reach. According 21Mbps per carrier, in addition to enabling the Dual Carrier Capital program provides support to college students to the spectrum clearance coordinated by Empresa feature (Dual Carrier DC), totaling up to 42Mbps per who wish to design their business based on their final Administradora da Digitalização (EAD), Brasília will be the antenna. These investments also include activating sites college projects in the end of their undergraduate first city to receive the frequency, followed by Teresina with Long Term Evolution (LTE – 4G), improving backhaul studies. 39 projects were selected between 2015 and and Campo Grande, and other capital cities in the North antennas through expansion of the Fiberto The Site (FTTS) 2016. In 2016, 27 projects participated in the program, and Northeast regions. The plan includes implementation network, installation of microwave radios and adoption of involving 72 college students who attended workshops in another 1,000 (non-capital) cities in 2017, exclusively a new content management model (Cache infrastructure), throughout the year. By the end of the program, the related to the shutdown of analog TV channels. Starting reducing latency and improving customer experience. in 2018, TIM will provide its 700 MHz coverage to the products were introduced to investors, entrepreneurs other Brazilian regions (South and southeast) as soon as In 2016, both the volume of eNodeB equipment facilities and experts in an Investment Trade Fair. Learn more the 700 MHz spectrum is made available, attesting to its (network element for LTE implementation) and the about the program at: https://institutotim.org.br/ commitment to offer improved customer experience. number of sites connected by optical fiber and microwave project/academic-working-capital. increased by 51% – 9 % higher than in 2015 –, adding From the BRL 4.5 billion invested in 2016, TIM allocated more data transmission capacity to the company. BRL 2.9 billion and BRL 889 million to information technology and information network, respectively, in It is worth mentioning that TIM has led 4G since the order to expand coverage and capacity to support the beginning of 2016, covering 1,255 cities and more than 2014 2015 2016 growth of voice and data traffic. 130 million inhabitants by the end of that year (two times more cities than the second placed), which can now Sites 3G 10.4k 12.4k 14.4k Its nationwide operations cover more than 3,460 count on LTE technology. Sites 4G* 3.7k 7.7k 11.6k cities and approximately 95% of the Brazilian urban Fiber optic network 55,000 km 70,000 km 76,000 km population. The company also offers extensive data With TIM Live, a fixed broadband internet service operated coverage across the Country by employing the latest 3G in the metropolitan areas of Rio de Janeiro and São Paulo, and 4G technologies, available to 89% and 74% of the the company reached the mark of 306,000 customers by * Including sites covered by RAN Sharing (Oi e Vivo) urban population, respectively. the end of 2016, 74,000 new additions to its customer base (32% increase over 2015), securing the first position We will continue investing on a high-performance mobile in Netflix’s speed ranking. 29 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT EACH ONE CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TAKING CARE OF BUSINESS Economic performance BRL 4.5 In 2016, the Brazilian economy faced another year of GDP 2015, has evolved into a larger program with additional billion contraction, 3.6% down, in addition to high interest and challenges and with the goal to save BRL 1.7 billion invested double-digit unemployment rates, despite the forecast between 2016 and 2018. The company met a significant of fiscal and political stabilization starting in the second part of this goal along 2016, by attaining BRL 1.2 billion in half of the year. From the political standpoint, the country savings and, despite upward pressures, with greater focus saw the second impeachment process of its history, with on postpaid and increased off-net traffic and inflation, the new Government team working to regain credibility, the total normalized Opex of the year dropped by 11.5%, starting with changes in the economic guidelines, debates reaching BRL 10.4 billion. 800 on the welfare reform, by launching granting programs and other economic incentives. The main actions of the efficiency plan include contract renegotiation; resizing of the structure; revision of new cities To recover and change its business performance path in commissioning strategies; adjustment and optimization with 4G coverage view of such scenario, TIM carried out many actions after of processes and systems to control network costs, and the first quarter, such as new offers, price repositioning, reducing the number of leased lines. TIM’s efforts not only greater focus on postpaid plan, additional efforts towards created a leaner organization, but also brought significant efficiency and continuous deployment of networks with savings and helped raise the company’s EBITDA margin to 3G and 4G technologies. Its efficiency plan, started in an unprecedented level. TIM also continued its fast infrastructure deployment plan, confirming its strong leadership position with 1,255 cities BRL 1.2 Efficiency plan results: covered with the 4G technology, an expressive mark of over billion Leaner organization, 800 new cities in one year. BRL 4.5 billion were invested saved with significant savings and in 2016, approximately 29% of the company’s total net the efficiency revenue, reinforcing its commitment to a long-term vision higher EBITDA margin. and improved customer experience. plan 31 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Below is a description of the economic figures generated and distributed in 2016: DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 2014 2015 2016 (DVA – IN THOUSAND BRAZILIAN REAIS) (ADJUSTED) (ADJUSTED) VALUE GENERATION 2014 2015 2016 Personnel and charges 782,589 850,362 827,401 (IN THOUSAND BRL) G4-EC1 (ADJUSTED) (ADJUSTED) Salaries 446,788 498,148 462,338 (A) Revenues 25,977,474 23,160,218 21,045,857 Social security contributions 63,398 70,207 101,102 (B) Goods and services acquired -10,913,959 -7,522,366 -7,149,576 from third parties Private pensions 15,030 18,325 11,556 Costs related to services -7,239,272 -5,163,332 -4,174,051 Benefits 139,576 159,978 166,386 rendered and goods sold Materials, energy, third-party Profit sharing 117,797 103,704 86,019 -3,674,687 -2,359,034 -2,975,525 services and others (C) Gross added value Government 8,850,707 8,448,296 7,413,798 15,063,515 15,637,852 13,896,281 (A B) Taxes, charges and contributions, (D) Retentions 8,850,707 8,448,296 7,413,798 -3,052,579 -3,361,971 -3,785,172 deducting allowances (exemptions) (depreciation and amortization) (E) Net added value 12,010,936 12,275,881 10,111,109 Financiers 1,844,093 2,902,504 3,566,262 (C D) Interest and rents 1,844,093 2,902,504 3,566,262 (F) Transfers 1,015,555 2,010,723 2,449,495 (G) Added value for distribution Shareholders 367,274 468,616 148,664 13,026,491 14,286,604 12,560,604 (E + F) Interest on own equity and dividends 367,274 468,616 148,664 Retained 1,181,828 1,616,826 601,763 Profit/loss in the year 1,549,102 2,085,442 750,427 Private social investment* 2,716 * The amount was included in the Added Value Statement [DVA] in 2016 – regarding investments in Instituto TIM’s projects not tied to mandatory social contributions provided for in contracts with financial institutions, sponsorship that is not based on the tax incentive law and contributions from sponsorship based on the tax incentive law – Read more about Private Social Investment on page 61. 32 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TOTAL FINANCIAL BENEFITS RECEIVED FROM THE GOVERNMENT 2014 2015 2016 (IN THOUSAND BRL) G4-EC4 Tax and fee reductions 137,192 93,123 118,250 Grants and incentives for investments, research and 13,283 18,670 28,133 development and other types During the preparation of financial information for the first quarter of 2016, the company identified inaccuracies in prior fiscal years/periods related to the recognition of revenues from recharge of prepaid credits sold by third parties (business partners). After carrying out quantitative and qualitative analyzes, TIM’s board concluded that these adjustments were immaterial in the last three years. However, due to the materiality of the cumulative effect of these adjustments, if entered directly in the income for the period ended on March 31, 2016, the company decided to report the comparative figures for the years ended on December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 33 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Economic profit Economic goals Every year, TIM calculates and tracks its In February 2016, TIM introduced its strategic plan challenging macroeconomic environment. The adjusted economic profit , which is a financial indicator 7 for the 2015-2017 period, establishing qualitative EBITDA10 performance experienced a slight drop of 3.2%, that takes into account the opportunity cost guidance for service revenues and EBITDA margin9, and totaling BRL 5.2 billion; however, a positive performance in the businesses, calculated based on the net quantitative guidance for investments and expenses. was registered after the third quarter of the year. operating profit after tax (NOPAT8) and the cost In June, however, after changes in management, the of capital invested. company updated its strategic planning by keeping the The adjusted EBITDA inflection reflects the consistent same indicators, but with new goals. The only exception trend towards recovery of net revenues from services, In 2016, the economic profit was minus BRL 1.52 was in services revenue, which is now exclusively related strong performance of innovative service revenues and billion compared to minus BRL 73.4 million in the to mobile services. continued efforts within the Efficiency Plan. Combined previous year. This performance is still explained with higher data revenue margins, this scenario led to a by two main factors: At the end of 2016, the company’s net revenue from solid increase in the EBITDA margin, adjusted to 33.5% in mobile services was BRL 14 billion, with negative annual the year, growing by two percentage points. Investments • continuous acceleration in the average capital growth of 5.1%, despite a gradual recovery quarter in 2016 amounted to BRL 4.5 billion (excluding the invested (+10% Y/Y) – a result of successive after quarter, strongly affected by the drop in the acquisition of licenses), a 5.5% reduction compared to increases in infrastructure investments interconnection tariff, long-distance services and the the previous year. • NOPAT drop (-53% Y/Y), due to loss of mobile NET REVENUE FROM MOBILE SERVICES (VARIATION % Y/Y) ADJUSTED EBITDA* (VARIATION % Y/Y) voice revenues and incoming revenues, in *Adjusted to exclude RBS sales and other non-recurring effects. addition to accelerated depreciation and amortization rates. 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 0 10 -1 -3 5 6 -5 1Q16 2Q16 1 0 3Q16 4Q16 -7 -6 -5 -9 -10 -14 -15 7 Economic profit = operating profit after income tax in the period (average capital invested in the period x cost of capital). 8 Net Operating Profit After Tax. 9 Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization. 10 EBITDA adjusted by extraordinary RBS sale transactions, temporary human resources expenses and general and administrative expenses (G&A). 34 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE 2016-2018 Industrial Plan MEASURE INDICATOR DEFINITION MEASURE GUIDANCE RESULTS HORIZON Market share of net revenue from mobile Net Revenue from services (Revenues after payment of taxes, Profit sharing above % 2018 n/a Mobile Services sales returns and accounting of discounts in 24% in 2018 mobile services). Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation Adjusted EBITDA 2016, 2017 Margin expansion EBITDA Margin and Amortization (EBITDA) on the Total Net % margin increased and 2018 in all years Revenue. by 2.0 p.p. In February 2017, TIM updated its strategic plan with guidance for the 2017-2019 period, Medium and long-term investments in purchase, improvement, development classifying the Capex12 estimates and Approximately or expansion of infrastructure, equipment, 2016, 2017 BRL 4.5 billion indications of the EBITDA and mobile service Capex BRL BRL 12.5 billion in the systems and properties. and 2018 in 2016 revenue evolution into short-term and longthree-year period Excluding the amounts invested in the term goals. The new strategic plan is aligned acquisition of frequency licenses. to the Telecom Italia group’s plan as well as to changes in the Brazilian macroeconomic environment outlook, giving emphasis to TIM’s Savings of BRL 1.7 billion Savings in Operational Expenses, 2015, 2016 BRL 1.2 billion new positioning and network infrastructure. Opex Efficiency11 BRL in the sum of the excluding interconnection effects. and 2017 saved by 2016 thee-year period 11 Operational Expenditure. 12 Capital Expenditure. 35 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE 2017-2019 Industrial Plan MEASURE SHORT-TERM LONG-TERM INDICATOR DEFINITION MEASURE HORIZON INDICATION INDICATION Share in Net Revenue Revenues after payment of taxes, Positive performance Net Revenue from 2017, 2018 from Mobile Services sales returns and accounting of n/a in all quarters Mobile Services and 2019 approximately discounts in mobile services. of 2017 25% in 2019 Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Positive performance EBITDA Margin 2017, 2018 EBITDA Margin Depreciation and Amortization % in all quarters above 36% and 2019 (EBITDA) on the Total Net Revenue. of 2017 in 2019 Medium and long-term investments in purchase, improvement, development or expansion of Approximately Capex below 2017, 2018 Capex infrastructure, equipment, systems BRL BRL 4 billion BRL 12 billion and 2019 and properties. in 2017 in the three-year period Excluding the amounts invested in the acquisition of frequency licenses. EBITDA minus the Company Capex, Result between Result greater than 2017, 2018 Opex Efficiency measured as a percentage of the % 6.7% and 9.9% 15% of the revenues and 2019 revenues. in 2017 in 2019 Read more about TIM’s economic performance at www.tim.com.br/ri. 36 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TAKING CARE OF CUSTOMERS Transparent communication CUSTOMERS • Clear and transparent communication leadership position in the prepaid segment, with 48.5 • Giving customers the autonomy to set up the service million customers. One of TIM’s four strategic pillars, customer experience took that best meets their needs, with convenience and on a completely new level with a department specifically agility The company remained the leading provider of 4G designed to manage the subject, whose guidelines TIM • Proactively repairing and informing customers about coverage, covering 1,255 cities, or 74% of the country’s intends to implement across all processes, until it becomes any issues and flaws with the services. urban population. This increase represented three times part of the company’s culture. At TIM, customer experience the number of cities compared to 2015. As for 3G, TIM is much more than a concept; it is rather a customerThe company is aware this is a great challenge, but firmly expanded its coverage to nearly a thousand new cities – a oriented business practice, with principles adopted from believes to be in the right path. With a current customer 55% increase –, reaching 2,833 cities and 89% of the urban Telecom Italia and applied to TIM’s portfolio and to the base amounting to 63.4 million users – reversing the population. With regard to fixed broadband, it is worth Brazilian reality. This initiative gave rise to three guidelines negative result of prior periods –, TIM was able to achieve mentioning the 32% increase in TIM Live subscriptions by that TIM will adopt in all of its actions: a solid performance in the postpaid segment last year, the end of 2016, totaling 306,000 users in the metropolitan by adding of 1.3 million new lines, while securing its regions of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. 63.4 1.3 Leadership in the 55% pre-paid segment: million million growth customers in postpaid 48.5 million in 3G coverage segment users 37 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE FOCUS ON IMPROVEMENT information about TIM plans as well as improving and disseminating tools to help consumers monitor their The smartphone takeover TIM is making improvements on its digital channels and mobile data package consumption. carrying out several customer experience actions in an Smartphone owners currently represent more effort to offer superior service, by identifying and meeting In 2016, Anatel ranked TIM on top of the list for number of than 72% of our customer base. This percentage the needs of its users. In this sense, providing additional complaints. TIM is keeping up with its Transparency principle, significantly increased over the last year, certainly information can not only facilitate comprehension about by taking full responsibility and using all reasonable efforts as a result of our strategy to equip customers with the products but also improve the customers’ relationship to address this issue. To improve customer experience, these devices and foster the expansion of data with TIM and perception of its products. the company created four cross-functional working services, especially 4G. groups to collaborate with the business units, preventing The new application Meu TIM [My TIM] was launched failures related to the launch of new products and offers. Unlike voice services, which are far simpler and in 2016 to serve this specific purpose. Its unique format intuitive, the data environment often raises allows users to check their data plans, updated balance, The focus is to turn mistakes into plans of action and questions and concerns on the part of users. consumption broken down by data and voice, among act proactively to anticipate any issues by reviewing all Offering a quality experience to customers other information. For 2017, we will also review the complaints received, satisfaction surveys, root cause does not only include providing proper network section specifically designed for customers on TIM’s analysis, and monitoring of systemic errors. The company infrastructure, but also the correct guidance on website, known as Meu TIM [My TIM]. Through these is also reviewing its regulatory procedures, including how data travels across the Internet. measures, TIM is seeking to act across several channels policies, documents, and processes, in order to align and be more connected to market trends. In addition, customer needs to the business evolution. The use of applications has brought several new these actions are aligned to the public commitment functionalities to the mobile phone industry. On undertaken in April 2015 by TIM and other mobile phone Another highlight is the Program to Improve Management My TIM, the company clarifies all of these doubts, operators, alongside the Ministry of Communications, the of the Value-Added Service (VAS) Portfolio, which enabled especially how to monitor consumption, in addition Brazilian Consumer Protection Agency (Senacon) and TIM to migrate content suppliers to its own tool, ensuring to providing tips on the website to help consumers the National Telecommunications Agency (Anatel) . The 13 greater control over the services offered. This measure is understand the internet consumption in their agreement includes the creation of a code of conduct expected to minimize the number of complaints regarding smartphones. Read more at http://www.tim.com. for communicating mobile internet offers; refining these services. br/rn/para-voce/atendimento/internet/dicaspara-uso-dos-dados. 13 It was established in response to inquiries made by customers, consumer protections organizations and telecommunications regulatory agencies regarding the decision to limit the mobile Internet access to the data package chosen, avoiding reduced speed. This triggered a broad discussion and exposed the need to build an industry-wide campaign to help consumers understand the concepts related to data service and the impacts the voiceto-data service migration has caused on telecommunications. 38 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE CUSTOMER SATISFACTION CUSTOMER SERVICE INFORMATION G4-PR5 2014 2015 2016 Customer satisfaction surveys are an important tool for improving the company’s relations with its consumers. TIM Total calls answered by Call Center 137,078,489 147,454,650 123,462,695 counts on the support of external research institutes to apply periodic surveys, offering customers a space to voice Total Ombudsman contacts 5,479 4,993 5,501 their opinion. Similarly, its customer service channels serve as a tool to collect user insights. Total number of complaints received The overall average score for the satisfaction survey was In company 6,175,552 6,924,976 11,554,589 7.30, practically the same compared to 2015 (7.29). TIM resolved 100% of complaints submitted to its channels, In Anatel 345,067 493,724 563,790 86% of which addressed within 5 days. As for complaints filed with Anatel, 99.82% were solved. 67.8 thousand In court 94,630 152,316 113,559 complaints were registered with Procon agencies integrated with SINDEC (National Consumer Protection Information Total complaints and criticism resolved System), 7% less complaints compared to 2015. In most cases, complaints were related to coverage, quality of the In company 99.94% 100% 101.31%* network, slow customer service and failure to solve issues. As mentioned earlier, TIM is seeking to integrate actions to In Anatel 91.69% 99% 99.82% address the problems raised by users. In court 106.51%* 86.34% 119%* Customer satisfaction surveys – on a 0-10 scale Customers can check information such as invoice Average satisfaction rating for individual customers 7.54 7.29 7.30 data and credit balance or get a copy of the invoice both on Average satisfaction rating with CRC service for individual customers 7.30 7.25 7.31 My TIM app and the website. *Percentage considers cases opened in periods prior to 2016 and closed along the year. 39 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE CUSTOMER SERVICE CHANNELS responsive and tailored services, TIM also offers customers To stay up-to-date with discussions around the the option to make contact via Chat, interacting with a virtual subject, TIM reviewed its Customer Data Privacy Policy, Customers can contact TIM through a number of channels. Assistant or by sending an e-mail via digital form. On social guaranteeing that access to customer registration and The most traditional channel is the call center, to which networks, contact can be made via Twitter: @TIM_AJUDA, communication data is permitted only to employees who users can connect from their mobile by dialing *144, or from or Facebook, from Monday to Friday, from 9 AM to 6 PM. A require such information in the course of their professional any landline by dialing 1056. This service is available 24/7. detailed description of these services is available on TIM’s duties. TIM conducts its activities based on ISO 27001 – website: www.tim.com.br. the international standard that describes best practices Customers with hearing disabilities count on specialized text for information security management –, although the communication service, which is free of charge, and also CUSTOMER DATA PRIVACY company has not yet acquired its certification. available 24/7. To access it, customers must call 0800 741 2580. As technology advances and the digital environment In case a customer brings a privacy violation complaint, becomes increasingly relevant to society, so do the threats TIM will assess the situation and provide clarifications “Meu TIM” (My TIM) can be accessed via mobile related to this universe. According to the 2017 Global Risks in order to solve any potential problems. Customers application or through the company’s site, allowing Report prepared by the World Economic Forum, data theft have access to data privacy practices when signing up customers to check several information, such as invoice and fraud and cyber-attacks ranked 5th and 6th, respectively, for TIM’s plans, under the terms and conditions of the data, credit balance, print a copy of the invoice, among in the top ten global risks in terms of likelihood. 14 contract. In 2016, TIM experienced one proven case of other actions. Telephone access can be made via the customer data privacy violation involving unauthorized Portal *144# – which uses Unstructured Supplementary Customer data privacy is a primary commitment for SIM card swap. The company was sentenced to pay BRL Service Data (USSD) technology to activate diverse telecommunications companies. TIM monitors its systems 12,000 as compensation, and is currently reviewing its services automatically from the mobile. This service around the clock to prevent and detect any unauthorized processes to enhance control and security when validadoes not use internal memory. access attempt. After classifying the information, the ting data at the stores in order to prevent similar cases company carries out risk analyzes in systems that store that from occurring in the future. G4-PR8 Self-service is also available via an Audible Response data, mitigating vulnerabilities that can be exploited to access Unit, where customers can query several information and confidential information. Employees and service providers Customer registration and telephone communication services from their mobile or landline. are also made aware of the need to adopt data security data is provided to authorities only to the extent required measures, and all suppliers offering Value-added Services by law and to comply with court orders for wiretap. Leaning on cutting-edge Artificial Intelligence to provide (VAS) must sign a non-disclosure agreement with TIM. 14 Source: The Global Risks Report 2017 – 12th edition, World Economic Forum. Available at: https://www.weforum.org/reports/the-global-risks-report-2017D 40 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TAKING CARE OF PEOPLE Human resources 10.4 thousand Ensuring the development and management of employees for length of service of up to five salaries and employees and developing the organizational model and corporate extended compensation after termination, such as macro-processes according to TIM’s strategic goals is the health insurance. Career transition support, financial new mission of the Human Resources department, which consulting and social and psychological assistance 51% values intellectual capital as its main asset. were also provided. In addition, TIM trained and guided its managers in conducting this process, seeking to TIM experienced major challenges and achievements ensure due care and respect with people. women last year, in view of another adverse macroeconomic period combined with the company’s performance. At the end of 2016, our workforce comprised 10.4 The reduction of our staff was crucial to fulfilling thousand employees – 51% women and 49% men. Our the efficiency plan, which encompassed all areas of staff was reduced by 25% compared to 2015. Among the the company. TIM made all efforts to offer a special severance package to minimize the impacts on Brazilian regions, the majority of employees is located in the Southeast, representing 80%, as depicted in the 49% dismissed employees. The aid included compensation chart below. G4-10 men DISTRIBUITION OF EMPLOYEES BY REGION BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP 3% 3% 5% Southeast 9% 0% Up to 35 years 80% Northeast From 45 to 60 years in the 9% Midwest 25% Southeast From 36 to 45 years North Above 60 years* region 80% South 66% *32 employees are aged over 60. 41 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT 2014 2015 2016 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF CONTRACT 2014 2015 2016 Employees 12,860 13,062 9,863 Permanent contract 12,860 13,062 9,863 Interns 276 278 264 Fixed-term contract* 691 680 511 Apprentices 415 402 247 Total 13,551 13,742 10,374 *Interns and apprentices. The turnover rate was 51.9%, 23.4% higher than 2015. G4-LA1 As part of its people management cycle, TIM regularly primary innovation action –, offering employees the applies tools and mechanisms that allow identifying opportunity to balance their personal and professional each employee’s level of contribution to the business, life, by taking advantage of all the mobility the TURNOVER 2014 2015 2016 in addition to identifying highlights and points for telecommunications technology has to offer. According improvement. Other actions include special award, to this program, and based on guidelines set out in an Overall 35.2% 28.5% 51.9% development and change management programs, specific policy, employees working at the headquarters which are regularly updated to keep pace with everare allowed to work remotely, from anywhere with By gender evolving and dynamic labor relations. internet access, with the same commitment they would have undertaken when working on company premises, Men 29.9% 26.5% 40.8% The change of the headquarters in Rio de Janeiro while enjoying extra quality of life and productivity in Women 39.6% 30.2% 62.7% brought significant progress in this subject. Alongside their projects and activities. water saving and energy efficiency benefits (read more in Taking Care of the Environment), it also created a It is a win-win relationship that also helps tackle the new way of interacting with the corporate environment. urban mobility challenges in large cities and reduce * Calculation includes dismissals and terminations. The company introduced the Flex Office Program – its GHG emissions. 42 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Salary policy There is no discrimination in TIM’s salary policy, which reflects market behavior. In 2016, the decrease in the difference between men and women’s average salary is seen in the directors, professionals and sales force/stores categories. G4-LA13 PROPORTION OF MEN’S TO WOMEN’S 2014 2015 2016 SALARIES, BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY* Directors 1.56 1.17 0.99 Managers 1.13 1.13 1.17 Professionals 1.11 1.12 1.06 Sales force/stores 1.08 1.11 1.02 Relationship Consultants (CRCs) 1.10 1.07 1.13 *The average salary amount indicated corresponds to the following calculation: (men’s salary/women’s salary). The amount indicates how much more men received, based on the base salary, compared to women, in the years presented, by functional category. In 2016, the ratio between the highest compensation paid by the company and the average salary of all other employees was 44.2. 43 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Conexão TIM (TIM Connection) Training and managing its human capital knowledge million invested in 2016 – there was a 14% increase in the is paramount to a telecommunications company that number of internal multipliers through the Multiplying TRAINING HOURS* FUNCTIONAL seeks be at the forefront of technological solutions. The Ideas Program, leading to a 63% growth in the number of CATEGORY 2014 2015 2016 company offers the Conexão TIM system (TIM Connection), actions implemented through this initiative. The program which contains all types of capacity-building and training comprised a total of 17,000 hours of training provided to 1.7 Directors 1,320 2,537 1,771 courses, seminars and actions that will contribute to thousand people. TIM continues pursuing different training the professional development of its employees, in the methods, valuing its own knowledge and remaining Managers 42,222 31,768 16,485 classroom or online. aligned to the process and cost efficiency plan, the same guidelines adopted in 2015. Other positions 105,453 130,852 60,227 All training and development plans are aligned with TIM’s Training Policy guidelines and with its strategic goals, Training sessions can now be accessed through the Sales Force 216,720 112,155 7,021 competence models, purposes and values. Last year, the webinar tool. The new method was widely accepted company carried on with its knowledge management among employees, as it added agility and capillarity to Relationship actions, such as the Innovation and Technology Forum the training. Consultants 721,499 630,349 381,461 (Knowledge Forum), and conducted round table (CRCs) discussions known as Conexão para Resultados [ResultAs part of our continuous improvement process, all oriented Connections]. These meetings sought to highlight training courses are evaluated through a reaction form, Total 1,087,215 907,662 539,669 and boost our employees’ expertise, enabling the exchange filled out by the participants, with the aim to collect their of best practices and experiences. insights on content, methodology and infrastructure. In addition, we monitor all classes to provide better *Hours spent on training and development (technical, management, Although TIM’s investments in education dropped by feedback and make quick adjustments over the course of specific and others). It does not include coaching by supervisors in the 55% compared to the previous year – with BRL 5.1 training, ensuring greater assertiveness. G4-LA9 company, nor hours of financed formal education. 44 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE AVERAGE NUMBER OF HOURS SPENT ON TRAINING PER YEAR, PER EMPLOYEE, BROKEN DOWN BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY (H) NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES IN FUNCTIONAL FORMAL EDUCATION COURSES CATEGORY FINANCED BY THE COMPANY 2014 2015 2016 Directors 33 Directors 1 2 24 Managers 24 Managers 10 4 3 Other positions 15 Other positions 48 53 45 Sales force 14 Sales Force 2 1 1 Stores 31 Relationship Relationship Consultants 155 Consultants 72 75 106 (CRCs)* (CRCs) Interns 16 Total 133 135 179 Apprentices 7 Total average 37 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 TIM also supports the development of young talent, allowing them to experiment different areas within the company, acquire new knowledge and further develop in this dynamic and booming market. As a result, trainees *Due to the restructuring of the call center service in 2016, with two centers closing down, TIM changed its consultants’ service skills, also are eligible to undertake important positions in the applied to third-party consultants. Such changes led to an increased number of training sessions.. company, while interns will undertake junior positions, bringing fresh perspectives to the organization. 45 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Performance appraisals TIM has made progress since adopting the new skills model The Leadership Development Program is aimed at EMPLOYEES RECEIVING based on the concept of self-leadership, where employees PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL 2015 2016 current and future TIM managers, and comprises four should become their own leader and the main actor of stages of leadership: Operational, Team, Managers their professional growth. This change was inspired by By functional category and Strategic. Last year’s topics of discussion included Telecom Italia, which also influenced the company to start innovation, communication and team management. using four macro skills: Directors 47.8% 52.6% The company also reviewed the leadership training tracks as well as the training tracks based on the current Managers 82.2% 85.1% • Systemic Vision skills model. Supervisors (CRCs) 96.0% 97.3% • Execution The new Career Program, which encompassed the • Agility Experts 93.4% 99.3% revision of the variable compensation for employees • Proactivity at TIM stores, was launched with the aim to recognize Analysts and Advisors 91.4% 97.3% and reward those who reach or surpass their targets, These actions are developed in line with the company’s Assistants 85.6% 93.8% by speeding up the payment of bonuses. It also allows strategic goals to reinforce its organizational culture. employees to automatically move up in their careers TIM’s employees receive performance appraisals on an By gender upon surpassing a number of monthly targets. Another annual basis. In 2016, 94% of employees were evaluated. advantage is that the variable compensation payment is G4-LA11 Men 91.1% 95.4% no longer tied to attaining all goals, that is, employees will be paid whenever they reach a target, regardless of Women 89.6% 92.6% the outcome for other targets. 46 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Diversity TIM believes that diversity is a reflection of society and, name (known in Brazil as “social name”) on the badges, Employees can access the Code of Ethics and Conduct consequently, of the labor market. The company fosters a according to their gender identity. The request may be (available on TIM’s intranet and on the website), culture of respect and appreciation of differences, trusting made regardless of formalization with the State. and attend specific training with cases and practical the fact that the more diverse a group is, the greater is situations that will help them learn, apply and duplicate the exchange of experiences and solutions, which helps The company is confident that this measure strengthens the instructions and guidelines of the Code in the build a healthy work environment and a competitive its diversity practices, and encourages internal and workplace. New employees also receive this training at advantage in the market. external stakeholders to send suggestions, questions, the time of admission. All attendees are required to sign compliments or complaints through its communications a declaration of acceptance to seal the commitment As described in its Social Responsibility Policy, any channels, such as the Whistleblower Channel (read more with the Code guidelines. expression or form of discrimination, whether based on information on Ethics and transparency). sexual orientation; ethnic origin; gender; disability; age, In 2016, TIM received 12 complaints about labor among others, is expressly forbidden. The Fale com Human Resources (Speak to Human practices through the Whistleblower Channel, nine Resources) channel, available on the corporate intranet, were justified. Two other complaints concerned The 2016/2018 collective labor agreement allowed was designed to open the communication and relationship discrimination, one of which was justified, as shown in employees, from January 2017, to use their preferred between all employees and the HR. the tables below. G4-LA16 G4-HR3 2016 2016 NUMBER OF GRIEVANCES ABOUT LABOR PRACTICES TOTAL NUMBER OF INCIDENTS OF DISCRIMINATION FILED, PROCESSED AND ADDRESSED THROUGH FORMAL GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-LA16 AND REMEDIATION ACTIONS TAKEN G4-HR3 RECEIVED JUSTIFIED RECEIVED JUSTIFIED Total number of complaints received 12 9 Total number of complaints received 2 1 Total number of complaints processed 12 9 Total number of incidents reviewed by the organization 2 1 Total number of complaints addressed 12 9 Number of remediation plans being implemented 0 0 Total number of complaints received in the previous 7 3 Number of remediation plans implemented 1 0 period and addressed during the reporting period 47 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE The group responsible for TIM’s corporate governance (see composition in Management DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER – WOMEN Structure), comprises 17 white members – sixteen men and one women. Eight members belong to the 30 to 50 year age group and nine are over 50 years old. The following charts display the current portrait of diversity at TIM. TIM reaffirms its commitment to creating an Interns and Apprentices 278 increasingly heterogeneous work environment. G4-LA3 G4-LA12 Relationship Consultants (CRCs) 1,845 Sales Force/Stores 1,331 Professionals 1,583 EMPLOYEES BY FUNCTIONAL CATEGORY Managers 224 Directors 6 Apprentices 247 0 500 1000 1500 2000 Interns 264 Call Centers 2,454 DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER – MEN Stores 2,127 Sales Force 491 Interns and Apprentices 233 Professionals 4,059 Relationship Consultants (CRCs) 609 Managers 679 Sales Force/Stores 1,287 Directors 53 Professionals 2,476 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000 Managers 455 Directors 47 0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 48 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE BREAKDOWN OF EMPLOYEES BY RACE / COLOR LEVEL OF EDUCATION Post-graduate / White 6,842 master’s / doctorate 767 Black 651 Higher 6,445 Mixed 2,630 Secondary 3,012 Asian 116 Primary 150 Indigenous 39 Not Informed 96 Illiterate 0 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 Note: Illiterate including functional illiteracy person who has learned to read, write and count, but does not have reading comprehension, writing and arithmetic skills. 49 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Inclusion Quality of life percentage of employees who agree or fully agree with all statements in the survey, which comprises 70 questions. The percentage of those who were unfavorable and To promote the inclusion of people with disabilities To ensure the well-being of employees in case of neutral grew by one percentage point each, exactly the (in Portuguese, pessoas com deficiência – PCD) in the pregnancy, TIM joined the Empresa Cidadã program two percentage points lost in the total favorability index company, TIM developed the PCD program, ensuring (Corporate Citizen program), which extends the maternity compared to 2015. that the available positions are also accessible to this leave in 60 days, in addition to the 120 already foreseen group. Its Internship Program launched in 2016 also in Law. The extension of this right is reflected in improved The question related to team workflow management gave special attention to young PWDs. The company health for both mother and baby, enabling the mother to registered the highest increase in the favorability index, attended eight career fairs for people with disabilities, breastfeed for at least six months. with 63 points, seven percentage points higher than and implemented several actions to make its facilities in 2015. Proper planning of activities and cooperation and furniture accessible to these employees, ensuring TIM’s collective labor agreement also allows male among the teams were the key aspects leveraging this quick adaptation to the internal environment, in collaborators to take up to fifteen consecutive days of perception. The survey also identified that employees addition to conducting awareness-raising activities paternity leave, starting from the first working day after feel they are playing a part in decisions related to their with managers and teams. the child is born, i.e., ten days longer than provided by law. work routines. When asked “At TIM, do employees propose and take responsibility for their decisions,” the In 2017, TIM attained 50% of the disability hiring quota, perception has increased 6 points, reaching 64%, while a 5% increase compared to 2015, in compliance with the Conduct Adjustment Agreement, signed with the Organizational Climate “We take responsibility for the day-to-day activities in our department,” remained at 86%, both in 2015 and 2016. Brazilian Public Prosecutor’s Office (Law No. 8213/91, Survey which establishes the quota system). When comparing results of 2015 and 2016, engagement Adherence to the 2016 Organizational Climate Survey dropped 3 points, returning to the score registered in reached 87% of employees, surpassing last year’s 2014. As for aspects related to organizational support, participation by two percentage points. This attests to the the index remained the same between 2015 and 2016. reliability of our tool and to results that are more faithful to The 2016 Climate Survey results show we are a long way Adherence to the 2016 reality. The methodology identifies the factors influencing from achieving our goals, but we must work together and employee engagement and organizational support – one realize each one of us plays a key role in the development Organizational Climate Survey as a lever to the other – to reflect on the effectiveness of of our company. Managers are attending presentations reached 87%, two percentage the professionals of the company. on the results, to better assess each item and discuss critical issues and priorities. The senior management will points higher than in 2015. The results highlighted a favorability index (level establish the strategic organizational climate guidelines of employee satisfaction) of 62%, representing the for 2017, to be adopted in the next plan of action. 50 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Health & Safety TIM’s priority is to maintain the physical safety and required by law. These commissions are formed by TIM health of employees and service providers and ensure representatives and employees, the latter chosen by their compliance with all labor and union laws in force. peers through secret ballot while TIM makes one referral. Safety & Occupational Health and Social Responsibility The percentage of employees represented by health and Policies guide the company’s activities and commitment safety committees in 2016 was 75%. G4-LA5 to fostering ongoing performance improvement in all its safety and occupational health and initiatives. One All work accident cases are filed with the Brazilian Social of the challenges is to enhance the health platform, Security Institute (INSS) through the Occupational expand the environmental platform and improve our Accident Communication System (CAT), and are subject to current management model by adopting and integrated analysis and investigation, in line with the procedures set management system. forth in the OHSM System Assessment Method. All incident records are available in each responsible area. Employees TIM is also committed to managing any potential risks have access to the Work Accident Communication Policy to the physical safety and health of its collaborators, via the company intranet. No serious accidents were contractors and visitors in the workplace. Mandatory registered in 2016. G4-LA6 measures for prevention of work-related accidents and occupational diseases have been implemented in all of its operations. There are emergency plans in place designed to remedy and minimize damages arising out of potential work accidents and fire incidents. In addition, periodic TIM is also committed to audit or inspections are conducted to assess the efficiency managing any potential risks of preventive measures in work processes and facilities, aiming at the continuous development of health and to the physical safety and safety conditions. health of its collaborators, TIM counts on Internal Commissions for Prevention of Work contractors and visitors in Accidents (Cipas)15 distributed across all company units, as the workplace. 15 To prevent work-related illnesses and accidents, Cipas operate according to guidelines of Decree 3.214/78 Regulatory Standard (“NR”) No. 05 issued by the Ministry of Labor and Employment. Actions are developed in conjunction with the Environmental and Occupational Health and Safety (EOHS) department. 51 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Although TIM employees do not perform activities with and stimulates healthy habits among the employees, by high incidence or risk of specific occupational diseases, the disclosing information via intranet. company implements the Program for Medical Control of Occupational Health (PCMSO) and the Environmental Risk Through the Qualidade de Vida TIM Program (TIM Life Prevention Program (PPRA) on an annual basis. G4-LA7 Quality Program), employees are encouraged to engage in physical activities and receive a Gympass benefit, TIM held the Internal Week for Prevention of Work comprising free pass to more than 8,000 gyms across the Accidents (SIPAT), using the corporate intranet for the first country. By joining the program, employees get up to 70% time on an integrated basis. Counting on the Cipas’ support, off the gym monthly fee, and can enjoy any type of activity the company implements flu vaccination campaigns in any registered gym. OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY INDICATORS G4-LA6 2014 2015 2016 Total number of employees* 12,860 13,062 9,863 Number of accidents without leave N0 1 3 2 Leaves registered in the CAT (Work Accident Communication System) Number of accidents with leave N0 23 29 13 Leaves registered in the CAT (Work Accident Communication System) Frequency rate Rate 0.4 0.4 0.7 Number of accidents with leave per million man-hours worked Severity rate Rate 3.99 5.92 6.01 Number of days lost due to accidents per million man-hours worked Number of days lost N0 216 395 111 *Not including interns and apprentices. 52 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TAKING CARE OF SOCIETY Generating value Value generation at TIM goes way beyond the infrastructure to economic and social growth. TIM’s participation in this Externalities projects developed by the company. We are driving area has been mainly focused on the construction of Since 2015, we hold an annual meeting with different areas of innovation in an increasingly digital world, where the public policies and on open spaces of innovation, whether the company to carry out qualitative analyzes on the positive development of high speed networks have been creating corporate or academic. and negative environmental externalities generated by TIM transformations the same way the telecommunications activities. One positive externality is human development, and electric power networks did in the past. It is also worth emphasizing that, in addition to job fostered through TIM Tec Platform’s distance education generation, TIM’s business activities have a major indirect courses (read more in Instituto TIM’s initiatives). On the other Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) are economic impact on tax revenues, with payment of hand, high energy consumption in the company accounts for emerging in the most diverse sectors of society, contributing municipal, state and federal taxes. negative externality (read more in Energy). 300 One pole can gather A partnership established biosites installed 2G, 3G and 4G with Embrapa and Qualcomm in Brazil equipment Biosite will allow the use of drones, broadcasting plantation Unprecedented Adds street lighting and information in real time via 4G technology security cameras to farmers all across Brazil. 53 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Benefits to the population Rio 2016 Olympic Games In addition to providing telecommunication services, TIM For rural areas, we established an important intends to create positive synergies to foster sustainable partnership in 2016 with the Brazilian Agricultural TIM established a partnership with the Rio de development using digital solutions, platforms, and other Research Corporation (Embrapa) – under the aegis Janeiro city government and the Research innovations. Developed in 2014, the biosite is one of TIM’s of the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Center of the Federal University of Rio de most successful projects. It comprises a structure similar and Food Supply (Mapa) – and Qualcomm. TIM will Janeiro (UFRJ) to assist in the management to a pole that mimics the antennas of the operator and deliver 4G signal to drones, broadcasting plantation of urban mobility during the Olympic Games can accommodate all telecommunications equipment information in real time to farmers and environmental held in Rio in 2016. Actions included monitoring (2G, 3G and 4G), as well as urban furniture, such as public agents all across the country. The data collected by the movement of people around the city using lighting and security cameras. the drones from sensors installed on the field will data from our customer base. Programming enable a more accurate detection of crop deficiencies, algorithms and other mechanisms were This technology can significantly reduce the visual impact pest occurrences, water scarcity, deficit of nutrients developed to ensure customer data privacy and help harmonize the urban infrastructure and the and environmental damage. This diagnosis will allow when managing this information. environment. From an environmental standpoint, the better control of aspects such as irrigation and use Biosite also has advantages, such as reduced energy of agrochemicals and agricultural fertilizers, reducing The experience proved the effectiveness of big consumption and a fixture structure that uses 99% environmental impacts and increasing productivity. data applied to building smart cities, improving less steel than the traditional base stations. Therefore, management with the use of data technologies installation costs one-third less. To help disseminate the digital culture, TIM has been that are often available. The main challenge is to monitoring a group of 100 small cities that are covered combine information that will add value to society. TIM has installed over 300 biosites across the country, 76 with its 4G technology. Data traffic increased by an of which were dedicated to the Olympic Games held in average of 60% in these locations, which include the The free software ZUP (Participatory Urban 2016 in Rio de Janeiro. The fact that this antenna is built archipelago of Fernando de Noronha, off the Pernambuco Governance) was upgraded with a specific module as a lighting pole streamlines its licensing process, for it coast. Because it is an isolated area of the continent, for management of mega events, used for the is qualified as urban furniture when installed in public internet access is changing the way residents and first time during the Olympic Games. Learn more areas. TIM also installed biosites in private areas such visitors communicate, both socially and at work. For TIM, in Instituto TIM’s projects. as condominiums, shopping malls, parking lots, aimed enhancing these digital technology applications is an at providing better customer experience with less visual effective way to foster social and economic development. pollution in the urban landscape. Check out other initiatives in Innovation and agility. 54 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Digital inclusion According to the United Nations, five billion people in the world still lack access to mobile broadband16. The biggest challenges lie in rural and remote areas. The UN study also points that digital exclusion affects 12% more women than men, and this gap can increase by 31% in the least developed countries. According to the organization, the best way to foster technological progress and development is to make the digital revolution a human rights revolution. Taking care of customers in one of our key values, and we are proud to have a positive impact on their lives. We follow all UN guidelines on digital inclusion initiatives. TIM was the first operator to enable the digital inclusion of low-income groups, offering services that allowed these customers to increase the use of voice and data. The introduction of affordable rates for unlimited on-net calls (TIM to TIM calls) is one example. Also, customers making calls to other operators are no longer charged a differentiated off-net fee. In addition to these actions, TIM believes that digital technologies can lead to important social transformations, enabling access to education, generating income and fostering social inclusion. Through Instituto TIM, the company makes efforts to promote and open access to technological solutions, such as distance education and software development platforms. ZUP (Participatory Urban Governance) is an excellent example of a free software that can help managing public services more efficiently. Its implementation has enabled public managers to receive more than 35,000 reports from citizens, speeding the resolution of several issues. Learn about Instituto TIM’s initiatives below. G4-EC7 G4-EC8 16 Source: United Nations, available at: https://nacoesunidas.org/onu-5-bilhoes-de-pessoas-ainda-nao-temacesso-a-banda-larga-movel/ 55 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Instituto TIM In 2016, Instituto TIM continued developing educational and free technology projects across the country, reaching PRINCIPLES AND STRATEGIES more than 250,000 people through its initiatives. Committed to creating and strengthening resources and strategies for democratization of science and innovation in order to promote human development in Brazil, Instituto TIM operates in four dimensions: EDUCATION Creating and democratizing resources and strategies to teach science and math. Education Applications Work Inclusion APPLICATIONS Investing in free technological solutions that will improve people’s lives. Out-of-School The Math Circle Brazil ZUP TIM Tec Children WORK Creating and democratizing teaching strategies to foster Academic Working TIM Does Science Cultural Maps Transformation Agents a productive technological inclusion of young people. Capital Instituto TIM Scholarship INCLUSION OBMEP Disseminating new information and communication technologies to support citizenship. Support to Science and Technology Centers and Museums 56 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Instituto TIM has engaged more than 700,000 people in its projects since its creation. Since 2013, the Institute has implemented actions in 398 cities in 26 states and the Federal District, mobilizing 66 municipal and state departments and three ministries – the Ministry of Education (MEC), the Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovation and Communication (MCTIC) and the Ministry of Culture (MinC). Actions were carried out in more than four thousand public schools, benefiting 16,000 teachers and five hundred thousand students. Instituto TIM has engaged more than 700,000 people in its projects since its creation. 57 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Instituto TIM’s projects include: THE MATH CIRCLE BRAZIL In an effort to change the paradigm that Math is too difficult, this sessions as an after school activity and also provides teacher training. project brings to the country the Math Circle approach, created by In 2013 and 2014, the mathematics skills of the participating students Harvard professors Robert and Ellen Kaplan, according to which increased by 5.7% and 7.3%, respectively. In 2015, the methodology student participation and reflection are essential elements to build up applied to the evaluation was replaced by Provinha Brasil – a tool for mathematical knowledge and skills. The idea is to work on the concept: the diagnosis of literacy –, which set the development of math skills “tell me and I’ll forget, ask me and I’ll find out.” at 4.7%. UNESCO recognized the success of the project in 2016, and launched a partnership to implement the initiative in Brazil, supporting Targeting students from 2 nd and 4 th grades of public elementary training for teachers and the production of a book about the project’s schools located in underprivileged areas, the project offers Math Circle best practices over the past four years. TIM FAZ CIÊNCIA [TIM DOES SCIENCE] This project was developed to disseminate basic scientific concepts in According to an assessment conducted in 2015 with the participating this challenging area of education in Brazil. Carried out in partnership students, student performance increased 12.5%. Since its creation, 44 with Municipal Departments of Education, TIM Faz Ciência provides municipal education departments have adopted the program, training public schools with teaching materials, videos and other aids, and over 10,000 teachers and benefiting 330,000 students between 2014 and conducts training sessions with teachers, who also receive support from 2016. In 2016, TIM Faz Ciência became the official course of the Municipal a relationship center throughout the school year. The program materials Public Schools of the City of Curitiba, and has been also adopted in all can be downloaded for free on the TIM Faz Ciência website, and can be administrative regions of Distrito Federal. used by any teacher, in any school in the Country. 58 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TIM TEC Aiming at the expansion of vocational and technological education in Brazil, learning and education products and solutions. the project is based on three pillars: courses, free software development and support to public education institutions that intend to install and use It has become the MOOC (Massive Open Online Courses) platform whose the software. TIM Tec offers free online courses in line with the information technology and content are being shared with public education institutes and communication technology axis of the National Program for Access to from Rede e-Tec Brasil, with support from the Department of Professional Technical Education and Employment (Pronatec). and Technological Education of the Ministry of Education (SETEC/MEC). Thirteen Federal Institutes have already launched their platforms created Winner of the Prêmio ARede Educa 2016, which recognizes public from TIM Tec software, and other ten are in the installation phase. In and private experiences and initiatives towards integration of new addition to offering the courses developed by the project, Institutions can technologies in educational environments, the project came in third add their own courses to the tool. Between 2013 and 2016, 25 courses were in Educational Platforms for Civil Society, which evaluated distance created and over 40,000 students registered in the platforms. CULTURAL MAPS Instituto TIM engaged in the construction of a collaborative culture mapping A cooperation agreement signed in 2015 between Instituto TIM and the and management platform, to enable cultural agents, administrators Ministry of Culture (MinC) will take the platform to a national level. In three and the society to learn, share and manage the cultural production of a years of existence, platforms were created and implemented in three region in Brazil. Mapas Culturais (Cultural Maps) is a software designed states and 12 cities. Other four platforms were designed for Minc (Mapa to map and disseminate cultural activities, enabling the development of da Cultura [Cultural Map], Rede Cultura Viva [Living Culture Network], networks, promoting access and visibility to the general population, the Museus BR [Brazilian Museums] and Mapa das Bibliotecas [Library Map]). government and the market. Almost 27,000 projects and 77,000 agents have been registered. 59 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE ZUP: PARTICIPATORY URBAN GOVERNANCE ZUP is a free software created to help public administrators and citizens which administrators are able to collect, analyze, organize, share and participate in urban governance activities and operations. The initiative monitor information about their cities. In addition, the tool automates is aligned with the guidelines of the Brazilian Digital Government document flows and allows managing inventories and services provided Policy, which guides public managers to interact with citizens, improve by partner companies, among other features. The information added the internal management and integrate with partners and suppliers. into the system is stored in a database, enabling the analysis of data and facilitating decision-making. ZUP is an important management tool that can be used by any municipality that has an interest in managing their public services in ZUP operates in the cities of São Bernardo do Campo (São Paulo), Boa a more efficient and participatory manner. It comprises four modules: Vista (Roraima), Rio de Janeiro (RJ) and Cascavel (Paraná). In 2016, the unit ZUP Cidadão (ZUP Citizen), ZUP Gestão (ZUP Management), ZUP in Rio de Janeiro was upgraded with a specific module for management of Inventários (ZUP Inventories) and ZUP Fiscal (Fiscal ZUP), through mega events, used for the first time during the Olympic Games. INSTITUTO TIM SCHOLARSHIPS – OBMEP REQUEST FOR PROPOSAL TO SUPPORT SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY CENTERS AND MUSEUMS The Brazilian Public School Mathematical Olympiad was created in 2005 by the National Institute for Pure and Applied Mathematics (IMPA), with support from In 2015, Instituto TIM released a RFP intended for science and technology centers and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovation and museums, in partnership with the Ministry of Science, Technology, Innovation and Communications (MCTIC). Instituto TIM and IMPA established a partnership in 2015 to Communications (MCTIC), supported by Conselho Nacional de Desenvolvimento Científico launch the Instituto TIM-OBMEP scholarship program, granting monthly scholarships e Tecnológico (CNPq). The goal was to expand the scope of investments and the access to worth BRL 1,200.00, for a period of twelve months, renewable on an annual basis up users in various regions of Brazil. to 48 months. Eligible students include medal winners enrolling in public universities to attend Astronomy, Biology, Computer Science, Economy, Engineering, Statistics, The supported actions focused on initiatives aimed at disseminating science and making Physics, Mathematics, Medicine and Chemistry courses. 100 students were selected it interesting for the audience, which comprise children aged 4-10 years. Science and in 2015 and 2016. technology centers and museums from all parts of the country participated in the RFP, also joined by Extension course departments from federal and state universities. The 50 projects selected in 2016 are already carrying out activities across all five Brazilian regions. 60 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE NINGUÉM FORA DA ESCOLA PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT [OUT-OF-SCHOOL CHILDREN] The company’s social investment initiatives comprise donations, projects developed by the Instituto TIM and sponsorship of cultural and sports initiatives carried out in communities. In 2016, TIM provided donations to the following institutions: Casa de Passagem, The TIM Institute and the United Nations Children’s Instituto Ronald McDonald, Escola Técnica Redentorista, Instituto Ayrton Senna and Fundação Amazonas Sustentável. Fund (Unicef) have teamed up to develop the technological solution Busca Ativa Escolar [Active School Search], which will help and stimulate PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT (IN THOUSAND BRL)1 2014 2015 2016 municipalities to actively search for 3.8 million Donations 1,933 686 487 children and teenagers who are out of school. The goal is to offer public managers an innovate Instituto TIM projects2 15,291 13,859 18,199 approach to this active search using Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs). Education 4,664 7,195 9,358 Applications 1,571 1,306 2,904 The participating cities will form local teams with professionals from different departments Labor 2,202 3,329 2,156 within the city government (health workers, social Inclusion 1,960 927 1,557 workers, educators etc.), as well as Guardianship Others 4,895 1,102 2,224 Councils, NGOs or other institutions. In 2016, the project helped bring 14 children back to school and Initiatives in the community3 23,919 18,968 1,278 other 39 were considered into the re-enrollment process. The tool is being finalized, currently Sports sponsorship 1,112 3,750 80 incorporating improvements identified in the Cultural sponsorship 22,807 15,218 698 assessments carried out in the second stage of Others 0 0 500 the pilot project. Once the software is adjusted, the municipalities will be mobilized to use the tool Total 41,143 33,513 19,964 and the methodology widely. Managers and civil servants will receive training online. 1 The Private Social Investment amount considered in the Added Value Statement [DVA] (BRL 2,716,000.00) – regarding investments in Instituto TIM’s projects not tied to mandatory social contributions provided for in contracts with financial institutions, sponsorship based on the tax incentive law and contributions from sponsorship that is not based on the tax incentive law – is included in the total amount of the Private Social Investment stated on the DVA table, on page 32. 2 In 2016, Instituto TIM invested approximately BRL 17 million as a mandatory social contribution to the credit granted by the Brazilian Social and Economic Development Bank (BNDES, in Portuguese) to TIM Celular S.A. The credit was opened in December 2013. 3 Tax incentives are included in the total amounts invested in that category and, in 2016, accounted for 48% of the investment in Initiatives in the community. The significant variation in this line is due to a reduction in the budget. Learn more about Instituto TIM’s projects and initiatives at institutotim.org.br. 61 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE SUPPLIERS The purchasing process at TIM is aimed at acquisition Samsung, Ericsson, Alcatel-Lucent S.A, Huawei and Nokia, of cost-effective, competitive, quality, safe, socially among others. Suppliers that are unable or do not wish to In 2016, we surpassed our goal to responsible and eco-friendly products and services, provide us with equipment or supplies on a regular basis assess suppliers on sustainability as well as at the continuous improvement of our can jeopardize our operations, negatively affecting our relationship with suppliers. operational results and limiting our ability to enter into issues by 49%, with 433 suppliers concession contracts. On the other hand, we also monitor evaluated. Business ethics, transparency and commitment towards smaller suppliers that may become dependent on TIM and sustainability comprise the guidelines for Relations with risk closing their business in case the partnership with TIM Suppliers in a TIM Purchase Process. All agreements include is not renewed. that is located in the same country of TIM’s headquarters. clauses requiring compliance and fulfillment of TIM’s Code Although its purchasing procedures and policies do not of Ethics and Conduct and the Global Compact’s Principles, With regard to information security, TIM also enumerates contain guidelines for prioritizing local suppliers, TIM such as respect to labor and human rights, environmental critical suppliers that have access or treat TIM’s confidential seeks to build relationships with those located in Brazil, protection and anti-corruption. information. These risks are managed and minimized whenever possible. according to our Information Security Risk Management The company’s value chain comprises suppliers of Policy. The procedures and guidelines in this policy are All suppliers with contracts over one million Brazilian reais telecommunications network equipment and products intended to mitigate, monitor and control the probability undergo social and environmental assessments during (mobile phones, modem, etc.), technology service and impact of adverse events. Risk sources may vary, the qualification stage, within social, environmental, providers, electric utilities, as well as providers of services ranging from human error, errors in processes, legal and occupational health and safety aspects. Suppliers to other areas that support TIM’s business purposes, such liabilities, credibility-related events, accidents and natural considered critical in any aspect will receive a supplementary as consulting firms, audit companies, communication disasters, to deliberate attacks to assets that are intended profile assessment. At the end of that stage, the reviewers agencies, among others. G4-12 to cause loss of information. will issue an opinion indicating the level of compliance with the criteria addressed. Those who are still considered Dependence on key suppliers is one of the aspects TIM makes use of competitive methods to select its critical shall commit to implement an action plan. In 2016, included in our risk management matrix. The activities suppliers – equally, without preferences –, always seeking we surpassed our goal to assess suppliers on sustainability developed in our industry require network equipment, the best commercial agreement and the best technical issues by 49%, with 433 suppliers evaluated. The target for mobile devices and accessories that are provided by Apple, service quality. By local supplier, the company means one 2017 is set to 250 suppliers. 62 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE ASSESSMENT AND MONITORING LOCAL PURCHASES (IN THOUSAND BRL) 2014 2015 2016 TIM monitors supplier performance through its own Local suppliers 9,458,860 8,226,002 6,624,563 performance evaluation methodology. To control compliance with labor rights, the company checks the Network Infrastructure 2,999,021 3,239,383 3,166,998 suppliers’ reputation on the websites of the Business Trade products 3,557,420 2,154,926 1,133,742 Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption and the Brazil’s National Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor. Suppliers Information Technology 698,211 761,616 811,678 that appear in any of the two lists may not be qualified. Professional technical services 1,762,406 1,632,134 1,118,046 All TIM suppliers must sign a declaration stating their commitment to comply with the company’s Code of Ethics Energy purchase 127,888 137,739 141,383 and Conduct and its sustainable development principles. Others 313,913 300,205 252,716 They are also required to fill out a due diligence questionnaire, Foreign suppliers 140,074 146,121 134,002 used to collect information exclusively for the purpose of verifying compliance with national and international antiNetwork Infrastructure 30,293 32,721 45,335 corruption laws, as well as with internal rules. Trade products 3,561 Information Technology 93,412 101,894 82,226 TIM also requires its suppliers to comply with a specific clause under the terms and conditions of the purchase Professional technical services 12,424 11,505 6,441 order, providing that no products purchased by TIM contain Energy purchase 385 conflict minerals17. In the document, suppliers agree to abide by the rules and regulations established by the Securities Others and Exchange Commission , and adopt a reasonable and 18 Total 9,598,934 8,372,123 6,758,565 appropriate due diligence conduct to ensure their products do not contain these minerals. G4-EC9 The decrease in spending with suppliers was due to efficiency efforts made by the company in 2016, resulting in a smaller volume of procurement contracts. Among the suppliers who responded to the social and environmental questionnaire, the company did not identify possible risks for occurrence of forced, slave or child labor. G4-SO9 G4-LA14 G4-HR5 G4-HR6 G4-HR10 17 Minerals extracted in armed conflict zones and in violation of human rights, which may be used to perpetuate fighting through the purchase of weapons. Affected countries include: Democratic Republic of Congo, Central African Republic, South Sudan, Zambia, Angola, Republic of the Congo, Tanzania, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda. 18 The Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States created by the U.S. Congress to regulate the securities markets and protect investors. 63 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The company addresses the need to engage stakeholders Each year, we conduct organizational climate surveys to Besides these initiatives, investors and analysts have through the principles set forth in its Engagement Policy, obtain employee insights about the company’s practices. access to applications containing institutional information which guides and encourages participative relations Read more in Human Resources. In addition, TIM takes part about the company. All information about TIM’s financial among its employees. It is also intended to create, in ongoing dialogue about labor relations with the unions. performance, such as disclosure of results, press releases, maintain and strengthen trustworthy, inclusive, ethical relevant facts and stock quotes are available on the website and mutually beneficial bonds. Training and development actions also contribute to (www.tim.com.br/ri) and on Twitter (www.twitter.com/tim_ engage our employees. All new employees go through an ri). Stakeholders can also ask questions, send suggestions At TIM, engagement translates into results. Therefore, onboarding process and join guided visits to call centers and messages to the email (ri@timbrasil.com.br), and we seek to develop transparent communications and stores to experience TIM’s customer service. The subscribe to receive our e-mails with newsletters. with all stakeholders, starting with the employees. Mutiplicando Ideias (Multiplying Ideas) program provides G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 We encourage them to voice their ideas and share employees a structured and innovative method to share experiences. Our purpose, vision and values are widely knowledge and ideas. disseminated and put into practice. Financial results and indicators, improvement of products and offers, TIM takes a coherent stance towards external stakeholders, changes to the organizational structure and market maintaining consistent and transparent communication Our stakeholders achievements are reported on a regular basis. We with shareholders, investors and financial analysts. The run specific campaigns and events for each internal company releases its financial results on a quarterly basis, • Employees • Consumer protection stakeholder group to keep them aligned and integrated and makes calls in English and Portuguese to journalists • Service providers and defense with the company’s strategy. and analysts to disclose its three-year industrial plan, • Consumers/ organizations among other information. customers • Community The corporate intranet is the primary content channel, • Suppliers • Government providing institutional information and internal news, This group of stakeholders is also engaged through • Shareholders • Regulatory as well as access to the main work tools and systems. internal and external visits, and on TIM Day, an annual • Financial agencies Internal corporate TVs are also available in common event held in New York with the aim to clarify their doubts institutions • Competitors areas of the administrative buildings, with internal and disclose the company’s business strategies. The event • Unions programming tailored to each region. Employees is attended by the chairman and directors of the company. • Society are engaged via SMS messaging, e-mail, and weekly Our Shareholders’ meeting is another important event to newsletters featuring the highlights of the week. disclose company results. 64 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE STAKEHOLDERS FORMS OF ENGAGEMENT • Customer Service via the Customer Relationship Center (CRC), Meu TIM, Portal *144# and Audible Response Units (URA) for requests, queries to accounts and balances complaints, and changes to data • Social Networks: Facebook and Twitter (@TIM_Ajuda) Customers • Monthly satisfaction surveys • Fale pelo Cliente (Speak for the Customer), used by employees to address customer requests • Portas Abertas website (http://portasabertas.tim.com.br), a relationship portal through which customers can keep track of antenna deployment, and network and coverage expansion. • Social and environmental questionnaire (assessment and identification of improvement opportunities for critical suppliers) Suppliers • TIM Commerce website (www.timcommerce.com.br), for registration and information. • Cooperation and collaboration with various associations and working groups aimed at advancing the industry as a whole Competitors • Free market defense information guide (aimed at TIM employees). • Regular contact with bodies associated with the relevant state and municipal authorities and with the Brazilian Institute of Environment and Renewable Environmental Natural Resources (Ibama) regulatory agencies • Environment and Climate Change channel ssma@timbrasil.com.br (questions and suggestions). • Contact with the communities via e-mail (respsocialcorp@timbrasil.com.br, projetosocial@timbrasil.com.br e ssma@timbrasil.com.br) Community and civil and in regional offices society organizations • Donation and volunteer work campaigns, investments in specific causes and social programs • Support to social, environmental, cultural and educational initiatives. • Corporate Intranet • Internal corporate TV • E-mails with newsletters • Safety and Occupational Health Channel (ssma@timbrasil.com.br); Employees • Induction Week for New Employees • Organizational Climate Survey • Speak to Human Resources channel • Ethics and Compliance channel • IR site (www.tim.com.br/ri) with relevant information and integrated and complementary services Shareholders • Speak to IR channel, to resolve doubts and provide information. Business partners • Information about offers and campaigns via Mundo TIM (intranet), Sales Business Newsletter (e-mail), SMS messaging and email marketing. 65 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TAKING CARE OF THE ENVIRONMENT Impact management Our risk matrix considers environmental accidents as listed in the guidelines of the International Commission on Given its nationwide presence, TIM has RBSs installed in having high potential impact, although there have been Non-Ionizing Radiation Protection (ICNIRP), and endorsed 153 preservation areas, such as hilltops and Conservation very remote chances of occurrence. For that reason, the by the World Health Organization (WHO). Units, and uses the same procedures applied to urban implementation and operation of Radio Base Stations (RBS areas to conduct periodic monitoring in these antennas, or antennas) connecting customer mobile phones to TIM’s In order to minimize environmental risks, TIM is committed ensuring its activities will not bring impacts to biodiversity. fixed stations are considered low risk activities. to monitor the operational aspects of the sites, ensuring G4-SO2 G4-EN12 G4-EN27 compliance with internal standards, legal and regulatory There are two types of RBS – Greenfield, which is requirements, as set forth in its Environmental Policy. TIM installed on the ground, and Rooftop, a tower built on monitors and analyzes the electromagnetic emissions the roof of the buildings. All RBS premises have urban from its RBSs based on Anatel’s ruling methods, remaining According to WHO studies, there is insufficient and environmental licenses, where applicable. In the within the limits established. This procedure also extends evidence to show that the use of mobile phones case of potential environmental impacts, TIM carries to the structures shared with other operators. and emissions from antennas are harmful to out reparations as required in the environmental health, as long as limits and precautionary licensing process, which may include replanting trees Noise emissions are measured upon the installation of new standards are observed. Other recent studies to compensate for the vegetation removed for the antennas, for licensing purposes, and upon the request also have shown that exposure to RF signal installation of RBS. Antennas emit noise and nonof the municipal government, government agencies, the from RBS sites varies from 0.002% to 2% of ionizing radiation19 as they come into operation. Public Prosecutor’s office, the local community and as the levels set out in international guidelines, required by law, although no federal regulation directly depending on factors such as the proximity to In Brazil, the National Telecommunications Agency addresses this procedure. In 2016, 22% of TIM sites received the antenna and the environment around you. (Anatel) is the regulator of radio frequency bands for electromagnetic emission measurements. Compared with These levels are lower or comparable to the mobile telephony, also responsible for regulating the 2015, the measurement of electromagnetic emissions exposure to radio or TV transmitters. limits of exposure to electromagnetic fields according to decreased by 5 percentage points, due to a smaller Resolution No. 303 and the Law No. 11934 of 2009. Both demand for this type of measurement by the relevant the resolution and the law provide for reference standards environmental authorities. 19 Radiation emitted by radio waves used in mobile telephony. They do not pose risks to health, causing only increase of temperature or thermal effect. 66 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Search for excellence New headquarters Always searching for continuous improvement of its internal processes and services, TIM has expanded its Environmental in Rio de Janeiro Management System (EMS) and implemented the Safety & Occupational Health (SGSST) system in administrative offices certified as and sites in the states of Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Belo Horizonte, Curitiba, Recife, Brasília and Belém. In addition, the company maintains important certifications, as shown in the following table: LEED Silver CERTIFICATION CERTIFIED AREA SCOPE National. ISO 9001:2008 Operational Units where the processes Quality Management Management of the TIM Celular Network. are carried out: Minas Gerais, Rio Certification de Janeiro, São Paulo, Pará, Paraná, Acquisition: since 2000 Pernambuco and Brasília. ISO 9001:2008 National. Management of the GSM pay-as-you-go Quality Management Operational Units where the processes and postpaid billing of TIM Celular and Certification are carried out: Rio de Janeiro and São Intelig’s TIM fixo [landline] billing. Acquisition: since 2005 Paulo ISO 14001:2004 Management and Operation of the TIM Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo Energy and water Environmental Certification Acquisition: since 2010 Celular Network. and Espírito Santo consumption reduced by 13% and 33%, SMP Quality Method for collection, consolidation and Regulatory Certification reporting of quality indicators of the National respectively, Acquisition: since 2004 Personal Mobile Service – SMP. in six months STFC Quality Regulatory Certification Method for collection, consolidation and reporting of quality indicators of the National Acquisition: since 2014 Switched Fixed Telephone Service – STFC SCM Quality Method for collection, consolidation and Regulatory Certification reporting of quality indicators of the National Acquisition: since 2015 Multimedia Communication Service – SCM. 67 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Energy Energy is the oxygen of industries, paramount to the TIM achieved savings of 3,913 MWh in 2016, as a result operation of virtually all the equipment in modern society. of initiatives to drive energy efficiency. As for the energy The challenge of growth in any productive sector is directly consumed by its mobile network, which accounts for 80% related to the search for new energy sources. Added to this of the total energy consumed in the company, TIM met the equation, climate change makes this challenge even greater, target to limit growth in 22%, compared to last year. For as the use of fossil fuels increase global warming. 2017, that limit is set to 12%. If TIM had not implemented these energy efficiency initiatives, the increase in energy According to a study conducted by the United Nations consumption would have been considerably higher, in Environment Programme (UNEP) in partnership with proportion to the expansion of its network infrastructure, Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) and other which made the company the absolute leader in 4G. institutions, U$286 billion were invested in renewable energy in 2015. For the first time, this amount accounted The first step to improve processes is to monitor for more than twice the investment made in coal and consumption and identify possible deviations. To gas. That year also saw an unprecedented shift, with implement these tasks, we started a project in Rio de developing countries investing more in clean energy than Janeiro, which has already covered 100% of the industrial the developed nations. Brazil ranked among the world’s buildings and 90% of RBSs. The goal is to measure both 3,913 MWh top investors . the energy consumed and the ambient temperature, 20 optimizing the use of air conditioning to prevent cooling of energy savings TIM believes that investing in energy efficient processes or heating beyond the necessary. Through this analysis, is key to leverage the company’s competitiveness and to TIM detected higher consumption in some sites, due fulfill its Environmental Policy. Its guidelines provide for to frequent power outages, which required restarting the development of actions aimed at reducing the waste the batteries and systems to resume operations. We of energy and materials, ensuring sustainable use of have contacted the electric companies to ascertain the TIM met the target to natural resources and of primary ecosystem services. causes of instability in the power supply. limit growth of the energy consumed by its mobile network in 22%. 20 Source: Global Trends in Renewable Energy Investment 2016, prepared by United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) in partnership with Bloomberg New Energy Finance (BNEF) and the Frankfurt School-UNEP Collaborating Centre for Climate & Sustainable Energy Finance. Available at https://nacoesunidas.org/brasil-e-um-dos-dez-maiores-investidores-em-energia-renovavel-do-mundo-aponta-relatorio-do-pnuma/ 68 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE The LEED silver certification (learn about LEED environmental aspect, the initiative reduced the demand The FreeCooling Project consists of a ventilation system for certification) acquired for the new headquarters was also for equipment (which may be reduced by 50%) and fuel equipment containers, where a cooler is installed in sheltera major contribution to our energy-saving actions. From for tower maintenance activities, optimizing the flow of type sites (enclosures) in the South and Southeast regions July to December, our power consumption dropped by operators. Lastly, resources that would be invested in the to reduce the use of energy and refrigerant gases in air 13% compared to consumption in the old building over construction of new radio base stations can be reverted conditioning equipment. With this initiative, TIM achieved the same period last year. TIM maintained its commitment to other projects, contributing to the development of savings of 2,175 MWh, corresponding to approximately 180 to reducing energy consumption in the administrative telecommunications in the country. tCO2e of emissions avoided. G4-EN6 offices, through employee awareness measures, including internal newsletters. The company also followed-up its building maintenance actions, such as reducing the hours TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMED, UNIT OF 2014 2015 2016 of operation of air conditioners and lifts and intensifying DISCRIMINATED BY SOURCE G4-EN3 MEASURE maintenance routines. Gasoline L 1,489,469 1.322,984 900,823 TIM is constantly looking for solutions to maximize the use of resources and minimize urban impacts. One example is Diesel – Vehicles L 33,149 43,122 31,009 the RAN sharing agreement for the 4G network, which 21 Diesel – Generators L 165,451 222,169 313,538 enables sharing the RBS with other operators. The first Ethanol* L 32,917 agreement approved by Anatel was signed between TIM and Oi in 2013. In addition to reducing costs (that are now Electricity MWh 483,934 562,952 619,930 divided among TIM, Oi and Vivo), sharing infrastructure also reduce energy consumption, as it eliminates the need In GJ to build new stations. Gasoline GJ 44,664 39,671 27,012 Diesel – Vehicles GJ 1,174 1,525 1,096 From the sustainability standpoint, RAN Sharing brings benefits within economic, environmental and social Diesel – Generators GJ 5,857 7,855 11,131 aspects. The 90,000 MWh reduction in 2016 corresponded Ethanol* GJ 736 to cost savings of approximately BRL 140,000,000 (Opex). Another achievement was the prevention of Electricity GJ 1,742,161 2,026,627 2,231,750 approximately 7,000 tons of CO2 equivalent emissions, Total energy used GJ 1,793,855 2,075,678 2,271,724 which would otherwise have been released if the power had been consumed in new non-shared towers. Also in the * Ethanol consumption was included in the report in 2016. 21 Abbreviation of the term in English: Radio Access Network. 69 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE About the LEED Certification SOLAR POWER WATER The LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Aware of the potential of Brazilian renewable energy Even though the United Nations declared access to water Design) certification is awarded by the United sources, TIM installed 33 photovoltaic panels in RBSs and sanitation as human rights, it still constitutes a global States Green Building Council (USGBC), a non-profit in 2016, in the Northeast and Southeast regions of the challenge. According to the UN, the percentage of people organization that aims to promote environmental country, which resulted in savings of 113,788 kWh and BRL with access to safe-drinking water in 2015 was 91%, sustainability in building design, construction and 72,000. The panels bring more stability to the network, compared to 76% in 1990. Despite the progress achieved operation. The three LEED rating levels are LEED compensating for potential power outages in the utility over the last 25 years, 663 million people around the world Silver, LEED Gold or LEED Platinum. LEED projects company. TIM uses the power generated by the solar panel still lack access to this essential resource.22 earn points by adhering to seven prerequisites: during daytime, after which the power consumed will come from the utility. Our goal in 2017 is to install seven As a signatory of UN’s Global Compact, TIM acknowledges new panels and continue monitoring the performance of its strategic role in society. Even though its activities do • Rational use of water those installed in 2016, in order to identify which actions not involve heavy use of water – the largest consumption can improve the efficiency brought by this initiative. In takes place in its headquarters –, the company is • Energy efficiency addition to providing greater stability, solar panels are committed to fostering several practices and initiatives to the company’s strategic choice for renewable energy protect this resource. • Reduction, reuse and recycling of investments, fostering sustainable development and the materials and resources low-carbon economy. One of the key actions aligned to this goal was the • Building indoor quality transfer of the headquarters in Rio de Janeiro to a LEED Silver-certified building. Within six months, the water 33 photovoltaic • Sustainable site consumption dropped by 33% compared to the same • Innovation and technology panels period in 2015. In addition to rainwater collection and treatment of water for reuse in the irrigation system and installed in air-conditioning cooling towers, the building features an • Meeting local needs. automated irrigation system suited for each consumption Savings of 113,788 kWh and BRL 72,000 area of the gardens. 22 Source: Progress on Drinking Water and Sanitation Report: 2015 update and Millennium Development Goals (MDG) Assessment prepared by WHO and UNICEF. Available at https://www.unicef.org/publications/index_82419.html 70 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE The water consumed at TIM comes mainly from the suspended. These initiatives have been helping the company urban supply networks, but the São Paulo office also reduce the water intake from the public network or other consumes water from an artesian well. Since 2015, TIM water supply companies, resulting in 33% savings over the has been developing initiatives that together saved 14% last two years. of the water consumed from the urban supply network in 2016. Another initiative developed in the office of TIM also returned administrative offices in 2016, including Santo André (SP) captures rainwater from the roofs and two high-water consuming call centers that had a large rainwater galleries, including physical-chemical treatment number of employees and operated long hours (6 a.m. for reutilization. In 2016, it accounted for 43% of the to 1 a.m.) All of these initiatives allowed us to exceed water extracted from the public network in the building the 1% target to reduce water consumption over 2015, and 7% of the total consumption of administrative and reaching the 10% mark. For 2017, the goal is to reduce mixed buildings. Rainwater collection is also adopted in water consumption in offices by 1% compared to 2016, the Giovanni Gronchi (São Paulo) and Brasília (DF) offices. considering the return of buildings in 2016 (reduction of In the unit located in the neighborhood of São Cristóvão, approximately 16,800 sq. m. that accounted for 8.3% of Rio de Janeiro, the company reused water from the airTIM’s administrative building area in early 2016). conditioning water (condensation) through a box that can be used to clean patios and irrigate gardens. G4-EN10 Regarding effluents from the buildings, all the volume produced by the company goes to public sanitation grids, TIM continued implementing measures to reduce water which are responsible for controlling the effluent treatment consumption, such as inspections in bathrooms and pantries process. The company does not perform disposal with high to detect leaks and the installation of tap timers and close environmental impact and no water body is significantly coupled toilets. Cleaning of the office courtyard remains affected by the effluents generated at TIM. TOTAL WATER CONSUMED, DISCRIMINATED BY SOURCE (CUBIC METERS) G4-EN8 2014 2015 2016 Other water sources (artesian well, water truck, rainwater collection) 22,475 27,108 36,823 Water supplied by the municipal grid or other companies. 228,725 167,855 154,117 Total 251,200 194,963 190,940 Percentage of the volume extracted compared to the previous year. +9% -22% -2% 71 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE MATERIALS & WASTE MANAGEMENT TOTAL MATERIALS USED, BY WEIGHT (KG) G4-EN1 2014 2015 2016 The environmental impacts arising from the extraction of raw materials from nature and disposal of waste Paper – billing 1,348,029 592,020 526,870 into the environment represent a major challenge for all industries. As described in its Environmental Paper – internal use 43,907 37,579 21,461 Policy, TIM is committed to sustainable and responsible management practices, guided by the continuous improvement of working processes and prevention Paper – marketing 1,114,592 1,877,527 22,200 of pollution. To foster recovery and recycling, these practices also include mitigation of waste production and incentives to selective collection. Paper – packaging 77,112 178,425 194,758 The company takes several measures to reduce the Total 2,583,640 2,685,551 766,506 internal consumption of paper and their respective costs, in addition to replacing independent printers, scanners, fax and copy machines for multi-functional devices that centralize all those tasks. In 2016, TIM reduced The main waste generated in TIM’s operations are end-ofthe City Government. For the disposal of burned bulbs, TIM paper consumption by 71.46% compared to 2015; life batteries from network equipment and lubricating oil. hires appropriate waste collection and disposal companies. this percentage was more expressive with marketing In the administrative areas, organic waste represents the The transfer of the headquarters in Rio de Janeiro to the materials (98.82%). These reductions were due to largest volume. Its Waste Management Program includes new building was a great opportunity to reinforce the several initiatives, such as incentives for online billing awareness campaigns across the company, as well as the importance of selective disposal. Our employees were and summarized invoices for unlimited voice and data selective collection of paper, cardboard, plastic, aluminum encouraged to scan and discard documents and other services. We also changed the formats of campaigns, and non-recyclable material (organic waste) in the unnecessary materials. Although the action enabled the giving priority to electronic and digital media. administrative headquarters and industrial buildings. recycling of 16.9 tons of paper, 647 kg of plastic and 24.7 kg of metal, TIM has not achieve its target to recycle the Since 2014, 100% of the paper for internal use is certified Collection of recyclable materials is handled by cooperatives waste generated in the offices, which was set to 25% of the by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). or suppliers enabled to provide this service, while organic total waste generated. This was mainly due to the amount waste is selected and made available for public collection of waste from the construction works carried out in the old carried out by municipal bodies or suppliers authorized by and new headquarters. 72 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Our goal for 2017 is to recycle 10% of the total waste as badge-controlled printing and restriction on color company’s plans to increase recycling rates in the offices generated in the offices. The amount of recyclable printing. In addition, employees have no fixed workstations in relation to the total waste generated. waste generated in offices decreased compared to nonat the new headquarters, which prevents accumulation recyclable waste due to several actions implemented, of paper on the desks. On the other hand, the proportion The volume of hazardous waste decreased by 67% hence the target reduction. As shown by indicator EN1, of non-recyclable waste (organic and sanitary waste) has compared to the previous year, as depicted in the table paper consumption in the office dropped by 43% and 51% increased due to the new cafeteria at the headquarters, below. The disposal of this material is periodic, as a compared to 2015 and 2014, respectively. This was achieved where employees can have lunch and snacks. Widely minimum amount needs be accumulated to be collected through replacement of independent printers, scanners, accepted among the employees, the space produced by the supplier. TIM’s non-hazardous waste generation fax e copy machines for multi-functional devices, as well a significant amount of organic waste, affecting the decreased by 16%. TOTAL WASTE GENERATED, BY TYPE AND BY METHOD OF DISPOSAL G4-EN23 GENERATED (T) 2014 2015 2016 RECYCLING 2014 2015 2016 Hazardous waste 11.43 223.88 74.25 Hazardous waste 8.84 208.48 48.58 Non-hazardous waste 428.15 560.14 471.28 Administrative buildings 3.75 5.53 5.81 Total 439.58 784.02 545.53 Network 5.09 202.95 42.77* Non-hazardous waste 167.90 133.66 99.75 OFFICES Administrative buildings 157.77 93.55 86.58 Hazardous waste 3.75 5.53 5.81 Network 10.13 40.11 13.17 Non-hazardous waste 412.73 518.12 431.24 Total 176.73 342.13 148.33 Total 416.49 523.65 437.05 NETWORK SANITARY LANDFILL Hazardous waste 7.682 218.35 68.44 Non-hazardous waste 206.26 426.49 371.53 Non-hazardous waste 15.42 42.02 40.04 Administrative buildings 254.97 424.58 344.66 Total 23.10 260.37 108.48 Network 5.29 1.91 26.87 *The difference between the total amount of network hazardous waste generated (68,440 kg) and the amount of network hazardous waste sent for recycling (42,766 kg) is due to the interval between the generation and collection of waste. At the end of 2016, there were 25,674 kg of network hazardous waste awaiting collection for proper disposal through recycling. 73 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE RECARREGUE O PLANETA [RECHARGE THE PLANET] In 2010, Brazil created its Solid Waste Policy, providing for shared responsibility among several players in the production chain, like consumers, public authorities, cooperatives, recyclers and industry. Aligned with this guideline, TIM started collecting disused devices, batteries and accessories through the initiative Programa Recarregue o Planeta (Recharge the Planet Program), encouraging customers to place disused mobile CLIMATE CHANGE handsets, batteries, cables and other accessories into special bins, and sending them to proper disposal sites. The Paris Agreement, approved by the 195 member As part of its commitment to society in addressing TIM fell short of its target to recycle 2 tons of devices and countries of the United Nations at the 21th Climate climate change, TIM conducts periodic mapping accessories, collecting only 961,045 kg. Starting in 2017, Conference (COP21), established an unprecedented of the sources of emissions in its activities. the SIM cards discarded by the Distribution and Logistics global commitment to reducing GHG emissions. One The company manages this issue through the Centers (CDLs) will be included in Recarregue o Planeta’s of the proposals is to keep global warming below Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory, prepared recycling program. 2°C, seeking further efforts to limit the temperature annually in accordance with the guidelines of the increase 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. GHG Protocol (which sets the global standard for In 2016, TIM launched TIM Next, an offer that enables how to measure, manage, and report greenhouse customers to replace their old smartphones by new ones Acknowledging the strategic nature of this issue, gas emissions). TIM also refers to the guidelines at discount pricing, according to each phone’s condition. TIM strives to monitor and reduce its carbon and emission factors published by the International The collected devices undergo cleaning, light polishing and footprint in the various stages of its activities, Panel for Climate Change (IPCC). The results of the have some parts replaced, if necessary, and are offered for such as operation of equipment, transportation emissions inventory are disclosed through a number sale in authorized channels. This reconditioning process of products and commuting. We implement of channels, including the CDP, Brazil’s Public helps reduce waste and disposal of devices, as well as raw actions according to our Climate Change Emissions Registry, and TIM’s website (Sustainability material to produce new ones. G4-EN28 Management Policy, and all decisions are section), as well as in the Sustainability Report. conducted by our Board of Directors, through the Control & Risk Committee, which among its The reduction in TIM’s emissions under scope 1 was tasks should supervise and follow up all social due to the reduced emissions related to the use of responsibility issues pertaining to the company gaseous fire-fighting equipment with high global and subsidiaries. warming potential. 74 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN19 SCOPE TYPE OF EMISSION 1) Consumption of fuel in own fleet. Scope 1 2) Consumption of diesel oil to generate energy. (direct emissions) 3) Fugitive emissions from gases used in refrigeration and fire-fighting equipment. Scope 2 (indirect emissions associated with energy Consumption of purchased energy. generation) 1) Fuel consumed in: • employee air travel • employee commuting between work and home • third-party fleet and sales reps’ vehicles Scope 3 • cargo transported by air. (other direct emissions) 2) Waste management. 3) Production of inputs purchased. 4) Production of energy inputs (fuels). 5) Loss from electricity transmission and distribution. EMISSIONS BY TYPE 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 2,195 tCO2e 10,152 tCO2e 4,992 tCO2e 483,934 MWh 562,952 MWh 619,930 MWh Scope 2 65,565 tCO2e 70,055 tCO2e 50,638 tCO2e 75 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE EMISSIONS DISCRIMINATED BY SCOPE AND TYPE (tCO2e) 2014 2015 2016 2014 2015 2016 Scope 1 2,195 10,152 4,992 Air travel (Cat. 6) 5,080 4,178 1,737 Own fleet 735 867 634.5 Taxi trips (Cat. 6) 315 188 Generators 414 546 770.1 Employee commuting (Cat. 7) 7,373 7,367 6,073 Fugitive emissions coolants 1,066 1,512 1.833.6 Third-party fleet – Logistics 23,714 9,221 7,439 (section Cat4 and 9)2 Fugitive emissions fire extinguishers 7,227 1.753.6 Third-party fleet – Others (section Cat. 4)3 1,613 1,044 1,189 Scope 2 65,565 70,055 50,638 Sales reps commuting (section Cat. 9) 1,786 1,433 908 Electricity consumption1 65,565 70,055 50,638 Waste management 40 848 732 Scopes 1 and 2 67,781 80,207 55,630 Scope 3 39,606 42,266 32,173 Production of inputs purchased (Cat. 1) 2,697 820 Production and transportation of energy 384 348 inputs (Cat. 3a) Loss from transmission and distribution 14,779 12,739 (Cat. 3c) 1 Emissions from electricity consumption reduced by 28% compared to 2015. The national grid emission factor provided by the Ministry of Science and Technology, which takes into account the Brazilian energy matrix and its supply via the Sistema Interligado Nacional (SIN) dropped by 34% (emission factors: 2015 – 0.1244 tCO2/MWh; 2016 – 0.0817 tCO2/MWh). During the same period, there was a 10% increase in the total consumption of electricity imported from SIN. 2 The decrease in this source is due to the reduction in the transport of commercial products, both by road and by air. 3 This line refers to emissions associated with outsourced transport of network equipment, selective collection and collection of equipment, batteries and accessories. 76 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Despite not being subject to any national, regional or the voluntary carbon market to compensate its direct ENGAGEMENT ACTIONS industrial legislation on emissions, TIM believes that, emissions, and made a new purchase in 2015 totaling in the short-term, the voluntary measurement of 6,000 tCO2e of carbon credits to offset its direct AT TIM, suppliers and employees are encouraged to engage emissions will become a mandatory measure through emissions under scope 1. in climate change initiatives. The company holds internal national or state legislation. In this context, companies workshops that are also attended by transport suppliers, that already have an emission inventory in place will TIM is also a part of the REED+Jari Amapá project with the aim to raise awareness of the issue and promote gain competitive edge in the market. (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest mapping and management of emissions. TIM also seeks Degradation), a partnership between Grupo Jari and to contribute to a more detailed and quantified reporting In addition to having quantified and published its GHG Biofílica, located in Vale do Rio Jari, in the state of of indirect emissions, to reducing the carbon footprint emissions annually since 2008, being part of the CDP Amapá. The project generates carbon credit through related to supplier services and finding innovative yet less database since 2007 and being a part of the “Empresas the deforestation avoided, based on the standing polluting solutions. In addition, TIM participates in external pelo Clima” [Companies for the Climate] platform since forest economic development. Direct emissions in 2013 forums and discussion groups to debate and propose good 2010, TIM wants to anticipate the challenges arising and 2014 were fully compensated. In 2015, TIM only practices concerning the topic. from this issue and society’s increasing demand for a compensated part of the direct emissions (29%). The more sustainable approach. Its target to reduce GHG remaining credits from the REDD+Jari Amapá project For TIM, employee participation is critical to an efficient emissions is indirectly connected with the energy target. (1,448 tCO2e) have been used to compensate a part of use of resources and management of emissions in the the direct emissions in 2016, which helped neutralize company. They are encouraged to develop innovative and Since 2013, the company purchases carbon credits in 29% of emissions under scope 1. quality services for customers, while reducing the impacts on the environment. 77 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Risks and opportunities arising from climate change OPPORTUNITIES investors, who prioritize companies that are open about most relevant for our business, specific legislation on how they manage their emissions. In this sense, in climate change issues are already in place for sectors with For the telecommunications industry, the opportunities November 2016, TIM was confirmed for the ninth year in the biggest carbon footprint. arising from climate change are mainly related to a row as part of the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), the development of solutions to mitigate emissions a portfolio of the São Paulo Stock Exchange (B3). A major part of GHG emissions quantified in TIM’s inventory from operators and customers and to allow better is associated to energy consumption (particularly by the adaptation to severe climate change. One example is TIM has participated in CDP Investors since 2007 and network infrastructure). Therefore, policies that apply to the partnership agreements signed with the Ministry responds to the CDP Supply Chain questionnaire the energy industry tend to raise the operating costs of of Science, Technology and Innovation (MCTI) for the upon customer request. With this, TIM also provides services, causing the energy price increase to be passed installation of rainfall data collection platforms. information that contributes to the sustainable on to consumers, and influencing TIM’s operating costs. development of its value chain. Similarly, rules that impact TIM’s suppliers may result in Meanwhile, to prevent a scenario of scarcity in energy increased cost for products and services contracted by the offering, caused by long periods without rain, TIM promotes company. The removal of subsidies incident on the price initiatives aimed at reducing consumption of electricity in RISKS of fossil fuels and/or the imposition of emission reduction its services and installations. (Read more in Energy). targets in this sector can also affect TIM adversely. To meet the targets set by the Paris Agreement, countries The company believes that strategic carbon undertake to achieve their own goals, based on the somanagement combined with transparent practices called Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). The Brazilian NDC aims at the absolute reduction of 37% of is an opportunity to attain more customers in an Similarly, climate change increasingly demanding consumer market. The emissions below the 2005 levels for the year 2025. company also considers that its telecommunication influences the behavior of services may be used to reduce emissions resulting The National Policy on Climate Change (PNMC) – established investors, who prioritize from people commuting. They serve as basis for through Law 12187 of December 2009, and regulated by optimizing production processes and logistic flows Decree No. 7390, dated December 9, 2010 – also confirms companies that are open about in various sectors, helping customers reduce their Brazil’s alignment with international initiatives aimed at how they manage their emissions. emissions as well. reducing the impact of climate change. At the state level, there is a trend for even stronger restrictions on emissions. Similarly, climate change influences the behavior of In São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, the two states that are 78 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Most of the domestic electricity supply comes from hydroelectric generation— 64%, according to the Brazilian Energy Balance from 2016, base year 2015 (BEN, 2016). In 2016, the hydroelectric power generation was reduced by 1.2 percentage points compared to the previous year. Any change in the rainfall extremes and long periods without rain can end up compromising the water level at reservoirs and affecting the national energy offer. In this case, TIM might be affected by energy rationing measures and oscillations in the average price of kWh due to the effect of climate change. In addition, a higher frequency and strength of storms could damage transmission towers, increasing company expenses on the acquisition of new equipment and maintenance of existing equipment. This could also lead Risks in the Southeast Region to an increase in insurance costs for goods susceptible TIM conducted a risk assessment study in 2016 to map the main threats associated with its to such events, and interruption or loss of quality in the operations in the Southeast region (where most of its assets are concentrated), based on the signal of mobile telephone and other telecommunications corporate risk matrix already used in the company. services. Changes in air humidity and salinity can decrease the use life of mobile devices. The assets were separated by type of infrastructure (rooftop, greenfield, industrial building, biosite, among others) and grouped by sub-region. Other actions included surveying the history In the event of increase in the average temperature, of weather events that affected TIM’s operations and potential future risks in the run-up to electronic appliances whose performance is directly related 2040. These estimates were based on data provided by the Center for Weather Forecasting to their temperature of operation could lead to higher and Climate Studies (CPTEC), linked to the National Institute for Space Research (INPE). consumption of electricity for the purposes of cooling. After prioritizing the risks and opportunities, TIM identified options for adaptation projects with The assessment of risks and opportunities related to the aim to prevent or reduce possible negative impacts and enhance the likely positive impacts. climate change is performed on an annual basis (available on CDP’s website: https://www.cdp.net/pt). G4-EC2 79 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE TRANSPARENCY CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE LEGAL COMPLIANCE TIM believes that conducting business with ethics is Within public policies, TIM engages in discussions related paramount to achieving success. Its Code of Ethics and to the telecommunications industry as a member of Conduct reinforces the company’s position in adopting working groups at SindiTelebrasil, where laws are identified organizational solutions to prevent any direct or indirect and assessed in conjunction with other operators. More stakeholders from violating the law and the principles of information about TIM’s activities in public policies. transparency, honesty and loyalty. With respect to processes of a collective nature, our legal To ensure legal compliance – a top priority for the board constantly gives advice on the business model that is company –, TIM has implemented tools to monitor and being created by other internal areas of the company, with follow-up all legal requirements related to its activities. the aim of mitigating possible impacts and non-compliance An interdisciplinary team within the Network area is also with legal requirements. available to enforce all environmental laws relating to its Radio Base Stations (RBS). This team is supported If any legal non-compliance is identified, the board is by representatives of Legal, Institutional, Quality and contacted to assess potential risks and communicate Compliance. Its Environmental Management System the guidelines to be adopted. The other areas involved in includes a tool that tracks the issuance or amendment the issue are contacted to help solve the problem and/or of existing legislation and forwards the matters to minimize the risks. The legal department receives orders internal areas. for compliance or penalties arising from audits carried out by public agencies, in the event of noncompliance with any requirement, law or conduct. To ensure legal compliance – a To prevent new non-compliance events from occurring, TIM has a licensing committee composed of various areas top priority for the company –, of the company, responsible for addressing environmental TIM has implemented tools to legislation matters and evaluating compliance issues to monitor and follow-up all legal mitigate and resolve any problems. In the other cases, the area responsible for the breach of conduct or law is requirements related to its instructed and required to adjust the practice pursuant to activities. the laws concerned. TIM RELATÓRIO DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2017 |81 81 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE For non-compliance with laws and regulations relating to the FINES AND NON-MONETARY SANCTIONS RELATED provision and use of products and services, TIM paid BRL 2.2 2014 2015 2016 TO THE ENVIRONMENT G4-EN29 million in fines. The proceedings brought to court referred to nonfulfillment of quality goals defined by Anatel for the provision Number of fines 71 54 430 of services, as well as claims by consumer protection organizations. All proceedings and respective fines applied by Anatel to TIM and Total sum of fines received (thousand BRL) 4,344.16(1) 499.69 65,585.76(2) other operators are available on the website: https://sistemas. anatel.gov.br/Boleto/Internet/Index_Boleto.asp Total number of infraction notifications 154 89 442 TIM ended 2016 with 1,278 active administrative proceedings Conduct adjustment agreements relating regarding environmental licensing of RBSs, involving to environmental aspects (number of TACs) regularization of structures and equipment (see next table). Total TACs initiated in the period 0 0 0 This 48% increase in the number of cases compared to 2015 was mainly due to increased enforcement activities held by the Total TACs in place 5 5 3 city governments in the Southeast and South regions. Total TACs ended in the period 0 0 2 TIM is committed to ensuring quality while complying with all standards set by regulators, continuously improving its activities Environmental-related lawsuits and proceedings to offer customers the best experience using our services. (number of cases) Administrative proceedings (Active) 683 861 1278 TIM was prohibited from commercializing data and voice services during 2014, as a result of fluctuations in network Administrative proceedings (Filed) 163 131 451 quality in the cities of Itiruço (Bahia), Tabatinga (Amazonas), Paraibano (Maranhão), Paulo Ramos (Maranhão) and Marajá Lawsuits (Active) 37 41 41 do Sena (Maranhão). The company has adopted all applicable judicial measures to reverse the decisions and resume sales in Lawsuits (Filed) 1 5 3 those locations. We ensure transparent communication in cases of non1 In December 2014, the Altamira (PA) Municipal Environment Department issued a notification related to the alleged installation and compliance by providing information as required by the operation of a radio base station in the municipality without the respective environmental license, establishing a BRL 4 million fine. TIM presented its defense in the administrative proceedings and paid a fine amounting to BRL 100,000.00 relevant regulatory agencies. G4-PR9 G4-EN29 2 2016 saw a significant increase in the number of environmental fines. This increase occurred mainly as a result of an inspection carried out by the Government in the cities of Goiânia (Goiás), São Gonçalo (Rio de Janeiro) and in the State of Santa Catarina. The fines applied to TIM and other operators were in most cases related to environmental license renewal or acquisition issues. TIM adopted all applicable judicial measures to reverse the decisions and several fines are being discharged. 82 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Conduct Adjustment Agreement (TAC) Anticompetitive practices A conduct adjustment agreement (TAC) is a legal TIM condemns any anticompetitive practices, creation of instrument used by government bodies to get monopoly or any other conduct that can be characterized TIM recognizes the national companies to commit to modifying certain processes advertising self-regulatory as trust. The company carries out its initiatives according in line with legal requirements. In December 2016, TIM to its Free Market Defense Policy (available on TIM’s had three TACs in place related to the following cases: intranet), which was updated in 2016 to reflect the changes council CONAR as a competent made to legislation and the evolution of the competitive environment. TIM also complies with guidelines from body to oversee ethics in • Fortaleza (CE) – TAC between TIM Celular and the State Environmental Authority Semace for the regulatory bodies aimed at securing a competitive market Brazilian advertising. company to present all the documentation concerning and respect for consumers. 135 proceedings underway for the radio base stations installed in the state of Ceará. Underway. All employees (regardless of position) performing activities governed by the anti-trust legislation attend face-to-face Lastly, TIM’s contract management tool contains a • Manaus (AM) – TAC between TIM Celular and the city training sessions on the subject, such as the Free Market questionnaire, which, according to the responses sent to government due to the irregular installation of RBSs Defense lecture, which is held on an annual basis. The the area responsible for the document, engages the team in the municipality. There was a reduction in the fines responsible for the antitrust assessment, in order to verify company created a guidebook on Free Market Defense applied by the municipality and TIM was obliged to in 2016, and intends to develop an online training in 2017, whether that partnership must be notified to the antitrust license the radio base stations. Underway. providing its employees an additional tool to learn about agency CADE. the subject. • Boa Vista (RO) – TAC between TIM Celular and the In relation to advertising, TIM recognizes the national local government to regularize the urban licenses of all Through the Whistleblower channel, any person advertising self-regulatory council CONAR as a competent the RBSs installed in the municipality, with a reduction in the penalties. Underway. (employee or not) can report breaches or suspicions of nonbody to oversee ethics in Brazilian advertising, and follows compliance with TIM’s Code of Ethics and Conduct, internal the country’s Advertising Self-Regulatory Code, as well as policies and laws. Read more in Ethics and transparency. the Consumer Defense Code. 83 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE To ensure compliance with these standards and regulations, all communications developed by the Marketing and Advertising teams are evaluated, and in case of potential risks, the advertising material shall be adapted according to the recommendations made. One of TIM’s best practices is to make its disclosures available for assessment and assurance through other sources and materials. Its ads must contain accurate information, expressed in clear and understandable language, to avoid leading consumers to misinterpretations or false conclusions. In 2016, two representations were filed against the company with CONAR, both made by competitors. One has been concluded; the other was judged in December and currently awaits appeal decision. In addition, two representations filed in 2015 had their final judgment in 2016. All were dismissed. G4-PR7 As for the cases involving anti-competitive practices, there were 14 unresolved cases by the end of 2016, all related to previous years. No new cases were brought against the company in 2016. G4-SO7 In the administrative sphere, overseen by the antitrust agency CADE (Conselho Administrativo de Defesa Econômica), proceedings involving anticompetitive actions were brought against operators (including TIM), based on external complaints, relating to zero rating service offers and the decision to limit broadband access to the data package chosen. ANATEL ruled out the proceeding related to the zero rating service offer – which is still in early stage of evaluation by CADE –, as no anticompetitive practices among operators have been identified. CADE dismissed the proceeding concerning the broadband access limitation without imposing fines to the operators, as there was no evidence of violation against the economic order. 84 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE GRI CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE GRI G4 Content index Core option GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Description Page External assurance G4-1 Message from the CEO 05 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Organization name 04 G4-4 Main brands, products and/or services 04 G4-5 Location of organization headquarters 04 Countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant G4-6 04 to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-7 Type and legal nature of the property 04 G4-8 Covered markets 04 G4-9 Organization size 04 G4-10 Employee profile 41 100% of employees at TIM are covered by collective G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements bargaining agreements. G4-12 Description of the organization’s supply chain 62 There were no significant changes during G4-13 Significant changes regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain the reporting period. By participating in relevant trade unions and other G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization associations, and interacting with society through public hearings, seminars and workshops. G4-15 Letters, principles and other initiatives 15 G4-16 Memberships of associations and organizations 15 86 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Description Page External assurance IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Entities included in consolidated financial statements and entities not covered by this report 06 G4-18 Process for defining report content 07 G4-19 List of all material aspects 07 G4-20 For each material aspect, aspect boundary within the organization 08 G4-21 For each material aspect, aspect boundary outside the organization 08 G4-22 Restatements of information provided in previous reports 07 There were no significant changes during G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries the reporting period. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 64 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 64 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 64 G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, by stakeholder group 07 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Reporting period 06 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 06 G4-30 Reporting cycle 06 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 06 G4-32 GRI ‘in accordance’ option chosen and GRI Content Index 06 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 06 87 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Description Page External assurance GOVERNANCE G4-34 The organization’s governance structure 18 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 10 Material aspects Indicators and disclosures on management approach Page External assurance Global compact G4-DMA 31 to 33 / 78 to 79 G4-EC1 32 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-EC2 79 7 and 8 G4-EC4 33 G4-DMA 55 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC7 55 G4-EC8 55 G4-DMA 41 to 50 LABOR G4-LA1 42 6 G4-LA3 48 6 G4-DMA 51 to 52 G4-LA5 51 1, 2 and 3 HEALTH AND OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY G4-LA6 51 to 52 1 G4-LA7 52 1 G4-DMA 44 to 46 TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 44 6 G4-LA11 46 88 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Material aspects Indicators and disclosures on management approach Page External assurance Global compact G4-DMA 47 to 49 DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES G4-LA12 48 1 and 3 EQUAL REMUNERATION G4-DMA 43 FOR WOMEN AND MEN G4-LA13 43 1, 2 and 3 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR G4-DMA 62 to 63 PRACTICES G4-LA14 63 3, 4, 5 and 6 LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE G4-DMA 47 MECHANISMS G4-LA16 47 3, 4, 5 and 6 G4-DMA 47 NON-DISCRIMINATION G4-HR3 47 1, 2 and 3 G4-DMA 62 to 63 CHILD LABOR G4-HR5 63 1, 2, 3 and 5 G4-DMA 62 to 63 FORCED OR SLAVE LABOR G4-HR6 63 1, 2, 3 and 4 G4-DMA 62 to 63 SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-HR10 63 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 G4-DMA 11 to 12 HUMAN RIGHTS GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS G4-HR12 12 1, 2, and 6 G4-DMA 66 LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-SO2 66 1 and 2 G4-DMA 22 to 23 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-SO4 23 10 G4-SO5 23 89 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Material aspects Indicators and disclosures on management approach Page External assurance Global Compact G4-DMA 24 to 25 PUBLIC POLICIES G4-SO6 25 10 G4-DMA 83 to 84 ANTICOMPETITIVE PRACTICES G4-SO7 84 SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR IMPACTS ON G4-DMA 62 to 63 SOCIETY G4-SO9 63 1, 2 and 3 G4-DMA 37 to 39 PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING G4-PR5 39 G4-DMA 83 to 84 MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-PR7 84 G4-DMA 40 CUSTOMER DATA PRIVACY G4-PR8 40 G4-DMA 81 to 82 COMPLIANCE G4-PR9 82 G4-DMA 72 to 73 MATERIALS G4-EN1 72 7 and 8 G4-DMA 68 to 69 ENERGY G4-EN3 69 7 and 8 G4-EN6 69 7, 8 and 9 G4-DMA 70 to 71 WATER G4-EN8 71 7, 8 and 9 G4-EN10 71 7, 8 and 9 G4-DMA 66 BIODIVERSITY G4-EN12 66 7, 8 and 9 90 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE Material aspects Indicators and disclosures on management approach Page External assurance Global Compact G4-DMA 74 to 77 G4-EN15 75 8 EMISSIONS G4-EN16 75 8 G4-EN17 75 8 G4-EN19 75 7, 8 and 9 G4-DMA 72 to 73 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 73 8 G4-DMA 66 / 74 EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN27 66 7, 8 and 9 G4-EN28 74 8 and 9 G4-DMA 81 to 82 COMPLIANCE G4-EN29 82 8 91 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE 92 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE 93 CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE EXPEDIENT TIM BRASIL Coordination TIM Participações S.A. – Regulatory, Institutional and Press Relations Corporate Social Responsibility Writing and editorial supervision Patricia Moreira Translation and revision Adriana de Matteo Layout and graphic design Weber Shandwick Image bank iStock CONNECTING AND CARING ABOUT TIM COMMITMENT INNOVATION AND AGILITY TRANSPARENCY GRI ABOUT EACH ONE w w w. t i m . c o m . b r
