2016 B C H O S P I TA L I T Y G R O U P RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY REPORT 1 STATEMENT FROM CEO GRI 102-14 It is with great pleasure that I present BC Hospitality Group’s first Responsible Hospitality Report for all of our business units. I would like to take this opportunity to reiterate our unqualified backing to the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are delighted that The United Nations has designated 2017 as the International Year of Sustainable Tourism for Development and as a pioneer in sustainable hospitality, we would like to use this year’s extra attention to raise further awareness and address concerns about the environmental and social responsibility in our business field. 2016 has been a record-breaking year for BC Hospitality Group in many ways. Analysis show 1,380,052 visitors to our hotel, conference and events facilities. We have delivered a record turnover and profit in all our three hotels (Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen and Copenhagen Marriott), and have held the largest congress (21,000 persons) and dinner party (10,250 persons) ever at our congress center, Bella Center Copenhagen . These great results are created by our more than 2300 professional and passionate employees, who as One Team ensure that our guests and customers receive brilliant service at all times. While we are buoyed by these achievements, we know that the social and environmental impact of so many guests also commits us to ensure that sustainability is a core pillar in our corporate strategy. To guide our efforts, we have this year started to implement the new GRI standards in our business, to strengthen our commitment in this area to our key stakeholders and I look forward to consolidate our commitment to sustainable development by the means of this framework even further. Sincerely, Allan L. Agerholm, Chief Hospitality Officer / CEO Allan L. Agerholm 2 3 ABOUT THIS REPORT GRI: 102-1, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 Welcome to BC Hospitality Group’s first annual Responsible Hospitality Report for all business units. The report is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016: Core option. We have aligned the GRI guidelines and suggestions with the international initiatives that we adhere to, including the United Nations Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals. Additionally, our reporting is in accordance with DS49001 CSR certification, as the Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is certified by this standard too. The report follows the financial year of the organization and contains information of BC Hospitality Group’s activities for the calendar year 1 January 2016 – 31 December 2016. For BC Hospitality Group’s Responsible Hospitality Report 2016, we are reporting on 69 GRI indicators. 2016 is our benchmark year, for which we have presented figures for our Group’s three hotels: Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, Copenhagen Marriott, and AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen as well as our congress venue, Bella Center Copenhagen. The units Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen, CIFF/CIFF Showrooms, and International House are also a part of the physical structure of Bella Center Copenhagen and are thus included in these calculations. BC Hospitality Group’s next Responsible Hospitality Report is scheduled for publishing in April/May 2018. For further information concerning this report, please contact our Group CSR Manager, Ms. Mireille Jakobsen, mij@bchg.dk. 4 5 ABOUT BC HOSPITALITY GROUP GRI: 102-2, 102-3, 102-4, 102,6, 102-7, 102-10 The history of BC Hospitality Group is rooted in ScanBELLA CENTER COPENHAGEN dinavia’s largest congress center, the Bella Center Bella Center Copenhagen is one of the world’s most Copenhagen. However, fifty years of solid developexperienced venues for large-scale events. The venue ment marked by innovation, success and growth has can accommodate up to 21,000 people, making it the resulted in the multidimensional group we know today. biggest congress and exhibition center in Scandinavia. It is equipped with the latest equipment and technoloNowadays, BC Hospitality Group is one of Denmark’s gy to stage any type of event. leading businesses in the hotel, conference, exhibition, and hospitality industry, catering for a wide range of Bella Center Copenhagen is only 10 minutes away from customers, including amongst others: non-profit orgaCopenhagen’s International Airport and approximately nizations, corporate clients, governments, and associ10 minutes from the city center of Copenhagen. ations. The congress center hosted the world’s first ISO 20121 Our hotels accommodate corporate, leisure, meetcertified sustainable international political summit, ings and congress clients from across the world. The 2009 United Nations Climate Change Conference The Group employs approximately 600 permanent (COP15), which was attended by over 33,000 people employees and comprises of: and was awarded the meeting industry’s prestigious IMEX GMIC ‘Green Meetings Gold Award’. Bella Center Copenhagen, Scandinavia’s biggest exhibition and congress center The Bella Center Copenhagen building also houses CIFF and CIFF Showrooms, International House, and is Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen, adjoined by Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen Denmark’s biggest conference center and AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen. Bella Center Copenhagen is also, where BC Hospitality Group’s headAC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen, the largest design quarter is located. hotel in the Nordic region COMWELL CONFERENCE CENTER COPENHAGEN Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, Denmark’s Bella Center Copenhagen has partnered with Comleading hotel within sustainability well to open Denmark’s largest conference center. This ultra-modern and fully renovated conference center Copenhagen Marriott, Copenhagen’s exclusive combines Comwell’s attentiveness, precision, and harand noted five-star hotel mony, with Bella Center Copenhagen’s superb location and infrastructure. Our goal is clear: we want to make Forum Copenhagen, Copenhagen’s well-known it easy and efficient to bring people together for memmulti-purpose event arena in the heart of the city orable events. CIFF, Northern Europe’s leading fashion fair As a result, we now offer Denmark’s largest conference center with 48 individual meeting rooms for 6-930 peoCIFF Showrooms, 16,611 sq. m. of permanent ple, auditoriums, lobby, lounge areas, coffee stations, leasehold tenancies service center, and a new Treehouse restaurant accommodating up to 235 guests for lunch, dinner, or parties. International House, Bella Center Copenhagen’s The venue’s primary customers are Danish companies, serviced offices with 93 offices/shops from both the private and public sector. 6 7 AC HOTEL BELLA SKY COPENHAGEN ness travelers, weekend stays, and mini-breaks, and offers COPENHAGEN MARRIOTT HOTEL is also an obvious supplement to large events staged at Next to Bella Center Copenhagen and Comwell Confeovernight stays and day events, meeting and conference The 5-star hotel Copenhagen Marriott is located on Bella Center Copenhagen. rence Center Copenhagen the AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenfacilities, festivity and holiday stays, family packages, roKalvebod Brygge right on the harbourfront in central Cohagen is located– a four-star designer hotel with 23 floors, mantic getaways, and ordinary stays. The hotel also rents penhagen. It offers 402 rooms, and boasts magnificent CIFF & CIFF SHOWROOMS 812 bedrooms, and 30 meeting rooms. The hotel is one out office spaces in its new Copenhagen Tower II with views across the city on one side and the harbourfront Copenhagen International Fashion Fair (CIFF) is the leadof the biggest in Scandinavia, and boasts a Sky Bar on the access to a wide variety of services and benefits. on the other. ing and most innovative fashion platform in northern 23rd floor with panoramic views of the Copenhagen skyEurope, presenting carefully curated areas for premium line, as well as spa, fitness center, and three restaurants. In 2016, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers also Copenhagen Marriott is particularly well-known for its brands. CIFF is Scandinavia’s largest fashion fair, and plays launched two new features: BARK, a new restaurant, conference facilities, with a total of 16 rooms of varying a key part during Copenhagen Fashion Week. AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen’s primary customers and Orango, the district of Ørestad’s new sustainsizes. At the hotel, guests are also able to enjoy dinner stay at the hotel while participating in congresses, fairs, able coffee shop. BARK uses nature as inspiration and in the Midtown Grill restaurant, and here too the focus is CIFF Showrooms is Scandinavia’s largest fashion house and exhibitions at Bella Center Copenhagen. Moreeverything used and served is selected on the grounds on using sustainable and local ingredients. Drinks and for professionals. Here, over 500 leading international over, primary customers include employees from big of quality, sustainability, and locality. The meat is grilled bar snacks are served at PIER5 Bar & Lounge or on the and Scandinavian fashion brands have their own showcorporations, who hold regular meetings at the hotel, over open fire and only seasonal ingredients are used. terrace and the hotel amenities also include an up-toroom, and are able to be an integral part of the biannual crews of airline companies, and airline passengers. There is also a selection of domestic and foreign beers date fitness center. fashion fair at Bella Center. Additionally, there are many leisure guests, families and wines of conventional, natural or sustainable kind. and couples, who visit the hotel especially during holiCopenhagen Marriott guests are international leisure Located at Bella Center Copenhagen, CIFF and CIFF days and weekends At Orango, the coffee originates from Indonesia, where and business guests who travel the world staying only Showrooms/Shoes consist of more than 50,000 m2 divided BC Hospitality Group is participating in a project of at Marriott hotels, harnessing the privilege of Marriott on three floors. building a new sustainable coffee brand, where part Rewards. The hotel also has the capacity to provide perCROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS of the revenue goes to protecting the population of fect accommodation to big groups of both leisure and INTERNATIONAL HOUSE Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is Denmark’s orangutans in Sumatra. business guests. International House provides newly renovated offices, leading hotel within sustainability and part of the at a premium location, that adjoin Bella Center CopenIntercontinental Hotel Group (IHG), as a franchised 360° VENUE CATERING FORUM COPENHAGEN hagen. Apart from office spaces, this business unit also hotel operated by BC Hospitality Group. In Autumn of 2014, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen TowForum Copenhagen is a multi-purpose arena close to offers meeting rooms, mail and package services, free ers launched a new catering business; 360° Venue central Copenhagen, which over the years has hosted parking, front desk, and other advantages The hotel has 366 rooms spread over 25 floors. Moreover, Catering. The new catering business is a unique all-in numerous events of all kinds, including many of the it has a congress and conference center of 3,500 m2, concept within outside venue catering, offering crebiggest names in music, theatre, and entertainment. consisting of 18 meeting rooms (with capacity for 5-90 ative and sustainable catering solutions for meetings, Forum is a dream venue for party and event organizers, persons) and an assembly meeting hall (with capacity for receptions, dinners, and parties. And in 2016, 360° with ample space for the most imaginative functions – up to 800 persons). Venue Catering was selected as the Food & Beverages and up to 3,000 dining guests. provider of the new neighbouring multiarena, Royal Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is ideal for both busiArena, in Copenhagen. With the Metro going directly outside its door, the venue 8 9 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI: 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-12, 102-13 We primarily define stakeholders, as parties toTRADE UNIONS wards whom BC Hospitality Group has a legal, fiBC Hospitality Group encourages its employees nancial, and/or moral responsibility. Stakeholders to elect a trade union representative. The trade could also be groups with whom BC Hospitality union representatives have seats in the Works Group frequently interacts, and/or relevant parties Committee of BC Hospitality Group by default with significant influence and/or decision-making and thus, are given the opportunity to discuss power. conditions of the workplace every three months. There are also collective agreements in place, EMPLOYEES between the Group’s trade association and the On a day-to-day basis, we engage with our workers’ unions.. employees through direct communication, staffmeetings, electronic media, intranet, etc. Our emGOVERNMENT AND ployees and management team also cooperate ADVISORY & CERTIFICATION SERVICES formally through Works Committees and Health We continuously strive to engage with govern& Safety Committees. Through participation in ment bodies and to take an active stance in debatthe Great Place to Work survey and Workplace asing key policy issues. Thus, BC Hospitality Group sessment reviews, we also gain valuable insight is represented in an advisory board to the govinto the welfare and needs of our employees. ernment focusing on successful integration into the Danish labour market, and an active member CUSTOMERS & GUESTS of HORESTA –the national Danish trade associaBRANDS BUSINESS ASSOCIATES & NETWORKS We engage on an ongoing basis with our clients tion for the hotel, restaurant and tourism industry. Our hotels are part of international brands. As a Through dialogue, networking and PR activities, and guests through quality reviews, social media We regularly engage with audit and certification result, we have explicit responsibilities towards during events, joint partnerships, and participation profiles, booking and travel websites, directly per bodies and follow their guidance concerning best them, and communicate continuously through in associations, we strive to share our know-how and e-mail or phone, via Group and brand websites, practice for our management systems. Through our contact points, during status meetings, etc. in best practices on CSR and sustainability with the through loyalty programs, and through daily inour Responsible Hospitality report system, we acorder to ensure that we fulfill their overall brand outside world. We are an integral part of promoting teraction with our staff and sales representatives. knowledge our support to multi-stakeholder iniexpectations and standards Copenhagen’s local culture and Denmark as a travel tiatives such as the UN Global Compact and the destination. As mentioned earlier, we also cooperSUPPLIERS Sustainable Development Goals.. COMMUNITY ate with HORESTA, who provides us with relevant Through contractual agreements and our proacWe take active part in our local community by market analysis, trends and forecasts, training and tive use of Supplier Code of Conduct, we specOWNERS & BOARD OF DIRECTORS engaging in sponsorships and dialogue with, for guidance on legislation, government policies etc., ify the terms of cooperation with BC Hospitality We communicate with our owners Solstra Investexample, local job centers and municipalities in with relevance to us and to our industry. Group. We select our suppliers strategically, ments A/S and share our performance with the Copenhagen and Roskilde, and liaison with NGOs based on the principles of Responsible Hospitaliboard of directors through a formal reporting and and other private and public organizations on We are also part of VFSA (Virksomhedsforum for ty, and we collaborate closely through continuous accounting system, board meetings and comspecific projects. Socialt Ansvar), whose task is to counsel the Danish dialogue throughout the year. pany briefings, and through our Annual and ReMinistry of Employment about the social responsisponsible Hospitality reports.. bility of businesses. 7 10 11 RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY GRI: 102-16, 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 At BC Hospitality Group we call our holistic strateestablish the necessary structures, policies, progic approach to sustainability “Responsible Hoscedures and division of responsibilities to ensure pitality”. Our vision is to be pioneers in the hospithat we act responsibly in economic, social and tality industry, by exploring ways to create shared environmental aspects value through new market opportunities, partnerships and initiatives and optimizing resources We are a member of the UN Global Compact, used. This goes hand in hand with our promise to through which we are committed to operate deliver superior service experiences. responsibly and in alignment with the 10 universal principles of sustainability. On top, we are in To us, hospitality is more than just providing the the process of aligning our Responsible Hospibest possible service and delivering the highest tality goals with the United Nation’s Sustainable possible quality to our guests and customers. It Development Goals. is about taking responsibility for our relationships with others by listening to and responding to our Our efforts are based on ongoing assessments stakeholders, taking responsibility for the impacts of relevance and our Responsible Hospitality of our business on society and the environment, strategy is formed around five key areas in which and proactively contributing to positive change we wish to make lasting positive contributions. wherever possible. All of the indicators included in this report are considered relevant to BC Hospitality Group. We believe that operating a profitable business Thus, we have identified potential issues that and fulfilling our social, environmental and ecocould result from our activities and assessed nomic responsibility are – and will remain – comhow significant they are to our business and to patible goals. We choose the most sustainable our stakeholders. We account for key topics and solution, provided that it makes sense and adds concerns, management approaches and we value. To us, it is important to fulfill our promise evaluate our current results. The selected indicaand to integrate Responsible Hospitality into tors are, however, merely presented as a diagram every element of our work. We therefore aim to without additional comment in the Appendix. 12 13 WORKPLACE GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 Our employees are the foundation of our business and the secret to our success. Hence, we are dedicated to offer a positive, challenging and inspiring work environment with the opportunity to reach full potential through training and job development. By providing a diverse workplace where everyone is treated fairly and respectfully, we simply want to be an employer of choice. In 2016, we continuously made progress in developing a workplace of great diversity and a company that assists its employees in realizing their full potential through training and career opportunities. GOVERNANCE GRI: 102-18, 102-7, 102-8, 405-1, 102-41 UNGC: 3, 6 The governance structure of BC Hospitality Group includes a Board of Directors and an Executive Board. In addition, several specialist committees examine matters falling within their terms of reference, including, amongst others, a BC Academy Advisory Board, as well as Works Committees and Health & Safety Committees at relevant business units. The governance structure of Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers and Copenhagen Marriott also involves a separate Boards of Directors and Executive Boards for each business unit. The Works Committees and Health & Safety Committees are also separate from those at BC Hospitality Group’s other business units. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES Due to the seasonal nature of our business, we have large numbers of on-call staff, on which we rely during large events and high season. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PERMANENT ON CALL 618 BC Hospitality Group 1759 290 Bella Center Copenhagen 1489 114 AC Hotel Bella Sky 78 88 Marriott Copenhagen 77 126 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 115 14 15 DIVERSITY OF GOVERNANCE BODIES COLLECTIVE (GENDER DISTRIBUTION) AGREEMENTS BC Hospitality Group aims to have all genders represented, where possible, in all of its departments, The figures below show the percentage of total employees covered committees and management levels. by collective agreements and the percentage of salaried employees, by each business unit. While we do not have equal gender distribution on our boards, we do not find it necessary to account for additional policies, initiatives or results. COVERED SALARIED EMPLOYEES & OTHER CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS Executive Board: Board of Directors: CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN AC HOTEL BELLA COPENHAGEN TOWERS MARRIOTT SKY COPENHAGEN Women Men Women 33% 50% 50% Men 7% 13% 17% 67% 7% COPENHAGEN MARRIOTT 93%93% 87% 83% Executive Board: Board of Directors: Women Men Women 25% BELLA CENTER COPENHAGEN BC HOSPITALITY GROUP 50% 50% Men 75% 14% 14% 7% AC HOTEL BELLA SKY Executive Board: Board of Directors: 86% 93% 86% Women Men Women 25% 50% 50% Men In the calculations for the collective agreements, the Bella Sky Spa is not included. For the employees at Bella Sky Spa 75% 1 there are different agreements in place, where their salary and other conditions are on the same range as the collective agreements. 2 October 2015, 16 17 LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT GRI: 404-2, 412-2 UNGC: 1, 6 SDG: 4,8 BC ACADEMY EMPLOYEE TRAINING & HUMAN RIGHTS In our annual ‘Great Place to Work’ employee surBC Hospitality Group’s Human Rights Policy vey, many of our employees across business units is currently presented to all new employees expressed a desire for more learning and develduring introduction day as part of our Group’s opment in order to upgrade their skills. Hence, onboarding program with the exception of the we recently launched the BC Academy, a learning Bella Center Copenhagen. It is our goal, howevplatform for our employees, and a means of imer, to launch an introduction day at Bella Center proving the professional development opportuniCopenhagen in 2017, including the guidelines of ties provided by BC Hospitality Group. The Acadeour human rights policy. my’s goal is to offer training courses that develop and strengthen our employees’ competencies, Our Group’s Human Rights Policy is available in which is why we now offer courses within internal the employee handbook available to all employand external training as well as risk management ees and on our website. In 2016, members of training. the Crowne Plaza Management Team have also completed an e-module training in relation to BC Academy had a great start and received posHuman Rights in the hospitality sector and all itive feedback from our employees. In 2016, reemployees at the venue attended a human rights sources were spent on ensuring proper impletraining session. mentation and establishment of BC Academy across all business units within BC Hospitality We acknowledge that these days, one of the Group. This has resulted in taking on board new most important human rights issues in the hoscourses and educational partners, in order to enpitality industry worldwide is human trafficking. sure the highest degree of professional expertise It is therefore crucial that our associates are able amongst our employees. to recognize and respond to signs of human trafficking, even though we do not consider this As we have had challenges collecting precise a high-risk issue for our specific hotels. Neverdata on training for 2016, the results featured in theless, all employees of the AC Hotel Bella Sky Appendix do not offer a complete picture of the Copenhagen and the Copenhagen Marriott must extent of our employee training, but is rather a have completed mandatory training on the subpresentation of available registrations. In order to ject by September 2017. provide more concise data for our 2017 report, we plan to implement a more in-depth registration system focused on better documentation and follow-up on results. The overall goal is to have 30% of our permanent employees (approx.189 persons) to complete a course or training module offered in the BC Academy Catalogue in 2017. 18 19 AGE GROUP BC Hospitality Group AVERAGE 37 YEARS Bella Center AVERAGE 39 YEARS Antal Antal 217 195 DIVERSITY & EQUALITY 124 89 GRI: 405-1 79 UNGC: 6 75 SDG: 5, 10 61 36 Diversity and equality is another cornerstone in our Group. The rich diversity of our employees at all business units is 12 8 9 3 something of which we value greatly. BC Hospitality Group is therefore strongly committed to diversity and inclusion across all departments and functions. To achieve this it, we strive to create working environments <20 year 20-30 year 31-40 year 41-50 year 51-60 year 61< year <20 year 20-30 year 31-40 year 41-50 year 51-60 year 61< year and establish team dynamics in which all individuals fit and everyone feels accepted, valued and contribute. We recruit and promote individuals based exclusively AC Hotel Bella Sky AVERAGE 31YEARS Marriott Copenhagen AVERAGE 33 YEARS on their suitability for the job without discriminating on grounds of race, color, ethnic or national origin, gender, Antal Antal sexual orientation, age, religion, marital status, or disability unrelated to the job position. On 31st December 2016, the Group employed 59 different 58 nationalities amongst our permanent staff and across all 48 business units 33 28 14 10 5 4 2 0 0 0 <20 year 20-30 year 31-40 year 41-50 year 51-60 year 61< year <20 year 20-30 year 31-40 year 41-50 year 51-60 year 61< year “We believe our staff should reflect our guests’ geographical diversity. it Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers AVERAGE 38 YEARS enables us to strengthen our understanding of guests’ needs.” Antal Operations Director, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 47 34 21 19 1 4 <20 year 20-30 year 31-40 year 41-50 year 51-60 year 61< year 20 21 GENDER DISTRIBUTION % NATIONALITIES IN % BC Hospitality Group 618 employees Bella Center Copenhagen 290 employees Marriott Copenhagen 88 employees AC Hotel Bella Sky 114 employees Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 126 employees Women Women Women 51,13% 55,86% 48,86% Men Men Men 48,87% 51,14% 44,14% BC Hospitality Group Bella Center Copenhagen No. of nationalities 59 No. of nationalities 19 DK 63,7 % DK 86,9 % SE, NO, FI, IS 8,2 % SE, NO, FI, IS 3,4 % Women Women Øvrige 27,9 % Øvrige 9,6 % 46,49% 46,03% Marriott Copenhagen AC Hotel Bella Sky Men Men No. of nationalities 30 No. of nationalities 20 53,51% 53,97% DK 17 % DK 72,8 % SE, NO, FI, IS 19,3 % SE, NO, FI, IS 6,1 % Øvrige 63,6 % Other 21 % Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers No. of nationalities 37 DK 34,9 % SE, NO, FI, IS 13,4 % Øvrige 51,5 % 22 23 EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING GREAT PLACE TO WORK We are nothing without our passionate and skillful colleagues! Participating in the Great Place to Work program gives us the means to continuously reassess and improve our performance as an employer. One of the key aspects of the program is the annual employee survey. We use the survey insights to continuously improve the welfare of our employees. How we score on the Great Place to Work Trust Index is considered a key KPI for all business units. The goal for 2016 was for the Senior Management Team to rate 80% on the trust index. This goal was met by all units except for Marriott Copenhagen. We are still in the process of formulating a goal for 2017. Great Place to Work annually publishes a list of Denmark’s Top 100 workplaces. In 2016 we are very proud that 2 of our hotels made it among the Top 30 of the list for Medium-Large Companies. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers took 26th place and AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen took 29th place. SOCIAL EVENTS BC Hospitality Group is not only a workplace, but also a place of fun and motivation, where employees can practice a healthy lifestyle and a company spirit. One of the ways we do this is through organizing social events and activities. In September 2016, we participated in the DHL Relay Race (DHL Stafetten), an event where more than 3500 private and public organizations can meet and compete for 5 km. 65 runners from BC Hospitality Group participated as One Team. Before Christmas, every business unit organized our Christmas Café and the After Work Christmas Friday Bar. Here everyone have the chance to celebrate Christmas with his or her colleagues and receive their Christmas present from BC Hospitality Group. Shortly after the New Year, we hold our annual staff party. The event is held at the Bella Center, where everyone has the chance to mingle, have dinner, and party until lateand party until late. 24 25 HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 UNGC: 1 SDG: 3,5 Health, Safety and Security is a naturally intesafety systems, hygiene and sanitation standards. grated part of the services provided by the BC In addition, the security and safety for our customHospitality Group and unsurprisingly, a matter of ers, guests and employees are top priorities and utmost importance. We operate by only the highhandled accordingly. est standards of health and safety including food OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY GRI: 403-1, 403-2 UNGC: 1 SDG: 3,5 HEALTH & SAFETY COMITTEES In 2016, we conducted a workplace risk assessInternally, we regulate occupational Health & ment (APV) for all employees which pinpointed Safety topics through our Health & Safety Comsome areas with room for improvement such as mittees. Each business unit within the BC Hosergonomics and the need to uphold a high work pitality Group has a Health & Safety Committee. pace. The Health & Safety Committees of each Employees at Bella Center Copenhagen and AC unit now actively work with the results of the APV Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen, as well as those in survey, implementing action plans and goals for the adjoining business units, belong to one comimprovement. ABSENCE DUE mon Health & Safety Committee. The Crowne TO SICKNESS Plaza Copenhagen Towers and Copenhagen ABSENCE DUE TO SICKNESS % Marriott business unit have their own separate Absence due to sickness has top priority across Health & Safety Committees. all our business units. The table ››› illustrates the level of absence across all business units in The committees consist of representatives from 2016. With assistance from Aon, we conducted both management and employees, who meet an in-depth analysis of our current policies and four times a year. The Health & Safety represeninitiatives in 2016. Based on these results, we 2016 4,46 4,09 4,76 3,79 5,75 tatives are responsible, along with the Health are now developing a new health strategy to ad& Safety Manager, for paying attention to and dress gaps and critical issues. The goal for 2017 BC Hospitality Group Marriott Copenhagen AC Hotel Bella Sky Crowne Plaza discussing relevant Health & Safety topics, paris to reduce absence due to a sickness rate of Bella Center ticipate in rounds and inspections of our oper4.1% for BC Hospitality Group.. ations, etc. They are elected by their fellow colCopenhagen leagues and through the committees, we strive Copenhagen Towers to promote regular and active engagement among employees and management on substantial health and safety issues. 26 27 SAFETY AND SECURITY GRI: 410-1 UNGC: 1 SDG: 3 SAFE SPACE SECURITY PERSONNEL See Something? Do Something! That is the TRAINING & HUMAN RIGHTS basic, but all-important, foundation of our comEducation and training is fundamental to our prehensive Safe Space Programme. A Groupstrategy of creating a functional and committed wide initiative, set up to guarantee a safe and security culture within the Group. All employees secure environment at every premise for our emreceive relevant training through our own Safety ployees, guests and stakeholders. & Security Academy. Our most important asset to success is our Through the various courses offered, security own employees. The Safe Space Programme personnel become familiar with the concepts of actively involves all employees in security and active and passive security measures. safety training, and consequently monitors parameters such as quality and response times. This includes, but is not limited to, training in protocols related to intervention, including law Through awareness and courses, we cultivate and authorization, conflict understanding and our colleagues’ motivation and commitment to management and confrontation handlin. prevent undesired incidents and thus we create a safe space for all. PRODUCT SAFETY GRI: 416-2, 417-1 UNGC: 1 SDG: 6 FOOD SAFETY In addition to our Smileys, we operate with signs The health and safety of our guests and employencouraging guests to liaise with our staff with ees are of the utmost importance to us. All of BC any questions regarding allergenic ingredients Hospitality Group’s business units are inspected added to food. by the Danish Ministry of Environment and Food on a regular basis and have received exceptionOur food and beverages are continuously laal smiley reports. The Danish Smiley Scheme belled either on the packaging or through signs informs customers on how well a company comon the buffet describing the name or main ingreplies with food safety rules and regulations. dients of the dish/product. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, Copenhagen Marriott and AC Hotel Bella Sky have also achieved the Danish Elite-Smiley for receiving only happy smileys during their last four consecutive inspection reports. The Elite-Smiley is awarded to enterprises with a first-class inspection history. Bella Center Copenhagen too is heading towards an Elite-Smiley as it is preparing for its fourth inspection round. 28 29 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE ENERGY AND CLIMATE GRI: 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 UNGC: 7,8, 9 GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3 SDG: 7, 12, 13 UNGC: 7,8,9 SDG: 7,12, 13 Due to the considerable every-day operations at solutions for energy and heating, identified in our hotels and conference, meeting and event our impact analysis of 2016, Bella Center CopenAt BC Hospitality Group we practice environmental as well as using and promoting sustainable mounits, we have identified a significant additional hagen now aims at for a further CO2 reduction of stewardship by integrating environmentally friendbility options. We also incorporate environmental potential for energy savings, in particular for Bel234 tons. ly solutions wherever it makes sense and adds considerations, including animal welfare into our la Center Copenhagen. On the basis of feasible value. This includes efficient use of energy, water operations and procurement decisions.. and other natural resources, waste management, TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY BUSINESS UNIT 2016: 2016 Total Electricity District heating & Cooling Total Energy KNOWING OUR IMPACT Forum 853.947 kWh 1.044.500 kWh 1.898.447 kWh GRI: 102-11, 302-4 Crowne Plaza 2.513.845 kWh 1.080.000 kWh 3.593.845 kWh UNGC: 7,8 SDG: 12, 13 Marriott 3.479.010 kWh 4.118.850 kWh 7.597.860 kWh AC Bella Sky 4.643.009 kWh 12.733.890 kWh 17.376.899 kWh BC Hospitality Group practices environmental of professionals, we will now implement an enresponsibility, by implementing environmentally ergy management system during the course of Bella Center 14.321.121 kWh 12.733.890 kWh 27.055.011 kWh friendly solutions, where it makes sense. We take 2017. With a clear diagnose our impact, we are BCHG 25.810.932 kWh 22.124.240 kWh 47.935.172 kWh a precautionary approach to environmental and now able to formulate more specific and relevant social challenges and actively try to minimize targets for our future energy impact the negative impacts that we might have. This is documented through our DS 49001, ISO 14001 GREEN HOTEL and Green Key certifications. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is an interENERGY INTENSITY ACROSS HOTELS (ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER GUEST NIGHT): national frontrunner when it comes to environThrough our distinct brands, we participate mental responsibility. The sustainable ambitions 2016 in sustainability tools that help us track and of the building start underground and end 85 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 25 kWh / PGN measure our hotels’ environmental impact. At meters up in the air. Our Group’s sustainable Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers we use the flagship hotel is built with the first ever groundCopenhagen Marriott 43 kWh / PGN IHG Green Engage system. At the AC Hotel Bella water-based cooling and heating system in DenAC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 58 kWh / PGN Sky Copenhagen and Copenhagen Marriott, we mark, and extracts heating and cooling from use Green Hotels Global. groundwater, 110 meters below surface. In 2016, we conducted an extensive energy The uniqueness of this system lies in the water In 2016, approximately 2500 light bulbs were Overall, we expect to have changed all light analysis of the following buildings: Bella Center being used for cooling in the Summer and then changed to LED. Consequently, Bella Center sources in public areas to LED by 2020, i.e. Copenhagen, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen, re-used again for heating during Winter. The sysCopenhagen has been able to make this transiapproximately 90% of the venue’s total light Forum Copenhagen, Copenhagen Marriott, and tem reduces our energy consumption by up to tion for approximately one third of its light bulbs. sources. our transportation vehicles. Based on the analy70% in comparison to similar hotels. In 2017, we plan to change another 2500 bulbs. sis, we now have an overview of the overall impact that our buildings and operations cause on In addition, we operate with one of Northern the environment. With this valuable information, Europe’s largest building-integrated Solar Panwe are thus able to identify and implement seel Parks. All sunlit surfaces of the Crowne Plaza IHG Green Engage™ system actual data to provide customized environlected initiatives to improve our energy usage. Copenhagen Towers are covered in ultra thin Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, as a franmental performance benchmarking, taking and high technology solar panels. The photovolchised hotel of IHG, also participates in IHG’s into account hotel location, brand, and outfitThe analysis showed that our biggest challenge taic system generates more than 200,000 kWh Green Engage ™ system. This system allows ting too. Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is the lack of an effective energy management power on an annual basis – the equivalent of the Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers to measure has achieved Level 4 certification, the highest system at Bella Center Copenhagen – the unit energy consumption in 55 Danish residential energy, carbon, water, and waste, and to use level in the Green Engage platform. with the largest negative impact. With the help homes. 7 DS 49001 and ISO 14001 only for Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 8 Green Key certifications for Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, Copenhagen Marriott, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen and Bella Center Copenhagen 30 31 RESOURCE MATERIALS USED GRI: 301-1 UNGC: 8 SDG: 12 Being Scandinavia’s largest exhibition and conAlready, we run several initiatives on food waste. gress center, Bella Center Copenhagen, make For example, employees at Bella Center Copenuse of a wide range of materials depending on hagen are able to buy take-away boxes of prethe type of event staged. As the venue only propared food at reduced prices. All units also work vides support services to its clients’ events, we do with organizations and shelters in the local comnot possess a full overview of the weight or volmunity to ensure that food scraps from large ume of materials used. However, we recognize events, are passed on to e.g. the homeless and our influential role and we have identified a range others in need of a nutritional meal. of materials where we are able to give advice and be instrumental in the consumption of materials TOO GOOD TO GO at events. Orango Coffee at Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers is another pioneer example of what the Hence, in 2016, Bella Center Copenhagen used Group hopes to accomplish within food waste. 214.521,6 m2 of carpet at events, as well as At our popular coffee shop in the district of 118.000 meters of steel wires. In 2017, our aim Ørestad, we have joined forces with the organiis to strengthen our efforts further to get an even zation Too Good to Go, an environmental social better overview of the variety of materials used at enterprise dedicated to reducing food waste. for exhibitions, congresses, etc.. By using the Too Good To Go app, customers can buy leftover food/meals at reduced prices MINIMIZING FOOD WASTE and customers who buy a Magic Bag through At BC Hospitality Group, we are constantly lookthe app are able to collect their food boxes at ing for ways to reduce our food waste. It is imclosing hour. perative that we are able to plan and manage our food preparation in order to avoid a surplus of food, and we continuously work at improving this area via internal audits, education and awareness campaigns. BIODIVERSITY GRI: 304-1 UNGC: 8 SDG: 15 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen, Bella Cenensure continued biodiversity at Amager Fælled ter Copenhagen, Comwell Conference Center and the city of Copenhagen. Copenhagen, International House and CIFF/ The green surroundings in the area provides CIFF Showrooms are located adjacent to Amaample nectar for the Bybi bees, and the natural ger Fælled (Amager Common)a nature reserve honey produced is without pesticides, antibiotwith a variety of nature, and a rich bird life with ics and other chemicals. many of its species listed nationally and internationally for preservation. The Bybi initiative is a social enterprise that renting out beehives to businesses across CopenBC Hospitality Group’s operations do not have a hagen with the aim to create a greener city and negative impact on Amager Fælled or its biodiproduce honey inspired by the diverse neighversity. On the contrary, by hosting up to a milborhoods of the city. The organization also seeks lion urban bees with our local partner Bybi in at to create opportunities for asylum seekers, the the AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen and Bella long-term unemployed, and the homeless by ofCenter Copenhagen, we contribute positively to fering employment as beekeepers. 32 33 MARKETPLACE DOING BUSINESS WITH US We make every effort to operate by incredibly high standards and expect the same from those we pool resources with. At BC Hospitality Group, we strongAt BC Hospitality Group we are passionate about continuous improvements we actively engage ly believe that running a profitable business should delivering high quality services and products that with our customers, guests and business partners coexist with our social and environmental ambitions. always have our clients front and center. To ensure to adjust and perfect our practices Consequently, we need our suppliers to share the same set of values and our commitment to sustainability. Our Supplier Code of Conduct, lists a set of requirements, principles and practices to promote ethical work practices, safe working conditions in the SUPPLY CHAIN AND SOURCING supply chain, respectful treatment of people and environmentally responsible practices. GRI: 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 204-1, 308-1, 407-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1 UNGC: 8 We continuously strive to work according to our SDG: 8, 12, 17 code of conduct and to develop strategic relationships that add value, and so we always encourage BC Hospitality Group requires all our material/ Animal welfare our suppliers to rise above these requirements. Any main suppliers to accept and sign the critePercentage of meat purchased: supplier wishing to do business with us needs to ria specified in our Supplier Code of Conduct. comply with our standards, which are based on the These concern topics such as human rights, 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Simple as labour rights, environment, anti-corruption and Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 49% that. other industry specific standards. Although our ethical standards are stated in our Supplier Code Copenhagen Marriott 38% SUSTAINABILITY THAT COUNTS of Conduct, it is our continuous dialogue with A key part of Responsible Hospitality is striving to our suppliers that make out the cornerstone of AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 48% find products for our guests that are not only exour procurement practices. cellent quality, but come from a sustainable source Bella Center Copenhagen 36% whenever possible. We approach our journey of Through dialogue, we are able to identify posustainability holistically, with all the multifaceted tential negative impacts in the supply chain and BC Hospitality Group 42% issues and complexity this involves. work with our supplier to adjust practices accordingly. In sourcing our raw materials, for example, we not ORGANIC only prioritize organic products, but local and seaOur rationale for supplier selection is supported We also strive to purchase organic food and bevsonal products as well. by additional principles for sourcing sustainably, erages wherever possible. The table below outas each product has a unique impact on the enlines the percentage cost used on organic prodAs mentioned, animal welfare is high on our list of vironment and society. First and foremost, we ucts out of total purchasing from for our main priorities too. Our meat comes from the organic always prioritize local sourcing, defined as a supplier Hørkram: producers at Grambogård and Nordjysk Naturkød, local range of maximum 300 km from our locawho respect and offer quality care to the animals, tion, and while the majority of our suppliers are Organic food and beverage throughout their life and after. indeed local, we do not have sufficient data to percentage of total: support this matter in this report. In our search for a better and more sustainable coffee, we discovered the Orang Utan Coffee Project. We also prioritize seasonal raw materials, take Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 27% Orang Utan Coffee is a premium blend that cominto account food miles for relevant products, bines doing great things for both taste buds and and focus on sourcing sustainable seafood, Copenhagen Marriott 12% the endangered wildlife in Sumatra, and the coffee which is not on the WWF ‘Red list’. is now implemented at all of the Group’s business AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 22% units. ANIMAL WELFARE Bella Center Copenhagen 14% In exchange for sustainable farming methods, local Animal welfare is another key element. The folcoffee farmers receives a premium of €0.5 for evlowing table outlines the percentage of meat (by BC Hospitality Group 18% ery kg of green bean coffee. The same premium is volume) out of our total meat purchases, acquired donated to the Sumatran Orangutan Conservation from suppliers focusing on animal welfare: Program. 9 This includes the following suppliers: Nordic Beef Hadsund, Grambogård and Hopballe Mølle 34 35 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT We have a close relationship with our local community and work actively to make a positive difference in Copenhagen. We provide venues and facilities that bring people together; we offer opportunities for people outside the job market gain new skills and find employment; and we support education and research by providing apprenticeships and trainee positions. In 2016, we focused our efforts towards creating jobs and opportunities for marginalized groups of people and enhancing our partnerships with local municipalities, non-governmental organizations, and charities. 36 37 JOB CREATION AND TRAINING GRI: 102-8, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 413-1 UNGC: 1, 6 SDG: 4, 10, 17 An essential part of BC Hospitality Group’s comvocational interns, as part of their education. BIG PACKING DAY tleBigHelp’s work in India. In 2016, the goal was munity engagement, is working with interns in Vocational interns are, however, considered as In 2016, BC Hospitality Group had the pleato overcome 2015’s milestone of gathering 1.1 various forms. Interns do not replace support employees, and are salaried and covered by colsure of supporting the Christmas Help (Julehmillion Danish kroner which will go towards staff or conduct strictly support functions. Inlective agreements. All interns are accepted for a jælp) program driven by the Danish Salvation LittleBigHelp’s 6 important projects. In the terns are either current or prospective students predetermined period of time and the approach Army. The Christmas-help program aims to event, companies were able to give a donation enrolled in educational institutions, or people is seen as a fruitful channel for recruiting new support vulnerable families in Denmark who by participating in an auction. on unemployment benefits. We also accepts and engaged employees. cannot afford to have the same Christmas as their peers. LittleBigHelp gathered a record sum of 1.4 million Danish kroner. This year, the program offered the families Student interns Interns Job-Center Vocational Interns food, a gift voucher for a Christmas meal, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 4 24 12 candles, children’s toys, amongst other things. SERVING OUR COMMUNITY Copenhagen Marriott 7 2 Before the gifts were handed out to the famiIn 2016, the Works Committee of Copenhagen 8 lies in need, Bella Center Copenhagen offered Marriott also mobilized the employees to give AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 1 3 24 a space to store all the goods donated. their help to those in need during wintertime. Bella Center Copenhagen 13 29 3 Hence, the staff at the hotel got together on BC Hospitality Group 25 64 41 Our employees volunteered to help pack more selected dates for four consecutive weeks than 3500 bags, just in time for Christmas. Ms. and served hot soup, coffee, and bread to the Mai Mercado – the Danish Minister of Children homeless community in Copenhagen. and Social Affairs also joined the effort. THE BC HOSPITALITY GROUP JOB SCHOOL PROGRAM Most importantly, the program offered a marginLITTLE BIG HELP alized group of people the opportunity to be part As a major employer in Copenhagen, we also AT COPENHAGEN MARRIOTT have a duty of ensuring future availability of of a workplace to achieve professional insight In 2016, Copenhagen Marriott, once again skilled workforce and supporting diversity in the and routine, to start education or find employsponsored and hosted the LittleBigHelp charworkplace. ment – within BC Hospitality Group or another ity event. company in the hospitality industry. In October 2016, we launched the BC HospiLittleBigHelp is an organization that helps untality Job School program for 30 newly arrived As a service organization, we firmly believe that derprivileged children and women in India, to refugees in cooperation with Roskilde Municidiversity in the workplace is a strength that we secure their basic human rights, such as edupality. The training program offered refugees a greatly benefit from. In the process of training cation, medical care, shelter, and nutrition. 3-month internship in areas such as Food and the new interns at the Job School, we hope our The aim of this event was to raise funds for LitBeverage, Facility Services and Technical Serpermanent staff members will also gain valuable vices. Participants also received training in the experience from this cultural exchange. Danish language and culture as well as Danish workplace conditions on site at Bella Center In 2017, we plan to continue with the Job-School Copenhagen. In addition, we ensured that the program and to create more jobs and opportuqualifications were upgraded where needed, for nities for marginalized groups in our local comexample through a Certificate Hygiene Course. munity. During the course of the program, representatives from the Municipality of Roskilde were present on-site at all times, in order to provide support in case an issue arises. 38 39 APPENDIX RESPONSIBLE HOSPITALITY POLICIES HUMAN RIGHTS POLICY • We will support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in particular those of our employees, our business partners and within our local community. • We will strive to not be complicit in human rights abuses and require our suppliers to do the same. • We will ensure a healthy and safe environment for all in our hotels and venues. • We will promote diversity in the workplace and will not tolerate any kind of discrimination. • We will respect our employees’ rights to voluntary freedom of association and recognize their right to collective bargaining. • We will support employees with training and opportunities for promotion to help them reach their potential and maximize their contribution to our company. • We will recruit, employ and promote employees on the basis of objective criteria, their qualifications and abilities required for the job to be performed. INFORMATION ON EMPLOYEES, WORKERS AND • We will provide several channels for complaints to ensure any concerns are efficiently addressed. GOVERNANCE BODIES GRI: 102-8, 401-1 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY • We will continue to improve our environmental performance and we will implement environmentally friendly solutions, wherever it makes economic and environmental sense An essential part of BC Hospitality Group’s comVocational interns are, however, considered as without compromising the experience of quality and comfort at our hotels and venues. munity engagement, is working with interns in employees, and are salaried and covered by col• We will make the most efficient use of resources as energy, water and other natural resources, various forms. Interns do not replace support lective agreements. All interns are accepted for a promoting conservation and savings wherever possible and practical. staff or conduct strictly support functions. Inpredetermined period of time and the approach • We will incorporate environmental considerations, including animal welfare into our actions terns are either current or prospective students is seen as a fruitful channel for recruiting new and procurement decisions. enrolled in educational institutions, or people and engaged employees. • We will raise awareness of environmental matters among our employees and stakeholders. on unemployment benefits. We also accepts • We will optimize our waste reduction through reusing materials where possible, recycling and vocational interns, as part of their education. limiting our use of hazardous materials where alternatives are available, economical and suitable. • We will monitor, record and benchmark our environmental performance on a periodic basis. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE (FULL-TIME AND PART-TIME), BY GENDER.10 BUSINESS INTEGRITY POLICY • We conduct our operations in accordance with the principles of fair competition and will abide by applicable laws and regulations. Part-Time Part-Time Full-Time Full-Time • We will in all dealings with business partners, seek to preserve the highest standards of Women Men Women Men integrity, objectivity, fairness, efficiency, courtesy and professionalism and encourage them Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 23 11 35 57 to set similar standards. Copenhagen Marriott 4 1 39 44 • We will adopt a zero-tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. • We will not accept any personal gifts, gratuities, premiums or other incentives when choosing AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 9 2 44 59 suppliers. We prefer incentives expressed in acceptable business terms, e.g., quality, service Bella Center Copenhagen 14 4 148 124 and price. 50 284 BC Hospitality Group 18 266 • We will only purchase goods and services, which supports the purposes of business for BC Hospitality Group. • We will aim to ensure that the best value for money is obtained and that its resources are being used to the greatest benefit. NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES • We will work towards a system of ensuring that our suppliers and business partners are The tables below have been compiled taking employee seniority into account. Many employees are environmentally responsible, are not complicit in violations of any human or labour rights and recruited internally moving from one business unit to another, and thus count as new hires. Neverdo not participate in or permit corruption in all of its form. theless, they do bring their seniority from within BC Hospitality Group. 10 All figures in the table below refer to permanent staff. The data is subject to seasonal variations. More specifically, there is an increase in employment in the period between March and September, especially at the hotels. 40 41 SENIORITY 0,1% 0,6% 2,2% 5,9% 5,3% 9,8% CP AVERAGE 3,6 YEARS 4,8% BCC AVERAGE 5,64 YEARS <2 years = 5,3% 2-5 years = 8,9% 6-10 years = 5,9% <2 years = 10,3% 2-5 years = 18,9% 6-10 years = 9,8% 11-20 years= 0,1% 21-30 years = 0% 31< years = 0% 11-20 years = 4,8% 21-30 years = 2,2% 31< years = 0,6% 10,3% 8,9% 18,9% 0,6% 1,4% 2,2% 2,1% 6,3% 23,4% MARRIOTT AVERAGE 4,39 YEARS BCHG AVERAGE 4,49 YEARS 22% 3,7% <2 years = 2,1% 2-5 years = 7,1% 6-10 years = 3,7% <2 years = 23,4% 2-5 years = 45,3% 6-10 years = 22% 11-20 years = 1,4% 21-30 years = 0% 31< years = 0% 11-20 years = 6,3% 21-30 years = 2,2% 31< years = 0,6% 7,1% 45,3% EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Employee turnover is for permanent employees only. The results do not account for employees 2,4% who are recruited internally. See section on New employee hires for more information. 5,6% AC AVERAGE 2,65 YEARS INDUSTRY FIGURES11 <2 years = 5,6% 2-5 years = 10,3% 6-10 years = 2,4% NewlyWorkers Newly Salaried Newly emLeft employeed who left employed Employees ployeed (Total) 11-20 years = 0% 21-30 years = 0% 31< years = 0% Workers Salaried who left (Total) Employees 10,3% 2015 45,0% 42,9% 28,2% 26,4% 43,0% 40,9% 11 Source: DA Statistik. Industry figures for 2015, as 2016 are not available yet. 42 43 44 % % % Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 56,4 40 Workers 45 Workers Workers BC 2015 BCHG 2015 Workers who left 37,6 Workers who left 34,0 Workers who left 42,9 Industry 2015 Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed Salaried Employees 25,6 Salaried Employees 29,8 Salaried Employees 28,2 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees Salaried Employees 14,2 18,6 26,4 * With AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen who left who left who left Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 43 35,3 34,4 (Total) (Total) (Total) EMPLOYER TURNOVER Left (Total) 21,6 Left (Total) 25,2 Left (Total) 40,9 % % % Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed Workers Workers 73,2 Workers 52,4 BC 2016 Workers who left Workers who left BCHG 2016 36,6 Workers who left 38,8 Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed Salaried Employees Salaried Employees 30,9 Salaried Employees 28,9 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees Salaried Employees who left 24,2 23,2 Industry 2016 (will arive in june) who left who left Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed (Total) 38,3 41,7 (Total) (Total) Left (Total) Left (Total) Left (Total) % % Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed Workers 26,7 Workers 31,8 Workers 56,4 CP 2015 AC 2015 Workers who left % Marriott 2015 Workers who left 15,6 63,6 Workers who left 37,6 Newly-employed 4,8 Newly-employed Newly-employed Salaried Employees 50,0 Salaried Employees 25,6 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees Salaried Employees Salaried Employees 19,0 31,9 14,2 who left who left who left Newly-employed 22,5 Newly-employed 43,1 Newly-employed 35,3 (Total) (Total) (Total) Left (Total) 16,2 Left (Total) 44,0 Left (Total) 21,6 % % Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 50,0 Workers 32,9 62,5 Workers Workers CP 2016 AC 2016 % Marriott 2016 Workers who left 36,6 Workers who left 47,4 Workers who left 35,2 Newly-employed Newly-employed 7,4 Newly-employed 42,9 Salaried Employees 23,8 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees Salaried Employees 14,3 Salaried Employees 33,3 Salaried Employees 9,5 who left who left who left Newly-employed 48,9 Newly-employed 26,2 Newly-employed 55,0 (Total) (Total) (Total) Left (Total) 33,1 Left (Total) 43,7 Left (Total) 30,3 45 26,4 31,7 COLLECTIVE AGREEMENTS GRI: 102-41, 403-4 At BC Hospitality Group, there are the following collective agreements: Employees who are subject to the main collective agreement with 3F (United Federation of Dan-ish Workers) are referred to PensionDanmark’s healthcare scheme. The members of Pen• Salaried Employee Agreement between Horesta and HK/Privat applicable to the hotels’ sionDan-mark’s healthcare scheme can have free and quick access to any type of treatment, if employees who work with sales, service, business and office work. they become ill. • Salaried Employee Agreement between HK and Dansk Erhverv applicable to salaried employees in BC Hospitality Group, who work with business, sales, service, and office work. The collective agreements also contain provisions on the election of union representatives. The union representatives’ duty is to address any arising disputes and to maintain a peaceful • The Main Collective Agreement between Horesta and 3F applicable to employees in the co-operation in the workplace. BC Hospitality Group encourages employees to elect a trade hotel and restaurant industry, including, but not limited to: receptionists, waiters, food union representative. Currently, there are seven union representatives at BC Hospitality Group, preparation employees, assistants, and service employees. from three different trade unions. • 3F: Lager, Post og Servicearbejdernes Forbund (LPSF) [Warehouse Workers’, Postal Workers’ and Service Workers’ Union] applicable to security and controllers. All salaried employees12 with more than 3 months of company-seniority and more than 30 hours of work a week are members of the health insurance agreement with Mølholm Health • Elevoverenskomst mellem Horesta Arbejdsgiver og 3F Privat Service, Hotel og Restauration Insurance. Sal-aried employees are covered by The Employers’ and Salaried Employees’ Act [Apprentice Collective Agreement between Horesta Employer and 3F Private Service, Hotel (Funktionærloven). This contains provisions regarding notice periods, severance pay, unauand Restaurant] applicable to reception apprentices, waiter apprentices, catering thorized dismissals, expul-sion, illness, competition clauses, bonus, maternity and pregnancy apprentices, sandwich maker apprentices, and cook apprentices. leave, among others. 12 Salaried employees: people who perform professional, managerial, or administrative work. 46 47 TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT, GENDER, AGE GROUP, AND NATIONALITY:13 AVERAGE HOURS GRI: 102-7 , 102-41, 403-4, 405-1 OF TRAINING CROWNE PLAZA COPENHAGEN TOWERS Total naGRI: 404-01 Women Men <30 30-50 >50 Danish Scandinavian Non Scandinavian tionalities On-Call 52 63 52 53 10 37 19 59 27 AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE Permanent 58 68 29 74 23 44 17 65 37 Total 110 131 81 127 33 81 36 124 45 Unfortunately, we had challenges collecting precise data on training for 2016. The results featured below is not a complete picture of employee training, but rather a presentation of available registrations. COPENHAGEN MARRIOTT Total naINTERNAL TRAINING Women Men <30 30-50 >50 Danish Scandinavian Non Scandinavian tionalities Total no. Women Men On-Call 33 44 50 26 1 27 5 45 26 of hours Permanent 43 45 24 62 2 15 17 56 30 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 825 61,82% 38,18% Total 76 89 74 88 3 42 22 101 44 Copenhagen Marriott 844 52,38% 47,62% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 468 57,69% 42,31% AC HOTEL BELLA SKY COPENHAGEN Bella Center Copenhagen 348 92,86% 7,14% Total naBC Hospitality Group 2485 59,8% 40,2% Women Men <30 30-50 >50 Danish Scandinavian Non Scandinavian tionalities RISK MANAGEMENT TRAINING On-Call 46 32 55 20 3 38 1 39 19 Permanent 53 61 59 51 4 83 7 24 20 Total no. Women Men Total 99 93 114 71 7 120 8 63 32 of hours Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 1093 56,8% 43,2% BELLA CENTER COPENHAGEN Copenhagen Marriott 955 56,6% 43,4% AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 1370 48,2% 51,8% Total naWomen Men <30 30-50 >50 Danish Scandinavian Non Scandinavian tionalities Bella Center Copenhagen 3094 51,6% 48,4% BC Hospitality Group 6511 53,4% 46,6% On-Call 921 568 1114 289 86 N/A N/A N/A N/A Permanent 162 128 70 176 44 252 10 28 19 EXTERNAL TRAINING Total 1083 696 1184 465 130 N/A N/A N/A N/A Total no. Women Men of hours BC HOSPITALITY GROUP Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers N/A N/A N/A Total naCopenhagen Marriott 328 64,7% 35,3% Women Men <30 30-50 >50 Danish Scandinavian Non Scandinavian tionalities AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 82 0,0% 100,0% On-Call 1052 707 1271 388 100 N/A N/A N/A N/A Bella Center Copenhagen 149 66,7% 33,3% 316 Permanent 302 182 363 73 394 51 173 59 BC Hospitality Group 559 51,7% 48,3% Total 1368 1009 1453 751 173 N/A N/A N/A N/A 13 13Note: Concerning Nationality. Due to an error 6 employees in BCHG are not registered as having a nationality 34 in our registration system. Unfortunately, we do not have the correct information on on-call employees’ nationalities at this time. There is a margin of error of 308 duplicates, as there are some employees who work in more than one business unit. There are 2069 unique individuals in the system. . 48 49 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS GRI: 401-2 Both full-time and part-time/temporary employfor employees who work for more than 30 hours ees qualify for company benefits. All permaa week. The company does distinguish between nent employees benefit from the same employon-call and per-manent staff. Members of the onee benefits after the first three months of their call staff do not receive any employee benefits. employment. The exception is on additional health insurance for employees which only applies PARENTAL LEAVE GRI: 401-3 According to Danish legislation, all permanent mum of nine months of company seniority have employees have the right to take leave (right to the right to receive full or partial pay during parts ab-sence). Permanent employees with a miniof the leave. % Industy 2015 % Industry 2016 (will arive in june) 45 42,9 28,2 26,4 43 40,9 Salaried Employees Newly-employed Left (Total) Newly-employed Salaried Employees Newly-employed Left (Total) Workers who left Newly-employed Newly-employed Workers who left Newly-employed Workers (Total) Workers (Total) Salaried Employees who left Salaried Employees who left 50 51 52 % % % Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 56,4 56,4 40 Workers Workers Workers Workers who left 37,6 Workers who left 37,6 Workers who left 34,0 Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed Salaried Employees 25,6 AC Hotel Bella Sky 2015 Salaried Employees 25,6 Salaried Employees 29,8 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees Salaried Employees BC Hospitality Group 2015 14,2 who left 14,2 18,6 who left who left * With AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen Bella Center Copenhagen 2015 Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 34,4 35,3 35,3 (Total) (Total) (Total) Left (Total) 21,6 Left (Total) 21,6 Left (Total) 25,2 % % % Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 62,5 Workers 73,2 Workers 52,4 Workers Workers who left 35,2 Workers who left 36,6 Workers who left 38,8 Newly-employed Newly-employed Newly-employed 23,8 Salaried Employees 30,9 Salaried Employees 28,9 Salaried Employees AC Hotel Bella Sky 2016 Salaried Employees 9,5 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees BC Hospitality Group 2016 24,2 23,2 who left who left who left Bella Center Copenhagen 2016 Newly-employed 55,0 Newly-employed 38,3 Newly-employed 41,7 (Total) (Total) (Total) Left (Total) 30,3 Left (Total) 26,4 Left (Total) 31,7 % Newly-employed Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers GRI: 404-3 Newly-employed Workers 26,7 Workers 31,8 Copenhagen Marriott Workers who left 15,6 Workers who left 63,6 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen Newly-employed 4,8 Newly-employed Salaried Employees 50,0 Salaried Employees Bella Center Copenhagen Salaried Employees Salaried Employees % Copenhagen Marriott 2015 19,0 31,9 Below, the percentage of employees registered as completing our personal development review. We did have techBC Hospitality Group who left who left Newly-employed 22,5 Newly-employed 43,1 78,41% (Total) (Total) 65,79% Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 2015 71,36% 72,07% Left (Total) 16,2 Left (Total) 44,0 Percentage of permanent employees 69,84% % PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT REVIEWS nical challenges with some users in the registration system. We thus believe the actual numbers to be somewhat Newly-employed Newly-employed 50,0 Workers 32,9 Workers Workers who left 36,6 Workers who left 47,4 Newly-employed Newly-employed 7,4 42,9 Salaried Employees Salaried Employees RETURN TO WORK RATES OF EMPLOYEES THAT TOOK PARENTAL LEAVE Salaried Employees Salaried Employees % Copenhagen Marriott 2016 14,3 33,3 who left who left Newly-employed 48,9 Newly-employed 26,2 (Total) (Total) Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 2016 higher. It is our aim that all permanent employees receive an annual personal development review. Left (Total) 33,1 Left (Total) 43,7 53 WATER GRI: 303-1 2016 Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 2500 m3 Copenhagen Marriott 37512 m3 AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 50885 m3 Bella Center Copenhagen 29550 m3 BC Hospitality Group 122383 m3 WASTE GRI: 306-2 BELLA CENTER COPENHAGEN Incineration Sorted Landfill Organic Hazardous Total Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 97.875 kg 24.657 kg N/A 92.000 214.632 kg N/A kg Copenhagen Marriott 195.000 28.440 4080 43.390 385 271.295 kg 42.535 325.065 kg AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen 245.470 kg 37.060 kg N/A N/A kg 574.910 kg 199.305 7.860 kg 6.400 kg Bella Center Copenhagen 1.722 kg 790.197 kg kg 261.022 140.935 1.601.089 kg BC Hospitality Group 918.255 kg 7.860 kg 1.722 kg kg kg SUPPORTED INVESTMENTS GRI: 203-1 As of September 2015, BC Hospitality Group entered lakvarter is a newly con-structed neighborhood that will into an agreement, with Bellakvarter Projekt-selskab comprise of homes, shops, kindergartens, cafés, public A/S. The agreement pledged BC Hospitality Group to spaces, and parks. Bellakvarter’s ambition is to create support Bellakvarter Projektselskab A/S with funding to housing and urban spaces that combine the modern its development activities concerning Bellakvarter. BelCopenhagen lifestyle with nature and sustainability.14 14 For more information see Annual financial report of BC Hospitality Group 2016 54 55 GRI CONTENT INDEX Indicator Description Chapter/Comments Page nr. 102-55 GRI Content index GRI Content Index 56 102-56 External Assurance No external assurance GRI: 102-55 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Workplace 15 Health & Safety 26 Enviroment & Climate 30 Marketplace 34 Indicator Description Chapter/Comments Page nr. Community 37 Front page 1 103-2 The management approach and its Workplace 15 components Health & Safety 26 102-1 Name of the organization About this report 4 Enviroment & Climate 30 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services About BC Hospitality Group 7 Marketplace 34 102-3 Location of HQ About BC Hospitality Group 7 Community 37 102-4 Location of operations About BC Hospitality Group 7 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Workplace 15 Health & Safety 26 102-6 Markets served About BC Hospitality Group 7 Enviroment & Climate 30 102-7 Scale of the organization About BC Hospitality Group 7 Marketplace 34 Govenance 15 Community 37 Appendix 41 201-1 Direct economic value generated and See Annual financial Reports: See also Annual financial Raports: distributed Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers Copenhagen Marriott Copenhagen Marriott Bc Hospitality Group BC Hospitality Group 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other See Annual financial Reports: 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Workplace/Governance 15 retirement plans Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers Community / Job creation and training 38 Copenhagen Marriott Appendix 41 Bc Hospitality Group 102-10 Significant changes to the org. and its supply About BC Hospitality Group 7 201-4 Financial assistance received from government See Annual financial Reports: chain Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Environment/Knowning our impact 30 Copenhagen Marriott 102-12 External initiatives Stalkeholder Engangement 10 Bc Hospitality Group 102-13 Membership of associations Stalkeholder Engangement 10 202-1 Entry Level Wage There is no legally stipulated mini102-14 Statement form senior decision maker Statement from CEO 3 mum wage in Denmark. Wage rates are specified in the collective agree102-16 Values principles, standards, norms of behavior Responsible Hospitality 12 ments that are in place 102-18 Governance structure Workplace/Governance 15 102-40 List of stakeholder group Stakeholder Engagement 10 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supAppendix 55 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements Workplace/Governance 15 ported 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Engagement 10 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Marketplace/Supply Chain and 34 sourcing 102-43 The organization’s approach to stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement 10 engagement 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Enviroment/Resource materials 32 used 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeResponsible Hospitality 12 holder engagements 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment/Energy & Climate 31 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financiel See Annual financial Reports: 302-3 Energy intensity Environment/Energy & Climate 31 statements Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Enviroment/Knowing our impact 30 Copenhagen Marriott Environment/Energy & Climate 31 BC Hospitality Group 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Appendix 55 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, Environment/Biodiversity 32 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Responsible Hospitality 12 or adjacent areas and areas of high biodiversity 102-47 List of material topics Responsible Hospitality 12 value outside protected areas. 102-50 Reporting period About this report 4 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Appendix 55 102-51 Date of most recent report About this report 4 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using enviMarketplace/Supply Chain and 34 102-52 Reporting cycle About this report 4 ronmental criteria sourcing 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the About this report 4 401-1 Employee turnover Appendix 44 report 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that Appendix 50 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI About this report 4 are not provided to temporary or parttime Standards employees 56 57 Indicator Description Chapter/Comments Page nr. 401-3 Parental Leave Appendix 50 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational Covered by collective agreements changes 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint manageHealth & Safety/Occupational health 26 ment-worker health and safety committees and safety 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational Health & Safety/Occupational health 26 diseases, lost days, ab stenteeism, and number and safety of work-related fatalities 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employAppendix 48 ee 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and Workplace/Learning & Development 18 transition assistance programs 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving Appendix 53 regular performance and career development reviews 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Workplace/Governance 15 Workplace/Diversity & Equality 20 Appendix 49 406-1 Incidents of discrimnation and corrective acNo incidents tions taken 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to Marketplace/Supply Chain and 34 freedom of association and collective bargainsourcing ing may be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Marketplace/Supply Chain and 34 incidents of child labor sourcing 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Marketplace/Supply Chain and 34 incidents of forced or compulsory labor sourcing 410-1 Security personnel training in human rights Health & Safety/Safety & Security 29 policies or procedures 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or Workplace/Learning & Development 18 procedures 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, Community Engagement 38 impact assessments, and development programs. 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social Marketplace/Supply Chain and 34 criteria sourcing 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the No incidents health and safety impacts of products and services 417-1 Requirements for product and service informaHealth & Safety/Product Safety 29 tion and labeling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marNo incidents keting communications 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches No incidents of customer privacy and losses of customer data 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in No incidents the social and ecinomic area 58 59
